VILLAGE OF WEST ALEXANDRIA, OHIO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
State legislation current through 6-28-2022
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.05   Construction of section references
   
10.06   Conflicting provisions
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Ordinances saved
   
10.13   Application to future ordinances
   
10.14   Interpretation
   
10.15   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.16   Statutory references
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Determination of legislative intent
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the municipality,
as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“municipal code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Title, chapter and section headings
do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
(R.C. § 1.01)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AND/OR. The word “and” may be read as “or”, and the word “or” may be read as
“and”, if the sense requires it.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   CERTIFIED MAIL. Includes registered mail.
   CHILD. Includes child by adoption.
   COUNCIL. The Village Council of the Village of West Alexandria, Ohio.
   COUNTY. Preble County, State of Ohio.
   FIRE CHIEF. Shall include the Chief of the Fire Department if a Fire
Department has been established in the municipality, and shall include the Fire
Prevention Officer if no Fire Department has been established in the
municipality.
   IMPRISONED. Shall have the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.05.
   INTERNET. The international computer network of both federal and non-federal
interoperable packet switched data networks, including the graphical subnetwork
known as the World Wide Web.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of incorporeal nature.
   LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY. The Village Council of the Village of West
Alexandria, Ohio.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   MUNICIPALITY, CITY, TOWN, VILLAGE or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. The Village of
West Alexandria, Ohio.
   O.A.C. Refers to the Ohio Administrative Code.
   OATH. Includes affirmation.
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner or
tenant in common of the whole or part of that property.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real property.
   PLAN OF SEWERAGE, SYSTEM OF SEWERAGE, SEWER and SEWERS. Includes sewers,
sewage disposal works and treatment plants, and sewage pumping stations,
together with facilities and appurtenances necessary and proper therefor.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county, state
or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   R.C. Refers to the Ohio Revised Code.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Ohio.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the municipality.
   SWEAR. Includes affirm.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITING. Includes printing.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. The terms include any representation of words,
letters, symbols or figures; this provision does not affect any law relating to
signatures.
   YEAR. Twelve consecutive months.
(R.C. §§ 1.02, 1.05, 1.44, 1.59, 701.01)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Common and technical usage. Words and phrases shall be read in context
and construed according to the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and
phrases that have acquired a technical or particular meaning, whether by
legislative definition or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
(R.C. § 1.42)
   (B)   Singular and plural; gender; tenses. As used in this code, unless the
context otherwise requires:
      (1)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular.
      (2)   Words of one gender include the other genders.
      (3)   Words in the present tense include the future tense.
(R.C. § 1.43)
   (C)   Calendar; computation of time.
      (1)   The time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; except that when
the last day falls on Sunday or a legal holiday, then the act may be done on
the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal holiday.
      (2)   When a public office, in which an act required by law is to be
performed, is closed to the public for the entire day that constitutes the last
day for doing the act or before its usual closing time on that day, the act may
be performed on the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal
holiday.
      (3)   As used in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) of this section, LEGAL
HOLIDAY means the following days:
         (a)   The first day of January, known as New Year’s Day;
         (b)   The third Monday in January, known as Martin Luther King, Jr.
Day;
         (c)   The third Monday in February, known as Washington-Lincoln Day;
         (d)   The day designated in the “Act of June 28, 1968”, 82 Stat. 250,
5 U.S.C. § 6103, as amended, for the commemoration of Memorial Day;
         (e)   The nineteenth day of June, known as Juneteenth day;
         (f)   The fourth day of July, known as Independence Day;
         (g)   The first Monday in September, known as Labor Day;
         (h)   The second Monday in October, known as Columbus Day;
         (i)   The eleventh day of November, known as Veteran’s Day;
         (j)   The fourth Thursday in November, known as Thanksgiving Day;
         (k)   The twenty-fifth day of December, known as Christmas Day; and
         (l)   Any day appointed and recommended by the Governor of this state
or the President of the United States as a holiday.
      (4)   If any day designated in this section as a legal holiday falls on a
Sunday, the next succeeding day is a legal holiday.
(R.C. § 1.14)
      (5)   When an act is to take effect or become operative from and after a
day named, no part of that day shall be included. If priority of legal rights
depends upon the order of events on the same day, the priority shall be
determined by the times in the day at which they respectively occurred.
(R.C. § 1.15)
      (6)   If a number of months is to be computed by counting the months from
a particular day, the period ends on the same numerical day in the concluding
month as the day of the month from which the computation is begun, unless there
are not that many days in the concluding month, in which case the period ends
on the last day of that month.
(R.C. § 1.45)
      (7)   In all cases where the law shall require any act to be done in a
reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or notice
shall mean such time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the
duty or compliance with the notice.
   (D)   Numbers. If there is a conflict between figures and words in
expressing a number, the words govern.
(R.C. § 1.46)
   (E)   Authority. When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as
well be done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be
construed to include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (F)   Joint authority. All words purporting to give joint authority to three
or more municipal officers or other persons shall be construed as giving that
authority to a majority of the officers or other persons, unless it shall be
otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority, or it is
inconsistent with state law or municipal charter provisions.
   (G)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
contains any express provision excluding the construction, or when the subject
matter or context of the law is repugnant thereto.
§ 10.04 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing statute does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
(R.C. § 1.57)
   (B)   The re-enactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not, except
as provided in division (C) of this section:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment; and the
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a re-enactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
(R.C. § 1.58)
   (D)   An ordinance which is re-enacted or amended is intended to be a
continuation of the prior ordinance and not a new enactment, so far as it is
the same as the prior ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.54)
§ 10.05 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, or of divisions or subdivisions of a
section, the reference shall be construed to mean a violation of any provision
of the section, sections, divisions or subdivisions included in the reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
(R.C. § 1.23)
   (C)   A reference to any portion of a provision of this code applies to all
re-enactments or amendments thereof.
(R.C. § 1.55)
   (D)   If a section refers to a series of numbers or letters, the first and
the last numbers or letters are included.
(R.C. § 1.56)
   (E)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter has been
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.06 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If a general provision conflicts with a special or local provision,
they shall be construed, if possible, so that effect is given to both. If the
conflict between the provisions is irreconcilable, the special or local
provision prevails as an exception to the general provision, unless the general
provision is the later adoption and the manifest intent is that the general
provision prevail.
(R.C. § 1.51)
   (B)   (1)   If ordinances enacted at different meetings of the Village
Council are irreconcilable, the ordinance latest in date of enactment prevails.
      (2)   If amendments to the same ordinance are enacted at different
meetings of the Village Council, one amendment without reference to another,
the amendments are to be harmonized, if possible, so that effect may be given
to each. If the amendments are substantively irreconcilable, the latest in date
of enactment prevails. The fact that a later amendment restates language
deleted by an earlier amendment, or fails to include language inserted by an
earlier amendment, does not of itself make the amendments irreconcilable.
Amendments are irreconcilable only when changes made by each cannot reasonably
be put into simultaneous operation.
(R.C. § 1.52)
   (C)   In the event of a conflict between any of the provisions of this code,
or between any of the provisions of this code and any standard code adopted by
the municipality pursuant to R.C. § 731.231, the provision that establishes the
higher or stricter standard shall control.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of this code or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions or applications of the section or related sections which can
be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end
the provisions are severable.
(R.C. § 1.50)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any words necessary to express the intention of the
provisions affected, the use of words to which no meaning can be attached, or
the use of a word when another word was clearly intended to express the
intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and the words supplied, omitted or
substituted shall conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall
have the same effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as
originally published. No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question
exists regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   With the exception of any ordinances specifically saved by the municipality,
this code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
and all ordinances specifically saved by the municipality shall remain in full
force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
legislative body, or a certain municipal officer or employee, to make
additional ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the
intention of the ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature
serving the purpose, effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent
thereto, shall remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.13 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.14 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.15 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this code may be numbered in
accordance with the numbering system of this code and need not be inserted in
this code, but shall be treated as if printed for inclusion herein.
   (B)   The following language may be used by the municipality to amend, add
or repeal a chapter, section or division:
      (1)   To amend a section: “Section                 of the Village of West
Alexandria Code of Ordinances is amended to read as follows: ....”
      (2)   To add a section: “Section                 of the Village of West
Alexandria Code of Ordinances, which is to be added to and amends the Village
of West Alexandria Code of Ordinances, reads as follows: ....”
      (3)   To repeal a section: “Section                 of the Village of
West Alexandria Code of Ordinances, which reads as follows, is repealed: ....”
§ 10.16 STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, located in parentheses
immediately following a division or section of this code, this indicates that
the text of the division or section is substantially equivalent to the
statutory provision.
  Example: (R.C. § 4511.02)
   (B)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following
the text of a section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information.
  Example:
§ 30.08 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   Unless otherwise exempted by state law, all public records shall be promptly
prepared and made available for inspection to any person.
Statutory reference:
Public records, see R.C. § 149.43
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.18 DETERMINATION OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   (A)   In enacting an ordinance, it is presumed that:
      (1)   Compliance with the Constitutions of the state and of the United
States is intended;
      (2)   The entire ordinance is intended to be effective;
      (3)   A just and reasonable result is intended; and
      (4)   A result feasible of execution is intended.
(R.C. § 1.47)
   (B)   An ordinance is presumed to be prospective in its operation unless
expressly made retrospective.
(R.C. § 1.48)
   (C)   If an ordinance is ambiguous, the court, in determining the intention
of the Village Council, may consider among other matters:
      (1)   The object sought to be attained;
      (2)   The circumstances under which the ordinance was enacted;
      (3)   The legislative history;
      (4)   The common law or former legislative provisions, including laws
upon the same or similar subjects;
      (5)   The consequences of a particular construction; and
      (6)   The administrative construction of the ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.49)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever, in this municipal code or in any ordinance of the
municipality, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an
offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the
failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is
otherwise provided, whoever violates any such provision shall be punished by a
fine not exceeding $500, a term of imprisonment not exceeding six months, or
both. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which
a violation continues or occurs.
   (B)   The failure of any officer or employee of the municipality to perform
any official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or
employee to the penalty imposed for a violation unless a penalty is
specifically provided for the failure.
Cross-reference:
   Misdemeanor classifications, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Ordinance violations and penalties, see R.C. § 715.67
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COUNCIL
      
31.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
32.   VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
34.   VILLAGE EMPLOYEES
      
35.   FINANCES AND FUNDS
      
36.   TAXATION
      
37.   PUBLIC MEETINGS
      
38.   VILLAGE RECORDS
      
39.   MAYOR’S COURT
CHAPTER 30: COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Rules of procedure
   
30.02   Disposition of dead bodies
§ 30.01 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Meetings.
      (1)   Council shall meet in regular session at the Council Chambers,
Village Hall, on the third Monday of each month at 7:00 p.m. Should any holiday
fall upon the date for a regular meeting, Council shall reschedule the meeting
as it deems fit. Upon Council’s failure to reschedule the meeting, the Mayor
may reschedule it.
      (2)   The Mayor or any three members of Council may call special meetings
of Council upon at least 12 hours of notice to each member, served personally
or left at the member’s usual place of residence. This notice provision shall
also apply to any meeting the Mayor reschedules under division (A)(1) of this
section.
   (B)   Rules.
      (1)   Agenda. The Mayor, after consultation with Council members, may
prepare an agenda to be brought before Council. The agenda should be available
for the members of Council and the Solicitor by 12:00 noon of the day of the
meeting.
      (2)   Call to order. The Mayor or, in his or her absence, the President
of Council, shall take the chair at the hour appointed for the meeting and
shall immediately call Council to order. In the event of the absence of the
Mayor and President, a majority of Council members in attendance shall elect a
President Pro Tem, who shall chair such meeting.
      (3)   Invocation and/or pledge of allegiance. Invocation and/or pledge of
allegiance.
      (4)   Roll call. The Fiscal Officer shall call the roll of the members,
and the names of those present shall be entered in the minutes.
      (5)   Quorum. A majority of the members of Council shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of Council.
      (6)   Order of business. All meetings of Council shall be open to the
public. Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the
members of Council, the Mayor, the Fiscal Officer and the Solicitor, when
necessary, shall take their regular stations in the Council chambers, and the
business of Council may be taken up for consideration and disposition in the
following order (the Mayor’s agenda does not have to follow this order, i.e.
this format is suggestive but not directive):
         (a)   Approval of minutes of previous meeting, provided, however, that
unless a reading of the minutes of a Council meeting is requested by a member
of Council, such minutes may be approved without reading if the Fiscal Officer
has previously furnished each member with a copy thereof;
         (b)   Approval of bills to be paid;
         (c)   Recognition of guests:
            1.   Each person shall be allowed ten minutes to place his or her
grievance or petition before Council;
            2.   No person may address Council more than once during the
meeting of Council, but any person may, at the discretion of the Mayor, be
given extra time for discussion, and may be required to answer such questions
as may be directed to him or her by members of Council or the Mayor; and
            3.   All remarks shall be addressed to Council as a body and not to
any one member thereof. No person, other than Council and the person having the
floor, shall be permitted to enter into any discussion, either directly or
through a member of Council, without the permission of the presiding officer.
No question shall be asked a Councilperson except through the presiding
officer.
         (d)   The Fiscal Officer’s and Mayor’s correspondence and remarks;
         (e)   Introduction of resolutions and ordinances and second and third
readings;
         (f)   Committee reports;
         (g)   Old business;
         (h)   New business; and
         (i)   Adjournment.
   (C)   Committees.
      (1)   The following committees of Council shall consist of two Council
members, one Chairperson and one Co-Chairperson, and shall be appointed by the
Mayor, subject to Council’s approval.
         (a)   Budget and Finance;
         (b)   Sidewalks, Curbs, and Gutters;
         (c)   Streets, Alleys, and Storm Sewers;
         (d)   Safety (Fire and Police);
         (e)   Health and Sanitation;
         (f)   Public Buildings and Grounds; and
         (g)   Legislative (the President Pro Tem is Chairperson and has
direction to select assistance from other Council members).
      (2)   The Mayor or Council may increase the committee members on any
given committee to three. Committees shall have no binding power on the
Council, but shall act as a recommending body in their given area of expertise.
   (D)   Speaking.
      (1)   No member of Council shall be allowed to speak except from his or
her own seat.
      (2)   Every member desiring to speak shall address the chair, and upon
recognition by the presiding officer shall confine himself or herself to the
question under debate, avoiding all personalities and indecorous language.
      (3)   A member, once recognized, shall not be interrupted when speaking
unless it is to call him or her to order, or as herein otherwise provided. If a
member, while speaking, is called to order, he or she shall cease speaking
until the question of order is determined and, if he or she is in order, he or
she shall be permitted to proceed.
      (4)   The Fiscal Officer shall enter into the minutes a synopsis of the
discussion on any question coming regularly before Council, unless a complete
abstract of any statement is requested by a Councilperson and such request is
consented to by a majority of those present. Any Councilperson requesting an
abstract shall provide the Fiscal Officer with a written abstract.
   (E)   Motions. When a motion is made, it shall be stated by the presiding
officer before any debate is in order. Every such motion and all amendments
thereto, if any, may be withdrawn by the mover thereof at any time before
decision by the consent of a majority of the members or Council present.
      (1)   Seconds. A second shall be required for any motion,
      (2)   Order of precedence of motions. When a question or proposition is
before Council or under debate, no motion shall be received except the
following, which several motions shall have precedence in the following order:
         (a)   To enforce cloture;
         (b)   To adjourn;
         (c)   To table the motion;
         (d)   To postpone to a time certain;
         (e)   To commit for further study;
         (f)   To amend; and
         (g)   To postpone indefinitely.
      (3)   Motions to enforce cloture and to adjourn. A motion to enforce
cloture and a motion to adjourn shall always be in order unless Council is
engaged in voting. A motion to enforce cloture and a motion to adjourn shall be
decided without debate.
      (4)   Absence. No regular or ex officio member of Council shall leave the
Council Chamber without permission to do so granted by Council. Any member
leaving without permission shall be guilty of contempt and may be censured at
the discretion of Council. However, no member shall be required to remain in
the Council Chamber longer than one-half hour after the hour fixed for
convening, unless a quorum is present.
      (5)   Voting. Any member of Council may call for the yeas and nays on any
proposition before Council. Every member present shall vote on any question,
unless excused by the unanimous consent of all other members of Council
present. All such voting shall be done on a random basis at the discretion of
the Fiscal Officer. Refusal to vote shall be deemed contempt of Council, and
the member so refusing may be censured or suspended at the direction of Council
in separate proceedings or charges in contempt.
   (F)   Censure and expulsion. Council may censure or expel any member for
disorderly conduct in Council or for a violation of its rules, and declare his
or her seat vacant for absence without valid excuse where such absence has
continued for two months. No expulsion shall take place without the concurrence
of two-thirds of all the members elected and until the delinquent member has
been notified of the charge against him or her and has had an opportunity to be
heard.
   (G)   Amendments. These rules may be amended or new rules adopted by a vote
of a majority of all the members elected at any meeting of Council, or such
rules may be temporarily suspended on a vote of at least five members.
   (H)   Procedure. Technicalities of parliamentary procedure shall not be
invoked except when necessary to avoid or prevent interruption of the orderly
procedure of the business before Council, but in the event of necessity, unless
otherwise provided in these rules, Robert’s Rules of Order shall govern the
deliberations of Council.
(Prior Code, § 220.01) (Ord. 516, passed 2-22-1988; Ord. 745, passed 3-16-2009;
Ord. 841, passed 1-24-2019; Ord. passed 2-18-2020)
§ 30.02 DISPOSITION OF DEAD BODIES.
   (A)   A sum of money as and for cremation expenses shall be allowed to be
paid by the village to or for the benefit of the estate of persons who die
indigent while having a permanent residency in the village, provided the
village is obligated to do so under R.C. § 9.15.
   (B)   The sum referred to in division (A) of this section shall not exceed
$1,000 per cremation and shall be used for cremation purposes only. Council
reserves the right to modify the $1,000 amount by motion as it may from time to
time deem fit and proper.
   (C)   The cremated remains may be buried at Sugar Grove Cemetery (Twin
Township) or Fairview Cemetery (Lanier Township) at the additional cost of the
village as per R.C. § 9.15, or they may be otherwise disposed of within the
discretion of the Village Administrator. Prior to the disposition of the
cremated remains, the Village Administrator is authorized to give said cremated
remains to the executor, administrator or other court appointed fiduciary of
the dead person’s probate estate.
   (D)   The word INDIGENT, for purposes of this section, means a person dying
destitute of property or means of subsistence and without money or credit and
who was not gainfully employed at the time of death.
   (E)   All money paid out by the village under this section shall act as a
funeral expense priority claim in the indigent deceased person’s estate.
   (F)   The Village Administrator shall determine all questions of indigence
or other matters relevant to the executive function of carrying out the terms
of this section, and may require appropriate proof by written application.
(Ord. 803, passed 2-1-2016)
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Credit card policy
Mayor
   
31.015   Office Secretary
Solicitor
   
31.030   Qualifications; duties
Village Fiscal Officer
   
31.045   Duties; compensation
   
31.046   Investment of surplus funds
   
31.047   Payment of expenses of incarcerating violators of municipal law
   
31.048   Combination of offices
   
31.049   Limitation on departmental spending
Village Administrative Coordinator
   
31.060   Establishment
   
31.061   Duties
   
31.062   Benefits
Village Administrator
   
31.075   Established
   
31.076   Powers and duties
   
31.077   Salary
   
31.078   Mileage reimbursement
   
31.079   Absence or disability
   
31.080   Effective date
Assistant Village Administrator
   
31.095   Service Department
   
31.096   Creation of position of Assistant Village Administrator
   
31.097   Appointment; term
   
31.098   Jobs, duties and functions
   
31.099   Removal
   
31.100   Effective date
Village Utility Billing Clerk
   
31.115   Establishment of position
   
31.116   Duties; supervision
   
31.117   Hours and pay
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 CREDIT CARD POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this policy is to ensure that village credit
card accounts are closely monitored in order to provide for maximum security of
village funds and to safeguard against misuse and/or losses of public funds for
which the village may be held liable. This policy is meant to comply with the
mandates of 2018 H.B. 312, § 1, enacted by the 132nd General Assembly and made
applicable to the village as codified by R.C. § 717.31. All village-issued
credit cards are to be used solely for the purpose of conducting village
business and are not to be used in any event for personal expenses.
   (B)   Authorized personnel.
      (1)   Only authorized personnel shall be permitted to use village credit
cards. The Fiscal Officer shall retain general possession and control of all
village credit card accounts and presentation instruments, including cards and
checks, related to the accounts.
      (2)   Only the following village officials shall be issued and authorized
to regularly hold and use village credit cards, as administered by the Fiscal
Officer:
         (a)   Mayor;
         (b)   Village Administrator;
         (c)   EMS Chief;
         (d)   Fire Chief;
         (e)   Police Chief; and
         (f)   Fiscal Officer.
      (3)   Other village employees beyond the above listed officers may only
use village credit cards by signing them out with the Fiscal Officer. All
references to “authorized user(s)”, “employee(s)” and “cardholder(s)” in this
policy refer to the aforementioned, authorized village officials and employees.
Before receiving any village credit card, other than a fuel card as addressed
below authorized employees must read this policy and complete an employee
credit card account agreement attached to this policy as Exhibit “A” and
incorporated herein by reference, which will be filed and maintained in the
employee’s personnel file.
   (C)   Fuel cards. In addition to the credit cards procured and held by the
village related to general departmental expenses, the village possesses credit
card accounts specifically designated only for the expense of fuel for village-
owned vehicles. These cards (hereafter, “fuel cards”) apply to all employees
and volunteers in the EMS, Fire, Police and Streets Departments of the village.
Fuel cards must be signed out with the Fiscal Officer. In addition, before
receiving a village fuel card, authorized employees must also read this policy
and complete the employee/volunteer fuel card account agreement attached to
this policy as Exhibit “B” and incorporated herein by reference, which will be
filed and maintained in the employee’s personnel file.
   (D)   Acquisition, use, and management of credit card accounts. The Fiscal
Officer shall be responsible for the acquisition, use and management of all new
and existing village credit card accounts and associated presentation
instruments, including cards and checks. Any new and/or additional credit card
accounts to be opened for conducting village business must be submitted by the
Fiscal Officer to Council for approval.
   (E)   Credit card issuance, use and management.
      (1)   The Fiscal Officer will use a system to sign out credit cards to
authorized users and should keep records of when an authorized user signs out
and returns a credit card. Authorized village employees, other than those
officials specifically listed in division (B) of this section must sign out the
village credit card with the Fiscal Officer each time the credit card is placed
in the user’s possession. An authorized user must return a credit card to the
Fiscal Officer within a reasonable time after use. No credit card, including
fuel cards, may remain signed out for a period longer than 72 hours.
      (2)   Employees are responsible for maintaining physical control over the
card they are issued and must maintain reasonable care of the card while the
card is in use. Inactive credit cards and/or credit cards that have not been
utilized for any purchases within six months will be secured by the Fiscal
Officer in a safe or locked cash box in a secure drawer. Credit cards and any
other presentation instruments associated with a credit card account must be
kept in a secure place under the care, general possession and control of the
Village Fiscal Officer when not held by an official specifically listed in
division (B) of this section or signed out by an authorized user.
      (3)   The Fiscal Officer shall maintain a written list of all officials
and employees permitted to use village credit cards, along with a master list
of all cards (and the names that appear on each card, if applicable). The
Fiscal Officer shall maintain and keep current both lists.
      (4)   The Fiscal Officer has the right to refuse to authorize the use of
a credit card. In the case of a refusal, the employee may request Council’s
authorization.
   (F)   Authorized credit card use and expenses.
      (1)   The village recognizes the efficiency and convenience afforded the
day-to-day operation of the village through the use of credit cards under the
supervision of the Fiscal Officer. However, credit cards shall not be used to
circumvent state law and the policies of the village. Therefore, prior to using
a village credit card, other than a fuel card, an authorized user must get all
purchases approved in advance through a purchase order. In the event of an
emergency or when it is not possible to get advanced approval through a
purchase order, an authorized user must notify the Fiscal Officer before making
any purchase on a village credit card.
      (2)   Village credit cards may only be used by village employees and
officials to purchase work-related goods and services incurred on behalf of the
village. Such work-related goods and services include, but are not limited to,
the following:
         (a)   Gasoline for village vehicles, with the requirement that fuel
cards may only be used to purchase gasoline for village vehicles and for no
other purpose provided in this section;
         (b)   Maintenance/repairs of village vehicles and equipment;
         (c)   Uniform purchases for village employees;
         (d)   Office supplies/materials as needed (in-store or online); and
         (e)   Registration/enrollment fees for village officer trainings.
      (3)   In addition to these requirements, authorized employees using
village credit cards must:
         (a)   Limit use of village credit cards exclusively to purchases
necessary for conducting village business;
         (b)   Immediately notify the Fiscal Officer of any unintended personal
purchases made on a village credit card, and the employee shall immediately
reimburse the village for such charges; and
         (c)   Make every effort to ensure that village credit card purchases
do not include sales tax. Tax-exempt certificates are available upon request
from the Fiscal Officer.
      (4)   No single credit card purchase shall exceed a spending limit of
$2,000. Single purchases exceeding this limit must receive prior approval of
Council.
      (5)   Any rewards, rebates or awards earned through use of the village
credit card shall be immediately relinquished to the village.
   (G)   Receipts.
      (1)   Detailed itemized receipts, issued by email and/or electronic
register, for all purchases on the village credit card must be retained,
initialed or signed by the charging individual, and submitted to the Fiscal
Officer by the end of the next business day, unless more time is allowed by the
Fiscal Officer. Receipts for the purchase of gasoline for EMS, fire and/or
police vehicles should be issued to the respective Chief of each department.
      (2)   Receipts should show the items or services purchased, date of
purchase and the amount charged. Failure to submit receipts and appropriate
documentation may result in the charges being deemed unsubstantiated or
unauthorized purchases.
      (3)   In the event that an employee is unable to obtain a receipt after
performing due care, or misplaces or loses a receipt, a written explanation
must be completed and submitted to the Fiscal Officer for review. Such requests
to waive the requirement for a receipt will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis
and evaluated depending upon the item or services purchased.
   (H)   Returns.
      (1)   In the event that an item or service purchased with a village
credit card must be returned or exchanged for any reason, the cardholder is
responsible for facilitating the return/exchange and requesting a credit to the
account. All documentation regarding the return shall be submitted to the
Fiscal Officer for verification of the credit by the end of the next business
day, unless more time is allowed by the Fiscal Officer.
      (2)   Cardholders may not receive cash back or in-store credits for any
refunds or exchanges. Such amounts must be credited to the village credit card
account. If a supplier mistakenly issues a refund check, the refund check must
be immediately submitted to the Fiscal Officer.
   (I)   Credit card reissuance and cancellation. Reissuance of village credit
cards to any authorized employee(s), other than an employee previously found to
have violated this policy, shall recommence under the same procedures and
requirements described in this policy. Failure to comply with this policy may
result in the employee having his or her village credit card cancelled, and/or
having all privileges and access related to village credit cards revoked. The
Fiscal Officer shall be responsible for requesting and facilitating any
necessary cancellation of a village credit card account and must notify Council
of the same. Employees must surrender all village credit cards within their
possession upon separation of employment from the village, or at any time when
requested by the Fiscal Officer.
   (J)   Reporting lost or stolen credit cards. In the event that a cardholder
suspects the loss, theft, damage to or unauthorized use of a village credit
card, the cardholder shall immediately notify the Fiscal Officer. In turn, the
Fiscal Officer shall immediately take the necessary steps to notify the issuing
credit card agency, merchant or financial institution in order to cancel and
replace the credit card. Council shall be notified as soon as practicable.
   (K)   Maximum credit limits. The credit limit on each credit card account
held by the village shall be $2,000. Maximum credit limit amounts for village
credit cards shall only be adjusted by the Fiscal Officer upon prior approval
by Council.
   (L)   Misuse of credit cards.
      (1)   Any use of village credit cards for personal purchases is strictly
prohibited and unauthorized. Such use may result in the employee losing all
privileges to use village credit cards, reimbursement paid to the village,
disciplinary action under applicable village policy, and criminal prosecution
under R.C. § 2913.21.
      (2)   Cash advances on village credit cards are not allowed under any
circumstances. Village credit cards are not transferable. Employees are not
permitted to lend their village credit card to another employee or any other
person to facilitate any transaction. Employees are not permitted to lend or
share fuel card PINs with any other official, employee or individual.
      (3)   In addition, the following purchases on village credit cards are
strictly prohibited:
         (a)   Alcoholic beverages or tobacco products;
         (b)   Gasoline for personal vehicles;
         (c)   Capital equipment and upgrades over $5,000;
         (d)   Controlled substances;
         (e)   Items or services on term contracts (excluding approved
subscription services and unless otherwise authorized by the Fiscal Officer and
Council);
         (f)   Maintenance agreements;
         (g)   Personal items or loans;
         (h)   Donations;
         (i)   Payments for any purchases linked to a PayPal® account or other
online platforms and/or app-based services enabling users to pay, send money,
and accept payments, including but not limited to Amazon Payments®, Google
Wallet®, Intuit®, Payza®, Skrill®, Stripe®, Venmo® and/or WePay®;
         (j)   Rentals (other than short-term automobile rentals);
         (k)   Purchases on fuel cards for any item other than fuel/gasoline;
and
         (l)   Any other items deemed inconsistent with village policy or the
Ohio Revised Code.
      (4)   All actions or omissions by a village employee resulting in a
failure to comply with any provision of this policy shall qualify as misuse of
a village credit card account and will be subject to appropriate action.
   (M)   Reports by Fiscal Officer. The Fiscal Officer shall annually file a
report with Council detailing all rewards received based on the use of the
village credit card accounts. When requested, the Fiscal Officer shall present
a credit card account transaction detail from the previous month to Council.
Council shall review the credit card account transaction detail and the
chairperson of Council shall sign an attestation stating Council reviewed the
credit card account transaction detail.
(Ord. 909, passed 10-19-2020)
MAYOR
§ 31.015 OFFICE SECRETARY.
   (A)   Establishment of position; appointment. There is hereby established in
and for the village the position of Office Secretary, which position shall be a
part of and within the executive branch of the village government. The Office
Secretary shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of
Council.
   (B)   Duties. The general job description of the position of Office
Secretary shall be as follows: the Office Secretary shall perform general
office duties as directed by the Mayor and the Fiscal Officer.
   (C)   Supervision by Mayor; eligibility of Fiscal Officer to serve;
conflicts of interest. The Office Secretary shall be under the supervision of
the Mayor. The Fiscal Officer shall be eligible to apply for and be appointed
to the position of Office Secretary. If the Fiscal Officer holds the position
of Office Secretary, and a conflict of interest develops between the two
functions or roles, the Fiscal Officer is expected to perform the functions of
a Fiscal Officer and advise the Mayor of the conflict. The Mayor or other
appropriate village personnel will then need to perform the other functions in
conflict.
   (D)   Office hours; compensation; benefits.
      (1)   The Office Secretary shall maintain office hours for 30 hours per
week. Office hours shall be set by the Mayor and posted for the public.
      (2)   (a)   All full-time and permanent part- time employees will be
granted paid vacation leave annually according to the following provisions:
 
Years of Service  Work Week
After 1 full year 1
2 – 9           2
10 -14            3
15 – 24         4
Over 25 complete  5
 
         (b)   Vacation days cannot be carried over from one year to the next.
They must be used within a one-year period.
         (c)   Vacation will be granted at the discretion of the department
head.
         (d)   All full-time and permanent part-time employees are eligible for
paid holidays which include the following:
 
New Year’s Day       Labor Day
Martin Luther King Day Columbus Day
President’s Day      Veteran’s Day
Memorial Day           Thanksgiving
Independence Day       Christmas
 
      (3)   The wage scale, fringe benefits (if any), and payment or non-
payment of the above vacation time period shall be set by Council by motion,
per its annual appropriation measure, per its annual pay scale ordinance, or by
other applicable law.
   (E)   Supervision may be delegated to Fiscal Officer. Whenever appropriate,
the Mayor may delegate supervisory duties over the Office Secretary to the
Fiscal Officer; however, the ultimate supervisory authority over the Office
Secretary shall be the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 230.01) (Ord. 623, passed 12-19-1996; Ord. 654, passed 12-20-
1999; Ord. 715, passed 12-5-2005)
SOLICITOR
§ 31.030 QUALIFICATIONS; DUTIES.
   The Solicitor shall be an attorney-at-law admitted to practice in the courts
of Ohio. It shall be the duty of the Solicitor to act as attorney and counsel
for the village and the officers thereof in their official capacity, and as
such attorney to prosecute and defend all actions by or against the village or
any department or officer thereof during the time of his or her employment, and
to render legal opinions to Council and to any department or officer of the
village upon request in writing.
(Prior Code, § 232.01) (Ord. 38, passed 1-8-1906)
VILLAGE FISCAL OFFICER
§ 31.045 DUTIES; COMPENSATION.
   The Village Fiscal Officer shall have all rights, duties and authorities
granted to such position by the laws of the state and by Council. The salary of
the Village Fiscal Officer shall be fixed at a rate established from time to
time by Council and paid from the General Fund
(Prior Code, § 234.01) (Ord. 507, passed 10-8-1987)
§ 31.046 INVESTMENT OF SURPLUS FUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever there are moneys in the village treasury which will not be
required to be used for a period of six months or more, such moneys may, in
lieu of being deposited in a bank, be invested in accordance with the
provisions of R.C. §§ 731.56 through 731.59.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided, net interest on treasury investments
shall be distributed to the General Fund of the village, except that the net
interest on treasury investments of the Fire Equipment Reserve Fund shall be
distributed to such Fund, and the net interest on federal general revenue
sharing funds shall be distributed to the Federal General Revenue Sharing Fund.
(Prior Code, § 234.02) (Ord. 391, passed 11-4-1974)
§ 31.047 PAYMENT OF EXPENSES OF INCARCERATING VIOLATORS OF MUNICIPAL LAW.
   (A)   Council hereby authorizes the Village Fiscal Officer, upon
presentation of proper documentation to such Fiscal Officer, to pay all proper
expenses incurred by the Preble County jail, or any other penal institution, in
sustaining any prisoner incarcerated for a violation of an ordinance or
resolution enacted by the village.
   (B)   This section is being enacted to ensure compliance with R.C. §§ 753.02
and 1905.35.
(Prior Code, § 234.05) (Ord. 488, passed 2-3-1986)
§ 31.048 COMBINATION OF OFFICES.
   (A)   The Council for the village hereby creates and establishes the
appointed office of Village Fiscal Officer.
   (B)   The Village Fiscal Officer shall perform all duties provided by law
for the Clerk and Treasurer, previously performed by the Village Clerk-
Treasurer, including but not limited to: keeping the books of the village;
exhibiting accurate statements of all moneys received and expended, of all the
property owned by the village and the income derived therefrom, and of all
taxes and assessments; attend all meetings of Council and keep a record of its
proceedings and of all rules, bylaws, resolutions and ordinances passed or
adopted; attend necessary training programs; and any other duties consistent
with the nature of the office as provided for by ordinance approved by Council
for the village.
(Ord. 847, passed 2-18-2019)
§ 31.049 LIMITATION ON DEPARTMENTAL SPENDING.
   (A)   All purchases and expenditures in excess of $400 shall require one of
the following approval processes before being made:
      (1)   An ordinance or resolution other than the annual appropriation,
budget and/or tentative budget enactments;
      (2)   A contract approved by the Council;
      (3)   Approval by the Village Administrator per other applicable law,
provided said purchase and/or expenditure is $2,500 or less; and
      (4)   Approval of the expenditure by the Council at a regular or special
meeting of the Council, the consent to which shall not be unreasonably
withheld, if it is within the bounds of the annual budget measures of the
village.
   (B)   In addition to division (A) of this section, no purchases or
expenditures shall be made on behalf of the village, by or for any department,
employee, board, agency or unit thereof, without first obtaining a “purchase
order” from the Village Fiscal Officer which certifies that the funds needed
for the purchase or expenditure are available, and further submitting a
“purchase requisition” on a form approved by the Village Fiscal Officer. Such
“purchase requisition” shall be signed by the Village Administrator, or in his
or her absence, by the Village Fiscal Officer.
   (C)   Emergency purchases and expenditures are exempt from the provisions
contained in this section; however, ratification of the emergency purchase or
expenditure shall be sought from the Village Administrator and a purchase order
from the Village Fiscal Officer at the earliest available opportunity. The
burden of proof of an “emergency” is on the person making the emergency
purchase or expenditure.
   (D)   The penalty for violating divisions (A) or (B) of this section, shall
be any or all of the following, at the discretion of the Council (to which the
effected department, employee, board, agency or unit thereof, shall have the
right to appeal to the Court of Common Pleas of the county within 30 days of
the finding of the Council):
      (1)   Restitution for the illegal purchase or expenditure, to be made by
the person or persons violating division (A) or (B) of this section;
      (2)   An oral or written reprimand from the Council, directed to the
person or persons violating division (A) or (B) of this section;
      (3)   A written suspension, without pay, of the person or persons
violating division (A) or (B) of this section, for a term not to exceed 90
days; and
      (4)   For illegal purchases and expenditures in excess of $800 or
situations in which the person or persons violating division (A) or (B) of this
section, has or have been found to be a prior violator by the Council, a
discharge of the person or persons violating division (A) or (B) of this
section.
   (E)   All departments, employees, new employees, boards, agencies, or units
thereof, are to receive a copy of this section. Further, any person or persons
threatened with a penalty under division (D) of this section, shall have the
right to notice of the hearing before the Council, the right to be present at
the hearing, the right to retain legal counsel to represent them at the
hearing, and the right to present evidence in their own defense.
   (F)   Division (D) of this section, shall not apply to any situation in
which a potential violator of division (A) of this section, has first obtained
a written preliminary opinion from the Village Administrator that the
contemplated purchase or expenditure in excess of $400 is an “emergency”.
   (G)   The Village Administrator, as the executive manager of this section,
shall be exempt from division (A) and (B) of this section.
(Ord. 805, passed 3-21-2016)
VILLAGE ADMINISTRATIVE COORDINATOR
§ 31.060 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The part-time position of Village Administrative Coordinator is hereby
established under the supervision of the Village Council, to be appointed by
the Mayor, with Council’s consent.
(Prior Code, § 237.01) (Ord. 557, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 31.061 DUTIES.
   The Village Administrative Coordinator shall be responsible for the
following functions on an up to ten-hour per week basis:
   (A)   Researching, pursuing and applying for grants for village projects at
the direction of Council or the Village Administrator;
   (B)   Researching, pursuing and applying for other funds or loans for
village projects at the direction of Council or the Village Administrator; and
   (C)   Gathering information and data needed by department heads, the Mayor,
the Fiscal Officer, Council and/or the Village Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 237.02) (Ord. 557, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 31.062 BENEFITS.
   The position of Village Administrative Coordinator shall have no fringe
benefits other than PERS, and the same shall be paid according to the direction
of Council in its appropriate salary and budgetary ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 237.03) (Ord. 557, passed 4-1-1991)
VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR
§ 31.075 ESTABLISHED.
   The position of Village Administrator is hereby established for West
Alexandria, Ohio, pursuant to R.C. §§ 735.271 to 735.273.
(Prior Code, § 247.01) (Ord. 657, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 31.076 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Village Administrator shall have the powers, duties and functions as
contained in the Ohio Revised Code, and such additional powers, duties, and
functions as Council may from time to lime provide him or her with. In
addition, the Village Administrator shall have the powers, duties and functions
of a General Service Employee as defined hereby.
(Prior Code, § 247.02) (Ord. 657, passed 2-24-2000; Ord. 902, passed 5-18-2020)
§ 31.077 SALARY.
   The compensation and vacation leave entitlement for the position of Village
Administrator shall be established by the Mayor with the approval of Village
Council.
(Prior Code, § 247.03) (Ord. 657, passed 2-24-2000; Ord. 671, passed 12-4-2000;
Ord. 903, passed 5-18-2020)
§ 31.078 MILEAGE REIMBURSEMENT.
   The Village Administrator will be reimbursed for mileage for the use of his
or her personal vehicle at the current mileage rate established by the Internal
Revenue Service.
(Prior Code, § 247.04) (Ord. 657, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 31.079 ABSENCE OR DISABILITY.
   During the absence or disability for any reason of the Village
Administrator, the Mayor may perform the duties and functions of the Village
Administrator with all attendant powers.
(Prior Code, § 247.05) (Ord. 657, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 31.080 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be effective from and after April 3, 2000. Prior to
the date, the Mayor shall appoint the first West Alexandria Village
Administrator to begin working as Village Administrator on the effective date,
and as of the date, the West Alexandria Board of Trustees of Public Affairs
shall be abolished and the term of office of members of such Board shall
terminate. Further, as of the date, all contracts entered into by the West
Alexandria Board of Trustees of Public Affairs and rules and regulations and
other action taken by such Board shall continue in effect until they have
terminated of their own accord or until they shall have been modified, changed,
revised, amended or repealed in the manner provided by law. Finally, as of the
date, the Village Administrator shall step into the shoes of the West
Alexandria Board of Trustees of Public Affairs and have all their powers,
duties and functions.
(Prior Code, § 247.06) (Ord. 657, passed 2-24-2000)
ASSISTANT VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR
§ 31.095 SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
   A Service Department is hereby created and established for the Village of
West Alexandria the jurisdictional concern of which will be all departments and
functions under the Village Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 248.01) (Ord. 709, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 31.096 CREATION OF POSITION OF ASSISTANT VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR.
   The position of Assistant Village Administrator is hereby created, who shall
be under the general supervision and control of the Village Administrator, and
who shall perform any and all functions of the Village Administrator that the
Village Administrator may from time to time delegate to him or her.
(Prior Code, § 248.02) (Ord. 709, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 31.097 APPOINTMENT; TERM.
   The Assistant Village Administrator shall be appointed for a one-year
calendar term by Council from the general pool of employees within the Service
Department.
(Prior Code, § 248.03) (Ord. 709, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 31.098 JOBS, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS.
   The Assistant Village Administrator shall still serve as and perform all of
his or her other regular employee jobs, functions and duties, but for
performing the additional administrative functions, his or her regular salary
and/or wage for the time he or she serves as Assistant Village Administrator
shall be increased by $6,000 per year, payable biweekly.
(Prior Code, § 248.04) (Ord. 709, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 31.099 REMOVAL.
   With or without cause, Council may move the Assistant Village Administrator
out of the position and back to the general pool of employees within the
Service Department at any time.
(Prior Code, § 248.05) (Ord. 709, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 31.100 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective from and after January 1, 2005.
(Prior Code, § 248.06) (Ord. 709, passed 12-6-2004)
VILLAGE UTILITY BILLING CLERK
§ 31.115 ESTABLISHMENT OF POSITION.
   The position of Village Utility Billing Clerk is hereby established.
(Ord. 912, passed 4-19-2021)
§ 31.116 DUTIES; SUPERVISION.
   The duties of the Village Billing Clerk shall the performance of general
administrative and clerical tasks for the Village Water and Sewer Department,
including, but not limited to, preparation of utility bills, collection of
utility payments and establishment and maintenance of utility accounts, as well
as various other duties necessary to maintain the general health, public
welfare and good order of the village which may be determined by the village
and/or may be included in a position description adopted by the village. The
Village Utility Billing Clerk shall be subordinate to the Village Administrator
and perform such duties as directed by the Village Administrator, or the Mayor
in the absence of a Village Administrator.
(Ord. 912, passed 4-19-2021)
§ 31.117 HOURS AND PAY.
   The Village Utility Billing Clerk is a part-time position which shall be
paid in a wage range of $10 to $15 per hour (to be determined by further action
of Council). The Utility Clerk shall not work more than 29 hours in any one
week.
(Ord. 912, passed 4-19-2021)
CHAPTER 32: VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Emergency Ambulance Department
   
32.01   Secretary-Treasurer of Emergency Squad
   
32.02   Chief of Emergency Squad
   
32.03   Emergency ambulance service fee
Service Department
   
32.15   General Service Supervisor
   
32.16   Residency of Village Administrator
   
32.17   Part-time service employees
Planning Commission
   
32.30   Establishment
   
32.31   Membership
   
32.32   Standard application forms; filing of original documentation
Records Commission
   
32.45   Establishment
   
32.46   Absence of Chairperson or Secretary
   
32.47   Quorum
   
32.48   Record of proceedings
EMERGENCY AMBULANCE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.01 SECRETARY-TREASURER OF EMERGENCY SQUAD.
   The position of Secretary-Treasurer of the Emergency Squad of the village is
hereby established. Compensation for such position shall be as established from
time to time by Council.
(Prior Code, § 241.01) (Res. 1986-3, passed 4-7-1986)
§ 32.02 CHIEF OF EMERGENCY SQUAD.
   The position of Chief of Emergency Squad of the village is hereby
established. Compensation for such position shall be as established from time
to time by Council. The position shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
advice and consent of Council. The general qualifications and job description
for the position shall be established from time to time by Council and shall
remain on file with the Village Fiscal Officer.
(Prior Code, § 241.02) (Ord. 682, passed 12-17-2001; Ord. 700, passed 11-3-
2003)
§ 32.03 EMERGENCY AMBULANCE SERVICE FEE.
   (A)   The West Alexandria Village Council notes the following facts.
      (1)   The Village of West Alexandria has no hospitals within its
jurisdiction, and that if its citizens need this health service on an emergency
basis that a village emergency ambulance service is a necessary component in
transporting citizens with emergency medical needs to hospitals or other
medical facilities.
      (2)   The Village of West Alexandria periodically enters into contracts
with neighboring townships and/or other political entities to provide emergency
ambulance services to persons within other jurisdictions.
      (3)   Township Trustees have the direct power to charge for the use of
emergency ambulance services within their townships under R.C. § 505.84.
      (4)   Providing emergency ambulance services is an expensive endeavor
that historically has driven private carriers away from providing the services
to rural areas.
   (B)   The Village of West Alexandria herein establishes and shall charge a
fee for users of the West Alexandria Emergency Ambulance Service. The fee shall
be no less than the “authorized medicare reimbursement rate” as established for
the locality under Title XVIII of the Social Security Act, 49 Stat. 620 (1935),
42 U.S.C. §§ 301, as amended, and shall equal the usual and customary rate for
like and similar services.
   (C)   The Village of West Alexandria may periodically enter into contracts
with a private agent(s) for purposes of billing, processing, collecting and
otherwise handling the fees, charges and user accounts. The private agent(s)
are to be compensated solely from fees collected.
   (D)   The Village of West Alexandria may require other political entities
contractually served by the West Alexandria Emergency Ambulance Service to
establish and charge the fee prescribed by division (B) of this section for
services rendered within their jurisdiction, and may further require the use of
the same private agent(s) used by West Alexandria under and pursuant to the
terms of division (C) of this section. Moneys so collected shall be deposited
as required by law and divided per agreement between the political entities
contractually served and the Village of West Alexandria. Moneys received by
West Alexandria under this division (D) shall be in addition to and separate
from regular moneys received by contract with other political entities.
   (E)   The fee charged to users of the West Alexandria Emergency Ambulance
Service shall be assessed and billed to the user, irrespective of the life or
death of the user, the removal or non-removal of the user, or who initiated the
call for the services. Anyone aggrieved of a bill they dispute may appeal to
the Village Council within 30 days of receiving their bill, and for good cause,
the Village Council may void the bill.
(Prior Code, § 241.03) (Ord. 670, passed 12-4-2000; Ord. 685, passed 3-4-2002)
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.15 GENERAL SERVICE SUPERVISOR.
   (A)   The title of General Service Supervisor shall replace the title
Garbage and Trash Collection Employee.
   (B)   The General Service Supervisor shall supervise all general service
employees and shall also be required to perform those same duties as necessary.
   (C)   The General Service Supervisor shall be subordinate to the Village
Administrator and perform such duties as directed by the Village Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 244.05) (Ord. 329, passed 2-20-1967; Ord. 594, passed 1-3-1994;
Ord. 671, passed 12-4-2000)
§ 32.16 RESIDENCY OF VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR.
   The residency rule requirement contained in R.C. § 735.31 for the West
Alexandria Village Administrator is hereby waived.
(Prior Code, § 244.06) (Ord. 849, passed 3-4-2019)
§ 32.17 PART-TIME SERVICE EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Part-time employment positions are hereby created for the Village of
West Alexandria to be entitled part-time service and street employees. These
employees shall be under the direct supervision and control of the Village
Administrator.
   (B)   The Village Administrator shall schedule the employees on a week-to-
week basis, as needed within his or her department, up to a maximum of 24 hours
per week. The employees shall be scheduled on an as-needed basis.
   (C)   Such employees shall be paid at a rate to be determined from time to
time by Council, with no fringe benefits. Such employee may work a maximum of
24 hours per week.
   (D)   These employees shall follow all village employment rules and rules
contained in these codified ordinances, including rules for the reporting of
hours worked under §
34.08.
(Prior Code, § 244.07) (Ord. 524, passed 10-17-1988; Ord. 671, passed 12-4-
2000; Ord. 719, passed 6-5-2006)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.30 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Planning Commission for the village is hereby established.
(Prior Code, § 256.01) (Ord. 369, passed 11-6-1972)
§ 32.31 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Planning Commission shall consist of the Mayor, one member of Council
elected by Council for the remainder of his or her term and three citizens of
the village to be appointed by the Mayor for terms of six years each, except
that the term of one of the members of the first Commission shall be for four
years and one for two years. All such members shall serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 256.02) (Ord. 369, passed 11-6-1972)
§ 32.32 STANDARD APPLICATION FORMS; FILING OF ORIGINAL DOCUMENTATION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission is hereby authorized to adopt standard
application forms (and from time to time to amend the same) for applicants to
use in presenting a request to the body. The forms shall specify any fee the
Planning Commission and/or the village shall charge an applicant for the type
of request being presented on the application. The forms may also specify a
checklist of information the applicant needs to present to the Planning
Commission in order to assist the body in making a ruling on the request.
   (B)   All applicants shall file original documentation with the Planning
Commission and all original approved plats shall be promptly signed and
recorded with the Preble County Recorder at the applicant’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 256.03) (Ord. 621, passed 10-21-1996)
RECORDS COMMISSION
§ 32.45 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established in and for the village a Records Commission for
the retention and disposal of village records pursuant to R.C. § 149.39 and any
other pertinent state law.
(Prior Code, § 260.01) (Ord. 588, passed 8-16-1993)
§ 32.46 ABSENCE OF CHAIRPERSON OR SECRETARY.
   In the absence of the Chairperson or the Secretary of the Records
Commission, the attendant members shall choose from among themselves a member
to serve temporarily in such capacity.
(Prior Code, § 260.02) (Ord. 588, passed 8-16-1993)
§ 32.47 QUORUM.
   Any two members of the Records Commission shall constitute a quorum at a
meeting.
(Prior Code, § 260.03) (Ord. 588, passed 8-16-1993)
§ 32.48 RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS.
   A record of the minutes of the proceedings of the Records Commission shall
be provided and maintained to record all business and actions of the Commission
and to log the place, date and time of meetings.
(Prior Code, § 260.04) (Ord. 588, passed 8-16-1993)
CHAPTER 33: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
33.01   Composition; appointments and terms
   
33.02   Auxiliary Police Force
   
33.03   Full-time police officers
§ 33.01 COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENTS AND TERMS.
   Council may provide and, subject to its confirmation, the Mayor shall
appoint one or more police officers, night watch persons, special police
officers and private police officers. All such officers shall continue in
office until removed, except in the case of private police officers who shall
be appointed for the period of their employment by private companies or
organizations and, upon termination of employment, their duties as private
police officers shall cease and be terminated.
(Prior Code, § 238.01) (Ord. 260, passed 4-1-1957)
§ 33.02 AUXILIARY POLICE FORCE.
   (A)   An Auxiliary Police Force is hereby established and shall be equipped
and maintained by the village.
   (B)   All auxiliary police officers shall be appointed pursuant to the
provisions of R.C. § 737.161.
   (C)   All auxiliary police officers shall have the same duties and
obligations as full-time police officers, as stated in R.C. §§ 737.18 and
737.19.
   (D)   All members appointed to the Auxiliary Police Force, as police
officers shall be required to take peace officer training as stipulated in R.C.
§§ 109.71 to 109.77.
   (E)   The rate of payment for services and required duty hours of an
auxiliary police officer shall be negotiated by the officer, the Chief of
Police and the Mayor, subject to the approval of Council. No prior guarantee as
to number of duty hours or selection of work days shall be made to any
auxiliary police officer.
   (F)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to hire any auxiliary police
officer to any private organization, commercial firm or others for continuous
on-the-grounds duty, provided that such employer pays into the General Fund the
amount of $2 per hour for each officer so employed.
   (G)   Council shall be advised by the Mayor and/or the Marshal of the
village of any proposed additions or deletions from the Auxiliary Police Force.
Such advisement of any proposed changes by the Mayor and/or the Marshal shall
be deliberated by Village Council, and its consent as to any addition or
deletion of personnel from the Auxiliary Police Force shall be authorized by a
majority vote of Council.
(Prior Code, § 238.02) (Ord. 344, passed 12-4-1967; Ord. 465, passed 7-2-1984;
Ord. 523, passed 10-3-1988)
§ 33.03 FULL-TIME POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The position of full-time police officer is hereby established for the
village, according to the laws and regulations of the state. Such position
shall be in addition to the position of Village Marshal.
   (B)   The number of full-time police officers existing at any one time, and
the work hours, pay, fringe benefits and other regulations of the officers,
shall be determined by motion of Council or other applicable action as the
village authorities may from time to time deem appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 238.03) (Ord. 626, passed 3-3-1997)
CHAPTER 34: VILLAGE EMPLOYEES
Section
   
34.01   Bonds
   
34.02   Pay periods
   
34.03   Health and accident insurance
   
34.04   Uniform allowance
   
34.05   Vacation and personal time off
   
34.06   Holidays
   
34.07   Sick leave
   
34.08   Overtime; work week; work day
   
34.09   Reporting of hours worked by part-time employees
   
34.10   Annual review of salary schedule and benefits
   
34.11   Policies and procedures; Village Employee and Policy Board
   
34.12   Termination of employment
   
34.13   Sexual harassment policy
   
34.14   Criminal complaints against village employees or officials
   
34.15   Pick-up of contributions to the Police and Firemen’s Disability and
Pension Fund
   
34.16   Pick-up of contributions to the Public Employees Retirement System of
Ohio
   
34.17   Management drug testing policy
   
34.18   Employee handbook
   
34.19   Expenditures for the purchase of coffee, meals, non-alcoholic
refreshments and other amenities for municipal employees
§ 34.01 BONDS.
   (A)   Before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, each officer
and employee herein named shall execute a bond approved according to law in the
amount set forth as follows:
 
Mayor                       $2,500
Village Fiscal Officer      $75,000
Chief of Police             $2,500
Police officers (full-time) $2,500
Utility Billing Agent       $75,000
Tax Administrator           $75,000
 
   (B)   Bonds of all officers and employees not listed above shall remain as
established elsewhere in these codified ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 246.01) (Ord. 562, passed 1-21-1992)
§ 34.02 PAY PERIODS.
   Employees of the village shall be paid on a schedule as established from
time to time by Council.
(Prior Code, § 246.03)
§ 34.03 HEALTH AND ACCIDENT INSURANCE.
   (A)   The village shall provide all qualified employees as set forth in any
current ordinance with medical insurance, life and long term disability
insurance. This insurance shall be under a group plan with an agency chosen by
the municipality. The scope of this plan may be changed by action of Council.
   (B)   Only dependents who have been sired or legally adopted by the
employee, or who are under sole legal custody of the employee or his or her
spouse shall be eligible for coverage. The village may require the employee to
produce adequate proof, including a birth certificate, the appropriate legal
adoption or custody papers.
   (C)   Premium costs for full-time and eligible permanent part-time employees
are shared by the employer and employee in amounts determined by the employer,
which amounts are subject to change.
   (D)   An employee may opt out of medical insurance coverage by the
municipality at any time during the year. However, an employee shall not be
eligible to reinstate coverage except during the open enrollment period or
within 30 days of a qualifying event, as defined by and pursuant to the
policies of the municipality’s health care provider.
(Prior Code, § 246.05) (Ord. 392, passed 12-2-1974; Ord. 671, passed 12-4-2000;
Ord. 715, passed 12-5-2005)
§ 34.04 UNIFORM ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   Rental of uniforms for five changes per week shall be supplied for
each full-time employee of the Service and Street Department.
   (B)   Rental of uniforms for five changes per week shall be supplied for
each full-time employee of the Water and Sewer Department.
   (C)   The cost of police uniforms, as approved by Council for uniformed
personnel, and of cleaning such uniforms, shall be paid by the village.
   (D)   Any accrued pay or vacation pay is contingent upon the return to the
village, at the time of termination of employment, of any and all uniforms and
equipment belonging to the village or supplied by the village from a rental or
leasing service.
(Prior Code, § 246.06) (Ord. 395, passed 4-7-1975; Ord. 463, passed 5-7-1984;
Ord. 601, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 34.05 VACATION AND PERSONAL TIME OFF.
   (A)   All full-time and permanent part- time employees will be granted paid
vacation leave annually according to the following provisions:
 
Years of Service  Work Week
After 1 full year 1
2 – 5           2
6 -10             3
11 or more        4
 
   (B)   All increases in vacation time begin on January 1 of the first year in
which the increase applies.
   (C)   Vacation days cannot be carried over from one year to the next. They
must be used within a one-year period.
   (D)   Vacation will be granted at the discretion of the department head.
   (E)   Employees who have completed their initial probationary period (six
months) have the opportunity to earn up to three personal leave days per
calendar year and these personal leave days shall not be deducted from the
employee’s accrued sick leave balance, subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   Employees who work four consecutive months without using any sick
leave will earn eight hours of paid personal leave.
      (2)   The leave may be used for any personal reason of the employee’s
choosing.
      (3)   As used in this policy, calendar year shall mean the period of
January 1 to December 31 of any year.
      (4)   Requests for personal leave shall be made as far in advance as
possible through the employee’s immediate department head, Village
Administrator or Mayor. The employee shall be given written approval/
disapproval by the end of the next working day following the employee’s
request.
      (5)   These days will not accrue from year to year.
      (6)   These days will not be paid out if unused.
(Prior Code, § 246.07) (Ord. 535, passed 9-5-1989; Ord. 715, passed 12-5-2005;
Ord. 913, passed 6-21-2021)
§ 34.06 HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   All full-time and permanent part-time employees are eligible for paid
holidays which include the following:
 
New Year’s Day       Labor Day
Martin Luther King Day Columbus Day
President’s Day      Veteran’s Day
Memorial Day           Thanksgiving
Independence Day       Christmas
 
   (B)   The following guidelines shall be applied in administering the holiday
provisions.
      (1)   If a holiday falls on a Saturday, it will be observed on the
preceding Friday.
      (2)   If a holiday falls on a Sunday, it will be observed on the
following Monday.
      (3)   All non-emergency employees will normally be granted the holiday
off. Employees who, because of the nature of their job, are required to work
shall be compensated for actual hours worked plus eight hours holiday pay.
      (4)   Department heads on salary who are required to work on a holiday
due to unusual circumstances shall be compensated at a rate of twice their
equivalent hourly rate.
      (5)   Employees whose normal days off fall on a holiday because of
rotating shift schedules shall receive eight hours pay at a straight rate for
that holiday or day off.
(Prior Code, § 246.073) (Ord. 525, passed 12-19-1988; Ord. 715, passed 12-5-
2005)
§ 34.07 SICK LEAVE.
   (A)   The municipality provides for the accrual of sick leave in cases of
genuine illness or injury. Sick leave should be considered a privilege bestowed
by the municipality and not an absolute right of an eligible employee. Full-
time and permanent limited time employees shall accrue sick leave in accordance
with the following provisions:
      (1)   Full-time employees. 4.6 hours per 80 hours worked, which includes
vacation, holiday and compensatory time; and
      (2)   Permanent part-time employees. Shall be prorated in accordance to
hours worked.
   (B)   Each employee shall notify his or her department head as soon as is
practically possible when it is known that sickness will prevent the employee
from working a scheduled shift. In no case should such notice be given less
than one-half hour after the start of the shift. Failure to do so may result in
absence without leave discipline as warranted.
   (C)   An employee with more than ten years of service who retires shall be
paid for 25% of the value of the employee’s accrued unused sick days up to a
maximum of 60 days.
   (D)   The department head may require an employee to furnish an affidavit
from a qualified physician noting that a reported illness or injury was severe
enough to cause an employee to miss work and documenting specifically the type,
diagnosis and remedy, and clearing the employee to return to work.
   (E)   Employees on lay-off, suspension or leave of absence shall not accrue
sick leave.
(Prior Code, § 246.075) (Ord. 540, passed 12-4-1989; Ord. 630, passed 6-2-1997;
Ord. 678, passed 6-18-2001; Ord. 715, passed 12-5-2005; Ord. 862, passed 9-16-
2019)
§ 34.08 OVERTIME; WORK WEEK; WORK DAY.
   (A)   Police Department.
      (1)   Overtime.
         (a)   As a full time hourly employee, overtime is computed at one and
one-half hours per every hour worked. The employee has the option of taking
payment or taking compensation hours and banking those hours for later use.
         (b)   Compensation hours can be accumulated up to 40 hours, at which
time the employee must either take the option of pay or schedule time off. Any
scheduled time off must be approved by the Chief.
      (2)   Pay period. Pay periods begin on Sunday of week one and end on
Saturday of week two.
   (B)   Service and Street Department.
      (1)   Overtime. Overtime pay will be computed at the rate of one and one-
half times the regular hourly pay for all hours in excess of 40 per work week.
      (2)   Pay period. Pay periods begin on Sunday of week one and end on
Saturday of week two.
      (3)   Work day. Although the Superintendent may vary the work schedule
within certain limits, work days for both the Superintendent and the
maintenance employee will consist of five eight-hour shifts commencing at 6:00
to 8:00 a.m. and ending at 2:30 to 4:30 p.m., with one-half hour off for meals.
However, except under the most extreme emergencies, neither the Superintendent
nor the maintenance employee shall exceed 40 hours per work week. Furthermore,
should the Superintendent or the maintenance employee be called to work more
than the heretofore prescribed five days per week or eight hours per day, the
Superintendent or the maintenance employee shall take time off so as not to
exceed 40 hours per week.
   (C)   Water and Sewer Department.
      (1)   Overtime. Overtime pay will be computed at the rate of one and one-
half times the regular hourly pay for all hours in excess of 40 per work week.
      (2)   Pay period. Pay periods begin on Sunday of week one and end on
Saturday of week two.
      (3)   Work day. Although the Superintendent may vary the work schedule
within certain limits, work days for all employees of the department will
generally consist of five eight-hour shifts commencing at 7:00 to 8:00 a.m. and
ending at 3:30 to 4:30 p.m., with one-half hour off for meals. However, except
under the most extreme emergencies, neither the Superintendent nor the other
employees shall exceed 40 hours per work week. Furthermore, should the
Superintendent or other employees be called to work more than the heretofore
prescribed five days per week or eight hours per day, the Superintendent or
other employees shall take time off so as not to exceed 40 hours per week.
   (D)   Overtime for emergency purposes only. Overtime payment for overtime
worked shall be paid only for hours necessitated by some extreme emergency and
only as authorized by the proper department having authority.
   (E)   Compensatory time-off. All other necessary overtime worked, as
authorized, shall be compensated for by taking compensatory time-off as soon as
practicable, with no more than one person from each department taking “comp”
time at the same time. Time-off must be staggered.
   (F)   Disciplinary action. Failure to abide by the provisions of divisions
(D) and (E) of this section may result in disciplinary action, including
possible termination of employment.
(Prior Code, § 246.077) (Ord. 392, passed 12-2-1974; Ord. 537, passed 11-6-
1989; Ord. 628, passed 4-7-1997; Ord. 644, passed 3-1-1999; Ord. 671, passed
12-4-2000)
§ 34.09 REPORTING OF HOURS WORKED BY PART-TIME EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Hours worked shall be reported on a form provided by the village and
shall require the signature of the employee and the signature of the department
head, whose signature shall constitute authorization and verification that the
reported hours were worked by the employee and subject to be considered for
payment.
   (B)   As used in division (A) of this section, a department head means the
Police Chief, Fire Chief, Village Administrator, Superintendent of Water and
Sewers or their duly appointed alternates, or, in case of an emergency, any
Council member.
   (C)   Falsification of hourly time reports shall be grounds for dismissal.
(Prior Code, § 246.08) (Ord. 392, passed 12-2-1974)
§ 34.10 ANNUAL REVIEW OF SALARY SCHEDULE AND BENEFITS.
   (A)   Starting rate shall be determined by Council when a new employee is
hired. All salaries and wages are merit based and will only be increased once a
year with positive evaluations by the immediate supervisor, and upon review and
approval of Council.
   (B)   Evaluations shall be performed by September 1 or annually based on
employee’s start date. After maximum wage is reached for any given position,
raises shall be at Council’s discretion. Salary scale may be re-evaluated by
Council.
(Prior Code, § 246.09) (Ord. 392, passed 12-2-1974; Ord. 644, passed 3-1-1999;
Ord. 671, passed 12-4-2000; Ord. 673, passed 12-18-2000)
§ 34.11 POLICIES AND PROCEDURES; VILLAGE EMPLOYEE AND POLICY BOARD.
   (A)   Council shall promulgate policies and procedures governing full-time
employees, part-time employees and village officials in regard to the
following:
      (1)   Pay periods;
      (2)   Work week;
      (3)   Scheduling of work;
      (4)   Reporting of time worked;
      (5)   Record keeping;
      (6)   Overtime;
      (7)   Annual date of review; and
      (8)   Any other item or area which is necessary and proper in regard to
the employees of the village.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, the Mayor shall appoint three
members of Council and each department head (i.e., Police, Fire, Service and
Street, and Water and Sewer) to serve as a Village Employee and Policy Board
and as such to establish policies in accordance with this section and to
arbitrate any village/employee problems, subject to the approval of Council.
(Prior Code, § 246.10) (Ord. 402, passed 6-30-1976)
§ 34.12 TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT.
   An employee of the village shall give the village two weeks notice in
writing before terminating his or her employment. If such notice is not given,
such employee shall forfeit any vacation period accrued for the year.
(Prior Code, § 246.11) (Ord. 444, passed 6-7-1982)
§ 34.13 SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Sexual harassment defined. As used in this section, SEXUAL HARASSMENT
means unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors and other verbal
and physical conduct of a sexual nature, when:
      (1)   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly
a term or condition of a person’s employment;
      (2)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by a person is used as
the basis for employment decisions affecting such person; or
      (3)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering
with a person’s work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
   (B)   Sexual harassment prohibited. No person, while acting as an employee
or a public official of the village, whether compensated or volunteer, shall
engage in sexual harassment of another employee or public official of the
village, whether compensated or volunteer.
   (C)   Filing of complaint. Any employee or public official of the village
who deems himself or herself a victim of sexual harassment may file a written
and detailed compliant with Council within 72 hours of the alleged conduct
giving rise to the complaint. Filing the complaint with the Village Fiscal
Officer shall be construed as filing the complaint with Council.
   (D)   Notice of complaint; hearings. Upon receipt of a sexual harassment
complaint, Council shall set a hearing date for the complaint, and give notice
to the alleged victim and the accused. Council, the alleged victim and the
accused may all compel the attendance of witnesses at the hearing by subpoena,
may all be represented by legal counsel, and may produce and/or seek the
production of evidence to ascertain the validity or non-validity of the
complaint. A court reporter may be retained by Council for purposes of making a
formal and complete record of the hearing.
   (E)   Decision of Council; appeals. Upon hearing the compliant, Council
shall, by majority vote, determine the validity (guilty finding) or non-
validity (not guilty finding) of the complaint, and, if Council finds the
accused guilty, the appropriate sanction against the accused, with respect to
the accused’s future status as an employee or public official of the village.
The civil penalty for sexual harassment under this section shall be in the form
of appropriate Council-ordered counseling/treatment, reprimand, suspension,
required community service or termination, except that an elected public
official may not be suspended or terminated. The accused may appeal a guilty
finding or the civil penalty imposed, or both, to the Preble County Common
Pleas Court within 30 days of Council’s decision, and in so doing, receive a
trial de novo, with the evidentiary stipulation that, at the time of the Court
trial de novo, the guilty finding of Council will be admissible in evidence in
such manner as the Court shall prescribe.
   (F)   Nonlimitation of section. Nothing in this section shall be construed
as limiting alleged victims from otherwise bringing a civil action against an
accused, or as limiting a criminal prosecution of an accused. However, failure
to file a written and detailed complaint with the guidelines specified in
division (C) of this section shall constitute grounds for Council to summarily
dismiss a complaint without a hearing.
   (G)   Resolution conference and recommendation. Between the date Council
receives a complaint and the date of the hearing, the Mayor or the Chief of
Police (if the Mayor is the accused) may schedule and hold a resolution
conference among the alleged victim, the accused and their legal counsel, for
purposes of making a resolution recommendation to Council that is agreeable to
both the alleged victim and the accused. Council may adopt a resolution
recommendation in lieu of the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 246.12) (Ord. 620, passed 10-21-1996)
§ 34.14 CRIMINAL COMPLAINTS AGAINST VILLAGE EMPLOYEES OR OFFICIALS.
   (A)   In any criminal complaint or criminal investigation case involving a
public official or employee of the village as a victim, defendant and/or other
interested party, the Mayor is hereby authorized on behalf of the village to
see that the case receives an independent review, and, if appropriate,
investigation and/or prosecution.
   (B)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to refer cases covered by this section
to the County Sheriff’s Department or the County Prosecutor’s office, or to
retain a special investigator or special prosecutor, where appropriate.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this section shall require the Mayor to use an
independent review, investigation and/or prosecutorial process on cases
involving public officials or employees of the village; however, the process
authorized by this section is intended to promote governmental harmony and
lessen the likelihood of abuse.
(Prior Code, § 246.13) (Ord. 622, passed 12-16-1996)
§ 34.15 PICK-UP OF CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE POLICE AND FIREMEN’S DISABILITY AND
PENSION FUND.
   (A)   (1)   Effective and retroactive to January 1, 1988, the full amount of
the statutorily required contributions to the Police and Firemen’s Disability
and Pension Fund of Ohio (PFDPF) shall be withheld from the gross pay of each
person within any of the classes established in division (B) of this section
and shall be “picked-up” (assumed and paid to the PFDPF) by the village. This
pick-up by the village constitutes, and shall be designated as, employee
contributions, and shall be in lieu of contributions to the PFDPF by each
person within any of the classes established in division (B) of this section.
No person subject to this pick-up shall have the option of choosing to receive
the statutorily required contribution to the PFDPF directly instead of having
it picked-up by the village or of being excluded from the pick-up.
      (2)   The village shall, in reporting and making remittance to the PFDPF,
report that the public employee’s contribution for each person subject to this
pick-up has been made, as provided by statute.
   (B)   The pick-up by the village provided by this section shall apply to all
persons who are employees of the village and who are or become contributing
members of the PFDPF.
   (C)   The village’s method of payment of salary to employees who are
participants in the PFDPF is hereby modified as provided for in division (D) of
this section, in order to provide for a salary reduction pick-up of employee
contributions to the PFDPF.
   (D)   The total salary for each employee shall be the salary otherwise
payable under village policies. Such total salary of each employee shall be
payable by the village in two parts: (1) deferred salary; and (2) cash salary.
An employee’s deferred salary shall be equal to that percentage of that
employee’s total salary which is required, from time to time, by the PFDPF to
be paid as an employee contribution by the employee, and shall be paid by the
village to the PFDPF on behalf of that employee as a pick-up and in lieu of the
PFDPF employee contribution otherwise payable by that employee. An employee’s
cash salary shall be equal to the employee’s total salary, less the amount of
the pick-up for that employee, and shall be payable, subject to applicable
payroll deductions, to that employee. The village shall compute and remit its
employer contributions to the PFDPF based upon an employee’s total salary. The
total combined expenditures of the village for such employees’ total salaries,
payable under applicable village policies and the pick-up provisions of this
section, shall not be greater than the amounts it would have paid for those
items had this provision not been in effect.
   (E)   The Fiscal Officer is hereby authorized and directed to implement the
provisions of this section to institute the pick-up of the statutorily required
contributions to the PFDPF for those persons provided for in division (B) of
this section so as to enable them to obtain the result in federal and state tax
deferments and other benefits.
   (F)   (1)   Ohio Police and Fire Pension Fund (OP&F) has adopted new
procedures for reporting picked up contributions in order to properly prepare
1099-R forms for its members.
      (2)   The Village of West Alexandria Council wishes to reaffirm and amend
and restate its prior resolution in order to continue the pick-up under the new
procedures.
      (3)   Effective as of January 1, 2004, the Village of West Alexandria has
determined to continue to pick-up all of the 10% mandatory contributions by the
employees who are members of the Ohio Police and Fire Pension Fund through a
payroll reduction.
      (4)   The picked up contributions paid through a payroll reduction, even
though designated as employee contributions for state law purposes, are being
paid by the West Alexandria Council in lieu of the contributions by the
employee.
      (5)   The picked up contributions will not be included in the gross
income of the employees for tax reporting purposes, that is, for federal or
state income tax withholding taxes, until distributed from the Ohio Police and
Fire Pension Fund.
      (6)   The picked up contributions will be included in the gross income of
the employees, for employment tax purposes, as the contributions are made to
the Ohio Police and Fire Pension Fund.
      (7)   The employees shall not be entitled to any option of choosing to
receive the contributed amounts directly instead of having them paid by the
Village of West Alexandria to the Ohio Police and Fire Pension Fund.
(Prior Code, § 246.14) (Ord. 596, passed 3-7-1994; Res. 2004-05, passed 5-3-
2004)
§ 34.16 PICK-UP OF CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM OF
OHIO.
   (A)   (1)   Effective and retroactive to January 1, 1988, the full amount of
the statutorily required contributions to the Public Employees Retirement
System of Ohio (PERS) shall be withheld from the gross pay of each person
within any of the classes established in division (B) of this section and shall
be “picked up” (assumed and paid to PERS) by the village. This pick up by the
village constitutes, and shall be designated as, employee contributions and
shall be in lieu of contributions to PERS by each person within any of the
classes established in division (B) of this section. No person subject to this
pick up shall have the option of choosing to receive the statutorily required
contribution to PERS directly instead of having it picked up by the village or
of being excluded from the pick up.
      (2)   The village shall, in reporting and making remittance to PERS,
report that the public employee’s contribution for each person subject to this
pick up has been made, as provided by statute.
   (B)   The pick up by the village provided by this section shall apply to all
persons who are employees of the village and who are or become contributing
members of PERS.
   (C)   The village’s method of payment of salary to employees who are
participants in PERS is hereby modified as provided for in divisions (D) and
(E) of this section, in order to provide for a salary reduction pick-up of
employee contributions to PERS.
   (D)   The total salary for each employee, as set forth in division (B) of
this section, shall be the salary otherwise payable under village policies.
Such total salary of each such employee shall be payable by the village in two
parts: (1) deferred salary; and (2) cash salary. An employee’s deferred salary
shall be equal to that percentage of that employee’s total salary which is
required from time to time by PERS to be paid as an employee contribution by
that employee, and shall be paid by the village to PERS on behalf of that
employee as a pick-up and in lieu of the PERS employee contribution otherwise
payable by that employee. An employee’s cash salary shall be equal to that
employee’s total salary less the amount of the pick-up for that employee, and
shall be payable, subject to applicable payroll deductions, to that employee.
The village shall compute and remit its employer contributions to PERS based
upon an employee’s total salary. The total combined expenditures of the village
for such employees’ total salaries payable under applicable village policies
and the pick-up provisions of this section shall not be greater than the amount
it would have paid for these items had this provision not been in effect.
   (E)   The Fiscal Officer is hereby authorized and directed to implement the
provisions of this section to institute the pick-up of the statutorily required
contributions to PERS for those persons reflected in division (B) of this
section so as to enable them to obtain the result in federal and state tax
deferments and other benefits.
(Prior Code, § 246.15) (Ord. 597, passed 3-7-1994)
§ 34.17 MANAGEMENT DRUG TESTING POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose; notice.
      (1)   The village has a legal responsibility and management obligation to
ensure a safe work environment, as well as paramount interest in protecting the
public by ensuring that its employees have the physical stamina and emotional
stability to perform their assigned duties. A requirement for employment shall
be an employee who is free from drug dependence, illegal drug use or drug
abuse.
      (2)   Liability could be found against the village and the employee if
the village fails to address and ensure that employees can perform their duties
without endangering themselves or the public.
      (3)   There is sufficient evidence to conclude that use of illegal drugs,
the misuse of any drug or drug dependence seriously impairs an employee’s
performance and general physical and mental health. The illegal possession and
use of drugs and narcotics by employees is a crime in this jurisdiction and
clearly unacceptable. Therefore, the village has adopted this written policy to
ensure an employee’s fitness for duty and a condition of employment to ensure
drug tests are ordered on a reasonable suspicion following an established
written policy and procedure and where the employee knows testing is a
requirement of employment.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DRUG TEST. A urinalysis test administered under approved conditions and
procedures to detect any of the following: amphetamines, barbiturates,
benzodiazepines (valium, librium), benzoylecognine (cocaine metobolite),
cannabinoids (THC, marihuana), opiates (codeine), morphine (from heroin),
hydromorphone, methaqualone, methadone and phencyclidine (PCP). These drugs are
screened and confirmed at a cutoff concentration of 300 ng/ml, with the
exception of cannabinoids which is 20 ng/ml, phencyclidine at 25 ng/ml and
amphetamines at 25 mg/ml.
      EMPLOYEE. All personnel employed by the village, and additionally
includes, all volunteer firefighters and all volunteer emergency unit
personnel. EMPLOYEE shall not include elected public officials.
      REASONABLE SUSPICION. An apparent state of facts, circumstances or
information which exists from and inquiry by the supervisor or from a
creditable source which would induce a reasonably intelligent and prudent
person to believe the employee was under the influence or using drugs/
narcotics.
      SUPERVISOR. Employees assigned to a position having day-to-day
responsibility for supervising subordinates or employees responsible for
commanding a work element.
   (C)   General rules.
      (1)   Employees shall not take any narcotics or dangerous substances
unless prescribed by a person licensed to practice medicine. Employees who are
required to take prescription medicine shall notify their immediate supervisors
of the medication prescribed and the nature of the illness or injury. Any
statutory defined illegal use of drugs by an employee, whether at or outside
village employment, shall not be tolerated.
      (2)   All property belonging to the village is subject to inspection at
any time without notice as there is no expectation of privacy. Property
includes, but is not limited to, village owned vehicles, desks, containers,
files and storage lockers.
      (3)   Employees who have a reasonable basis to believe that another
employee is illegally using drugs or narcotics shall report the facts and
circumstances immediately to their supervisor.
      (4)   Failure to comply with the intent or provisions of this section may
be used as grounds for disciplinary action. Refusal by an employee to take the
required drug test or follow the regulations prescribed in this section shall
result in immediate relief from village duties pending disposition of any
administrative personnel action.
   (D)   Policy for drug testing/urinalysis.
      (1)   All prospective appointees for any position in the village shall be
routinely tested for drug or narcotic usage as part of their pre-employment
medical examination. The testing procedure and safeguards set forth in this
section shall be followed by the examining physicians and others involved in
the testing procedure.
         (a)   Before the testing, the applicant shall be advised of the drug
testing and will receive a thorough briefing during which collection and
analysis procedures will be explained.
         (b)   Refusal to take the test, or test results reporting a presence
of illegal drugs or narcotics or the use of nonprescription drugs, shall be the
basis of discontinuing an applicant in the selection process. Any use or
possession that constitutes a criminal offense shall preclude any further
consideration for employment.
         (c)   Applicants found to be involved in the illegal sale, manufacture
or distribution of any narcotic/drug shall be permanently rejected.
         (d)   Applicants demonstrating addiction to any narcotic/drug shall be
permanently rejected.
         (e)   Any improper use of any narcotic/drug by an applicant after
application shall be grounds for permanent rejection.
         (f)   The results of drug tests on applicants for the position of
sworn police officer shall be kept confidential.
      (2)   Current employees of the village shall be required to submit to a
test for drug or narcotic usage as outlined below.
         (a)   A supervisor may order a drug test when there is a reasonable
suspicion that an employee has been using any drug or narcotic and that this
use may present a risk to his or her safety or that of fellow employees or the
public.
         (b)   The purpose of the test is to determine if any drug or narcotic
is present in the employee’s system. The employee shall be advised of the
content and details of the allegation.
         (c)   A supervisor who orders a drug test when there is a reasonable
suspicion of the use of any drug or narcotic shall forward a report containing
the facts and circumstances directly to the department head. The employee shall
be verbally advised of the reasonable suspicion at the time of the test and
receive a written statement of the same reasonable suspicion within 24 hours of
the test.
         (d)   Test results reporting a presence of illegal drugs or narcotics,
or the use of prescription drugs without prescription or the abuse of any over-
the-counter drugs shall be submitted to the department head for further action.
      (3)   The procedure for administering the urinalysis program is outlined
in division (E) of this general order.
      (4)   Employees who have been found to be using any drug which is illegal
under the Ohio Revised Code shall be subject to disciplinary action. If the
employee agrees to enter and successfully complete a rehabilitation program,
the disciplinary action shall not exceed 30 calendar days for the first
offense. Thereafter for a period of two years, the employee shall be subject to
random urinalysis at any time.
   (E)   Urinalysis procedures.
      (1)   Obtaining urine samples.
         (a)   The employee shall be notified of the test requirement just
prior to being transported without delay to the medical facility or laboratory
designated by the department to obtain the urine sample. At the time of the
test, the subject will be notified of the specific drugs which will be screened
by the test. The employee will be accompanied by a testing supervisor of the
same sex.
         (b)   The room where the sample is obtained shall be private and
secure with documentation maintained that the area has been searched and is
free of any foreign substances. The testing supervisor (of the same sex) shall
be in the presence of the employee to ensure that the sample is from the
employee and was actually passed at the time noted on the record. Specimen
collection shall occur in a medical setting and the procedures should not
demean, embarrass or cause physical discomfort to the employee.
         (c)   An interview with the employee prior to the test shall serve to
establish use of drugs currently taken under medical supervision. The employee/
applicant shall be required to identify any prescription or nonprescription
medication taken in the past week. The medication and time last taken shall be
noted on a form to be designated for this purpose. Medications containing
narcotic drugs, hypnotics, stimulants, depressants, sedatives and most muscle
relaxants shall be reported. Drugs such as aspirin, cold medications, tylenol,
birth control pills and antihistamines, except those containing codeine, need
not be reported. In the event the employee/ applicant is taking medications
which require reporting, the testing officer shall attempt to verify the
validity of this use through interviews and request the employee/ applicant to
provide a copy of the prescription. The complete form shall accompany the
specimen.
         (d)   The employee shall be allowed to select two of several
containers to be used to hold the sample.
         (e)   The containers shall be new and free of contaminants.
         (f)   The employee/applicant shall deposit a minimum volume of urine
(two ounces) in each container and tightly cap it. Employee/applicants who are
unable to provide an adequate sample initially shall remain under observation
until able to do so.
         (g)   A tamperproof seal shall be used on the containers.
         (h)   The containers shall be labeled in front of the employee.
         (i)   Each step in the collection and processing of the urine sample
shall be documented to establish procedural integrity and the chain of
evidence.
         (j)   Social security numbers shall be used as donor identifying
numbers. This number shall be utilized to identify the sample throughout the
collection and testing phases of the urine screening. The purpose of the donor
identifying number is to protect the identity of the donor providing the
sample. Laboratory testing personnel shall only have access to the identifying
number and not the individual’s name.
         (k)   Testing supervisors shall be assigned by the department head.
         (l)   The second sample container shall be secured and preserved
according to generally accepted lab procedures at the site where the samples
are passed and collected. In the event the first sample shows a presence of any
illegal drug or narcotic, the employee shall have the option of having the
second sample tested (at his or her own expense) at another qualified medical
facility or laboratory, generally accredited by a standardizing body within a
reasonable distance. To facilitate this testing, the second sample shall be
secured from the collection site by the testing supervisor and transported or
caused to be transported to the second laboratory where it will be tested. The
tests employed shall be of the same type employed by a primary laboratory.
      (2)   Processing urine samples. To ensure optimum accuracy, the tests
shall be drug-specific. The drug abuse screening test shall consist of two
tests.
         (a)   The initial test of each urine sample shall employ a methodology
different from the secondary confirmation test.
         (b)   The initial screening test shall be the EMIT (Enzyme Multiplied
Immunoassay Technique). The test process at the laboratory for the initial
analysis shall be completed in 24 to 48 hours.
         (c)   The secondary confirmation test of any positive findings in the
initial test shall be gas chromatography/mass spectrometry.
         (d)   The test procedure for determining the presence of cannabinoids
shall be immunoassay. A secondary confirmation test of a positive finding for
the presence of cannabinoids shall be gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.
         (e)   The foregoing drug testing procedures are not meant to be an
exhaustive compilation of tests that will be or could be used to implement the
personnel drug screening program.
         (f)   The testing laboratory shall make provision to properly
preserve, store and secure one aliquot of the original urine specimen to be
preserved and made available for purposes of independent confirmation testing
by experts chosen and authorized by the subject-employee. This employee
confirmation test shall be conducted at the testing laboratory jointly with the
experts representing the subject-employee.
      (3)   All persons whose confirmatory test results in a positive finding
for controlled substances shall be subject to discipline and/or rehabilitation
as set out in divisions (C)(4) and (D)(4) of this section.
(Prior Code, § 246.16) (Ord. 650, passed 10-18-1999)
§ 34.18 EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK.
   (A)   The Village of West Alexandria Employee Handbook is adopted herein in
its entirety.
   (B)   The Employee Handbook may be amended from time to time by motion of
Council with a copy of the amendment entered into the minutes of the Council
meeting approving the amendment.
   (C)   All employees shall sign a receipt for and receive a copy of the
Employee Handbook and any amendments thereto.
   (D)   Although the Employee Handbook shall be of aspirational guidance and
regulation of employee conduct, the “at-will” legal doctrine shall still
outweigh it, override it, overrule it and prevail over it under any
circumstances deemed appropriate by the Village Council. Further, and in line
with the “at- will” legal doctrine, the Village Council herein rules:
      (1)   All village employees are hired or continued in their employment
capacity with the village on an “at-will” basis;
      (2)   All village employees’ employment is for no specific term unless
otherwise stated in the ordinance or resolution creating the position;
      (3)   The Village Council reserves the right to terminate the employment
relationship of any village employee at any time, with or without cause;
      (4)   The village employee reserves the right to terminate the employment
relationship with the village at any time, with or without cause; and
      (5)   Nothing in the Employee Handbook should be construed as a contract
or guarantee of continued employment.
   (E)   The Employee Handbook, when in conflict with prior existing
ordinances, resolutions or administrative policies in effect before the date of
this ordinance, shall effectively supersede and amend prior existing
ordinances, resolutions or administrative policies.
(Prior Code, § 246.17) (Ord. 715, passed 12-5-2005)
§ 34.19 EXPENDITURES FOR THE PURCHASE OF COFFEE, MEALS, NON-ALCOHOLIC
REFRESHMENTS AND OTHER AMENITIES FOR MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The expenditure of village public funds for the purchase of alcoholic
refreshments is prohibited.
   (B)   The expenditure of village public funds for the purchase of coffee,
meals, nonalcoholic refreshments and other amenities (such as flowers, token
retirement gifts, meritorious service awards, and meal related paper or plastic
products) is prohibited, unless it is pre-approved by the Village Council by
motion at a regular or special meeting of said legislative body.
   (C)   The Village Administrator and Village Fiscal Officer are authorized to
adopt a written form for an applicant to fill out and file with the Village
Fiscal Officer seeking Village Council approval of a request to expend village
public funds under division (B) of this section. The form shall contain the
following minimum information before it is placed before the Village Council
for their consideration:
      (1)   The maximum amount of public funds to be expended;
      (2)   An itemized list of the items to be purchased; and
      (3)   The public purpose behind the expenditure of public funds.
(Ord. 806, passed 5-16-2016)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCES AND FUNDS
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Special assessment
Funds
   
35.15   Fire, Ambulance and Sanitation Funds
   
35.16   Agency Fund
   
35.17   Memorial Tree and Beautification Fund
   
35.18   Water Treatment Plant Fund
   
35.19   Emergency environmental response action
   
35.20   Ambulance Billing Fund
   
35.21   Distress Grant Fund
   
35.22   Law Enforcement Trust Fund
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   The owner of each lot located within the boundaries of the West Alexandria,
Ohio, shall be subject to a special assessment of $51.
(Ord. 861, passed 9-16-2019)
FUNDS
§ 35.15 FIRE, AMBULANCE AND SANITATION FUNDS.
   (A)   Two Fire Funds are hereby established for the village as follows:
      (1)   General Fire Operating Fund; and
      (2)   Fire Truck Reserve Fund.
   (B)   Two Ambulance Funds are hereby established for the village as follows:
      (1)   General Ambulance Operating Fund; and
      (2)   Ambulance Vehicle Reserve Fund.
   (C)   A Sanitation Fund is hereby established for the village.
   (D)   The Funds established in divisions (A) and (B) of this section are
established in part to assist the village in complying with its contractual
commitments, and to the extent necessary and appropriate in meeting contractual
commitments, these Funds are hereby deemed to be retroactive to the appropriate
dates.
   (E)   The Village Fiscal Officer shall seek the formalized approval of the
Ohio State Auditor’s office for the creation of these Funds, and upon its
approval, shall assign appropriate accounting numbers to these Funds with any
advice and assistance the State Auditor’s office can give.
   (F)   The Fire and Ambulance Funds shall be appropriately used in a manner
allowing earmarked contractual receipted revenue to be properly reserved for
its intended purposes, and to segregate the revenue from general operating
money.
   (G)   The Sanitation Fund shall be used as a fund for receipt of trash
revenues, which are currently being collected under
Chapter 51 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 234.06) (Ord. 517, passed 3-21-1988)
§ 35.16 AGENCY FUND.
   (A)   The Fiscal Officer is hereby authorized to establish an Agency Fund to
handle all fees to be collected and remitted to the State of Ohio pursuant to
R.C. § 3781.102.
   (B)   An amount equal to 3% of all building standards fees collected by the
village pursuant to R.C. § 3781.102(F) shall be remitted to the state through
this Fund by the Fiscal Officer on a monthly basis.
   (C)   The Fiscal Officer is hereby authorized from time to time to
appropriately adjust the percentage remitted to the state to maintain
compliance with state law in the event of a change in the 3% assessment rule.
(Prior Code, § 234.07) (Ord. 592, passed 10-4-1993)
§ 35.17 MEMORIAL TREE AND BEAUTIFICATION FUND.
   (a)   A Memorial Tree and Beautification Fund is hereby established for the
Village of West Alexandria, Ohio.
   (b)   Moneys donated to this Fund, budgeted to this Fund, or otherwise
transferred to this Fund shall be used for the following purposes:
      (1)   Planting and maintaining trees in the public rights-of-way and
other public areas of the village; and
      (2)   General beautification projects in the public rights-of-way and
other public areas of the village.
(Prior Code, § 234.08) (Ord. 665, passed 4-3-2000)
§ 35.18 WATER TREATMENT PLANT FUND.
   (A)   A Water Treatment Plant Fund will be useful and appropriate in
assisting the Village Fiscal Officer in accounting and budgetary matters.
   (B)   A Water Treatment Plant Fund is hereby created for allocation of
moneys received from OWDA VCIC Fund.
   (C)   Water Treatment Plant Fund will be used for the engineering purposes
for a water treatment plant and the construction of a water treatment plant.
(Prior Code, § 234.09) (Ord. 667, passed 9-18-2000)
§ 35.19 EMERGENCY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSE ACTION.
   Whenever Village of West Alexandria equipment and/or personnel respond to/
for emergency action contemplated under R.C. § 3745.13, the responsible party/
wrongdoer shall pay the Village of West Alexandria a sum of money according to
the most current special response cost summary approved by the Preble County
Fire Chiefs’ Association that is on file with the Clerk of the village, and in
addition shall pay to the village, the replacement cost for all village
property damaged, destroyed or consumed at the scene of the emergency, if said
property is not specifically listed on said cost summary.
(Prior Code, § 234.10) (Ord. 686, passed 4-1-2002; Ord. 779, passed 9-17-2012)
§ 35.20 AMBULANCE BILLING FUND.
   (A)   An Ambulance Billing Fund is hereby created and/or established for the
village.
   (B)   The Fund is created to assist the village in complying with its
contractual commitments, and to the extent necessary and appropriate in meeting
such contractual commitments, the fund is deemed to be retroactive to January
1, 2007.
   (C)   The Village Fiscal Officer shall seek the formalized approval of the
Ohio State Auditor’s Office for the creation of this Fund, and upon their
approval, shall assign appropriate accounting numbers to this Fund with any
advice and assistance the State Auditor’s Office can give.
(Prior Code, § 234.11) (Ord. 730, passed 7-2-2007)
§ 35.21 DISTRESS GRANT FUND.
   (A)   A Distress Grant Fund and a Federal Grant Fund are hereby created for
allocation of moneys received from the state and federal governments.
   (B)   These Funds are hereby created for the allocation of moneys received
under special grant applications.
(Prior Code, § 234.12) (Ord. 729, passed 7-2-2007)
§ 35.22 LAW ENFORCEMENT TRUST FUND.
   (A)   A West Alexandria Law Enforcement Trust Fund is herein created
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2981 and other applicable law.
   (B)   All moneys deposited into said Trust Fund or expended from said Trust
Fund shall comply with R.C. Chapter 2981 and other applicable law. The Mayor
and Chief of Police shall create a policy to periodically and according to law
account to the Village Council and to otherwise comply with R.C. Chapter 2981
and other applicable law.
(Ord. 790, passed 2-18-2014)
CHAPTER 36: TAXATION
Section
Motor Vehicle License Tax
   
36.001   Imposition of tax
   
36.002   Purpose
   
36.003   Reductions; exemptions
Municipal Income Tax
Article 1: Authority to Levy Tax; Purposes of Tax; Rate
   
36.015   Authority to levy tax
   
36.016   Purposes of tax; rate
   
36.017   Allocation of funds
   
36.018   Statement of procedural history; state mandated changes to municipal
income tax
Article 2: Effective Date; Definitions
   
36.030   Effective date
   
36.031   Definitions
Article 3: Income Subject to Tax for Individuals
   
36.045   Determining municipal taxable income for individuals
   
36.046   Domicile
   
36.047   Exemption for member or employee of General Assembly and certain
judges
Article 4: Collection at Source
   
36.060   Collection at source; withholding from qualifying wages
   
36.061   Collection at source; occasional entrant
   
36.062   Collection at source; casino and VLT
Article 5: Income Subject to Net Profit Tax
   
36.075   Determining municipal taxable income for taxpayers who are not
individuals
   
36.076   Net profit; income subject to net profit tax; alternative
apportionment
   
36.077   Consolidated federal income tax return
   
36.078   Tax credit for businesses that foster new jobs in Ohio
   
36.079   Tax credits to foster job retention
Article 6: Estimated Tax
   
36.090   Declaration of estimated tax
Article 7: Credit for Tax Paid
   
36.105   Reciprocity credit
   
36.106   Refundable credit for qualifying loss
   
36.107   Credit for person working in joint economic development district or
zone
   
36.108   Credit for tax beyond statute for obtaining refund
Article 8: Annual Return
   
36.120   Return and payment of tax
   
36.121   Return and payment of tax; individuals serving in combat zone
   
36.122   Use of Ohio Business Gateway; types of filings authorized
   
36.123   Extension of time to file
   
36.124   Amended returns
   
36.125   Refunds
Article 9: Penalty, Interest, Audit, Rounding
   
36.140   Penalty, interest, fees and charges
   
36.141   Audit
   
36.142   Rounding
Article 10: Authority and Powers of the Tax Administrator
   
36.155   Authority of Tax Administrator; administrative powers of the Tax
Administrator
   
36.156   Authority of Tax Administrator; compromise of claim and payment over
time
   
36.157   Authority of Tax Administrator; right to examine
   
36.158   Authority of Tax Administrator; requiring identifying information
Article 11: Confidentiality; Fraud
   
36.170   Confidentiality
   
36.171   Fraud
Article 12: Tax Administrator; Appeals; Local Board of Tax Review
   
36.185   Opinion of the Tax Administrator
   
36.186   Assessment; appeal based on presumption of delivery
   
36.187   Local Board of Tax Review; appeal to Local Board of Tax Review
Article 13: Actions; Adoption; Reconciliation; Collection
   
36.200   Actions to recover; statute of limitations
   
36.201   Adoption of rules
   
36.202   Reconciliation with state law
   
36.203   Collection of tax after termination of chapter
   
36.204   Savings clause
Article 14: Mayor to Contract with Regional Council of Governments
   
36.215   Authorization for agreement
Article 15: Regional Council of Governments (RITA) Rules and Regulations
   
36.230   Purposes and allocation
   
36.231   Definitions of terms
   
36.232   Imposition of income tax
   
36.233   Collections at source
   
36.234   Annual returns
   
36.235   Credit for tax paid to other municipalities
   
36.236   Estimated taxes
   
36.237   Rounding of amounts
   
36.238   Requests for refunds
   
36.239   Second municipality imposing tax after time period allowed for refund
   
36.240   Amended returns
   
36.241   Limitations
   
36.242   Audits
   
36.243   Service of assessment
   
36.244   Administration of claims
   
36.245   Tax information confidential
   
36.246   Fraud
   
36.247   Interest and penalties
   
36.248   Authority of Tax Administrator; verification of information
   
36.249   Request for opinion of the Tax Administrator
   
36.250   Board of Tax Review
   
36.251   Authority to create rules and regulations
   
36.252   Rental and leased property
   
36.253   Savings clause
   
36.254   Collection of tax after termination of article
   
36.255   Adoption of RITA rules and regulations
 
   
36.999   Penalty
MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSE TAX
§ 36.001 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   An annual license tax, in addition to the taxes levied by R.C. §§ 4503.02,
4503.04, 4503.07, 4503.16 and 4503.18, in the amount of $5 per vehicle, shall
be levied on all vehicles which are registered, as that term is defined by R.C.
§ 4503.10, within the Village of West Alexandria, Ohio.
(Prior Code, § 890.01) (Ord. 485, passed 11-4-1985; Ord. 769, passed 5-16-2011)
§ 36.002 PURPOSE.
   The moneys collected from the annual license tax shall be used for the
purposes given in R.C. § 4504.06.
(Prior Code, § 890.02) (Ord. 485, passed 11-4-1985)
§ 36.003 REDUCTIONS; EXEMPTIONS.
   The annual license tax is subject to reduction in the manner provided in
R.C. § 4503.11 and to the exemptions provided in R.C. §§ 4503.16, 4503.17,
4503.171, 4503.41 and 4503.43.
(Prior Code, § 890.03) (Ord. 485, passed 11-4-1985)
MUNICIPAL INCOME TAX
ARTICLE 1: AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX; PURPOSES OF TAX; RATE
§ 36.015 AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX.
   (A)   The tax on income and the withholding tax established by this
subchapter are authorized by Article XVIII, Section 3 of the Ohio Constitution.
The tax on income and the withholding tax established by this subchapter are
deemed to be levied in accordance with, and to be consistent with, the
provisions and limitations of R.C. Chapter 718 (R.C. § 718). This subchapter is
deemed to incorporate the provisions of R.C. Chapter 718.
   (B)   The tax is an annual tax levied on the income of every person residing
in or earning or receiving income in the municipal corporation, and shall be
measured by municipal taxable income. The municipality shall tax income at a
uniform rate. The tax is levied on municipal taxable income, as defined herein.
(R.C. § 718.04) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.011)
§ 36.016 PURPOSES OF TAX; RATE.
   (A)   The tax on income and the withholding tax established by this
subchapter is to provide for the purpose of general municipal operations,
maintenance of equipment, new equipment, extension, enlargement and improvement
of municipal services and facilities and capital improvements.
   (B)   The tax on income and the withholding tax established by this
subchapter shall be at the rate of 1%.
(R.C. § 718.04) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, 880.012)
§ 36.017 ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.
   All of the tax funds collected under the provisions of this subchapter shall
be deposited in the General Fund of the municipality and further allocated by
the legislative authority of the municipality as it may from time to time
determine as appropriate.
(Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.013)
§ 36.018 STATEMENT OF PROCEDURAL HISTORY; STATE MANDATED CHANGES TO MUNICIPAL
INCOME TAX.
   (A)   Significant and wide-ranging amendments to R.C. Chapter 718 were
enacted by Am Sub H.B. 5, passed by the 130th General Assembly, and signed by
Governor Kasich on December 19, 2014, and H.B. 5 required municipal
corporations to conform to and adopt the provisions of R.C. Chapter 718 in
order to have the authority to impose, enforce, administer and collect a
municipal income tax.
   (B)   As mandated by H.B. 5, municipal income tax ordinance, effective
January 1, 2016, comprehensively amends the village’s former tax regulations in
accordance with the provisions of R.C. Chapter 718 to allow the municipality to
continue the income tax and withholding tax administration and collection
efforts on behalf of the municipality.
(Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.014)
ARTICLE 2: EFFECTIVE DATE; DEFINITIONS
§ 36.030 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   Ordinance 800, effective January 1, 2016, and corresponding changes to
R.C. Chapter 718, apply to municipal taxable years beginning on or after
January 1, 2016. All provisions of this subchapter apply to taxable years
beginning 2016 and succeeding taxable years.
   (B)   Ordinance 800 does not repeal the existing sections of this subchapter
for any taxable year prior to 2016, but rather amends this chapter effective
January 1, 2016. For municipal taxable years beginning before January 1, 2016,
the municipality shall continue to administer, audit and enforce the income tax
of the municipality under R.C. Chapter 718 and ordinances and resolutions of
the municipality as that subchapter and those ordinances and resolutions
existed before January 1, 2016.
(Source: Uncodified § 2 of Am Sub HB 5, passed Dec 2014; R.C. § 718.04) (Ord.
800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.02)
§ 36.031 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Any term used in this subchapter that is not otherwise defined in this
subchapter has the same meaning as when used in a comparable context in laws of
the United States relating to federal income taxation or in Title LVII of the
Ohio Revised Code, unless a different meaning is clearly required. If a term
used in this subchapter that is not otherwise defined in this subchapter is
used in a comparable context in both the laws of the United States relating to
federal income tax and in Title LVII of the Ohio Revised Code and the use is
not consistent, then the use of the term in the laws of the United States
relating to federal income tax shall control over the use of the term in Title
LVII of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the singular shall include the plural,
and the masculine shall include the feminine and the gender neutral.
   (C)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME. For a person required to file as a C
corporation, or for a person that has elected to be taxed as a C corporation
under division (d) of the definition for NET PROFIT, means a C corporation’s
federal taxable income before net operating losses and special deductions as
determined under the Internal Revenue Code, adjusted as follows:
         (a)   Deduct intangible income to the extent included in federal
taxable income. The deduction shall be allowed regardless of whether the
intangible income relates to assets used in a trade or business or assets held
for the production of income;
         (b)   Add an amount equal to 5% of intangible income deducted under
division (a) of this definition, but excluding that portion of intangible
income directly related to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of property
described in § 1221 of the Internal Revenue Code;
         (c)   Add any losses allowed as a deduction in the computation of
federal taxable income if the losses directly relate to the sale, exchange or
other disposition of an asset described in §§ 1221 or 1231 of the Internal
Revenue Code;
         (d)   1.   Except as provided in division (d)2. of this definition,
deduct income and gain included in federal taxable income to the extent the
income and gain directly relate to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of
an asset described in §§ 1221 or 1231 of the Internal Revenue Code; and
            2.   Division (d)1. of this definition does not apply to the extent
the income or gain is income or gain described in §§ 1245 or 1250 of the
Internal Revenue Code.
         (e)   Add taxes on or measured by net income allowed as a deduction in
the computation of federal taxable income;
         (f)   In the case of a real estate investment trust or regulated
investment company, add all amounts with respect to dividends to, distributions
to, or amounts set aside for or credited to the benefit of investors and
allowed as a deduction in the computation of federal taxable income;
         (g)   Deduct, to the extent not otherwise deducted or excluded in
computing federal taxable income, any income derived from a transfer agreement
or from the enterprise transferred under that agreement under R.C. § 4313.02;
         (h)   1.   a.   Except as limited by divisions (h)2., (h)3. and (h)4.
of this definition, deduct any net operating loss incurred by the person in a
taxable year beginning on or after January 1, 2017.
               b.   The amount of such net operating loss shall be deducted
from net profit that is reduced by exempt income to the extent necessary to
reduce municipal taxable income to zero, with any remaining unused portion of
the net operating loss carried forward to not more than five consecutive
taxable years following the taxable year in which the loss was incurred, but in
no case for more years than necessary for the deduction to be fully utilized.
            2.   No person shall use the deduction allowed by division (h) of
this definition to offset qualifying wages.
            3.   a.   For taxable years beginning in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021 or
2022, a person may not deduct, for, purposes of an income tax levied by a
municipal corporation that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, more
than 50% of the amount of the deduction otherwise allowed by division (h)1. of
this definition.
               b.   For taxable years beginning in 2023 or thereafter, a person
may deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by a municipal corporation
that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, the full amount allowed by
division (h)1. of this definition.
            4.   Any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward deduction that is
available must be utilized before a taxpayer may deduct any amount pursuant to
division (h) of this definition.
            5.   Nothing in division (h)3.a. of this definition precludes a
person from carrying forward, for use with respect to any return filed for a
taxable year beginning after 2018, any amount of net operating loss that was
not fully utilized by operation of division (h)3.a. of this definition. To the
extent that an amount of net operating loss that was not fully utilized in one
or more taxable years by operation of division (h)3.a. of this definition is
carried forward for use with respect to a return filed for a taxable year
beginning in 2019, 2020, 2021 or 2022, the limitation described in division
(h)3.a. of this definition shall apply to the amount carried forward.
         (i)   Deduct any net profit of a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer’s federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that net profit in
the group’s federal taxable income in accordance with §
36.077(E)(3)(b);
         (j)   Add any loss incurred by a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer’s federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that loss in the
group’s federal taxable income in accordance with §
36.077(E)(3)(b);
         (k)   If the taxpayer is not a C corporation, is not a disregarded
entity that has made the election described in division (b) of the definition
for TAXPAYER, is not a publicly traded partnership that has made the election
described in division (d) of the definition for NET PROFIT, and is not an
individual, the taxpayer shall compute adjusted federal taxable income under
this subchapter as if the taxpayer were a C corporation, except guaranteed
payments and other similar amounts paid or accrued to a partner, former
partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member or former member shall not be
allowed as a deductible expense unless such payments are in consideration for
the use of capital and treated as payment of interest under § 469 of the
Internal Revenue Code or United States treasury regulations. Amounts paid or
accrued to a qualified self-employed retirement plan with respect to a partner,
former partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member or former member of the
taxpayer, amounts paid or accrued to or for health insurance for a partner,
former partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member or former member, and
amounts paid or accrued to or for life insurance for a partner, former partner,
shareholder, former shareholder, member or former member shall not be allowed
as a deduction; and
         (l)   Nothing in this definition shall be construed as allowing the
taxpayer to add or deduct any amount more than once or shall be construed as
allowing any taxpayer to deduct any amount paid to or accrued for purposes of
federal self-employment tax.
      ASSESSMENT.
         (a)   Means any of the following:
            1.   A written finding by the Tax Administrator that a person has
underpaid municipal income tax, or owes penalty and interest, or any
combination of tax, penalty or interest, to the municipal corporation;
            2.   A full or partial denial of a refund request issued under §
36.125(B)(2);
            3.   A Tax Administrator’s denial of a taxpayer’s request for use
of an alternative apportionment method, issued under §
36.076(B)(2); or
            4.   A Tax Administrator’s requirement for a taxpayer to use an
alternative apportionment method, issued under §
36.076(B)(3).
            5.   For purposes of division (a)1., (a)2., (a)3. and (a)4. of this
definition, an assessment shall commence the person’s time limitation for
making an appeal to the Local Board of Tax Review pursuant to §
36.187, and shall have “ASSESSMENT” written in all capital letters at the top
of such finding.
         (b)   ASSESSMENT does not include notice(s) denying a request for
refund issued under §
36.125(B)(3), a billing statement notifying a taxpayer of current or past-due
balances owed to the municipal corporation, a Tax Administrator’s request for
additional information, a notification to the taxpayer of mathematical errors
or a Tax Administrator’s other written correspondence to a person or taxpayer
that does not meet the criteria prescribed by division (a) of this definition.
      AUDIT. The examination of a person or the inspection of the books,
records, memoranda or accounts of a person, ordered to appear before the Tax
Administrator, for the purpose of determining liability for a municipal income
tax
      BOARD OF REVIEW. Has same meaning as LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW.
      CALENDAR QUARTER. The three-month period ending on the last day of March,
June, September or December.
      CASINO OPERATOR and CASINO FACILITY. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
3772.01.
      CERTIFIED MAIL, EXPRESS MAIL, UNITED STATES MAIL, POSTAL SERVICE AND
SIMILAR TERMS. Include any delivery service authorized pursuant to R.C. §
5703.056.
      COMPENSATION. Any form of remuneration paid to an employee for personal
services.
      DISREGARDED ENTITY. A single member limited liability company, a
qualifying subchapter S subsidiary or another entity if the company, subsidiary
or entity is a disregarded entity for federal income tax purposes.
      DOMICILE. The true, fixed and permanent home of the taxpayer to which,
whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return.
      EXEMPT INCOME. All of the following:
         (a)   The military pay or allowances of members of the armed forces of
the United States or members of their reserve components, including the
national guard of any state;
         (b)   1.   Except as provided in division (b)2. of this definition,
intangible income; and
            2.   A municipal corporation that taxed any type of intangible
income on March 29, 1988, pursuant to § 3 of S.B. 238 of the 116th General
Assembly, may continue to tax that type of income if a majority of the electors
of the municipal corporation voting on the question of whether to permit the
taxation of that type of intangible income after 1988 voted in favor thereof at
an election held on November, 1988.
         (c)   Social security benefits, railroad retirement benefits,
unemployment compensation, pensions, retirement benefit payments, payments from
annuities and similar payments made to an employee or to the beneficiary of an
employee under a retirement program or plan, disability payments received from
private industry or local, state or federal governments or from charitable,
religious or educational organizations, and the proceeds of sickness, accident
or liability insurance policies. As used in division (c) of this definition,
UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION does not include supplemental unemployment
compensation described in § 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code;
         (d)   The income of religious, fraternal, charitable, scientific,
literary or educational institutions to the extent such income is derived from
tax-exempt real estate, tax-exempt tangible or intangible property, or tax-
exempt activities;
         (e)   Compensation paid under R.C. §§ 3501.28 or 3501.36 to a person
serving as a precinct election official to the extent that such compensation
does not exceed $1,000 for the taxable year. Such compensation in excess of
$1,000 for the taxable year may be subject to taxation by a municipal
corporation. A municipal corporation shall not require the payer of such
compensation to withhold any tax from that compensation;
         (f)   Dues, contributions and similar payments received by charitable,
religious, educational or literary organizations or labor unions, lodges and
similar organizations;
         (g)   Alimony and child support received;
         (h)   Awards for personal injuries or for damages to property from
insurance proceeds or otherwise, excluding compensation paid for lost salaries
or wages or awards for punitive damages;
         (i)   Income of a public utility when that public utility is subject
to the tax levied under R.C. §§ 5727.24 or 5727.30. This division (i) of this
definition does not apply for purposes of R.C. Chapter 5745;
         (j)   Gains from involuntary conversions, interest on federal
obligations, items of income subject to a tax levied by the state and that a
municipal corporation is specifically prohibited by law from taxing, and income
of a decedent’s estate during the period of administration except such income
from the operation of a trade or business;
         (k)   Compensation or allowances excluded from federal gross income
under § 107 of the Internal Revenue Code;
         (l)   Employee compensation that is not qualifying wages as defined in
this definition for QUALIFYING WAGES;
         (m)   Compensation paid to a person employed within the boundaries of
a United States air force base under the jurisdiction of the United States air
force that is used for the housing of members of the United States air force
and is a center for air force operations, unless the person is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile. If the compensation is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile, tax on such income shall be payable
only to the municipal corporation of residence or domicile.
         (n)   An S corporation shareholder’s distributive share of net profits
of the S corporation, other than any part of the distributive share of net
profits that represents wages as defined in § 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue
Code or net earnings from self-employment as defined in § 1402(a) of the
Internal Revenue Code;
         (o)   1.   Except as provided in divisions (o)2., (o)3. and (o)4. of
this definition, qualifying wages described in §
36.061(B)(1) or (E) to the extent the qualifying wages are not subject to
withholding for the municipality under either of those divisions.
            2.   The exemption provided in division (o)1. of this definition
does not apply with respect to the municipal corporation in which the employee
resided at the time the employee earned the qualifying wages.
            3.   The exemption provided in division (o)1. of this definition
does not apply to qualifying wages that an employer elects to withhold under §
36.061(D)(2).
            4.   The exemption provided in division (o)1. of this definition
does not apply to qualifying wages if both of the following conditions apply:
               a.   For qualifying wages described in §
36.061(B)(1), the employee’s employer withholds and remits tax on the
qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the employee’s principal
place of work is situated, or, for qualifying wages described in §
36.061(E), the employee’s employer withholds and remits tax on the qualifying
wages to the municipal corporation in which the employer’s fixed location is
located; and
               b.   The employee receives a refund of the tax described in
division (o)4.a. of this definition on the basis of the employee not performing
services in that municipal corporation.
         (p)   1.   Except as provided in division (p)2. or (p)3. of this
definition, compensation that is not qualifying wages paid to a nonresident
individual for personal services performed in the municipality on not more than
20 days in a taxable year.
            2.   The exemption provided in division (p)1. of this definition
does not apply under either of the following circumstances:
               a.   The individual’s base of operation is located in the
municipality; and
               b.   The individual is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer or public figure, and the compensation is paid for the performance
of services in the individual’s capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer or public figure. For purposes of division (p)2.b. of
this definition, PROFESSIONAL ATHLETE, PROFESSIONAL ENTERTAINER and PUBLIC
FIGURE have the same meanings as in §
36.061.
            3.   Compensation to which division (p) of this definition applies
shall be treated as earned or received at the individual’s base of operation.
If the individual does not have a base of operation, the compensation shall be
treated as earned or received where the individual is domiciled.
            4.   For purposes of division (p) of this definition, BASE OF
OPERATION means the location where an individual owns or rents an office,
storefront, or similar facility to which the individual regularly reports and
at which the individual regularly performs personal services for compensation.
         (q)   Compensation paid to a person for personal services performed
for a political subdivision on property owned by the political subdivision,
regardless of whether the compensation is received by an employee of the
subdivision or another person performing services for the subdivision under a
contract with the subdivision, if the property on which services are performed
is annexed to a municipal corporation pursuant to R.C. § 709.023 on or after
March 27, 2013, unless the person is subject to such taxation because of
residence. If the compensation is subject to taxation because of residence,
municipal income tax shall be payable only to the municipal corporation of
residence;
         (r)   Income the taxation of which is prohibited by the constitution
or laws of the United States; and
         (s)   Any item of income that is exempt income of a pass-through
entity under this definition of EXEMPT INCOME is exempt income of each owner of
the pass-through entity to the extent of that owner’s distributive or
proportionate share of that item of the entity’s income.
      FORM 2106. The Internal Revenue Service Form 2106 filed by a taxpayer
pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      GENERIC FORM. An electronic or paper form that is not prescribed by a
particular municipal corporation and that is designed for reporting taxes
withheld by an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer, estimated
municipal income taxes, or annual municipal income tax liability, including a
request for refund.
      INCOME. Means the following:
         (a)   1.   For residents, all income, salaries, qualifying wages,
commissions and other compensation from whatever source earned or received by
the resident, including the resident’s distributive share of the net profit of
pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by the resident and any net
profit of the resident, except as provided in division (d) of the definition of
NET PROFIT.
            2.   For the purposes of division (a)1. of this definition:
               a.   Any net operating loss of the resident incurred in the
taxable year and the resident’s distributive share of any net operating loss
generated in the same taxable year and attributable to the resident’s ownership
interest in a pass-through entity shall be allowed as a deduction, for that
taxable year and the following five taxable years, against any other net profit
of the resident or the resident’s distributive share of any net profit
attributable to the residents ownership interest in a pass-through entity until
fully utilized, subject to division (a)4. of this definition; and
               b.   The resident’s distributive share of the net profit of each
pass-through entity owned directly or indirectly by the resident shall be
calculated without regard to any net operating loss that is carried forward by
that entity from a prior taxable year and applied to reduce the entity’s net
profit for the current taxable year.
            3.   Division (a)2. of this definition does not apply with respect
to any net profit or net operating loss attributable to an ownership interest
in an S corporation unless shareholders’ distributive shares of net profits
from S corporations are subject to tax in the municipal corporation as provided
in division (n) of the definition for EXEMPT INCOME.
            4.   Any amount of a net operating loss used to reduce a taxpayer’s
net profit for a taxable year shall reduce the amount of net operating loss
that may be carried forward to any subsequent year for use by that taxpayer. In
no event shall the cumulative deductions for all taxable years with respect to
a taxpayer’s net operating loss exceed the original amount of that net
operating loss available to that taxpayer.
         (b)   In the case of nonresidents, all income, salaries, qualifying
wages, commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or
received by the nonresident for work done, services performed or rendered, or
activities conducted in the municipality, including any net profit of the
nonresident, but excluding the nonresident’s distributive share of the net
profit or loss of only pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by
the nonresident;
         (c)   For taxpayers that are not individuals, net profit of the
taxpayer; and
         (d)   Lottery, sweepstakes, gambling and sports winnings, winnings
from games of chance, and prizes and awards. If the taxpayer is a professional
gambler for federal income tax purposes, the taxpayer may deduct related
wagering losses and expenses to the extent authorized under the Internal
Revenue Code and claimed against such winnings. Credit for tax withheld or paid
to another municipal corporation on such winnings paid to the municipal
corporation where winnings occur is limited to the credit as specified in §
36.105.
      INTANGIBLE INCOME. Income of any of the following types: income yield,
interest, capital gains, dividends or other income arising from the ownership,
sale, exchange, or other disposition of intangible property including, but not
limited to, investments, deposits, money, or credits as those terms are defined
in R.C. Chapter 5701, and patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade names,
investments in real estate investment trusts, investments in regulated
investment companies, and appreciation on deferred compensation. INTANGIBLE
INCOME does not include prizes, awards or other income associated with any
lottery winnings, gambling winnings, or other similar games of chance.
      INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 100 Sta. 2085,
26 U.S.C. 1, as amended.
      LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY. Means a limited liability company formed under
R.C. Chapter 1705 or under the laws of another state.
      LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW and BOARD OF TAX REVIEW. The entity created
under §
36.187.
      MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. In general terms, a status conferred upon a local
government unit, by state law giving the unit certain autonomous operating
authority such as the power of taxation, power of eminent domain, police power
and regulatory power, and includes a joint economic development district or
joint economic development zone that levies an income tax under R.C. §§
715.691, 715.70, 715.71 or 715.74.
      MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME.
         (a)   Means the following:
            1.   For a person other than an individual, income reduced by
exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and then, as
applicable, apportioned or sitused to the municipality under §
36.076, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward
available to the person for the municipality;
            2.   a.   For an individual who is a resident of a municipality
other than a qualified municipal corporation, income reduced by exempt income
to the extent otherwise included in income, then reduced as provided in
division (b) of this definition, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net
operating loss carryforward available to the individual for the municipality.
               b.   For an individual who is a resident of a qualified
municipal corporation, Ohio adjusted gross income reduced by income exempted,
and increased by deductions excluded, by the qualified municipal corporation
from the qualified municipal corporation’s tax on or before December 31, 2013.
If a qualified municipal corporation, on or before December 31, 2013, exempts
income earned by individuals who are not residents of the qualified municipal
corporation and net profit of persons that are not wholly located within the
qualified municipal corporation, such individual or person shall have no
municipal taxable income for the purposes of the tax levied by the qualified
municipal corporation and may be exempted by the qualified municipal
corporation from the requirements of R.C. § 718.03.
            3.   For an individual who is a nonresident of the municipality,
income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and
then, as applicable, apportioned or sitused to the municipality under §
36.076, then reduced as provided in division (b) of this definition, and
further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward available to
the individual for the municipality.
         (b)   In computing the municipal taxable income of a taxpayer who is
an individual, the taxpayer may subtract, as provided in division (a)2.a. or
(a)3. of this definition, the amount of the individual’s employee business
expenses reported on the individual’s Form 2106 that the individual deducted
for federal income tax purposes for the taxable year, subject to the limitation
imposed by § 67 of the Internal Revenue Code. For the municipal corporation in
which the taxpayer is a resident, the taxpayer may deduct all such expenses
allowed for federal income tax purposes. For a municipal corporation in which
the taxpayer is not a resident, the taxpayer may deduct such expenses only to
the extent the expenses are related to the taxpayer’s performance of personal
services in that nonresident municipal corporation.
      MUNICIPALITY. The Village of West Alexandria, Preble County, Ohio.
      NET OPERATING LOSS. A loss incurred by a person in the operation of a
trade or business. NET OPERATING LOSS does not include unutilized losses
resulting from basis limitations, at-risk limitations or passive activity loss
limitations.
      NET PROFIT.
         (a)   For a person other than an individual means adjusted federal
taxable income.
         (b)   NET PROFIT for a person who is an individual means the
individual’s net profit required to be reported on Schedule C, Schedule E or
Schedule F reduced by any net operating loss carried forward. For the purposes
of this division (b), the net operating loss carried forward shall be
calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in division (h) of the
definition for ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME.
         (c)   For the purposes of this subchapter, and notwithstanding
division (a) of this definition, net profit of a disregarded entity shall not
be taxable as against that disregarded entity, but shall instead be included in
the net profit of the owner of the disregarded entity.
         (d)   1.   For purposes of this subchapter, PUBLICLY TRADED
PARTNERSHIP means any partnership, an interest in which is regularly traded on
an established securities market. A PUBLICLY TRADED PARTNERSHIP may have any
number of partners.
            2.   For the purposes of this subchapter, and not withstanding any
other provision of this subchapter, the net profit of a publicly traded
partnership that makes the election described in division (d) of this
definition shall be taxed as if the partnership were a C corporation, and shall
not be treated as the net profit or income of any owner of the partnership.
            3.   A publicly traded partnership that is treated as a partnership
for federal income tax purposes and that is subject to tax on its net profits
in one or more municipal corporations in this state may elect to be treated as
a C corporation for municipal income tax purposes. The publicly traded
partnership shall make the election in every municipal corporation in which the
partnership is subject to taxation on its net profits. The election shall be
made on the annual tax return filed in each such municipal corporation. Once
the election is made, the election is binding for a five-year period beginning
with the first taxable year of the initial election. The election continues to
be binding for each subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to
discontinue filing municipal income tax returns as a C corporation for
municipal purposes under division (d)4. of this definition.
            4.   An election to discontinue filing as a C corporation must be
made in the first year following the last year of a five-year election period
in effect under division (d)3. of this definition. The election to discontinue
filing as a C corporation is binding for a five-year period beginning with the
first taxable year of the election and continues to be binding for each
subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to discontinue filing
municipal income tax returns as a partnership for municipal purposes. An
election to discontinue filing as a partnership must be made in the first year
following the last year of a five-year election period.
            5.   The publicly traded partnership shall not be required to file
the election with any municipal corporation in which the partnership is not
subject to taxation on its net profits, but division (d) of this definition
applies to all municipal corporations in which an individual owner of the
partnership resides.
            6.   The individual owners of the partnership not filing as a C
corporation shall be required to file with their municipal corporation of
residence, and report partnership distribution of net profit.
      NONRESIDENT. An individual that is not a resident of the municipality.
      OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY. The online computer network system, created under
section R.C. § 125.30, that allows persons to electronically file business
reply forms with state agencies and includes any successor electronic filing
and payment system.
      OTHER PAYER. Any person, other than an individual’s employer or the
employer’s agent, that pays an individual any amount included in the federal
gross income of the individual. OTHER PAYER includes casino operators and video
lottery terminal sales agents.
      PASS-THROUGH ENTITY. A partnership not treated as an association taxable
as a C corporation for federal income tax purposes, a limited liability company
not treated as an association taxable as a C corporation for federal income tax
purposes, an S corporation, or any other class of entity from which the income
or profits of the entity are given pass-through treatment for federal income
tax purposes. PASS-THROUGH ENTITY does not include a trust, estate, grantor of
a grantor trust, or disregarded entity.
      PENSION. Any amount paid to an employee or former employee that is
reported to the recipient on an IRS Form 1099-R, or successor form. PENSION
does not include deferred compensation, or amounts attributable to nonqualified
deferred compensation plans, reported as FICA/Medicare wages on an IRS Form W-
2, Wage and Tax Statement, or successor form.
      PERSON. Includes individuals, firms, companies, joint stock companies,
business trusts, estates, trusts, partnerships, limited liability partnerships,
limited liability companies, associations, C corporations, S corporations,
governmental entities and any other entity.
      POSTAL SERVICE. The United States postal service, or private delivery
service delivering documents and packages within an agreed upon delivery
schedule, or any other carrier service delivering the item.
      POSTMARK DATE, DATE OF POSTMARK AND SIMILAR TERMS. Include the date
recorded and marked by a delivery service and recorded electronically to a
database kept in the regular course if its business and marked on the cover in
which the payment or document is enclosed, the date on which the payment or
document was given to the delivery service for delivery.
      PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD.
         (a)   Means any net operating loss incurred in a taxable year
beginning before January 1, 2017, to the extent such loss was permitted, by a
resolution or ordinance of the municipality that was adopted by the
municipality before January 1, 2016, to be earned forward and utilized to
offset income or net profit generated in such municipality in future taxable
years.
         (b)   For the purpose of calculating municipal taxable income, any
pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward may be carried forward to any taxable
year, including taxable years beginning in 2017 or thereafter, for the number
of taxable years provided in the resolution or ordinance or until fully
utilized, whichever is earlier.
      QUALIFIED MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. A municipal corporation that, by
resolution or ordinance adopted on or before December 31, 2011, adopted Ohio
adjusted gross income, as defined by R.C. § 5747.01, as the income subject to
tax for the purposes of imposing a municipal income tax.
      QUALIFYING WAGES. Wages, as defined in § 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue
Code, without regard to any wage limitations, adjusted as follows:
         (a)   Deduct the following amounts:
            1.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes
compensation attributable to a plan or program described in § 125 of the
Internal Revenue Code;
            2.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes payment
on account of a disability related to sickness or an accident paid by a party
unrelated to the employer, agent of an employer or other payer; and
            3.   Any amount included in wages that is exempt income.
         (b)   Add the following amounts:
            1.   Any amount not included in wages solely because the employee
was employed by the employer before April 1,1986;
            2.   Any amount not included in wages because the amount arises
from the sale, exchange or other disposition of a stock option, the exercise of
a stock option, or the sale, exchange or other disposition of stock purchased
under a stock option. Division (b)2. of this definition applies only to those
amounts constituting ordinary income;
            3.   Any amount not included in wages if the amount is an amount
described in §§ 401(k), 403(b) or 457 of the Internal Revenue Code. Division
(b)3. of this definition applies only to employee contributions and employee
deferrals;
            4.   Any amount that is supplemental unemployment compensation
benefits described in § 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code and not
included in wages;
            5.   Any amount received that is treated as self-employment income
for federal tax purposes in accordance with § 1402(a)(8) of the Internal
Revenue Code; and
            6.   Any amount not included in wages if all of the following
apply:
               a.   For the taxable year the amount is employee compensation
that is earned outside of the United States and that either is included in the
taxpayer’s gross income for federal income tax purposes or would have been
included in the taxpayer’s gross income for such purposes if the taxpayer did
not elect to exclude the income under § 911 of the Internal Revenue Code;
               b.   For no preceding taxable year did the amount constitute
wages as defined in § 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue Code;
               c.   For no succeeding taxable year will the amount constitute
wages; and
               d.   For any taxable year the amount has not otherwise been
added to wages pursuant to either division (b) of this definition or R.C. §
718.03, as that section existed before the effective date of H.B. 5 of the
130th General Assembly, March 23, 2015.
      RELATED ENTITY. Means any of the following:
         (a)   An individual stockholder, or a member of the stockholder’s
family enumerated in § 318 of the Internal Revenue Code, if the stockholder and
the members of the stockholder’s family own directly, indirectly, beneficially
or constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the
taxpayer’s outstanding stock;
         (b)   A stockholder, or a stockholder’s partnership, estate, trust or
corporation, if the stockholder and the stockholder’s partnerships, estates,
trusts or corporations own directly, indirectly, beneficially or
constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the taxpayer’s
outstanding stock;
         (c)   A corporation, or a party related to the corporation in a manner
that would require an attribution of stock from the corporation to the party or
from the party to the corporation under division (d) of this definition,
provided the taxpayer owns directly, indirectly, beneficially or
constructively, at least 50% of the value of the corporation’s outstanding
stock; and
         (d)   The attribution rules described in § 318 of the Internal Revenue
Code apply for the purpose of determining whether the ownership requirements in
divisions (a) to (c) of this definition have been met.
      RELATED MEMBER. A person that, with respect to the taxpayer during all or
any portion of the taxable year, is either a related entity, a component member
as defined in § 1563(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, or a person to or from
whom there is attribution of stock ownership in accordance with § 1563(e) of
the Internal Revenue Code except, for purposes of determining whether a person
is a related member under this definition, “20%” shall be substituted for “5%”
wherever “5%” appears in § 1563(e) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      RESIDENT. An individual who is domiciled in the municipality as
determined under §
36.046.
      S CORPORATION. A person that has made an election under subchapter S of
Chapter 1 of Subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code for its taxable year.
      SCHEDULE C. Internal Revenue Service Schedule C (Form 1040) filed by a
taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      SCHEDULE E. Internal Revenue Service Schedule E (Form 1040) filed by a
taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      SCHEDULE F. Internal Revenue Service Schedule F (Form 1040) filed by a
taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      SINGLE MEMBER LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY. A limited liability company that
has one direct member.
      SMALL EMPLOYER. Any employer that had total revenue of less than $500,000
during the preceding taxable year. For purposes of this definition, TOTAL
REVENUE means receipts of any type or kind, including, but not limited to,
sales receipts; payments; rents; profits; gains, dividends and other investment
income; commissions; premiums; money; property; grants; contributions;
donations; gifts; program service revenue; patient service revenue; premiums;
fees, including premium fees and service fees; tuition payments; unrelated
business revenue; reimbursements; any type of payment from a governmental unit,
including grants and other allocations; and any other similar receipts reported
for federal income tax purposes or under generally accepted accounting
principles. SMALL EMPLOYER does not include the federal government; any state
government, including any state agency or instrumentality; any political
subdivision; or any entity treated as a government for financial accounting and
reporting purposes.
      TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The individual charged with direct responsibility for
administration of an income tax levied by a municipal corporation in accordance
with this subchapter, and also includes the following:
         (a)   A municipal corporation acting as the agent of another municipal
corporation;
         (b)   A person retained by a municipal corporation to administer a tax
levied by the municipal corporation, but only if the municipal corporation does
not compensate the person in whole or in part on a contingency basis; and
         (c)   The Central Collection Agency (CCA) or the Regional Income Tax
Agency (RITA) or their successors in interest, or another entity organized to
perform functions similar to those performed by the Central Collection Agency
and the Regional Income Tax Agency.
      TAX RETURN PREPARER. Any individual described in § 7701(a)(36) of the
Internal Revenue Code and 26 C.F.R. § 301.7701-15.
      TAXABLE YEAR. The corresponding tax reporting period as prescribed for
the taxpayer under the Internal Revenue Code.
      TAXPAYER.
         (a)   Means a person subject to a tax levied on income by a municipal
corporation in accordance with this subchapter. TAXPAYER does not include a
grantor trust or, except as provided in division (b)1. of this definition, a
disregarded entity.
         (b)   1.   A single member limited liability company that is a
disregarded entity for federal tax purposes may be a separate taxpayer from its
single member in all Ohio municipal corporations in which it either filed as a
separate taxpayer or did not file for its taxable year ending in 2003, if all
of the following conditions are met:
               a.   The limited liability company’s single member is also a
limited liability company;
               b.   The limited liability company and its single member were
formed and doing business in one or more Ohio municipal corporations for at
least five years before January 1, 2004;
               c.   Not later than December 31, 2004, the limited liability
company and its single member each made an election to be treated as a separate
taxpayer under R.C. § 718.01(L) as this section existed on December 31, 2004;
               d.   The limited liability company was not formed for the
purpose of evading or reducing Ohio municipal corporation income tax liability
of the limited liability company or its single member; and
               e.   The Ohio municipal corporation that was the primary place
of business of the sole member of the limited liability company consented to
the election.
            2.   For purposes of division (b)1.e. of this definition, a
municipal corporation was the primary place of business of a limited liability
company if, for the limited liability company’s taxable year ending in 2003,
its income tax liability was greater in that municipal corporation than in any
other municipal corporation in Ohio, and that tax liability to that municipal
corporation for its taxable year ending in 2003 was at least $400,000.
      TAXPAYERS’ RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES. The rights provided to taxpayers
in R.C. §§ 718.11 , 718.12, 718.19, 718.23, 718.36, 718.37, 718.38, 5717.011
and 5717.03 and any corresponding ordinances of the municipality, and the
responsibilities of taxpayers to file, report, withhold, remit and pay
municipal income tax and otherwise comply with R.C. Chapter 718 and
resolutions, ordinances and rules adopted by a municipal corporation for the
imposition and administration of a municipal income tax.
      VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
      VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL SALES AGENT. A lottery sales agent licensed under
R.C. Chapter 3770 to conduct video lottery terminals on behalf of the state
pursuant to R.C. § 3770.21.
(Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.03)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, see R.C. § 718.01
ARTICLE 3: INCOME SUBJECT TO TAX FOR INDIVIDUALS
§ 36.045 DETERMINING MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME FOR INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   Municipal taxable income for a resident of the municipality is
calculated as follows:
      (1)   Income reduced by exempt income to the extent such exempt income is
otherwise included in income;
      (2)   Reduced by allowable employee business expense deduction as found
in §
36.031, division (b) of definition for MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME; and
      (3)   Further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward
equals municipal taxable income.
         (a)   INCOME is defined in §
36.031.
            1.   QUALIFYING WAGES is defined in §
36.031.
            2.   NET PROFIT is included in income, and is defined in §
36.031. This section also provides that the net operating loss carryforward
shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in division (h)
of the definition for ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME in §
36.031. Treatment of net profits received by an individual taxpayer from rental
real estate is provided in §
36.076(E).
            3.   The definition for INCOME in §
36.031 provides the following: offsetting and net operating loss carryforward
treatment in division (a)2.a. in the definition of INCOME in §
36.031; resident’s distributive share of net profit from pass-through entity
treatment in division (a)2.b. in the definition of INCOME in §
36.031; treatment of S corporation distributive share of net profit in the
hands of the shareholder in division (a)3. in the definition of INCOME in §
36.031; restriction of amount of loss permitted to be carried forward for use
by taxpayer in a subsequent taxable year in division (a)4. in the definition
for INCOME in §
36.031.
            4.   Pass-through entity is defined in §
36.031.
         (b)   Exempt income is defined in §
36.031.
         (c)   Allowable employee business expense deduction is described in
division (b) of the definition for MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME in §
36.031, and is subject to the limitations provided in that section.
         (d)   Pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward is defined in the
definition for PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD in §
36.031.
   (B)   Municipal taxable income for a nonresident of the municipality is
calculated as follows:
      (1)   Income reduced by exempt income to the extent such exempt income is
otherwise included in income, as applicable, apportioned or sitused to the
municipality as provided in §
36.076;
      (2)   Reduced by allowable employee business expense deduction as found
in (b) of the definition for MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME in §
36.031; and
      (3)   Further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward
equals municipal taxable income.
         (a)   INCOME is defined in §
36.031.
            1.   QUALIFYING WAGES is defined in §
36.031.
            2.   NET PROFIT is included in income, and is defined in §
36.031. This section also provides that the net operating loss carryforward
shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in §
36.031. Net profit for a nonresident individual includes any net profit of the
nonresident, but excludes the distributive share of net profit or loss of only
pass-through entity owned directly or indirectly by the nonresident.
            3.   PASS-THROUGH ENTITY is defined in §
36.031.
         (b)   EXEMPT INCOME is defined in §
36.031.
         (c)   Apportioned or sitused to the municipality as provided in §
36.076 includes the apportionment of net profit income attributable to work
done or services performed in the municipality. Treatment of net profits
received by an individual taxpayer from rental real estate is provided in §
36.076(E).
         (d)   Allowable employee business expense deduction as described in
division (b) of the definition for MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME in §
36.031, is subject to the limitations provided in that section. For a
nonresident of the municipality, the deduction is limited to the extent the
expenses are related to the performance of personal services by the nonresident
in the municipality.
         (e)   PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD is defined in §
36.031.
(Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.041)
§ 36.046 DOMICILE.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   DOMICILE means the true, fixed and permanent home of the taxpayer
to which whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return.
      (2)   An individual is presumed to be domiciled in the municipality for
all or part of a taxable year if the individual was domiciled in the
municipality on the last day of the immediately preceding taxable year or if
the Tax Administrator reasonably concludes that the individual is domiciled in
the municipality for all or part of the taxable year.
      (3)   An individual may rebut the presumption of domicile described in
division (A)(1) of this section if the individual establishes by a
preponderance of the evidence that the individual was not domiciled in the
municipality for all or part of the taxable year.
   (B)   For the purpose of determining whether an individual is domiciled in
the municipality for all or part of a taxable year, factors that may be
considered include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The individual’s domicile in other taxable years;
      (2)   The location at which the individual is registered to vote;
      (3)   The address on the individual’s driver’s license;
      (4)   The location of real estate for which the individual claimed a
property tax exemption or reduction allowed on the basis of the individual’s
residence or domicile;
      (5)   The location and value of abodes owned or leased by the individual;
      (6)   Declarations, written or oral, made by the individual regarding the
individual’s residency;
      (7)   The primary location at which the individual is employed;
      (8)   The location of educational institutions attended by the
individual’s dependents as defined in § 152 of the Internal Revenue Code, to
the extent that tuition paid to such educational institution is based on the
residency of the individual or the individual’s spouse in the municipal
corporation or state where the educational institution is located; and
      (9)   The number of contact periods the individual has with the
municipality. For the purposes of this division (B)(9), an individual has one
“contact period” with the municipality if the individual is away overnight from
the individual’s abode located outside of the municipality and while away
overnight from that abode spends at least some portion, however minimal, of
each of two consecutive days in the municipality. For purposes of this section,
the state’s contact period test or bright-line test and resulting determination
have no bearing on municipal residency or domicile.
   (C)   All applicable factors are provided in R.C. § 718.012.
(R.C. § 718.012) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.042)
§ 36.047 EXEMPTION FOR MEMBER OR EMPLOYEE OF GENERAL ASSEMBLY AND CERTAIN
JUDGES.
   (A)   Only the municipal corporation of residence shall be permitted to levy
a tax on the income of any member or employee of the Ohio General Assembly,
including the Lieutenant Governor, whose income is received as a result of
services rendered as such member or employee and is paid from appropriated
funds of this state.
   (B)   Only the municipal corporation of residence and the City of Columbus
shall levy a tax on the income of the Chief Justice or a Justice of the Supreme
Court received as a result of services rendered as the Chief Justice or
Justice. Only the municipal corporation of residence shall levy a tax on the
income of a judge sitting by assignment of the Chief Justice or on the income
of a district court of appeals judge sitting in multiple locations within the
district, received as a result of services rendered as a judge.
(R.C. § 718.50) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.043)
ARTICLE 4: COLLECTION AT SOURCE
§ 36.060 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; WITHHOLDING FROM QUALIFYING WAGES.
   (A)   (1)   Each employer, agent of an employer or other payer located or
doing business in the municipality shall withhold from each employee an amount
equal to the qualifying wages of the employee earned by the employee in the
municipality multiplied by the applicable rate of the municipality’s income
tax, except for qualifying wages for which withholding is not required under §
36.061 or division (D) or (F) of this section. An employer, agent of an
employer or other payer shall deduct and withhold the tax from qualifying wages
on the date that the employer, agent, or other payer directly, indirectly, or
constructively pays the qualifying wages to, or credits the qualifying wages to
the benefit of, the employee.
      (2)   In addition to withholding the amounts required under division (A)
(1) of this section, an employer, agent of an employer or other payer may also
deduct and withhold, on the request of an employee, taxes for the municipal
corporation in which the employee is a resident.
   (B)   An employer, agent of an employer or other payer shall remit to the
Tax Administrator of the municipality the greater of the income taxes deducted
and withheld or the income taxes required to be deducted and withheld by the
employer, agent, or other payer, along with any report required by the Tax
Administrator to accompany such payment, according to the following schedule.
      (1)   Any employer, agent of an employer or other payer not required to
make payments under division (B)(2) of this section of taxes required to be
deducted and withheld shall make quarterly payments to the Tax Administrator
not later than the last day of the month following the last day of each
calendar quarter.
      (2)   Taxes required to be deducted and withheld shall be remitted
monthly to the Tax Administrator if the total taxes deducted and withheld or
required to be deducted and withheld by the employer, agent or other payer on
behalf of the municipal corporation in the preceding calendar year exceeded
$2,399, or if the total amount of taxes deducted and withheld or required to be
deducted and withheld on behalf of the municipality in any month of the
preceding calendar quarter exceeded $200. Payments under division (B)(2) of
this section shall be made to the Tax Administrator not later than 15 days
after the last day of each month.
   (C)   An employer, agent of an employer or other payer shall make and file a
return showing the amount of tax withheld by the employer, agent or other payer
from the qualifying wages of each employee and remitted to the Tax
Administrator. A return filed by an employer, agent or other payer under this
division (C) shall be accepted by the municipality as the return required of an
employee whose sole income subject to the tax under this subchapter is the
qualifying wages reported by the employee’s employer, agent of an employer or
other payer, unless the municipality requires all resident individual taxpayers
to file a tax return under §
36.120.
   (D)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer is not required to
withhold municipal income tax with respect to an individual’s disqualifying
disposition of an incentive stock option if, at the time of the disqualifying
disposition, the individual is not an employee of either the corporation with
respect to whose stock the option has been issued or of such corporation’s
successor entity.
   (E)   (1)   An employee is not relieved from liability for a tax by the
failure of the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer to withhold the
tax as required under this subchapter or by the employer’s, agent’s or other
payer’s exemption from the requirement to withhold the tax.
      (2)   The failure of an employer, agent of an employer or other payer to
remit to the municipality the tax withheld relieves the employee from liability
for that tax unless the employee colluded with the employer, agent or other
payer in connection with the failure to remit the tax withheld.
   (F)   Compensation deferred before June 26, 2003, is not subject to any
municipal corporation income tax or municipal income tax withholding
requirement to the extent the deferred compensation does not constitute
qualifying wages at the time the deferred compensation is paid or distributed.
   (G)   Each employer, agent of an employer or other payer required to
withhold taxes is liable for the payment of that amount required to be
withheld, whether or not such taxes have been withheld, and such amount shall
be deemed to be held in trust for the municipality until such time as the
withheld amount is remitted to the Tax Administrator.
   (H)   On or before the last day of February of each year, an employer shall
file a withholding reconciliation return with the Tax Administrator listing the
names, addresses and social security numbers of all employees from whose
qualifying wages tax was withheld or should have been withheld for the
municipality during the preceding calendar year, the amount of tax withheld, if
any, from each such employee’s qualifying wage, the total amount of qualifying
wages paid to such employee during the preceding calendar year, the name of
every other municipal corporation for which tax was withheld or should have
been withheld from such employee during the preceding calendar year, any other
information required for federal income tax reporting purposes on Internal
Revenue Service Form W-2 or its equivalent form with respect to such employee,
and other information as may be required by the Tax Administrator.
   (I)   The officer or the employee of the employer, agent of an employer or
other payer with control or direct supervision of or charged with the
responsibility for withholding the tax or filing the reports and making
payments as required by this section, shall be personally liable for a failure
to file a report or pay the tax due as required by this section. The
dissolution of an employer, agent of an employer or other payer does not
discharge the officer’s or employee’s liability for a failure of the employer,
agent of an employer or other payer to file returns or pay any tax due.
   (J)   An employer is required to deduct and withhold municipal income tax on
tips and gratuities received by the employees and constituting qualifying wages
only to the extent that the tips and gratuities are under the employer’s
control. For the purposes of this division (J), a tip or gratuity is under the
employer’s control if the tip or gratuity is paid by the customer to the
employer for subsequent remittance to the employee, or if the customer pays the
tip or gratuity by credit card, debit card or other electronic means.
   (K)   A Tax Administrator shall consider any tax withheld by an employer at
the request of an employee when such tax is not otherwise required to be
withheld by this subchapter to be tax required to be withheld and remitted for
the purposes of this section.
(R.C. § 718.03) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.051; Ord. 811, passed 11-
14-2016)
§ 36.061 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; OCCASIONAL ENTRANT.
   (A) For the purpose of this section, the following shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   EMPLOYER includes a person that is a related member to or of an
employer.
      (2)   PROFESSIONAL ATHLETE means an athlete who performs services in a
professional athletic event for wages or other remuneration.
      (3)   PROFESSIONAL ENTERTAINER means a person who performs services in
the professional performing arts for wages or other remuneration on a per-event
basis.
      (4)   PUBLIC FIGURE means a person of prominence who performs services at
discrete events, such as speeches, public appearances, or similar events, for
wages or other remuneration on a per-event basis.
      (5)   FIXED LOCATION means a permanent place of doing business in this
state, such as an office, warehouse, storefront or similar location owned or
controlled by an employer.
      (6)   WORKSITE LOCATION means a construction site or other temporary
worksite in this state at which the employer provides services for more than 20
days during the calendar year. WORKSITE LOCATION does not include the home of
an employee.
      (7)   (a)   PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the fixed location to which an
employee is required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary
basis. If the employee is not required to report for employment duties on a
regular and ordinary basis to a fixed location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means
the worksite location in this state to which the employee is required to report
for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis. If the employee is not
required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis to a
fixed location or worksite location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the location
in this state at which the employee spends the greatest number of days in a
calendar year performing services for or on behalf of the employee’s employer.
         (b)   If there is not a single municipal corporation in which the
employee spent the “greatest number of days in a calendar year” performing
services for or on behalf of the employer, but instead there are two or more
municipal corporations in which the employee spent an identical number of days
that is greater than the number of days the employee spent in any other
municipal corporation, the employer shall allocate any of the employee’s
qualifying wages subject to division (B)(1)(a) of this section among those two
or more municipal corporations. The allocation shall be made using any fair and
reasonable method, including, but not limited to, an equal allocation among
such municipal corporations or an allocation based upon the time spent or sales
made by the employee in each such municipal corporation. A municipal
corporation to which qualifying wages are allocated under this division (A)
shall be the employee’s PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK with respect to those
qualifying wages for the purposes of this section.
         (c)   For the purposes of this division (A)(7), the location at which
an employee spends a particular day shall be deemed in accordance with division
(B)(2) of this section, except that location shall be substituted for municipal
corporation wherever municipal corporation appears in that division.
   (B)   (1)   Subject to divisions (C), (E), (F) and (G) of this section, an
employer is not required to withhold municipal income tax on qualifying wages
paid to an employee for the performance of personal services in a municipal
corporation that imposes such a tax if the employee performed such services in
the municipal corporation on 20 or fewer days in a calendar year, unless one of
the following conditions applies:
         (a)   The employee’s principal place of work is located in the
municipality;
         (b)   The employee performed services at one or more presumed worksite
locations in the municipality. For the purposes of this division (B), PRESUMED
WORKSITE LOCATION means a construction site or other temporary worksite in this
state at which the employer provides services that can reasonably be expected
by the employer to last more than 20 days in a calendar year. Services can
“reasonably be expected by the employer to last more than 20 days” if either of
the following applies at the time the services commence:
            1.   The nature of the services are such that it will require more
than 20 days of actual services to complete the services; and
            2.   The agreement between the employer and its customer to perform
services at a location requires the employer to perform actual services at the
location for more than 20 days.
         (c)   The employee is a resident of the municipality and has requested
that the employer withhold tax from the employee’s qualifying wages as provided
in §
36.060; and
         (d)   The employee is a professional athlete, professional entertainer
or public figure, and the qualifying wages are paid for the performance of
services in the employee’s capacity as a professional athlete, professional
entertainer or public figure within the municipality.
      (2)   For the purposes of division (B)(1) of this section, an employee
shall be considered to have spent a day performing services in a municipal
corporation only if the employee spent more time performing services for or on
behalf of the employer in that municipal corporation than in any other
municipal corporation on that day. For the purposes of determining the amount
of time an employee spent in a particular location, the time spent performing
one or more of the following activities shall be considered to have been spent
at the employee’s principal place of work:
         (a)   Traveling to the location at which the employee will first
perform services for the employer for the day;
         (b)   Traveling from a location at which the employee was performing
services for the employer to any other location;
         (c)   Traveling from any location to another location in order to pick
up or load, for the purpose of transportation or delivery, property that has
been purchased, sold, assembled, fabricated, repaired, refurbished, processed,
remanufactured or improved by the employee’s employer;
         (d)   Transporting or delivering property described in division (B)(2)
(c) of this section, provided that, upon delivery of the property, the employee
does not temporarily or permanently affix the property to real estate owned,
used, or controlled by a person other than the employee’s employer; or
         (e)   Traveling from the location at which the employee makes the
employee’s final delivery or pick-up for the day to either the employee’s
principal place of work or a location at which the employee will not perform
services for the employer.
   (C)   If the principal place of work of an employee is located in a
municipal corporation that imposes an income tax in accordance with this
subchapter, the exception from withholding requirements described in division
(B)(1) of this section shall apply only if, with respect to the employee’s
qualifying wages described in that division, the employer withholds and remits
tax on such qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the
employee’s principal place of work is located.
   (D)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) of this section, if,
during a calendar year, the number of days an employee spends performing
personal services in a municipal corporation exceeds the 20-day threshold
described in division (B)(1) of this section, the employer shall withhold and
remit tax to that municipal corporation for any subsequent days in that
calendar year on which the employer pays qualifying wages to the employee for
personal services performed in that municipal corporation.
      (2)   An employer required to begin withholding tax for a municipal
corporation under division (D)(1) of this section may elect to withhold tax for
that municipal corporation for the first 20 days on which the employer paid
qualifying wages to the employee for personal services performed in that
municipal corporation.
      (3)   If an employer makes the election described in division (D)(2) of
this section, the taxes withheld and paid by such an employer during those
first 20 days to the municipal corporation in which the employee’s principal
place of work is located are refundable to the employee.
   (E)   Without regard to the number of days in a calendar year on which an
employee performs personal services in any municipal corporation, an employer
shall withhold municipal income tax on all of the employee’s qualifying wages
for a taxable year and remit that tax only to the municipal corporation in
which the employer’s fixed location is located if the employer qualifies as a
small employer as defined in §
36.031. To determine whether an employer qualifies as a small employer for a
taxable year, a Tax Administrator may require the employer to provide the Tax
Administrator with the employer’s federal income tax return for the preceding
taxable year.
   (F)   Divisions (B)(1) and (D) of this section shall not apply to the extent
that a Tax Administrator and an employer enter into an agreement regarding the
manner in which the employer shall comply with the requirements of §
36.060.
   (G)   (1)   In the case of a person performing personal services at a
petroleum refinery located in a municipal corporation that imposes a tax on
income, an employer is not required to withhold municipal income tax on the
qualifying wages of such a person if the person performs those services on 12
or fewer days in a calendar year, unless the principal place of work of the
employer is located in another municipal corporation in this state that imposes
a tax applying to compensation paid to the person for services performed on
those days and the person is not liable to that other municipal corporation for
tax on the compensation paid for such services. For the purposes of this
division (G), a petroleum refinery is a facility with a standard industrial
classification code facility classification of 2911, petroleum refining.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (D) of this section, if, during a calendar
year, the number of days an individual performs personal services at a
petroleum refinery exceeds 12, the employer shall withhold tax for the
municipal corporation for the first 12 days for which the employer paid
qualifying wages to the individual and for all subsequent days in the calendar
year on which the individual performed services at the refinery.
(R.C. §§ 718.011, 718.01) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.052)
§ 36.062 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; CASINO AND VLT.
   (A)   The municipality shall require a casino facility or a casino operator,
as defined in § 6(C)(9) of Article XV, Ohio Constitution, and R.C. § 3772.01,
respectively, or a lottery sales agent conducting video lottery terminals sales
on behalf of the state to withhold and remit municipal income tax with respect
to amounts other than qualifying wages as provided in this section.
   (B)   If a person’s winnings at a casino facility are an amount for which
reporting to the Internal Revenue Service of the amount is required by § 6041
of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, the casino operator shall deduct and
withhold municipal income tax from the person’s winnings at the rate of the tax
imposed by the municipal corporation in which the casino facility is located.
   (C)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a casino operator are held in trust
for the benefit of the municipal corporation to which the tax is owed.
      (1)   On or before the tenth day of each month, the casino operator shall
file a return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the municipality,
providing the name, address and social security number of the person from whose
winnings amounts were deducted and withheld, the amount of each such deduction
and withholding during the preceding calendar month, the amount of the winnings
from which each such amount was withheld, the type of casino gaming that
resulted in such winnings, and any other information required by the Tax
Administrator. With this return, the casino operator shall remit electronically
to the municipality all amounts deducted and withheld during the preceding
month.
      (2)   Annually, on or before January 31, a casino operator shall file an
annual return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the municipal
corporation in which the casino facility is located, indicating the total
amount deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year. The casino
operator shall remit electronically with the annual return any amount that was
deducted and withheld and that was not previously remitted. If the name,
address or social security number of a person or the amount deducted and
withheld with respect to that person was omitted on a monthly return for that
reporting period, that information shall be indicated on the annual return.
      (3)   Annually, on or before January 31, a casino operator shall issue an
information return to each person with respect to whom an amount has been
deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year. The information
return shall show the total amount of municipal income tax deducted from the
person’s winnings during the preceding year. The casino operator shall provide
to the Tax Administrator a copy of each information return issued under this
division (C)(3). The Administrator may require that such copies be transmitted
electronically.
      (4)   A casino operator that fails to file a return and remit the amounts
deducted and withheld shall be personally liable for the amount withheld and
not remitted. Such personal liability extends to any penalty and interest
imposed for the late filing of a return or the late payment of tax deducted and
withheld.
      (5)   If a casino operator sells the casino facility or otherwise quits
the casino business, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties
and interest thereon are immediately due and payable. The successor shall
withhold an amount of the purchase money that is sufficient to cover the
amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties and interest thereon
until the predecessor casino operator produces either of the following:
         (a)   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid; or
         (b)   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that no
amounts are due. If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the
successor is personally liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and
withheld and penalties and interest thereon.
      (6)   The failure of a casino operator to deduct and withhold the
required amount from a person’s winnings does not relieve that person from
liability for the municipal income tax with respect to those winnings.
   (D)   If a person’s prize award from a video lottery terminal is an amount
for which reporting to the Internal Revenue Service is required by § 6041 of
the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, the video lottery sales agent shall
deduct and withhold municipal income tax from the person’s prize award at the
rate of the tax imposed by the municipal corporation in which the video lottery
terminal facility is located.
   (E)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a video lottery sales agent are held
in trust for the benefit of the municipal corporation to which the tax is owed.
      (1)   The video lottery sales agent shall issue to a person from whose
prize award an amount has been deducted and withheld a receipt for the amount
deducted and withheld, and shall obtain from the person receiving a prize award
the person’s name, address and social security number in order to facilitate
the preparation of returns required by this section.
      (2)   On or before the tenth day of each month, the video lottery sales
agent shall file a return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the
municipality providing the names, addresses and social security numbers of the
persons from whose prize awards amounts were deducted and withheld, the amount
of each such deduction and withholding during the preceding calendar month, the
amount of the prize award from which each such amount was withheld, and any
other information required by the Tax Administrator. With the return, the video
lottery sales agent shall remit electronically to the Tax Administrator all
amounts deducted and withheld during the preceding month.
      (3)   A video lottery sales agent shall maintain a record of all receipts
issued under division (E) of this section and shall make those records
available to the Tax Administrator upon request. Such records shall be
maintained in accordance with R.C. § 5747.17 and any rules adopted pursuant
thereto.
      (4)   Annually, on or before January 31, each video lottery terminal
sales agent shall file an annual return electronically with the Tax
Administrator of the municipal corporation in which the facility is located
indicating the total amount deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar
year. The video lottery sales agent shall remit electronically with the annual
return any amount that was deducted and withheld and that was not previously
remitted. If the name, address or social security number of a person or the
amount deducted and withheld with respect to that person was omitted on a
monthly return for that reporting period, that information shall be indicated
on the annual return.
      (5)   Annually, on or before January 31, a video lottery sales agent
shall issue an information return to each person with respect to whom an amount
has been deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year. The
information return shall show the total amount of municipal income tax deducted
and withheld from the person’s prize award by the video lottery sales agent
during the preceding year. A video lottery sales agent shall provide to the Tax
Administrator of the municipal corporation a copy of each information return
issued under this division (E)(5). The Tax Administrator may require that such
copies be transmitted electronically.
      (6)   A video lottery sales agent who fails to file a return and remit
the amounts deducted and withheld is personally liable for the amount deducted
and withheld and not remitted. Such personal liability extends to any penalty
and interest imposed for the late filing of a return or the late payment of tax
deducted and withheld.
   (F)   (1)   If a video lottery sales agent ceases to operate video lottery
terminals, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties and
interest thereon are immediately due and payable. The successor of the video
lottery sales agent that purchases the video lottery terminals from the agent
shall withhold an amount from the purchase money that is sufficient to cover
the amounts deducted and withheld and any penalties and interest thereon until
the predecessor video lottery sales agent operator produces either of the
following:
         (a)   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid; or
         (b)   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that no
amounts are due.
      (2)   If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the successor is
personally liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and withheld and
penalties and interest thereon.
   (G)   The failure of a video lottery sales agent to deduct and withhold the
required amount from a person’s prize award does not relieve that person from
liability for the municipal income tax with respect to that prize award.
   (H)   If a casino operator or lottery sales agent files a return late, fails
to file a return, remits amounts deducted and withheld late, or fails to remit
amounts deducted and withheld as required under this section, the Tax
Administrator of a municipal corporation may impose the following applicable
penalty:
      (1)   For the late remittance of, or failure to remit, tax deducted and
withheld under this section, a penalty equal to 50% of the tax deducted and
withheld; and
      (2)   For the failure to file, or the late filing of, a monthly or annual
return, a penalty of $500 for each return not filed or filed late. Interest
shall accrue on past due amounts deducted and withheld at the rate prescribed
in R.C. § 5703.47.
   (I)   Amounts deducted and withheld on behalf of a municipal corporation
shall be allowed as a credit against payment of the tax imposed by the
municipal corporation and shall be treated as taxes paid for purposes of §
36.090. This division (I) applies only to the person for whom the amount is
deducted and withheld.
   (J)   The Tax Administrator shall prescribe the forms of the receipts and
returns required under this section.
(R.C. § 718.031) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.053)
ARTICLE 5: INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX
§ 36.075 DETERMINING MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME FOR TAXPAYERS WHO ARE NOT
INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   Municipal taxable income for a taxpayer who is not an individual for
the municipality is calculated as follows in division (B).
   (B)   Income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in
income, multiplied by apportionment, further reduced by any pre-2017 net
operating loss carryforward equals municipal taxable income.
      (1)   Income for a taxpayer that is not an individual means the net
profit of the taxpayer.
         (a)   NET PROFIT for a person other than an individual is defined in §
36.031.
         (b)   ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME is defined in §
36.031.
      (2)   EXEMPT INCOME is defined in §
36.031.
      (3)   Apportionment means the apportionment as determined by §
36.076.
      (4)   PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD is defined in §
36.031.
(R.C. § 718.01) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.061)
§ 36.076 NET PROFIT; INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX; ALTERNATIVE
APPORTIONMENT.
   This section applies to any taxpayer engaged in a business or profession in
the municipality unless the taxpayer is an individual who resides in the
municipality or the taxpayer is an electric company, combined company or
telephone company that is subject to and required to file reports under R.C.
Chapter 5745.
   (A)   Net profit from a business or profession conducted both within and
without the boundaries of the municipality shall be considered as having a
taxable situs in the municipality for purposes of municipal income taxation in
the same proportion as the average ratio of the following:
      (1)   (a)   The average original cost of the real property and tangible
personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the business or profession
in the municipality during the taxable period to the average original cost of
all of the real and tangible personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in
the business or profession during the same period, wherever situated; and
         (b)   As used in division (A)(1)(a) of this section, tangible personal
or real property shall include property rented or leased by the taxpayer and
the value of such property shall be determined by multiplying the annual rental
thereon by eight.
      (2)   Wages, salaries and other compensation paid during the taxable
period to individuals employed in the business or profession for services
performed in the municipality to wages, salaries and other compensation paid
during the same period to individuals employed in the business or profession,
wherever the individual’s services are performed, excluding compensation from
which taxes are not required to be withheld under §
36.061; and
      (3)   Total gross receipts of the business or profession from sales and
rentals made and services performed during the taxable period in the
municipality to total gross receipts of the business or profession during the
same period from sales, rentals and services, wherever made or performed.
   (B)   (1)   If the apportionment factors described in division (A) of this
section do not fairly represent the extent of a taxpayer’s business activity in
the municipality, the taxpayer may request, or the Tax Administrator of the
municipality may require, that the taxpayer use, with respect to all or any
portion of the income of the taxpayer, an alternative apportionment method
involving one or more of the following:
         (a)   Separate accounting;
         (b)   The exclusion of one or more of the factors;
         (c)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors that would
provide for a more fair apportionment of the income of the taxpayer to the
municipality; and
         (d)   A modification of one or more of the factors.
      (2)   A taxpayer request to use an alternative apportionment method shall
be in writing and shall accompany a tax return, timely filed appeal of an
assessment or timely filed amended tax return. The taxpayer may use the
requested alternative method unless the Tax Administrator denies the request in
an assessment issued within the period prescribed by §
36.200(A).
      (3)   A Tax Administrator may require a taxpayer to use an alternative
apportionment method as described in division (B)(1) of this section only by
issuing an assessment to the taxpayer within the period prescribed by §
36.200(A).
      (4)   Nothing in division (B) of this section nullifies or otherwise
affects any alternative apportionment arrangement approved by a Tax
Administrator or otherwise agreed upon by both the Tax Administrator and
taxpayer before January 1, 2016.
   (C)   As used in division (A)(2) of this section, WAGES, SALARIES AND OTHER
COMPENSATION includes only wages, salaries or other compensation paid to an
employee for services performed at any of the following locations:
      (1)   A location that is owned, controlled, or used by, rented to, or
under the possession of one of the following:
         (a)   The employer;
         (b)   A vendor, customer, client or patient of the employer, or a
related member of such a vendor, customer, client or patient; and
         (c)   A vendor, customer, client or patient of a person described in
division (C)(1)(b) of this section, or a related member of such a vendor,
customer, client or patient.
      (2)   Any location at which a trial, appeal, hearing, investigation,
inquiry, review, court-martial or similar administrative, judicial or
legislative matter or proceeding is being conducted, provided that the
compensation is paid for services performed for, or on behalf of, the employer
or that the employee’s presence at the location directly or indirectly benefits
the employer; and
      (3)   Any other location, if the Tax Administrator determines that the
employer directed the employee to perform the services at the other location in
lieu of a location described in division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section
solely in order to avoid or reduce the employer’s municipal income tax
liability. If a Tax Administrator makes such a determination, the employer may
dispute the determination by establishing, by a preponderance of the evidence,
that the Tax Administrator’s determination was unreasonable.
   (D)   For the purposes of division (A)(3) of this section, receipts from
sales and rentals made and services performed shall be sitused to a municipal
corporation as follows:
      (1)   Gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property shall be
sitused to the municipal corporation in which the sale originated. For the
purposes of this division (D), a sale of property originates in a municipal
corporation if, regardless of where title passes, the property meets any of the
following criteria:
         (a)   The property is shipped to or delivered within the municipal
corporation from a stock of goods located within the municipal corporation;
         (b)   The property is delivered within the municipal corporation from
a location outside the municipal corporation, provided the taxpayer is
regularly engaged through its own employees in the solicitation or promotion of
sales within such municipal corporation and the sales result from such
solicitation or promotion; and
         (c)   The property is shipped from a place within the municipal
corporation to purchasers outside the municipal corporation, provided that the
taxpayer is not, through its own employees, regularly engaged in the
solicitation or promotion of sales at the place where delivery is made.
      (2)   Gross receipts from the sale of services shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation to the extent that such services are performed in the
municipal corporation;
      (3)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from the sale of
real property located in the municipal corporation shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation;
      (4)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from rents and
royalties from real property located in the municipal corporation shall be
sitused to the municipal corporation; and
      (5)   Gross receipts from rents and royalties from tangible personal
property shall be sitused to the municipal corporation based upon the extent to
which the tangible personal property is used in the municipal corporation.
   (E)   (1)   The net profit received by an individual taxpayer from the
rental of real estate owned directly by the individual or by a disregarded
entity owned by the individual shall be subject to tax only by the municipal
corporation in which the property generating the net profit is located and the
municipal corporation in which the individual taxpayer that receives the net
profit resides.
      (2)   A municipal corporation shall allow such taxpayers to elect to use
separate accounting for the purpose of calculating net profit sitused under
this division (E) to the municipal corporation in which the property is
located.
   (F)   (1)   Except as provided in division (F)(2) of this section,
commissions received by a real estate agent or broker relating to the sale,
purchase or lease of real estate shall be sitused to the municipal corporation
in which the real estate is located. Net profit reported by the real estate
agent or broker shall be allocated to a municipal corporation based upon the
ratio of the commissions the agent or broker received from the sale, purchase
or lease of real estate located in the municipal corporation to the commissions
received from the sale, purchase or lease of real estate everywhere in the
taxable year.
      (2)   An individual who is a resident of a municipal corporation that
imposes a municipal income tax shall report the individual’s net profit from
all real estate activity on the individual’s annual tax return for that
municipal corporation. The individual may claim a credit for taxes the
individual paid on such net profit to another municipal corporation to the
extent that such credit is allowed under §
36.105.
   (G)   (1)   If, in computing a taxpayer’s adjusted federal taxable income,
the taxpayer deducted any amount with respect to a stock option granted to an
employee, and if the employee is not required to include in the employee’s
income any such amount or a portion thereof because it is exempted from
taxation under division (l) in the definition for EXEMPT INCOME and division
(a)3. in the definition of QUALIFYING WAGES in §
36.031, by a municipal corporation to which the taxpayer has apportioned a
portion of its net profit, the taxpayer shall add the amount that is exempt
from taxation to the taxpayer’s net profit that was apportioned to that
municipal corporation. In no case shall a taxpayer be required to add to its
net profit that was apportioned to that municipal corporation any amount other
than the amount upon which the employee would be required to pay tax were the
amount related to the stock option not exempted from taxation.
      (2)   This division (G) applies solely for the purpose of making an
adjustment to the amount of a taxpayer’s net profit that was apportioned to a
municipal corporation under this section.
   (H)   When calculating the ratios described in division (A) of this section
for the purposes of that division or division (B) of this section, the owner of
a disregarded entity shall include in the owner’s ratios the property, payroll
and gross receipts of such disregarded entity.
(R.C. § 718.02) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.062)
§ 36.077 CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   AFFILIATED GROUP OF CORPORATIONS means an affiliated group as
defined in § 1504 of the Internal Revenue Code, except that, if such a group
includes at least one incumbent local exchange carrier that is primarily
engaged in the business of providing local exchange telephone service in this
state, the affiliated group shall not include any incumbent local exchange
carrier that would otherwise be included in the group.
      (2)   CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN means a consolidated return
filed for federal income tax purposes pursuant to § 1501 of the Internal
Revenue Code.
      (3)   CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME means the consolidated taxable
income of an affiliated group of corporations, as computed for the purposes of
filing a consolidated federal income tax return, before consideration of net
operating losses or special deductions. CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME
does not include income or loss of an incumbent local exchange carrier that is
excluded from the affiliated group under division (A)(1) of this section.
      (4)   INCUMBENT LOCAL EXCHANGE CARRIER has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4927.01.
      (5)   LOCAL EXCHANGE TELEPHONE SERVICE has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5727.01.
   (B)   (1)   For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016, a
taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations may elect to
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year if at least
one member of the affiliated group of corporations is subject to the municipal
income tax in that taxable year and if the affiliated group of corporations
filed a consolidated federal income tax return with respect to that taxable
year.
         (a)   The election is binding for a five-year period beginning with
the first taxable year of the initial election unless a change in the reporting
method is required under federal law;
         (b)   The election continues to be binding for each subsequent five-
year period unless the taxpayer elects to discontinue filing consolidated
municipal income tax returns under division (B)(2) of this section; or
         (c)   A taxpayer receives permission from the Tax Administrator. The
Tax Administrator shall approve such a request for good cause shown.
      (2)   An election to discontinue filing consolidated municipal income tax
returns under this section must be made in the first year following the last
year of a five-year consolidated municipal income tax return election period in
effect under division (B)(1) of this section. The election to discontinue
filing a consolidated municipal income tax return is binding for a five-year
period beginning with the first taxable year of the election.
      (3)   An election made under division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section is
binding on all members of the affiliated group of corporations subject to a
municipal income tax.
   (C)   A taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations
that filed a consolidated federal income tax return for a taxable year shall
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for that taxable year if the
Tax Administrator determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, that
intercompany transactions have not been conducted at arm’s length and that
there has been a distortive shifting of income or expenses with regard to
allocation of net profits to the municipal corporation. A taxpayer that is
required to file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year
shall file a consolidated municipal income tax return for all subsequent
taxable years unless the taxpayer requests and receives written permission from
the Tax Administrator to file a separate return or a taxpayer has experienced a
change in circumstances.
   (D)   A taxpayer shall prepare a consolidated municipal income tax return in
the same manner as is required under the United States Department of Treasury
regulations that prescribe procedures for the preparation of the consolidated
federal income tax return required to be filed by the common parent of the
affiliated group of which the taxpayer is a member.
   (E)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (E)(2), (E)(3) and (E)
(4) of this section, corporations that file a consolidated municipal income tax
return shall compute adjusted federal taxable income, as defined in §
36.031, by substituting “consolidated federal taxable income” for “federal
taxable income” wherever “federal taxable income” appears in that division and
by substituting “an affiliated group of corporation’s” for “a C corporation’s”
wherever “a C corporation’s” appears in that division.
      (2)   No corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return
shall make any adjustment otherwise required under the definition of ADJUSTED
FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME in §
36.031 to the extent that the item of income or deduction otherwise subject to
the adjustment has been eliminated or consolidated in the computation of
consolidated federal taxable income.
      (3)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having at least
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group’s consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, the
corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return shall do one of
the following with respect to that pass-through entity’s net profit or loss for
that taxable year:
         (a)   Exclude the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in §
36.076, exclude the property, payroll and gross receipts of the pass-through
entity in the computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused to a
municipal corporation. If the entity’s net profit or loss is so excluded, the
entity shall be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of the
entity’s net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group; and
         (b)   Include the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in §
36.076, include the property, payroll and gross receipts of the pass-through
entity in the computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused to a
municipal corporation. If the entity’s net profit or loss is so included, the
entity shall not be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of
the entity’s net profits that are included in the consolidated federal taxable
income of the affiliated group.
      (4)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having less than
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group’s consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, all
of the following shall apply:
         (a)   The corporation filing the consolidated municipal income tax
return shall exclude the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purposes of making the computations required in §
36.076, exclude the property, payroll and gross receipts of the pass-through
entity in the computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused to a
municipal corporation; and
         (b)   The pass-through entity shall be subject to municipal income
taxation as a separate taxpayer in accordance with this subchapter on the basis
of the entity’s net profits that would otherwise be included in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
   (F)   Corporations filing a consolidated municipal income tax return shall
make the computations required under §
36.076 by substituting “consolidated federal taxable income attributable to”
for “net profit from” wherever “net profit from” appears in that section and by
substituting “affiliated group of corporations” for “taxpayer” wherever
“taxpayer” appears in that section.
   (G)   Each corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return is
jointly and severally liable for any tax, interest, penalties, fines, charges
or other amounts imposed by a municipal corporation in accordance with this
subchapter on the corporation, an affiliated group of which the corporation is
a member for any portion of the taxable year, or any one or more members of
such an affiliated group.
   (H)   Corporations and their affiliates that made an election or entered
into an agreement with a municipal corporation before January 1, 2016, to file
a consolidated or combined tax return with such municipal corporation may
continue to file consolidated or combined tax returns in accordance with such
election or agreement for taxable years beginning on and after January 1, 2016.
(R.C. § 718.06) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.063)
§ 36.078 TAX CREDIT FOR BUSINESSES THAT FOSTER NEW JOBS IN OHIO.
   (A)   The municipality, by ordinance, may grant a refundable or
nonrefundable credit against its tax on income to a taxpayer to foster job
creation in the municipality. If a credit is granted under this section, it
shall be measured as a percentage of the new income tax revenue the
municipality derives from new employees of the taxpayer and shall be for a term
not exceeding 15 years.
   (B)   Before the municipality passes an ordinance granting a credit, the
municipality and the taxpayer shall enter into an agreement specifying all the
conditions of the credit.
(R.C. § 718.15) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.064)
§ 36.079 TAX CREDITS TO FOSTER JOB RETENTION.
   (A)   The municipality, by ordinance, may grant a refundable or
nonrefundable credit against its tax on income to a taxpayer for the purpose of
fostering job retention in the municipality.
   (B)   If a credit is granted under this section, it shall be measured as a
percentage of the income tax revenue the municipality derives from the retained
employees of the taxpayer, and shall be for a term not exceeding 15 years.
   (C)   Before the municipality passes an ordinance allowing such a credit,
the municipality and the taxpayer shall enter into an agreement specifying all
the conditions of the credit.
(R.C. § 718.151) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.065)
ARTICLE 6: ESTIMATED TAX
§ 36.090 DECLARATION OF ESTIMATED TAX.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   ESTIMATED TAXES means the amount that the taxpayer reasonably
estimates to be the taxpayer’s tax liability for a municipal corporation’s
income tax for the current taxable year.
      (2)   TAX LIABILITY means the total taxes due to a municipal corporation
for the taxable year, after allowing any credit to which the taxpayer is
entitled, and after applying any estimated tax payment, withholding payment, or
credit from another taxable year.
   (B)   (1)   Every taxpayer shall make a declaration of estimated taxes for
the current taxable year, on the form prescribed by the Tax Administrator, if
the amount payable as estimated taxes is at least $200. For the purposes of
this section:
         (a)   Taxes withheld from qualifying wages shall be considered as paid
to the municipal corporation for which the taxes were withheld in equal amounts
on each payment date. If the taxpayer establishes the dates on which all
amounts were actually withheld, the amounts withheld shall be considered as
paid on the dates on which the amounts were actually withheld;
         (b)   An overpayment of tax applied as a credit to a subsequent
taxable year is deemed to be paid on the date of the postmark stamped on the
cover in which the payment is mailed or, if the payment is made by electronic
funds transfer, the date the payment is submitted. As used in this division (B)
(1)(b), DATE OF THE POSTMARK means, in the event there is more than one date on
the cover, the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service;
         (c)   A taxpayer having a taxable year of less than 12 months shall
make a declaration under rules prescribed by the Tax Administrator; and
         (d)   Taxes withheld by a casino operator or by a lottery sales agent
under R.C. § 718.031 are deemed to be paid to the municipal corporation for
which the taxes were withheld on the date the taxes are withheld from the
taxpayer’s winnings.
      (2)   Taxpayers filing joint returns shall file joint declarations of
estimated taxes.
      (3)   The declaration of estimated taxes shall be filed on or before the
date prescribed for the filing of municipal income tax returns under §
36.120(G) or on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month of the first
taxable year after the taxpayer becomes subject to tax for the first time.
      (4)   Taxpayers reporting on a fiscal year basis shall file a declaration
on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the beginning of each
fiscal year or period.
      (5)   The original declaration or any subsequent amendment may be
increased or decreased on or before any subsequent quarterly payment day as
provided in this section.
   (C)   (1)   The required portion of the tax liability for the taxable year
that shall be paid through estimated taxes made payable to the municipality or
Tax Administrator, including the application of tax refunds to estimated taxes
and withholding on or before the applicable payment date, shall be as follows:
         (a)   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 22.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (b)   On or before the fifteenth day of the sixth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 45% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (c)   On or before the fifteenth day of the ninth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 67.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
and
         (d)   On or before the fifteenth day of the twelfth month of the
taxable year, 90% of the tax liability for the taxable year.
      (2)   A taxpayer may amend a declaration under rules prescribed by the
Tax Administrator. When an amended declaration has been filed, the unpaid
balance shown due on the amended declaration shall be paid in equal
installments on or before the remaining payment dates. The amended declaration
must be filed on the next applicable due date as outlined in (C)(1)(a) through
(C)(1)(d) of this section.
      (3)   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month of the year
following that for which the declaration or amended declaration was filed, an
annual return shall be filed and any balance which may be due shall be paid
with the return in accordance with section 181.091 of this Chapter.
         (a)   For taxpayers who are individuals, or who are not individuals
and are reporting and filing on a calendar year basis, the annual tax return is
due on the same date as the filing of the federal tax return, unless extended
pursuant to R.C. § 5747.08(G).
         (b)   For taxpayers who are not individuals, and are reporting and
filing on a fiscal year basis or any period other than a calendar year, the
annual return is due on the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the end
of the taxable year or period.
      (4)   An amended declaration is required whenever the taxpayer’s
estimated tax liability changes during the taxable year. A change in estimated
tax liability may either increase or decrease the estimated tax liability for
the taxable year.
   (D)   (1)   In the case of any underpayment of any portion of a tax
liability, penalty and interest may be imposed pursuant to §
36.140 upon the amount of underpayment for the period of underpayment, unless
the underpayment is due to reasonable cause as described in division (E) of
this section. The amount of the underpayment shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   For the first payment of estimated taxes each year, 22.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (b)   For the second payment of estimated taxes each year, 45% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (c)   For the third payment of estimated taxes each year, 67.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment; and
         (d)   For the fourth payment of estimated taxes each year, 90% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment.
      (2)   (a)   The period of the underpayment shall run from the day the
estimated payment was required to be made to the date on which the payment is
made.
         (b)   For purposes of this section, a payment of estimated taxes on or
before any payment date shall be considered a payment of any previous
underpayment only to the extent the payment of estimated taxes exceeds the
amount of the payment presently required to be paid to avoid any penalty.
   (E)   An underpayment of any portion of tax liability determined under
division (D) of this section shall be due to reasonable cause and the penalty
imposed by this section shall not be added to the taxes for the taxable year if
any of the following apply:
      (1)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 90% of
the tax liability for the current taxable year, determined by annualizing the
income received during the year up to the end of the month immediately
preceding the month in which the payment is due;
      (2)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 100%
of the tax liability shown on the return of the taxpayer for the preceding
taxable year, provided that the immediately preceding taxable year reflected a
period of 12 months and the taxpayer filed a return with the municipal
corporation under §
36.120 for that year; or
      (3)   The taxpayer is an individual who resides in the municipality but
was not domiciled there on the first day of January of the calendar year that
includes the first day of the taxable year.
   (F)   A Tax Administrator may waive the requirement for filing a declaration
of estimated taxes for any class of taxpayers after finding that the waiver is
reasonable and proper in view of administrative costs and other factors.
(R.C. § 718.08) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.07)
ARTICLE 7: CREDIT FOR TAX PAID
§ 36.105 RECIPROCITY CREDIT.
   Every individual taxpayer who resides in the municipality, but who receives
municipal taxable income for work done, or services performed or rendered
outside of the municipality, if it be made to appear that he or she has paid a
municipal income tax on such municipal taxable income to another municipal
corporation, shall be allowed a credit against the tax imposed by this
subchapter of the amount so paid by him or in his or her behalf to such other
municipal corporation. The credit shall not exceed 50% of the tax assessed by
this subchapter on such municipal taxable income earned in such other municipal
corporation or municipal corporations where tax is paid.
(Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.081)
§ 36.106 REFUNDABLE CREDIT FOR QUALIFYING LOSS.
   (A) As used in this section:
      (1)   NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN means a compensation plan
described in § 3121(v)(2)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (A)(2)(b) of this section,
QUALIFYING LOSS means the excess, if any, of the total amount of compensation
the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred
compensation plan over the total amount of income the taxpayer has recognized
for federal income tax purposes for all taxable years on a cumulative basis as
compensation with respect to the taxpayer’s receipt of money and property
attributable to distributions in connection with the nonqualified deferred
compensation plan.
         (b)   If, for one or more taxable years, the taxpayer has not paid to
one or more municipal corporations income tax imposed on the entire amount of
compensation the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan, then the QUALIFYING LOSS is the product of the
amount resulting from the calculation described in division (A)(2)(a) of this
section computed without regard to division (A)(2)(b) of this section and a
fraction the numerator of which is the portion of such compensation on which
the taxpayer has paid income tax to one or more municipal corporations and the
denominator of which is the total amount of compensation the payment of which
is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
         (c)   With respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the
taxpayer sustains a qualifying loss only in the taxable year in which the
taxpayer receives the final distribution of money and property pursuant to that
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      (3)   QUALIFYING TAX RATE means the applicable tax rate for the taxable
year for the which the taxpayer paid income tax to a municipal corporation with
respect to any portion of the total amount of compensation the payment of which
is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan. If different
tax rates applied for different taxable years, then the QUALIFYING TAX RATE is
a weighted average of those different tax rates. The weighted average shall be
based upon the tax paid to the municipal corporation each year with respect to
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, a refundable
credit shall be allowed against the income tax imposed by a municipal
corporation for each qualifying loss sustained by a taxpayer during the taxable
year. The amount of the credit shall be equal to the product of the qualifying
loss and the qualifying tax rate.
      (2)   A taxpayer shall claim the credit allowed under this section from
each municipal corporation to which the taxpayer paid municipal income tax with
respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan in one or more taxable
years.
      (3)   If a taxpayer has paid tax to more than one municipal corporation
with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the amount of the
credit that a taxpayer may claim from each municipal corporation shall be
calculated on the basis of each municipal corporation’s proportionate share of
the total municipal corporation income tax paid by the taxpayer to all
municipal corporations with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation
plan.
      (4)   In no case shall the amount of the credit allowed under this
section exceed the cumulative income tax that a taxpayer has paid to a
municipal corporation for all taxable years with respect to the nonqualified
deferred compensation plan.
   (C)   (1)   For purposes of this section, municipal corporation income tax
that has been withheld with respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation
plan shall be considered to have been paid by the taxpayer with respect to the
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      (2)   Any municipal income tax that has been refunded or otherwise
credited for the benefit of the taxpayer with respect to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan shall not be considered to have been paid to the
municipal corporation by the taxpayer.
   (D)   The credit allowed under this section is allowed only to the extent
the taxpayer’s qualifying loss is attributable to:
      (1)   The insolvency or bankruptcy of the employer who had established
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan; or
      (2)   The employee’s failure or inability to satisfy all of the
employer’s terms and conditions necessary to receive the nonqualified deferred
compensation.
(R.C. § 718.021) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.082)
§ 36.107 CREDIT FOR PERSON WORKING IN JOINT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT OR
ZONE.
   A municipality shall grant a credit against its tax on income to a resident
of the municipality who works in a joint economic development zone created
under R.C. § 715.691 or a joint economic development district created under
R.C. §§ 715.70, 715.71 or 715.72 to the same extent that it grants a credit
against its tax on income to its residents who are employed in another
municipal corporation, pursuant to §
36.105.
(R.C. § 718.16) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.083)
§ 36.108 CREDIT FOR TAX BEYOND STATUTE FOR OBTAINING REFUND.
   (A)   Income tax that has been deposited or paid to the municipality, but
should have been deposited or paid to another municipal corporation, is
allowable by the municipality as a refund, but is subject to the three-year
limitation on refunds as provided in §
36.125.
   (B)   Income tax that should have been deposited or paid to the
municipality, but was deposited or paid to another municipal corporation, shall
be subject to collection and recovery by the municipality. To the extent a
refund of such tax or withholding is barred by the limitation on refunds as
provided in §
36.125, the municipality will allow a non-refundable credit equal to the tax or
withholding paid to the other municipality against the income tax the
municipality claims is due. If the municipality’s tax rate is higher, the tax
representing the net difference of the tax rates is also subject to collection
by the municipality, along with any penalty and interest accruing during the
period of nonpayment.
   (C)   No carryforward of credit will be permitted when the overpayment is
beyond the three-year limitation for refunding of same as provided in §
36.125.
   (D)   Nothing in this section requires a municipality to allow credit for
tax paid to another municipal corporation if the municipality has reduced
credit for tax paid to another municipal corporation. Section 36.105 regarding
any limitation on credit shall prevail.
(R.C. § 718.121) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.084)
ARTICLE 8: ANNUAL RETURN
§ 36.120 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   An annual return with respect to the income tax levied on
municipal taxable income by the municipality shall be completed and filed by
every taxpayer for any taxable year for which the taxpayer is subject to the
tax, regardless of whether or not income tax is due.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall accept on behalf of all nonresident
individual taxpayers a return filed by an employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer located in the municipality under §
36.060(C) when the nonresident individual taxpayer’s sole income subject to the
tax is the qualifying wages reported by the employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer, and no additional tax is due to the municipality.
      (3)   All resident individual taxpayers, 18 years of age and older, shall
file an annual municipal income tax return with the municipality, regardless of
income or liability.
   (B)   If an individual is deceased, any return or notice required of that
individual shall be completed and filed by that decedent’s executor,
administrator or other person charged with the property of that decedent.
   (C)   If an individual is unable to complete and file a return or notice
required by the municipality in accordance with this subchapter, the return or
notice required of that individual shall be completed and filed by the
individual’s duly authorized agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary or other
person charged with the care of the person or property of that individual. Such
duly authorized agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary or other person charged
with the care of the person or property of that individual shall provide, with
the filing of the return, appropriate documentation to support that they are
authorized to file a return or notice on behalf of the taxpayer. This notice
shall include any legally binding authorizations, and contact information
including name, address and phone number of the duly authorized agent,
guardian, conservator, fiduciary or other person.
   (D)   Returns or notices required of an estate or a trust shall be completed
and filed by the fiduciary of the estate or trust. Such fiduciary shall
provide, with the filing of the return, appropriate documentation to support
that they are authorized to file a return or notice on behalf of the taxpayer.
This notice shall include any legally binding authorizations, and contact
information including name, address and phone number of the fiduciary.
   (E)   No municipal corporation shall deny spouses the ability to file a
joint return.
   (F)   (1)   Each return required to be filed under this section shall
contain the signature of the taxpayer or the taxpayer’s duly authorized agent
and of the person who prepared the return for the taxpayer, and shall include
the taxpayer’s social security number or taxpayer identification number. Each
return shall be verified by a declaration under penalty of perjury.
      (2)   A taxpayer who is an individual is required to include, with each
annual return, amended return, or request for refund required under this
section, copies of only the following documents: all of the taxpayer’s Internal
Revenue Service Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statements, including all information
reported on the taxpayer’s federal W-2, as well as taxable wages reported or
withheld for any municipal corporation; the taxpayer’s Internal Revenue Service
Form 1040; and, with respect to an amended tax return or refund request, any
other documentation necessary to support the refund request or the adjustments
made in the amended return. An individual taxpayer who files the annual return
required by this section electronically is not required to provide paper copies
of any of the foregoing to the Tax Administrator unless the Tax Administrator
requests such copies after the return has been filed.
      (3)   A taxpayer that is not an individual is required to include, with
each annual net profit return, amended net profit return, or request for refund
required under this section, copies of only the following documents: the
taxpayer’s Internal Revenue Service Form 1041, Form 1065, Form 1120, Form 1120-
REIT, Form 1120f or Form 1120S, and, with respect to an amended tax return or
refund request, any other documentation necessary to support the refund request
or the adjustments made in the amended return.
      (4)   A taxpayer that is not an individual and that files an annual net
profit return electronically through the Ohio Business Gateway or in some other
manner shall either mail the documents required under this division (E) to the
Tax Administrator at the time of filing or, if electronic submission is
available, submit the documents electronically through the Ohio Business
Gateway or a portal provided by municipality. The Department of Taxation shall
publish a method of electronically submitting the documents required under this
division (E) through the Ohio Business Gateway on or before January 1, 2016.
The Department shall transmit all documents submitted electronically under this
division (E) to the appropriate Tax Administrator.
      (5)   After a taxpayer files a tax return, the Tax Administrator shall
request, and the taxpayer shall provide, any information, statements or
documents required by the municipality to determine and verify the taxpayer’s
municipal income tax liability. The requirements imposed under division (F) of
this section apply regardless of whether the taxpayer files on a generic form
or on a form prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
      (6)   Any other documentation, including schedules, other municipal
income tax returns or other supporting documentation necessary to verify
credits, income, losses or other pertinent factors on the return shall also be
included to avoid delay in processing, or disallowance by the Tax Administrator
of undocumented credits or losses.
   (G)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, each
individual income tax return required to be filed under this section shall be
completed and filed as required by the Tax Administrator on or before the date
prescribed for the filing of state individual income tax returns under R.C. §
5747.08(G). The taxpayer shall complete and file the return or notice on forms
prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on generic forms, together with
remittance made payable to the municipality or Tax Administrator.
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, each annual net
profit income tax return required to be filed under this section by a taxpayer
that is not an individual shall be completed and filed as required by the Tax
Administrator on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the
end of the taxpayer’s taxable year or period. The taxpayer shall complete and
file the return or notice on forms prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on
generic forms, together with remittance made payable to the municipality or Tax
Administrator.
         (c)   In the case of individual income tax return required to be filed
by an individual, and net profit income tax return required to be filed by a
taxpayer who is not an individual, no remittance is required if the amount
shown to be due is $10 or less.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator considers it necessary in order to ensure
the payment of the tax imposed by the municipality in accordance with this
subchapter, the Tax Administrator may require taxpayers to file returns and
make payments otherwise than as provided in this section, including taxpayers
not otherwise required to file annual returns.
      (3)   With respect to taxpayers to whom §
36.121 applies, to the extent that any provision in this division (G) conflicts
with any provision in §
36.121, the provision in §
36.121 prevails.
   (H)   (1)   For taxable years beginning after 2015, the municipality shall
not require a taxpayer to remit tax with respect to net profits if the amount
due is $10 or less.
      (2)   Any taxpayer not required to remit tax to the municipality for a
taxable year pursuant to division (H)(1) of this section shall file with the
municipality an annual net profit return under division (F)(3) and (F)(4) of
this section.
   (I)   This division (I) shall not apply to payments required to be made
under §
36.060(B)(1).
      (1)   If any report, claim, statement or other document required to be
filed, or any payment required to be made, within a prescribed period or on or
before a prescribed date under this subchapter is delivered after that period
or that to the Tax Administrator or other municipal official with which the
report, claim, statement or other document is required to be filed, or to which
the payment is required to be made, the date of the postmark stamped on the
cover in which the report, claim, statement or other document, or payment is
mailed shall be deemed to be the date of delivery or the date of payment. THE
DATE OF POSTMARK means, in the event there is more than one date on the cover,
the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
      (2)   If a payment is required to be made by electronic funds transfer,
the payment is considered to be made when the payment is credited to an account
designated by the Tax Administrator for the receipt of tax payments, except
that, when a payment made by electronic funds transfer is delayed due to
circumstances not under the control of the taxpayer, the payment is considered
to be made when the taxpayer submitted the payment. For purposes of this
section, SUBMITTED THE PAYMENT means the date which the taxpayer has designated
for the delivery of payment, which may or may not be the same date as the date
the payment was initiated by the taxpayer.
   (J)   The amounts withheld for the municipality by an employer, the agent of
an employer, or other payer as described in §
36.060 shall be allowed to the recipient of the compensation as credits against
payment of the tax imposed on the recipient unless the amounts withheld were
not remitted to the municipality and the recipient colluded with the employer,
agent, or other payer in connection with the failure to remit the amounts
withheld.
   (K)   Each return required by the municipality to be filed in accordance
with this section shall include a box that the taxpayer may check to authorize
another person, including a tax return preparer who prepared the return, to
communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters reportable to the
municipality in the taxable year. It shall be the responsibility of the
taxpayer to comply with the provisions of this subchapter relating to the
reporting and filing of municipal taxable income on an annual municipal income
tax return, even if an affidavit has been filed with the Tax Administrator for
the taxable year. Nothing in division (N) of this section prohibits the Tax
Administrator from performing an audit of the person.
(R.C. § 718.05) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.091)
§ 36.121 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX; INDIVIDUALS SERVING IN COMBAT ZONE.
   (A)   Each member of the national guard of any state and each member of a
reserve component of the armed forces of the United States called to active
duty pursuant to an executive order issued by the President of the United
States or an act of the Congress of the United States, and each civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the armed forces, may apply to the Tax Administrator of the
municipality for both an extension of time for filing of the return and an
extension of time for payment of taxes required by the municipality in
accordance with this subchapter during the period of the member’s or civilian’s
duty service and for 180 days thereafter. The application shall be filed on or
before the one hundred eightieth day after the member’s or civilian’s duty
terminates. An applicant shall provide such evidence as the Tax Administrator
considers necessary to demonstrate eligibility for the extension.
   (B)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is
qualified for an extension under this section, the Tax Administrator shall
enter into a contract with the applicant for the payment of the tax in
installments that begin on the one hundred eighty-first day after the
applicant’s active duty or service terminates. Except as provided in division
(B)(3) of this section, the Tax Administrator may prescribe such contract terms
as the Tax Administrator considers appropriate.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is qualified
for an extension under this section, the applicant shall neither be required to
file any return, report or other tax document nor be required to pay any tax
otherwise due to the municipality before the one hundred eighty-first day after
the applicant’s active duty or service terminates.
      (3)   Taxes paid pursuant to a contract entered into under division (B)
(1) of this section are not delinquent. The Tax Administrator shall not require
any payments of penalties or interest in connection with those taxes for the
extension period.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this division (C) denies to any person described in
this division (C) the application of divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
      (2)   (a)   A qualifying taxpayer who is eligible for an extension under
the Internal Revenue Code shall receive both an extension of time in which to
file any return, report or other tax document and an extension of time in which
to make any payment of taxes required by the municipality in accordance with
this subchapter. The length of any extension granted under division (C)(2)(a)
of this section shall be equal to the length of the corresponding extension
that the taxpayer receives under the Internal Revenue Code. As used in this
section, QUALIFYING TAXPAYER means a member of the national guard or a member
of a reserve component of the armed forces of the United States called to
active duty pursuant to either an executive order issued by the President of
the United States or an act of the Congress of the United States, or a civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the armed forces.
         (b)   Taxes the payment of which is extended in accordance with
division (C)(2)(a) of this section are not delinquent during the extension
period. Such taxes become delinquent on the first day after the expiration of
the extension period if the taxes are not paid prior to that date. The Tax
Administrator shall not require any payment of penalties or interest in
connection with those taxes for the pertaining to the return. The return or
instructions accompanying the return shall indicate that by checking the box
the taxpayer authorizes the Tax Administrator to contact the preparer or other
person concerning questions that arise during the examination or other review
of the return and authorizes the preparer or other person only to provide the
Tax Administrator with information that is missing from the return, to contact
the Tax Administrator for information about the examination or other review of
the return or the status of the taxpayer’s refund or payments, and to respond
to notices about mathematical errors, offsets or return preparation that the
taxpayer has received from the Tax Administrator and has shown to the preparer
or other person. Authorization by the taxpayer of another person to communicate
with the Tax Administrator about matters pertaining to the return does not
preclude the Tax Administrator from contacting the taxpayer regarding such
matters.
   (L)   The Tax Administrator of the municipality shall accept for filing a
generic form of any income tax return, report or document required by the
municipality in accordance with this subchapter, provided that the generic
form, once completed and filed, contains all of the information required by
ordinances, resolutions or rules adopted by the municipality or Tax
Administrator, and provided that the taxpayer or tax return preparer filing the
generic form otherwise complies with the provisions of this subchapter and of
the municipality’s ordinance or resolution governing the filing of returns,
reports, or documents.
   (M)   When income tax returns, reports or other documents require the
signature of a tax return preparer, the Tax Administrator shall accept a
facsimile of such a signature in lieu of a manual signature.
   (N)   (1)   As used in this division (N), WORKSITE LOCATION has the same
meaning as in §
36.061.
      (2)   A person may notify a Tax Administrator that the person does not
expect to be a taxpayer with respect to the municipal corporation for a taxable
year if both of the following conditions apply:
         (a)   The person was required to file a tax return with the municipal
corporation for the immediately preceding taxable year because the person
performed services at a worksite location within the municipal corporation, and
the person has filed all appropriate and required returns and remitted all
applicable income tax and withholding payments as provided by this subchapter.
The Tax Administrator is not required to accept an affidavit from a taxpayer
who has not complied with the provisions of this subchapter; and
         (b)   1.   The person no longer provides services in the municipal
corporation, and does not expect to be subject to the municipal corporation’s
income tax for the taxable year.
            2.   The person shall provide the notice in a signed affidavit that
briefly explains the person’s circumstances, including the location of the
previous worksite location and the last date on which the person performed
services or made any sales within the municipal corporation. The affidavit also
shall include the following statement:
      “The affiant has no plans to perform any services within the municipal
corporation, make any sales in the municipal corporation, or otherwise become
subject to the tax levied by the municipal corporation during the taxable year.
If the affiant does become subject to the tax levied by the municipal
corporation for the taxable year, the affiant agrees to be considered a
taxpayer and to properly register as a taxpayer with the municipal corporation,
if such a registration is required by the municipal corporation’s resolutions,
ordinances, or rules.”
            3.   The person shall sign the affidavit under penalty of perjury.
      (3)   If a person submits an affidavit described in division (N)(2) of
this section, the Tax Administrator shall not require the person to file any
tax return for the taxable year unless the Tax Administrator possesses
information that conflicts with the affidavit or if the circumstances described
in the affidavit change, or the taxpayer has engaged in activity which results
in work being performed, services provided, sales made or other activity that
results in municipal taxable income extension period. The Tax Administrator
shall no include any period of extension granted under division (C)(2)(a) of
this section in calculating the penalty or interest due on any unpaid tax.
   (D)   For each taxable year to which division (A), (B) or (C) of this
section applies to a taxpayer, the provisions of divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) or
(C) of this section, as applicable, apply to the spouse of that taxpayer if the
filing status of the spouse and the taxpayer is married filing jointly for that
year.
(R.C. § 718.052) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.092)
§ 36.122 USE OF OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY; TYPES OF FILINGS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Any taxpayer subject to municipal income taxation with respect to the
taxpayer’s net profit from a business or profession may file any municipal
income tax return or, estimated municipal income tax return or extension for
filing a municipal income tax return, and may make payment of amounts shown to
be due on such returns, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
   (B)   Any employer, agent of an employer, or other payer may report the
amount of municipal income tax withheld from qualifying wages, and may make
remittance of such amounts, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
   (C)   Nothing in this section affects the due dates for filing employer
withholding tax returns or deposit of any required tax.
   (D)   The use of the Ohio Business Gateway by municipal corporations,
taxpayers or other persons does not affect the legal rights of municipalities
or taxpayers as otherwise permitted by law. The State of Ohio shall not be a
party to the administration of municipal income taxes or to an appeal of a
municipal income tax matter, except as otherwise specifically provided by law.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting or removing the
authority of any municipal corporation to administer, audit, and enforce the
provisions of its municipal income tax.
(R.C. § 718.051) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.093)
§ 36.123 EXTENSION OF TIME TO FILE.
   (A)   Any taxpayer that has duly requested an automatic six-month extension
for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax return shall automatically receive
an extension for the filing of a municipal income tax return. The extended due
date of the municipal income tax return shall be the fifteenth day of the tenth
month after the last day of the taxable year to which the return relates.
   (B)   Any taxpayer that qualifies for an automatic federal extension for a
period other than six-months for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax
return shall automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal
income tax return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return
shall be the same as that of the extended federal income tax return.
   (C)   A taxpayer that has not requested or received a six-month extension
for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax return may request that the Tax
Administrator grant the taxpayer a six-month extension of the date for filing
the taxpayer’s municipal income tax return. If the request is received by the
Tax Administrator on or before the date the municipal income tax return is due,
the Tax Administrator shall grant the taxpayer’s requested extension.
   (D)   An extension of time to file under this subchapter is not an extension
of the time to pay any tax due unless the Tax Administrator grants an extension
of that date.
   (E)   If the State Tax Commissioner extends for all taxpayers the date for
filing state income tax returns under R.C. § 5747.08(G), a taxpayer shall
automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal income tax
return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return shall be the
same as the extended due date of the state income tax return.
(R.C. § 718.05) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.094)
§ 36.124 AMENDED RETURNS.
   (A)   (1)   A taxpayer shall file an amended return with the Tax
Administrator in such form as the Tax Administrator requires if any of the
facts, figures, computations or attachments required in the taxpayer’s annual
return to determine the tax due levied by the municipality in accordance with
this subchapter must be altered.
      (2)   Within 60 days after the final determination of any federal or
state tax liability affecting the taxpayer’s municipal tax liability, that
taxpayer shall make and file an amended municipal return showing income subject
to the municipal income tax based upon such final determination of federal or
state tax liability, and pay any additional municipal income tax shown due
thereon or make a claim for refund of any overpayment, unless the tax or
overpayment is $10 or less.
      (3)   If a taxpayer intends to file an amended consolidated municipal
income tax return, or to amend its type of return from a separate return to a
consolidated return, based on the taxpayer’s consolidated federal income tax
return, the taxpayer shall notify the Tax Administrator before filing the
amended return.
   (B)   (1)   In the case of an underpayment, the amended return shall be
accompanied by payment of any combined additional tax due together with any
penalty and interest thereon. If the combined tax shown to be due is $10 or
less, such amount need not accompany the amended return. Except as provided
under division (B)(2) of this section, the amended return shall not reopen
those facts, figures, computations or attachments from a previously filed
return that are not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment
to the taxpayer’s federal or state income tax return unless the applicable
statute of limitations for civil actions or prosecutions under §
36.200 has not expired for a previously filed return.
      (2)   The additional tax to be paid shall not exceed the amount of tax
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations and attachments were
reopened.
   (C)   (1)   In the case of an overpayment, a request for refund may be filed
under this division (C) within the period prescribed by §
36.200(A)(2) for filing the amended return even if it is filed beyond the
period prescribed in that division if it otherwise conforms to the requirements
of that division. If the amount of the refund is $10 or less, no refund need be
paid by the municipality to the taxpayer. Except as set forth in division (C)
(2) of this section, a request filed under this division (C) shall claim refund
of overpayments resulting from alterations to only those facts, figures,
computations or attachments required in the taxpayer’s annual return that are
affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the taxpayer’s
federal or state income tax return unless it is also filed within the time
prescribed in §
36.125. Except as set forth in division (C)(2) of this section, the request
shall not reopen those facts, figures, computations or attachments that are not
affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the taxpayer’s
federal or state income tax return.
      (2)   The amount to be refunded shall not exceed the amount of refund
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations and attachments were
reopened.
(R.C. §§ 718.12, 718.41) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.095)
§ 36.125 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a request for a refund, the Tax Administrator of the
municipality, in accordance with this section, shall refund to employers,
agents of employers, other payers or taxpayers, with respect to any income or
withholding tax levied by the municipality:
      (1)   Overpayments of more than $10; and
      (2)   Amounts paid erroneously if the refund requested exceeds $10.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, returns setting
forth a request for refund shall be filed with the Tax Administrator, within
three years after the tax was due or paid, whichever is later. Any
documentation that substantiates the taxpayer’s claim for a refund must be
included with the return filing. Failure to remit all documentation, including
schedules, other municipal income tax returns or other supporting documentation
necessary to verify credits, income, losses or other pertinent factors on the
return will cause delay in processing, and/or disallowance of undocumented
credits or losses.
      (2)   On filing of the refund request, the Tax Administrator shall
determine the amount of refund due and certify such amount to the appropriate
municipal corporation official for payment. Except as provided in division (B)
(3) of this section, the Administrator shall issue an assessment to any
taxpayer whose request for refund is fully or partially denied. The assessment
shall state the amount of the refund that was denied, the reasons for the
denial, and instructions for appealing the assessment.
      (3)   If a Tax Administrator denies in whole or in part a refund request
included within the taxpayer’s originally filed annual income tax return, the
Tax Administrator shall notify the taxpayer, in writing, of the amount of the
refund that was denied, the reasons for the denial, and instructions for
requesting an assessment that may be appealed under §
36.187.
   (C)   A request for a refund that is received after the last day for filing
specified in division (B) of this section shall be considered to have been
filed in a timely manner if any of the following situations exist:
      (1)   The request is delivered by the postal service, and the earliest
postal service postmark on the cover in which the request is enclosed is not
later than the last day for filing the request;
      (2)   The request is delivered by the postal service, the only postmark
on the cover in which the request is enclosed was affixed by a private postal
meter, the date of that postmark is not later than the last day for filing the
request, and the request is received within seven days of such last day; and
      (3)   The request is delivered by the postal service, no postmark date
was affixed to the cover in which the request is enclosed or the date of the
postmark so affixed is not legible, and the request is received within seven
days of the last day for making the request.
   (D)   Interest shall be allowed and paid on any overpayment by a taxpayer of
any municipal income tax obligation from the date of the overpayment until the
date of the refund of the overpayment, except that if any overpayment is
refunded within 90 days after the final filing date of the annual return or 90
days after the completed return is filed, whichever is later, no interest shall
be allowed on the refund. For the purpose of computing the payment of interest
on amounts overpaid, no amount of tax for any taxable year shall be considered
to have been paid before the date on which the return on which the tax is
reported is due, without regard to any extension of time for filing that
return. Interest shall be paid at the interest rate described in §
36.140(A)(4).
   (E)   As used in this section, WITHHOLDING TAX has the same meaning as in §
36.140.
(R.C. § 718.19) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.096)
ARTICLE 9: PENALTY, INTEREST, AUDIT, ROUNDING
§ 36.140 PENALTY, INTEREST, FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   APPLICABLE LAW means this subchapter, the resolutions, ordinances,
codes, directives, instructions and rules adopted by the municipality provided
such resolutions, ordinances, codes, directives, instructions and rules impose
or directly or indirectly address the levy, payment, remittance or filing
requirements of a municipal income tax.
      (2)   FEDERAL SHORT-TERM RATE means the rate of the average market yield
on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States with remaining
periods to maturity of three years or less, as determined under § 1274 of the
Internal Revenue Code, for July of the current year.
      (3)   INCOME TAX, ESTIMATED INCOME TAX and WITHHOLDING TAX mean any
income tax, estimated income tax and withholding tax imposed by a municipal
corporation pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before January 1,
2016.
      (4)   INTEREST RATE AS DESCRIBED IN DIVISION (A) OF THIS SECTION means
the federal short-term rate, rounded to the nearest whole number percent, plus
5%. The rate shall apply for the calendar year next following the July of the
year in which the federal short-term rate is determined in accordance with
division (A)(2) of this section.
      (5)   RETURN includes any tax return, report, reconciliation, schedule
and other document required to be filed with a Tax Administrator or municipal
corporation by a taxpayer, employer, any agent of the employer or any other
payer pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before January 1, 2016.
      (6)   UNPAID ESTIMATED INCOME TAX means estimated income tax due but not
paid by the date the tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (7)   UNPAID INCOME TAX means income tax due but not paid by the date the
income tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (8)   UNPAID WITHHOLDING TAX means withholding tax due but not paid by
the date the withholding tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (9)   WITHHOLDING TAX includes amounts an employer, any agent of an
employer, or any other payer did not withhold in whole or in part from an
employee’s qualifying wages, but that, under applicable law, the employer,
agent or other payer is required to withhold from an employee’s qualifying
wages.
   (B)   (1)   This section shall apply to the following:
         (a)   Any return required to be filed under applicable law for taxable
years beginning on or after January 1, 2016; and
         (b)   Income tax, estimated income tax and withholding tax required to
be paid or remitted to the municipality on or after January 1, 2016 for taxable
years beginning on or after January 1, 2016.
      (2)   This section does not apply to returns required to be filed or
payments required to be made before January 1, 2016, regardless of the filing
or payment date. Returns required to be filed or payments required to be made
before January 1, 2016, but filed or paid after that date shall be subject to
the ordinances or rules, as adopted from time to time before January 1, 2016 of
this municipality.
   (C)   The municipality shall impose on a taxpayer, employer, any agent of
the employer and any other payer, and will attempt to collect, the interest
amounts and penalties prescribed in this section when the taxpayer, employer,
any agent of the employer, or any other payer for any reason fails, in whole or
in part, to make to the municipality timely and full payment or remittance of
income tax, estimated income tax, or withholding tax or to file timely with the
municipality any return required to be filed.
      (1)   Interest shall be imposed at the rate defined as INTEREST RATE AS
DESCRIBED IN DIVISION (A) OF THIS SECTION, per annum, on all unpaid income tax,
unpaid estimated income tax, and unpaid withholding tax. This imposition of
interest shall be assessed per month, or fraction of a month.
      (2)   With respect to unpaid income tax and unpaid estimated income tax,
a penalty equal to 15% of the amount not timely paid shall be imposed.
      (3)   With respect to any unpaid withholding tax, a penalty equal to 50%
of the amount not timely paid shall be imposed.
      (4)   With respect to returns other than estimated income tax returns,
the municipality shall impose a monthly penalty of $25 for each failure to
timely file each return, regardless of the liability shown thereon for each
month, or any fraction thereof, during which the return remains unfiled
regardless of the liability shown thereon. The penalty shall not exceed a total
of $150 in assessed penalty for each failure to timely file a return.
   (D)   With respect to income taxes, estimated income taxes, withholding
taxes and returns, the municipality shall not impose, seek to collect, or
collect any penalty, amount of interest, charges or additional fees not
described in this section.
   (E)   With respect to income taxes, estimated income taxes, withholding
taxes and returns, the municipality shall not refund or credit any penalty,
amount of interest, charges or additional fees that were properly imposed or
collected before January 1, 2016.
   (F)   The Tax Administrator may, in the Tax Administrator’s sole discretion,
abate or partially abate penalties or interest imposed under this section when
the Tax Administrator deems such abatement or partial abatement to be
appropriate. Such abatement or partial abatement shall be properly documented
and maintained on the record of the taxpayer who received benefit of such
abatement or partial abatement.
   (G)   The municipality may impose on the taxpayer, employer, any agent of
the employer or any other payer the municipality’s post-judgment collection
costs and fees, including attorney fees.
(R.C. § 718.27) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.10)
§ 36.141 AUDIT.
   (A)   At or before the commencement of an audit, as defined in §
36.031, the Tax Administrator shall provide to the taxpayer a written
description of the roles of the Tax Administrator and of the taxpayer during an
audit and a statement of the taxpayer’s rights, including any right to obtain a
refund of an overpayment of tax. At or before the commencement of an audit, the
Tax Administrator shall inform the taxpayer when the audit is considered to
have commenced.
   (B)   Except in cases involving suspected criminal activity, the Tax
Administrator shall conduct an audit of a taxpayer during regular business
hours and after providing reasonable notice to the taxpayer. A taxpayer who is
unable to comply with a proposed time for an audit on the grounds that the
proposed time would cause inconvenience or hardship must offer reasonable
alternative dates for the audit.
   (C)   (1)   At all stages of an audit by the Tax Administrator, a taxpayer
is entitled to be assisted or represented by an attorney, accountant,
bookkeeper or other tax practitioner. The Tax Administrator shall prescribe a
form by which a taxpayer may designate such a person to assist or represent the
taxpayer in the conduct of any proceedings resulting from actions by the Tax
Administrator. If a taxpayer has not submitted such a form, the Tax
Administrator may accept other evidence, as the Tax Administrator considers
appropriate, that a person is the authorized representative of a taxpayer.
      (2)   A taxpayer may refuse to answer any questions asked by the person
conducting an audit until the taxpayer has an opportunity to consult with the
taxpayer’s attorney, accountant, bookkeeper or other tax practitioner. This
division (C)(2) does not authorize the practice of law by a person who is not
an attorney.
   (D)   A taxpayer may record, electronically or otherwise, the audit
examination.
   (E)   The failure of the Tax Administrator to comply with a provision of
this section shall neither excuse a taxpayer from payment of any taxes owed by
the taxpayer nor cure any procedural defect in a taxpayer’s case.
   (F)   If the Tax Administrator fails to substantially comply with the
provisions of this section, the Tax Administrator, upon application by the
taxpayer, shall excuse the taxpayer from penalties and interest arising from
the audit.
(R.C. § 718.36) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.11)
§ 36.142 ROUNDING.
   A person may round to the nearest whole dollar all amounts the person is
required to enter on any return, report, voucher or other document required
under this subchapter. Any fractional part of a dollar that equals or exceeds
$0.50 shall be rounded to the next whole dollar, and any fractional part of a
dollar that is less than $0.50 shall be dropped, rounding down to the nearest
whole dollar. If a person chooses to round amounts entered on a document, the
person shall round all amounts entered on the document.
(R.C. § 718.25) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.12)
ARTICLE 10: AUTHORITY AND POWERS OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR
§ 36.155 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS OF THE TAX
ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Tax Administrator has the authority to perform all duties and functions
necessary and appropriate to implement the provisions of this subchapter,
including without limitation:
   (A)   Exercise all powers whatsoever of an inquisitorial nature as provided
by law, including, the right to inspect books, accounts, records, memorandums,
and federal and state income tax returns, to examine persons under oath, to
issue orders or subpoenas for the production of books, accounts, papers,
records, documents and testimony, to take depositions, to apply to a court for
attachment proceedings as for contempt, to approve vouchers for the fees of
officers and witnesses, and to administer oaths; provided that the powers
referred to in this division (A) shall be exercised by the Tax Administrator
only in connection with the performance of the duties respectively assigned to
the Tax Administrator under a municipal corporation income tax ordinance or
resolution adopted in accordance with this subchapter;
   (B)   Appoint agents and prescribe their powers and duties;
   (C)   Confer and meet with officers of other municipal corporations and
states and officers of the United States on any matters pertaining to their
respective official duties as provided by law;
   (D)   Exercise the authority provided by law, including orders from
bankruptcy courts, relative to remitting or refunding taxes, including
penalties and interest thereon, illegally or erroneously imposed or collected,
or for any other reason overpaid, and, in addition, the Tax Administrator may
investigate any claim of overpayment and make a written statement of the Tax
Administrator’s findings, and, if the Tax Administrator finds that there has
been an overpayment, approve and issue a refund payable to the taxpayer, the
taxpayer’s assigns or legal representative as provided in this subchapter;
   (E)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to consenting to the
compromise and settlement of tax claims;
   (F)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to the use of
alternative apportionment methods by taxpayers in accordance with §
36.076;
   (G)   Make all tax findings, determinations, computations, assessments and
orders the Tax Administrator is by law authorized and required to make and,
pursuant to time limitations provided by law, on the Tax Administrator’s own
motion, review, redetermine or correct any tax findings, determinations,
computations, assessments or orders the Tax Administrator has made, but the Tax
Administrator shall not review, redetermine or correct any tax finding,
determination, computation, assessment or order which the Tax Administrator has
made for which an appeal has been filed with the Local Board of Tax Review or
other appropriate tribunal, unless such appeal or application is withdrawn by
the appellant or applicant, is dismissed, or is otherwise final;
   (H)   Destroy any or all returns or other tax documents in the manner
authorized by law; and
   (I)   Enter into an agreement with a taxpayer to simplify the withholding
obligations described in §
36.060.
(R.C. § 718.24) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.131)
§ 36.156 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; COMPROMISE OF CLAIM AND PAYMENT OVER
TIME.
   (A)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a claim for an amount payable to
the municipality that arises pursuant to the municipal income tax imposed in
accordance with this subchapter.
   (B)   The Tax Administrator may do either of the following if such action is
in the best interests of the municipality:
      (1)   Compromise a claim; and
      (2)   Extend for a reasonable period the time for payment of a claim by
agreeing to accept monthly or other periodic payments, upon such terms and
conditions as the Tax Administrator may require.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator’s rejection of a compromise or payment-over-time
agreement proposed by a person with respect to a claim shall not be appealable.
   (D)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a claim
shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of only the parties to the
compromise or agreement, and shall not extinguish or otherwise affect the
liability of any other person.
   (E)   (1)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a
claim shall be void if the taxpayer defaults under the compromise or agreement
or if the compromise or agreement was obtained by fraud or by misrepresentation
of a material fact. Any amount that was due before the compromise or agreement
and that is unpaid shall remain due, and any penalties or interest that would
have accrued in the absence of the compromise or agreement shall continue to
accrue and be due.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall have sole discretion to determine
whether or not penalty, interest, charges or applicable fees will be assessed
through the duration of any compromise or payment-over-time agreement.
   (F)   The Tax Administrator may require that the taxpayer provide detailed
financial documentation and information, in order to determine whether or not a
payment-over-time agreement will be authorized. The taxpayer’s failure to
provide the necessary and required information by the Tax Administrator shall
preclude consideration of a payment-over-time agreement.
(R.C. § 718.28) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.132)
§ 36.157 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; RIGHT TO EXAMINE.
   (A)   The Tax Administrator, or any authorized agent or employee thereof may
examine the books, papers, records, and federal and state income tax returns of
any employer, taxpayer or other person that is subject to, or that the Tax
Administrator believes is subject to, the provisions of this subchapter for the
purpose of verifying the accuracy of any return made or, if no return was
filed, to ascertain the tax due under this subchapter. Upon written request by
the Tax Administrator or a duly authorized agent or employee thereof, every
employer, taxpayer or other person subject to this section is required to
furnish the opportunity for the Tax Administrator, authorized agent or employee
to investigate and examine such books, papers, records, and federal and state
income tax returns at a reasonable time and place designated in the request.
   (B)   The records and other documents of any taxpayer, employer or other
person that is subject to, or that a Tax Administrator believes is subject to,
the provisions of this subchapter shall be open to the Tax Administrator’s
inspection during business hours and shall be preserved for a period of six
years following the end of the taxable year to which the records or documents
relate, unless the Tax Administrator, in writing, consents to their destruction
within that period, or by order requires that they be kept longer. The Tax
Administrator of a municipal corporation may require any person, by notice
served on that person, to keep such records as the Tax Administrator determines
necessary to show whether or not that person is liable, and the extent of such
liability, for the income tax levied by the municipality or for the withholding
of such tax.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator may examine under oath any person that the Tax
Administrator reasonably believes has knowledge concerning any income that was
or would have been returned for taxation or any transaction tending to affect
such income. The Tax Administrator may, for this purpose, compel any such
person to attend a hearing or examination and to produce any books, papers,
records, and federal and state income tax returns in such person’s possession
or control. The person may be assisted or represented by an attorney,
accountant, bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner at any such hearing or
examination. This division (C) does not authorize the practice of law by a
person who is not an attorney.
   (D)   No person issued written notice by the Tax Administrator compelling
attendance at a hearing or examination or the production of books, papers,
records, or federal and state income tax returns under this section shall fail
to comply.
(R.C. § 718.23) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.133)
§ 36.158 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; REQUIRING IDENTIFYING INFORMATION.
   (A)   The Tax Administrator may require any person filing a tax document
with the Tax Administrator to provide identifying information, which may
include the person’s social security number, federal employer identification
number or other identification number requested by the Tax Administrator. A
person required by the Tax Administrator to provide identifying information
that has experienced any change with respect to that information shall notify
the Tax Administrator of the change before, or upon, filing the next tax
document requiring the identifying information.
   (B)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator makes a request for identifying
information and the Tax Administrator does not receive valid identifying
information within 30 days of making the request, nothing in this subchapter
prohibits the Tax Administrator from imposing a penalty upon the person to whom
the request was directed pursuant to §
36.140, in addition to any applicable penalty described in §
36.999.
      (2)   If a person required by the Tax Administrator to provide
identifying information does not notify the Tax Administrator of a change with
respect to that information as required under division (A) of this section
within 30 days after filing the next tax document requiring such identifying
information, nothing in this subchapter prohibits the Tax Administrator from
imposing a penalty pursuant to §
36.140.
      (3)   The penalties provided for under divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) of
this section may be billed and imposed in the same manner as the tax or fee
with respect to which the identifying information is sought and are in addition
to any applicable criminal penalties described in §
36.999 for a violation of §
36.171 and any other penalties that may be imposed by the Tax Administrator by
law.
(R.C. § 718.26) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.134)
ARTICLE 11: CONFIDENTIALITY; FRAUD
§ 36.170 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   Any information gained as a result of returns, investigations,
hearings or verifications required or authorized by R.C. Chapter 718 or by the
charter or ordinance of the municipality is confidential, and no person shall
access or disclose such information except in accordance with a proper judicial
order or in connection with the performance of that person’s official duties or
the official business of the municipality as authorized by R.C. Chapter 718 or
the charter or ordinance authorizing the levy. The Tax Administrator of the
municipality or a designee thereof may furnish copies of returns filed or
otherwise received under this subchapter and other related tax information to
the Internal Revenue Service, the State Tax Commissioner and Tax Administrators
of other municipal corporations.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit the municipality from publishing or
disclosing statistics in a form that does not disclose information with respect
to particular taxpayers.
(R.C. § 718.13) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.14)
§ 36.171 FRAUD.
   No person shall knowingly make, present, aid or assist in the preparation or
presentation of a false or fraudulent report, return, schedule, statement,
claim or document authorized or required by municipal corporation ordinance or
state law to be filed with the Tax Administrator, or knowingly procure, counsel
or advise the preparation or presentation of such report, return, schedule,
statement, claim or document, or knowingly change, alter or amend, or knowingly
procure, counsel or advise such change, alteration or amendment of the records
upon which such report, return, schedule, statement, claim or document is based
with intent to defraud the municipality or the Tax Administrator.
(R.C. § 718.35) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.15)
ARTICLE 12: TAX ADMINISTRATOR; APPEALS; LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW
§ 36.185 OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   An OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR means an opinion issued under this
section with respect to prospective municipal income tax liability. It does not
include ordinary correspondence of the Tax Administrator.
   (B)   A taxpayer may submit a written request for an opinion of the Tax
Administrator as to whether or how certain income, source of income or a
certain activity or transaction will be taxed. The written response of the Tax
Administrator shall be an “opinion of the Tax Administrator” and shall bind the
Tax Administrator, in accordance with divisions (C), (G) and (H) of this
section, provided all of the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The taxpayer’s request fully and accurately describes the specific
facts or circumstances relevant to a determination of the taxability of the
income, source of income, activity, or transaction, and, if an activity or
transaction, all parties involved in the activity or transaction are clearly
identified by name, location or other pertinent facts;
      (2)   The request relates to a tax imposed by the municipality in
accordance with this subchapter; and
      (3)   The Tax Administrator’s response is signed by the Tax Administrator
and designated as an “opinion of the Tax Administrator”.
   (C)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator shall remain in effect and shall
protect the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and who reasonably
relies on it from liability for any taxes, penalty or interest otherwise
chargeable on the activity or transaction specifically held by the Tax
Administrator’s opinion to be taxable in a particular manner or not to be
subject to taxation for any taxable years that may be specified in the opinion,
or until the earliest of the following dates:
      (1)   The effective date of a written revocation by the Tax Administrator
sent to the taxpayer by certified mail, return receipt requested. The effective
date of the revocation shall be the taxpayer’s date of receipt or one year
after the issuance of the opinion, whichever is later;
      (2)   The effective date of any amendment or enactment of a relevant
section of the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified state law or the municipality’s
income tax ordinance that would substantially change the analysis and
conclusion of the opinion of the Tax Administrator;
      (3)   The date on which a court issues an opinion establishing or
changing relevant case law with respect to the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified
state law or the municipality’s income tax ordinance;
      (4)   If the opinion of the Tax Administrator was based on the
interpretation of federal law, the effective date of any change in the relevant
federal statutes or regulations, or the date on which a court issues an opinion
establishing or changing relevant case law with respect to federal statutes or
regulations;
      (5)   The effective date of any change in the taxpayer’s material facts
or circumstances; and
      (6)   The effective date of the expiration of the opinion, if specified
in the opinion.
   (D)   (1)   A taxpayer is not relieved of tax liability for any activity or
transaction related to a request for an opinion that contained any
misrepresentation or omission of one or more material facts.
      (2)   If the taxpayer knowingly has misrepresented the pertinent facts or
omitted material facts with intent to defraud the municipality in order to
obtain a more favorable opinion, the taxpayer may be in violation of §
36.171.
   (E)   If a Tax Administrator provides written advice under this section, the
opinion shall include a statement that:
      (1)   The tax consequences stated in the opinion may be subject to change
for any of the reasons stated in division (C) of this section; and
      (2)   It is the duty of the taxpayer to be aware of such changes.
   (F)   A Tax Administrator may refuse to offer an opinion on any request
received under this section.
   (G)   This section binds a Tax Administrator only with respect to opinions
of the Tax Administrator issued on or after January 1, 2016.
   (H)   An opinion of a Tax Administrator binds that Tax Administrator only
with respect to the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and does not
bind the Tax Administrator of any other municipal corporation.
   (I)   A Tax Administrator shall make available the text of all opinions
issued under this section, except those opinions prepared for a taxpayer who
has requested that the text of the opinion remain confidential. In no event
shall the text of an opinion be made available until the Tax Administrator has
removed all information that identifies the taxpayer and any other parties
involved in the activity or transaction.
   (J)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator issued under this section or a
refusal to offer an opinion under division (F) of this section may not be
appealed.
(R.C. § 718.38) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.16)
§ 36.186 ASSESSMENT; APPEAL BASED ON PRESUMPTION OF DELIVERY.
   (A)   (1)   The Tax Administrator shall serve an assessment either by
personal service, by certified mail, or by a delivery service authorized under
R.C. § 5703.056.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator may deliver the assessment through
alternative means as provided in this section, including, but not limited to,
delivery by secure electronic mail. Such alternative delivery method must be
authorized by the person subject to the assessment.
      (3)   Once service of the assessment has been made by the Tax
Administrator or other municipal official, or the designee of either, the
person to whom the assessment is directed may protest the ruling of that
assessment by filing an appeal with the Local Board of Tax Review within 60
days after the receipt of service. The delivery of an assessment of the Tax
Administrator as prescribed in R.C. § 718.18 is prima facie evidence that
delivery is complete and that the assessment is served.
   (B)   (1)   A person may challenge the presumption of delivery and service
as set forth in this division (B). A person disputing the presumption of
delivery and service under this section bears the burden of proving by a
preponderance of the evidence that the address to which the assessment was sent
was not an address with which the person was associated at the time the Tax
Administrator originally mailed the assessment by certified mail. For the
purposes of this section, a person is associated with an address at the time
the Tax Administrator originally mailed the assessment if, at that time, the
person was residing, receiving legal documents or conducting business at the
address; or if, before that time, the person had conducted business at the
address and, when the assessment was mailed, the person’s agent or the person’s
affiliate was conducting business at the address. For the purposes of this
section, a person’s affiliate is any other person that, at the time the
assessment was mailed, owned or controlled at least 20%, as determined by
voting rights, of the addressee’s business.
      (2)   If a person elects to appeal an assessment on the basis described
in division (B)(1) of this section, and if that assessment is subject to
collection and is not otherwise appealable, the person must do so within 60
days after the initial contact by the Tax Administrator or other municipal
official, or the designee of either, with the person. Nothing in this division
(B) prevents the Tax Administrator or other official from entering into a
compromise with the person if the person does not actually file such an appeal
with the Local Board of Tax Review.
(R.C. § 718.18) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.17)
§ 36.187 LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW; APPEAL TO LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW.
   (A)   (1)   The legislative authority of the municipality shall maintain a
Local Board of Tax Review to hear appeals as provided in R.C. Chapter 718.
      (2)   (a)   The Local Board of Tax Review shall consist of three members.
         (b)   Two members shall be appointed by the legislative authority of
the municipality, and may not be employees, elected officials or contractors
with the municipality at any time during their term or in the five years
immediately preceding the date of appointment. One member shall be appointed by
the top administrative official of the municipality. This member may be an
employee of the municipality, but may not be the Director of Finance or
equivalent officer, or the Tax Administrator or other similar official or an
employee directly involved in municipal tax matters, or any direct subordinate
thereof.
      (3)   The term for members of the Local Board of Tax Review appointed by
the legislative authority of the municipality shall be two years. There is no
limit on the number of terms that a member may serve should the member be
reappointed by the legislative authority. The Board member appointed by the top
administrative official of the municipality shall serve at the discretion of
the administrative official.
      (4)   Members of the Board of Tax Review appointed by the legislative
authority may be removed by the legislative authority as set forth in R.C. §
718.11(A)(4).
      (5)   A member of the Board who, for any reason, ceases to meet the
qualifications for the position prescribed by this section shall resign
immediately by operation of law.
      (6)   A vacancy in an unexpired term shall be filled in the same manner
as the original appointment within 60 days of when the vacancy was created. Any
member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the
term for which the member’s predecessor was appointed shall hold office for the
remainder of such term. No vacancy on the Board shall impair the power and
authority of the remaining members to exercise all the powers of the Board.
      (7)   If a member is temporarily unable to serve on the Board due to a
conflict of interest, illness, absence or similar reason, the legislative
authority or top administrative official that appointed the member shall
appoint another individual to temporarily serve on the Board in the member’s
place. This appointment shall be subject to the same requirements and
limitations as are applicable to the appointment of the member temporarily
unable to serve.
      (8)   No member of the Local Board of Tax Review shall receive
compensation, fee or reimbursement of expenses for service on the Board.
      (9)   A member of a Local Board of Tax Review shall not be appointed to
or serve on another such Board simultaneously.
   (B)   Whenever a Tax Administrator issues an assessment, the Tax
Administrator shall notify the taxpayer in writing at the same time of the
taxpayer’s right to appeal the assessment, the manner in which the taxpayer may
appeal the assessment, and the address to which the appeal should be directed,
and to whom the appeal should be directed.
   (C)   Any person who has been issued an assessment may appeal the assessment
to the Board by filing a request with the Board. The request shall be in
writing, shall specify the reason or reasons why the assessment should be
deemed incorrect or unlawful, and shall be filed within 60 days after the
taxpayer receives the assessment.
   (D)   The Local Board of Tax Review shall schedule a hearing to be held
within 60 days after receiving an appeal of an assessment under division (C) of
this section, unless the taxpayer requests additional time to prepare or waives
a hearing. If the taxpayer does not waive the hearing, the taxpayer may appear
before the Board and/or may be represented by an attorney at law, certified
public accountant or other representative. The Board may allow a hearing to be
continued as jointly agreed to by the parties. In such a case, the hearing must
be completed within 120 days after the first day of the hearing unless the
parties agree otherwise.
   (E)   The Board may affirm, reverse or modify the Tax Administrator’s
assessment or any part of that assessment. The Board shall issue a final
determination on the appeal within 90 days after the Board’s final hearing on
the appeal, and send a copy of its final determination by ordinary mail to all
of the parties to the appeal within 15 days after issuing the final
determination. The taxpayer or the Tax Administrator may appeal the Board’s
final determination as provided in R.C. § 5717.011.
   (F)   (1)   The Local Board of Tax Review created pursuant to this section
shall adopt rules governing its procedures, including a schedule of related
costs, and shall keep a record of its transactions. The rules governing the
Local Board of Tax Review procedures shall be in writing, and may be amended as
needed by the Local Board of Tax Review. Such records are not public records
available for inspection under R.C. § 149.43.
      (2)   For this reason, any documentation, copies of returns or reports,
final determinations or working papers for each case must be maintained in a
secure location under the control of the Tax Administrator. No member of the
Local Board of Tax Review may remove such documentation, copies of returns or
reports, final determinations or working papers from the hearing.
      (3)   Hearings requested by a taxpayer before a Local Board of Tax Review
created pursuant to this section are not meetings of a public body subject to
R.C. § 121.22. For this reason, such hearings shall not be open to the public,
and only those parties to the case may be present during the hearing.
(R.C. § 718.11) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.18)
ARTICLE 13: ACTIONS; ADOPTION; RECONCILIATION; COLLECTION
§ 36.200 ACTIONS TO RECOVER; STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Civil actions to recover municipal income taxes and
penalties and interest on municipal income taxes shall be brought within the
latter of:
            1.   Three years after the tax was due or the return was filed,
whichever is later; or
            2.   One year after the conclusion of the qualifying deferral
period, if any.
         (b)   1.   The time limit described in division (A)(1)(a) of this
section may be extended at any time if both the Tax Administrator and the
employer, agent of the employer, other payer or taxpayer consent in writing to
the extension.
            2.   Any extension shall also extend for the same period of time
the time limit described in division (C) of this section.
      (2)   As used in this section, QUALIFYING DEFERRAL PERIOD means a period
of time beginning and ending as follows:
         (a)   1.   Beginning on the date a person who is aggrieved by an
assessment files with a Local Board of Tax Review the request described in §
36.187; and
            2.   That date shall not be affected by any subsequent decision,
finding or holding by any administrative body or court that the Local Board of
Tax Review with which the aggrieved person filed the request did not have
jurisdiction to affirm, reverse or modify the assessment or any part of that
assessment.
         (b)   Ending the later of the sixtieth day after the date on which the
final determination of the Local Board of Tax Review becomes final or, if any
party appeals from the determination of the Local Board of Tax Review, the
sixtieth day after the date on which the final determination of the Local Board
of Tax Review is either ultimately affirmed in whole or in part or ultimately
reversed and no further appeal of either that affirmation, in whole or in part,
or that reversal is available or taken.
   (B)   Prosecutions for an offense made punishable under a resolution or
ordinance imposing an income tax shall be commenced within three years after
the commission of the offense, provided that in the case of fraud, failure to
file a return, or the omission of 25% or more of income required to be
reported, prosecutions may be commenced within six years after the commission
of the offense.
   (C)   A claim for a refund of municipal income taxes shall be brought within
the time limitation provided in §
36.125.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   Notwithstanding the fact that an appeal is pending, the
petitioner may pay all or a portion of the assessment that is the subject of
the appeal.
         (b)   The acceptance of a payment by the municipality does not
prejudice any claim for refund upon final determination of the appeal.
      (2)   If upon final determination of the appeal an error in the
assessment is corrected by the Tax Administrator, upon an appeal so filed or
pursuant to a final determination of the Local Board of Tax Review created
under §
36.187, of the Ohio Board of Tax Appeals, or any court to which the decision of
the Ohio Board of Tax Appeals has been appealed, so that the amount due from
the party assessed under the corrected assessment is less than the amount paid,
there shall be issued to the appellant or to the appellant’s assigns or legal
representative a refund in the amount of the overpayment as provided by §
36.125, with interest on that amount as provided by division (D) of this
section.
   (E)   No civil action to recover municipal income tax or related penalties
or interest shall be brought during either of the following time periods:
      (1)   The period during which a taxpayer has a right to appeal the
imposition of that tax or interest or those penalties; or
      (2)   The period during which an appeal related to the imposition of that
tax or interest or those penalties is pending.
(R.C. § 718.12) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.19)
§ 36.201 ADOPTION OF RULES.
   (A)   Pursuant to R.C. § 718.30, the legislative authority of the
municipality has the authority, by ordinance or resolution, to adopt rules to
administer the income tax imposed by the municipality.
   (B)   All rules adopted under this section shall be published and posted on
the internet.
(R.C. § 718.30) (Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.20)
§ 36.202 RECONCILIATION WITH STATE LAW.
   (A)   Whenever any provisions of this subchapter conflicts with any
provision of R.C. Chapter 718, now or in the future, the provisions of R.C.
Chapter 718 shall govern.
   (B)   The Tax Administrator is authorized to satisfy, carry out and comply
with any mandate either in this subchapter or R.C. Chapter 718 so that this
subchapter and R.C. Chapter 718 are compatible.
(Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.21)
§ 36.203 COLLECTION OF TAX AFTER TERMINATION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   This subchapter shall continue in full force and effect insofar as the
levy of taxes is concerned until repealed, and insofar as the collection of
taxes levied hereunder and actions and proceedings for collecting any tax so
levied or enforcing any provisions of this subchapter are concerned, it shall
continue in full force and effect until all of the taxes levied in the
aforesaid period are fully paid and any and all suits and prosecutions for the
collection of taxes or for the punishment of violations of this subchapter have
been fully terminated, subject to the limitations contained in §
36.200.
   (B)   Annual returns due for all or any part of the last effective year of
this subchapter shall be due on the date provided in §
36.120 as though the same were continuing.
(Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.97)
§ 36.204 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   (A)   If any sentence, clause, section or part of this subchapter, or any
tax imposed against, or exemption from tax granted to, any taxpayer or forms of
income specified herein is found to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid,
such unconstitutionality, illegality or invalidity shall affect only such
clause, sentence, section or part of this subchapter so found and shall not
affect or impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections
or other parts of this subchapter.
   (B)   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the legislative authority
of the municipality that this subchapter would have been adopted had such
unconstitutional, illegal or invalid sentence, clause, section or part thereof
not been included in this subchapter.
(Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.98)
ARTICLE 14: MAYOR TO CONTRACT WITH REGIONAL COUNCIL OF GOVERNMENTS
§ 36.215 AUTHORIZATION FOR AGREEMENT.
   (A)   The Mayor be and is hereby authorized and directed to execute, on
behalf of the Village of West Alexandria, an agreement with a Regional Council
of Governments for the administration and collection of the Village of West
Alexandria’s income tax effective July 1, 2021.
   (B)   Pursuant to the agreement, the Village of West Alexandria Mayor is
hereby approved as representative to the Council of Governments and the Fiscal
Officer of the Village of West Alexandria be and hereby is designated as
alternate to the Council of Governments.
(Ord. 910, passed 12-21-2020)
ARTICLE 15: REGIONAL COUNCIL OF GOVERNMENTS (RITA) RULES  AND REGULATIONS
§ 36.230 PURPOSES AND ALLOCATION.
   (A)   The purposes for which this municipality’s income tax is levied are
the same as shown in §
36.016 of this chapter.
   (B)   The allocation of same is shown in §
36.017 of this chapter.
(Ord. 917, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 36.231 DEFINITIONS OF TERMS.
   (A)   Any term used in these rules and regulations (rules and regulations)
that is not otherwise defined in these rules and regulations has the same
meaning as when used in a comparable context in laws of the United States
relating to federal income taxation or in Title LVII of the Revised Code,
unless a different meaning is clearly required. If a term used in these rules
and regulations that is not otherwise defined in these rules and regulations is
used in a comparable context in both the laws of the United States relating to
federal income tax and in Title LVII of the Revised Code and the use is not
consistent, then the use of the term in the laws of the United States relating
to federal income tax shall control over the use of the term in Title LVII of
the Revised Code.
   (B)   The singular shall include the plural, and the masculine shall include
the feminine and the gender-neutral.
   (C)   As used in these rules and regulations:
      (1)   ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME, for a person required to file as a
C corporation, or for a person that has elected to be taxed as a C corporation
under (C)(24)(d) of this division (C), means a C corporation’s federal taxable
income before net operating losses and special deductions as determined under
the Internal Revenue Code, adjusted as follows:
         (a)   Deduct intangible income to the extent included in federal
taxable income. The deduction shall be allowed regardless of whether the
intangible income relates to assets used in a trade or business or assets held
for the production of income;
         (b)   Add an amount equal to 5% of intangible income deducted under
division (C)(1)(a) of this section, but excluding that portion of intangible
income directly related to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of property
described in § 1221 of the Internal Revenue Code;
         (c)   Add any losses allowed as a deduction in the computation of
federal taxable income if the losses directly relate to the sale, exchange, or
other disposition of an asset described in §§ 1221 or 1231 of the Internal
Revenue Code;
         (d)   1.   Except as provided in (C)(1)(d)2. of this section, deduct
income and gain included in federal taxable income to the extent the income and
gain directly relate to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of an asset
described in §§ 1221 or 1231 of the Internal Revenue Code;
            2.   Division (C)(1)(d)1. of this section does not apply to the
extent the income or gain is income or gain described in §§ 1245 or 1250 of the
Internal Revenue Code.
         (e)   Add taxes on or measured by net income allowed as a deduction in
the computation of federal taxable income;
         (f)   In the case of a real estate investment trust or regulated
investment company, add all amounts with respect to dividends to, distributions
to, or amounts set aside for or credited to the benefit of investors and
allowed as a deduction in the computation of federal taxable income;
         (g)   Deduct, to the extent not otherwise deducted or excluded in
computing federal taxable income, any income derived from a transfer agreement
or from the enterprise transferred under that agreement under R.C. § 4313.02;
         (h)   1.   a.   Except as limited by divisions (C)(1)(h)1., (C)(1)
(h)3. and (C)(1)(h)4. of this section, deduct any net operating loss incurred
by the person in a taxable year beginning on or after January 1, 2017.
               b.   The amount of such net operating loss shall be deducted
from net profit that is reduced by exempt income to the extent necessary to
reduce municipal taxable income to zero, with any remaining unused portion of
the net operating loss carried forward to not more than five consecutive
taxable years following the taxable year in which the loss was incurred, but in
no case for more years than necessary for the deduction to be fully utilized.
            2.   No person shall use the deduction allowed by division (C)(1)
(h) of this section to offset qualifying wages.
            3.   a.   For taxable years beginning in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021 or
2022, a person may not deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by a
municipal corporation that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, more
than 50% of the amount of the deduction otherwise allowed by division (C)(1)
(h)1. of this section.
               b.   For taxable years beginning in 2023 or thereafter, a person
may deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by a municipal corporation
that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, the full amount allowed by
(C)(1)(h)1. of this section.
            4.   Any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward deduction that is
available must be utilized before a taxpayer may deduct any amount pursuant to
(C)(1)(h) of this section.
            5.   Nothing in division (C)(1)(h)3.a. of this section precludes a
person from carrying forward, use with respect to any return filed for a
taxable year beginning after 2018, any amount of net operating loss that was
not fully utilized by operation of division (C)(1)(h)3.a. of this section. To
the extent that an amount of net operating loss that was not fully utilized in
one or more taxable years by operation of division (C)(1)(h)3.a. of this
section is carried forward for use with respect to a return filed for a taxable
year beginning in 2019, 2020, 2021 or 2022, the limitation described in
division (C)(1)(h)3.a. of this section shall apply to the amount carried
forward.
            6.   In any return in which a net operating loss deduction is
claimed, a schedule must be attached showing:
               a.   Year in which net operating loss was sustained;
               b.   Method of accounting and allocation used to determine the
portion of net operating loss allocable to this municipality for losses
incurred for tax years prior to 2017;
               c.   Amount of net operating loss used as a deduction in prior
years; and
               d.   Amount of net operating loss claimed as a deduction in
current year.
         (i)   Deduct any net profit of a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer’s federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that net profit in
the group’s federal taxable income in accordance with §
36.234(V)(3)(b);
         (j)   Add any loss incurred by a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer’s federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that loss in the
group’s federal taxable income in accordance with §
36.234(V)(3)(b);
         (k)   If the taxpayer is not a C corporation, is not a disregarded
entity that has made an election described in division (C)(48)(b) of this
section, is not a publicly traded partnership that has made the election
described in division (C)(24)(d) of this section, and is not an individual, the
taxpayer shall compute adjusted federal taxable income under this section as if
the taxpayer were a C corporation, except guaranteed payments and other similar
amounts paid or accrued to a partner, former partner, shareholder, former
shareholder, member or former member shall not be allowed as a deductible
expense unless such payments are in consideration for the use of capital and
treated as payment of interest under § 469 of the Internal Revenue Code or
United States treasury regulations. Amounts paid or accrued to a qualified
self-employed retirement plan with respect to a partner, former partner,
shareholder, former shareholder, member or former member of the taxpayer,
amounts paid or accrued to or for health insurance for a partner, former
partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member or former member, and amounts
paid or accrued to or for life insurance for a partner, former partner,
shareholder, former shareholder, member or former member shall not be allowed
as a deduction; and
         (l)   Nothing in division (C)(1) of this section shall be construed as
allowing the taxpayer to add or deduct any amount more than once or shall be
construed as allowing any taxpayer to deduct any amount paid to or accrued for
purposes of federal self-employment tax.
      (2)   (a) ASSESSMENT means a written finding by the Tax Administrator
that a person has underpaid municipal income tax, or owes penalty and interest,
or any combination of tax, penalty or interest, to the municipal corporation
that commences the person’s time limitation for making an appeal to the Board
of Tax Review pursuant to §
36.250, and has “ASSESSMENT” written in all capital letters at the top of such
finding.
         (b) ASSESSMENT does not include a notice denying a request for refund
issued under §
36.238(C)(3), a billing statement notifying a taxpayer of current or past-due
balances owed to the municipal corporation, a Tax Administrator’s request for
additional information, a notification to the taxpayer of mathematical errors
or a Tax Administrator’s other written correspondence to a person or taxpayer
that does not meet the criteria prescribed by division (C)(2)(a) of this
section.
      (3)   AUDIT means the examination of a person or the inspection of the
books, records, memoranda or accounts of a person, ordered to appear before the
Tax Administrator, for the purpose of determining liability for a municipal
income tax.
      (4)   BOARD OF REVIEW means the entity created under R.C. § 718.11
constituted to hear appeals of municipal income tax matters.
      (5)   CALENDAR QUARTER means the three-month period ending on the last
day of March, June, September or December.
      (6)   CASINO OPERATOR and CASINO FACILITY have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 3772.01.
      (7)   CERTIFIED MAIL, EXPRESS MAIL, UNITED STATES MAIL, POSTAL SERVICE
and similar terms include any delivery service authorized pursuant to R.C. §
5703.056.
      (8)   DISREGARDED ENTITY means a single member limited liability company,
a qualifying subchapter S subsidiary, or another entity if the company,
subsidiary or entity is a disregarded entity for federal income tax purposes.
      (9)   DOMICILE means the true, fixed and permanent home of a taxpayer and
to which, whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return. A taxpayer may have
more than one residence but not more than one domicile.
      (10)   EMPLOYEE means an individual who is an employee for federal income
tax purposes, and who works for income, qualifying wages, salary, commission or
other type of compensation in the service of and under the control of an
employer. The relationship of employer and employee exists when the person for
whom services are performed has the right to control and direct the individual
who performs the services, not only as to the result to be accomplished, but
also as to the details and means by which that result is accomplished. Any
person from whom an employer is required to withhold for federal income tax
purposes shall prima facie be deemed an employee.
      (11)   (a)   EMPLOYER means an individual, association, corporation or
other entity that is an employer for federal income tax purposes, and who or
that employs one or more persons on an income, salary, qualifying wage,
commission or other compensation basis, whether or not such employer is engaged
in business or operated for a profit, and whether or not the entity is private
or public. No rights, duties or obligations are imposed with respect to any
such body not otherwise authorized by law.
         (b)   A person who employs domestic help for such person’s private
residence shall not be considered an employer of the domestic for municipal
income tax withholding purposes, and shall not be required to withhold and/or
remit municipal income tax on behalf of the domestic help.
      (12)   EXEMPT INCOME means all of the following:
         (a)   The military pay or allowances of members of the armed forces of
the United States or members of their reserve components, including the
national guard of any state. This exemption includes not only the military pay
and allowances received by the member, but also the military pay and
allowances, such as dependency allowances, received by another person by reason
of the member’s service;
         (b)   Intangible income. However, a municipal corporation that taxed
any type of intangible income on March 29, 1988, pursuant to § 3 of S.B. 238 of
the 116th General Assembly, may continue to tax that type of income if a
majority of the electors of the municipal corporation voting on the question of
whether to permit the taxation of that type of intangible income after 1988
voted in favor thereof at an election held on November 8, 1988;
         (c)   Social security benefits, railroad retirement benefits,
unemployment compensation, pensions, retirement benefit payments, payments from
annuities and similar payments made to an employee or to the beneficiary of an
employee under a retirement program or plan, disability payments received from
private industry or local, state or federal governments or from charitable,
religious or educational organizations, and the proceeds of sickness, accident,
or liability insurance policies. As used in this division (C)(12)(c) of this
section, UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION does not include supplemental unemployment
compensation described in § 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code;
         (d)   The income of religious, fraternal, charitable, scientific,
literary or educational institutions to the extent such income is derived from
tax-exempt real estate, tax-exempt tangible or intangible property, or tax-
exempt activities;
         (e)   Compensation paid under R.C. §§ 3501.28 or 3501.36 to a person
serving as a precinct election official to the extent that such compensation
does not exceed $1,000 for the taxable year. Such compensation in excess of
$1,000 for the taxable year may be subject to taxation by a municipal
corporation. A municipal corporation shall not require the payer of such
compensation to withhold any tax from that compensation;
         (f)   Dues, contributions and similar payments received by charitable,
religious, educational or literary organizations or labor unions, lodges and
similar organizations;
         (g)   Alimony and child support received;
         (h)   Compensation for personal injuries or for damages to property
from insurance proceeds or otherwise, excluding compensation paid for lost
salaries or wages or compensation from punitive damages;
         (i)   Income of a public utility when that public utility is subject
to the tax levied under R.C. §§ 5727.24 or 5727.30. This division (C)(12)(i) of
this section does not apply for purposes of R.C. Chapter 5745;
         (j)   Gains from involuntary conversions, interest on federal
obligations, items of income subject to a tax levied by the state and that a
municipal corporation is specifically prohibited by law from taxing, and income
of a decedent’s estate during the period of administration except such income
from the operation of a trade or business. Gains from cancellation of
indebtedness (individual taxpayers only) to the extent exempt from federal
income tax;
         (k)   Compensation or allowances excluded from federal gross income
under § 107 of the Internal Revenue Code. The exclusions apply only to an
individual taxpayer that is duly ordained, commissioned, or licensed by a
religious body constituting a church or church denomination, and having the
authority to perform all sacraments of the church or religious body;
         (l)   Employee compensation that is not qualifying wages as defined in
division (C)(35) of this section;
         (m)   Compensation paid to a person employed within the boundaries of
a United States air force base under the jurisdiction of the United States air
force that is used for the housing of members of the United States air force
and is a center for air force operations, unless the person is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile. If the compensation is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile, tax on such income shall be payable
only to the municipal corporation of residence or domicile;
         (n)   An S corporation shareholder’s share of net profits of the S
corporation, other than any part of the share of net profits that represents
wages as defined in § 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue Code or net earnings from
self-employment as defined in § 1402(a) of the Internal Revenue Code. This
exemption does not apply if the voters of this municipality passed an S
corporation ballot issue in 2003 or 2004 regarding taxation of S corporations;
         (o)   To the extent authorized under a resolution or ordinance adopted
by this municipality before January 1, 2016, all or a portion of the income of
individuals or a class of individuals under 18 years of age. The taxable
portion of the year in which an individual turns 18 shall be determined by the
birth date of the individual;
         (p)   1.   Except as provided in divisions (C)(12)(p)2., (C)(12)(p)3.
and (C)(12)(p)4. of this section, qualifying wages described in §
36.233(C)(2) or (C)(5) to the extent the qualifying wages are not subject to
withholding for this municipality under either of those divisions.
            2.   The exemption provided in division (C)(12)(p)1. of this
section does not apply with respect to the municipal corporation in which the
employee resided at the time the employee earned the qualifying wages.
            3.   The exemption provided in division (C)(12)(p)1. of this
section does not apply to qualifying wages that an employer elects to withhold
under §
36.233(C)(4)(b).
            4.   The exemption provided in division (C)(12)(p)1. of this
section does not apply to qualifying wages if both of the following conditions
apply:
               a.   For qualifying wages described in §
36.233(C)(2), the employee’s employer withholds and remits tax on the
qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the employee’s principal
place of work is situated, or, for qualifying wages described in §
36.233(C)(5), the employee’s employer withholds and remits tax on the
qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the employer’s fixed
location is located; and
               b.   The employee receives a refund of the tax described in
division (C)(12)(p)4.a. of this section on the basis of the employee not
performing services in that municipal corporation.
         (q)   1.   Except as provided in division (C)(12)(q)2. or (C)(12)(q)3.
of this section, compensation that is not qualifying wages paid to a
nonresident individual for personal services performed in this municipality on
not more than 20 days in a taxable year.
            2.   The exemption provided in division (C)(12)(q)1. of this
section does not apply under either of the following circumstances:
               a.   The individual’s base of operation is located in this
municipality; and
               b.   The individual is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer or public figure, and the compensation is paid for the performance
of services in the individual’s capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer, or public figure. For purposes of division (C)(12)
(q)2.b. of this section, PROFESSIONAL ATHLETE, PROFESSIONAL ENTERTAINER and
PUBLIC FIGURE have the same meanings as in §
36.233(C).
            3.   Compensation to which division (C)(12)(q) of this section
applies shall be treated as earned or received at the individual’s base of
operation. If the individual does not have a base of operation, the
compensation shall be treated as earned or received where the individual is
domiciled.
            4.   For purposes of division (C)(12)(q) of this section, BASE OF
OPERATION means the location where an individual owns or rents an office,
storefront or similar facility to which the individual regularly reports and at
which the individual regularly performs personal services for compensation.
         (r)   Compensation paid to a person for personal services performed
for a political subdivision on property owned by the political subdivision,
regardless of whether the compensation is received by an employee of the
subdivision or another person performing services for the subdivision under a
contract with the subdivision, if the property on which services are performed
is annexed to a municipal corporation pursuant to R.C. § 709.023 on or after
March 27, 2013, unless the person is subject to such taxation because of
residence. If the compensation is subject to taxation because of residence,
municipal income tax shall be payable only to the municipal corporation of
residence; and
         (s)   1.   Income of which the taxation is prohibited by the
constitution or laws of the United States; and
            2.   Any item of income that is exempt income of a pass-through
entity under division (C) of this section is exempt income of each owner of the
pass-through entity to the extent of that owner’s distributive or proportionate
share of that item of the entity’s income.
      (13)   FORM 2106 means Internal Revenue Service Form 2106 filed by a
taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code. An individual taxpayer that
files this Form for federal income tax purposes may also file it with this
municipality, if applicable. The 2106 expenses must be apportioned to this
municipality in the same manner to which the related income is apportioned.
      (14)   GENERIC FORM means an electronic or paper form that is not
prescribed by a particular municipal corporation and that is designed for
reporting taxes withheld by an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer,
estimated municipal income taxes, or annual municipal income tax liability or
for filing a refund claim.
      (15)   GROSS RECEIPTS means the total revenue derived from sales, work
done, or service rendered.
      (16)   INCOME means the following:
         (a)   1.   For residents, all income, salaries, qualifying wages,
commissions and other compensation from whatever source earned or received by
the resident, including the resident’s distributive share of the net profit of
pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by the resident and any net
profit of the resident, except as provided in (C)(24)(d) of this section.
            2.   For the purposes of division (C)(16)(a)1. of this section:
               a.   Any net operating loss of the resident incurred in the
taxable year and the resident’s distributive share of any net operating loss
generated in the same taxable year and attributable to the resident’s ownership
interest in a pass-through entity shall be allowed as a deduction, for that
taxable year and the following five taxable years, against any other net profit
of the resident or the resident’s distributive share of any net profit
attributable to the resident’s ownership interest in a pass-through entity
until fully utilized, subject to division (C)(16)(a)4. of this section; and
               b.   The resident’s distributive share of the net profit of each
pass-through entity owned directly or indirectly by the resident shall be
calculated without regard to any net operating loss that is carried forward by
that entity from a prior taxable year and applied to reduce the entity’s net
profit for the current taxable year.
            3.   Division (C)(16)(a)2. of this section does not apply with
respect to any net profit or net operating loss attributable to an ownership
interest in an S corporation unless shareholders’ shares of net profits from S
corporations are subject to tax in this municipality.
            4.   Any amount of a net operating loss used to reduce a taxpayer’s
net profit for a taxable year shall reduce the amount of net operating loss
that may be carried forward to any subsequent year for use by that taxpayer. In
no event shall the cumulative deductions for all taxable years with respect to
a taxpayer’s net operating loss exceed the original amount of that net
operating loss available to that taxpayer.
         (b)   In the case of nonresidents, all income, salaries, qualifying
wages, commissions and other compensation from whatever source earned or
received by the nonresident for work done, services performed or rendered, or
activities conducted in the municipal corporation, including any net profit of
the nonresident, but excluding the nonresident’s distributive share of the net
profit or loss of only pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by
the nonresident;
         (c)   For taxpayers that are not individuals, net profit of the
taxpayer;
         (d)   Lottery, sweepstakes, gambling and sports winnings, winnings
from games of chance, and prizes and awards. If the taxpayer is a professional
gambler for federal income tax purposes, the taxpayer may deduct related
wagering losses and expenses to the extent authorized under the Internal
Revenue Code and claimed against such winnings;
         (e)   Intentionally left blank. This indicates that West Alexandria
did not have a ballot issue in 2003 or 2004 regarding the taxation of S
corporations.
      (17)   INTANGIBLE INCOME means income of any of the following types:
income yield, interest, capital gains, dividends or other income arising from
the ownership, sale, exchange or other disposition of intangible property
including, but not limited to, investments, deposits, money or credits as those
terms are defined in R.C. § 5701 and patents, copyrights, trademarks,
tradenames, investments in real estate investment trusts, investments in
regulated investment companies, and appreciation on deferred compensation.
INTANGIBLE INCOME does not include prizes, awards or other income associated
with any lottery winnings, gambling winnings or other similar games of chance.
      (18)   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5747.01.
      (19)   LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY means a limited liability company formed
under R.C. Chapter 1705 or under the laws of another state.
      (20)   MUNICIPAL CORPORATION includes a joint economic development
district or joint economic development zone that levies an income tax under
R.C. §§ 715.691, 715.70, 715.71 or 715.74.
      (21)   (a)   MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME means the following:
            1.   For a person other than an individual, income reduced by
exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and then, as
applicable, apportioned or sitused to this municipality under §
36.232, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward
available to the person for this municipality; and
            2.   a.   For an individual who is a resident of West Alexandria,
income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income,
then reduced as provided in division (C)(21)(b) of this section, and further
reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward available to the
individual for this municipality.
               b.   For an individual who is a nonresident of West Alexandria,
income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and
then, as applicable, apportioned or sitused to the municipal corporation under
§
36.232, then reduced as provided in division (C)(21)(b) of this section, and
further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward available to
the individual for this municipality.
         (b)   In computing the municipal taxable income of a taxpayer who is
an individual, the taxpayer may subtract, as provided in division (C)(21)
(a)2.a. or (C)(21)(b) of this section, the amount of the individual’s employee
business expenses reported on the individual’s Form 2106 and that are
specifically reportable on Form 2106, and that the individual deducted for
federal income tax purposes for the taxable year, subject to the limitation
imposed by § 67 of the Internal Revenue Code. For a resident taxpayer of West
Alexandria, the taxpayer may deduct all such expenses allowed for federal
income tax purposes but only to the extent the expenses do not relate to exempt
income. For a nonresident of West Alexandria, the taxpayer may deduct such
expenses only to the extent the expenses are related to the taxpayer’s
performance of personal services in West Alexandria and are not related to
exempt income. Expenses shown on Form 2106 are subject to review by West
Alexandria.
      (22)   MUNICIPALITY means the same as the Village of West Alexandria.
      (23)   NET OPERATING LOSS means a loss incurred by a person in the
operation of a trade or business. For a person who is not an individual, net
operating loss must be calculated on an adjusted federal taxable income basis
without regard to the deduction for net operating losses contained in R.C. §
718.01 E(8). NET OPERATING LOSS does not include unutilized losses resulting
from basis limitations, at-risk limitations, or passive activity loss
limitations.
      (24)   (a)   NET PROFIT for a person other than an individual means
adjusted federal taxable income.
         (b)   1. NET PROFIT for a person who is an individual means the
individual’s net profit required to be reported on Schedule C, Schedule E, or
Schedule F reduced by any net operating loss carried forward. For the purposes
of division (C)(24)(b) of this section, the net operating loss carried forward
shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in division (C)
(1)(h) of this section.
            2.   NET PROFIT for a person who is an individual also means
ordinary gains and losses of the individual.
         (c)   For the purposes of these rules and regulations, and
notwithstanding division (C)(24)(a) of this section, net profit of a
disregarded entity shall not be taxable as against that disregarded entity, but
shall instead be included in the net profit of the owner of the disregarded
entity.
         (d)   A publicly traded partnership (PTP) that is treated as a
partnership for federal income tax purposes, and that is subject to tax on its
net profits by West Alexandria, may elect to be treated as a C corporation for
every municipality in which the PTP is subject to tax on its net profits. The
election shall be made on the annual return for West Alexandria and for each
such municipality. West Alexandria will treat the publicly traded partnership
as a C corporation if the election is so made.
      (25)   NONRESIDENT means an individual that is not a resident of West
Alexandria.
      (26)   OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY means the online computer network system,
created under R.C. § 125.30, that allows persons to electronically file
business reply forms with state agencies and includes any successor electronic
filing and payment system.
      (27)   OTHER PAYER means any person, other than an individual’s employer
or the employer’s agent, that pays an individual any amount included in the
federal gross income of the individual. OTHER PAYER includes casino operators
and video lottery terminal sales agents.
      (28)   PASS-THROUGH ENTITY means a partnership not treated as an
association taxable as a C corporation for federal income tax purposes, a
limited liability company not treated as an association taxable as a C
corporation for federal income tax purposes, an S corporation, or any other
class of entity from which the income or profits of the entity are given pass-
through treatment for federal income tax purposes. PASS-THROUGH ENTITY does not
include a trust, estate, grantor of a grantor trust or disregarded entity.
      (29)   PENSION means any amount paid to an employee or former employee
that is reported to the recipient on an IRS Form 1099-R, or successor form.
PENSION does not include deferred compensation, or amounts attributable to
nonqualified deferred compensation plans, reported as FICA/Medicare wages on an
IRS Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, or successor form.
      (30)   PERSON includes individuals, firms, companies, joint stock
companies, business trusts, estates, trusts, partnerships, limited liability
partnerships, limited liability companies, associations, C corporations, S
corporations, governmental entities and any other entity.
      (31)   POSTAL SERVICE means the United States postal service.
      (32)   POSTMARK DATE, DATE OF POSTMARK AND SIMILAR TERMS include the date
recorded and marked in the manner described in R.C. § 5703.056(B)(3).
      (33)   (a)   PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD means any net
operating loss incurred in a taxable year beginning before January 1, 2017, to
the extent such loss was permitted, by a resolution or ordinance of West
Alexandria that was adopted by West Alexandria before January 1, 2016, to be
carried forward and utilized to offset income or net profit generated in West
Alexandria in future taxable years.
         (b)   For the purpose of calculating municipal taxable income, any
pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward may be carried forward to any taxable
year, including taxable years beginning in 2017 or thereafter, for the number
of taxable years provided in the resolution or ordinance or until fully
utilized, whichever is earlier.
      (34)   PUBLICLY TRADED PARTNERSHIP means any partnership, an interest in
which is regularly traded on an established securities market. A PUBLICLY
TRADED PARTNERSHIP may have any number of partners.
      (35)   QUALIFYING WAGES means wages, as defined in § 3121(a) of the
Internal Revenue Code, without regard to any wage limitations, adjusted as
follows:
         (a)   Deduct the following amounts:
            1.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes
compensation attributable to a plan or program described in § 125 of the
Internal Revenue Code;
            2.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes payment
on account of a disability related to sickness or an accident paid by a party
unrelated to the employer, agent of an employer or other payer;
            3.   Intentionally left blank. This indicates that nonqualified
deferred compensation is not deducted unless West Alexandria has exempted
nonqualified deferred compensation from taxation;
            4.   Intentionally left blank. This indicates that stock options
are not deducted unless West Alexandria has exempted stock options from
taxation; and
            5.   Any amount included in wages that is exempt income.
         (b)   Add the following amounts:
            1.   Any amount not included in wages solely because the employee
was employed by the employer before April 1, 1986;
            2.   Unless stock options are specifically exempted from tax by
West Alexandria, any amount not included in wages because the amount arises
from the sale, exchange or other disposition of a stock option, the exercise of
a stock option, or the sale, exchange, or other disposition of stock purchased
under a stock option. Division (C)(35)(b)2. of this section applies only to
those amounts constituting ordinary income;
            3.   Any amount not included in wages if the amount is an amount
described in §§ 401(k), 403(b) or 457 of the Internal Revenue Code. Division
(C)(35)(b)3. of this section applies only to employee contributions and
employee deferrals;
            4.   Any amount that is supplemental unemployment compensation
benefits described in § 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code and not
included in wages;
            5.   Any amount received that is treated as self-employment income
for federal tax purposes in accordance with § 1402(a)(8) of the Internal
Revenue Code; and
            6.   Any amount not included in wages if all of the following
apply:
               a.   For the taxable year the amount is employee compensation
that is earned outside the United States and that either is included in the
taxpayer’s gross income for federal income tax purposes or would have been
included in the taxpayer’s gross income for such purposes if the taxpayer did
not elect to exclude the income under § 911 of the Internal Revenue Code;
               b.   For no preceding taxable year did the amount constitute
wages as defined in § 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue Code;
               c.   For no succeeding taxable year will the amount constitute
wages; and
               d.   For any taxable year the amount has not otherwise been
added to wages pursuant to either division (C)(35)(b) of this section or R.C. §
718.03, as that section existed before the effective date of H.B. 5 of the
130th General Assembly, March 23, 2015.
      (36)   RELATED ENTITY means any of the following:
         (a)   An individual stockholder, or a member of the stockholder’s
family enumerated in § 318 of the Internal Revenue Code, if the stockholder and
the members of the stockholder’s family own directly, indirectly, beneficially
or constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the
taxpayer’s outstanding stock;
         (b)   A stockholder, or a stockholder’s partnership, estate, trust or
corporation, if the stockholder and the stockholder’s partnerships, estates,
trusts or corporations own directly, indirectly, beneficially or
constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the taxpayer’s
outstanding stock;
         (c)   A corporation, or a party related to the corporation in a manner
that would require an attribution of stock from the corporation to the party or
from the party to the corporation under division (C)(36)(d) of this section,
provided the taxpayer owns directly, indirectly, beneficially or
constructively, at least 50% of the value of the corporation’s outstanding
stock; and
         (d)   The attribution rules described in § 318 of the Internal Revenue
Code apply for the purpose of determining whether the ownership requirements in
divisions (C)(36)(a) through (C)(36)(c) of this section have been met.
      (37)   RELATED MEMBER means a person that, with respect to the taxpayer
during all or any portion of the taxable year, is either a related entity, a
component member as defined in § 1563(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, or a
person to or from whom there is attribution of stock ownership in accordance
with § 1563(e) of the Internal Revenue Code except, for purposes of determining
whether a person is a related member under this definition, “20%” shall be
substituted for “5%” wherever “5%” appears in § 1563(e) of the Internal Revenue
Code.
      (38)   RESIDENT means an individual who is domiciled in the municipal
corporation as determined under §
36.232(E).
      (39)   S CORPORATION means a person that has made an election under
subchapter S of Chapter 1 of Subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code for its
taxable year.
      (40)   SCHEDULE C means Internal Revenue Service Schedule C (Form 1040)
filed by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (41)   SCHEDULE E means Internal Revenue Service Schedule E (Form 1040)
filed by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (42)   SCHEDULE F means Internal Revenue Service Schedule F (Form 1040)
filed by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (43)   SINGLE MEMBER LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY means a limited liability
company that has one direct member.
      (44)   SMALL EMPLOYER means any employer that had total revenue of less
than $500,000 during the preceding taxable year. For purposes of this
definition, TOTAL REVENUE means receipts of any type or kind, including, but
not limited to, sales receipts; payments; rents; profits; gains, dividends, and
other investment income; compensation; commissions; premiums; money; property;
grants; contributions; donations; gifts; program service revenue; patient
service revenue; premiums; fees, including premium fees and service fees;
tuition payments; unrelated business revenue; reimbursements; any type of
payment from a governmental unit, including grants and other allocations; and
any other similar receipts reported for federal income tax purposes or under
generally accepted accounting principles. SMALL EMPLOYER does not include the
federal government; any state government, including any state agency or
instrumentality; any political subdivision; or any entity treated as a
government for financial accounting and reporting purposes.
      (45)   TAX ADMINISTRATOR means the individual charged with direct
responsibility for administration of an income tax levied by West Alexandria in
accordance with these rules and regulations. A TAX ADMINISTRATOR also includes
the Regional Income Tax Agency.
      (46)   TAX RETURN PREPARER means any individual described in § 7701(a)
(36) of the Internal Revenue Code and 26 C.F.R. § 301.7701-15 .
      (47)   TAXABLE YEAR means the corresponding tax reporting period as
prescribed for the taxpayer under the Internal Revenue Code.
      (48)   (a)   TAXPAYER means a person subject to a tax levied on income by
a municipal corporation in accordance with these rules and regulations.
TAXPAYER does not include a grantor trust or, except as provided in division
(C)(48)(b)1. of this section, a disregarded entity.
         (b)   1.   A single member limited liability company that is a
disregarded entity for federal tax purposes may be a separate taxpayer from its
single member in all Ohio municipal corporations in which it either filed as a
separate taxpayer or did not file for its taxable year ending in 2003, if all
of the following conditions are met:
               a.   The limited liability company’s single member is also a
limited liability company;
               b.   The limited liability company and its single member were
formed and doing business in one or more Ohio municipal corporations for at
least five years before January 1, 2004;
               c.   Not later than December 31, 2004, the limited liability
company and its single member each made an election to be treated as a separate
taxpayer under R.C. § 718.01(L) as that section existed on December 31, 2004;
               d.   The limited liability company was not formed for the
purpose of evading or reducing Ohio municipal corporation income tax liability
of the limited liability company or its single member; and
               e.   The Ohio municipal corporation that was the primary place
of business of the sole member of the limited liability company consented to
the election.
            2.   For purposes of division (C)(48)(b)2.e. of this section, a
municipal corporation was the primary place of business of a limited liability
company if, for the limited liability company’s taxable year ending in 2003,
its income tax liability was greater in that municipal corporation than in any
other municipal corporation in Ohio, and that tax liability to that municipal
corporation for its taxable year ending in 2003 was at least $400,000.
      (49)   TAXPAYERS’ RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES means the rights provided
to taxpayers in §§
36.238,
36.241,
36.242,
36.248(B),
36.249,
36.250, and R.C. §§ 5717.011 and 5717.03, and the responsibilities of taxpayers
to file, report, withhold, remit and pay municipal income tax and otherwise
comply with R.C. Chapter 718 and resolutions, ordinances and rules and
regulations adopted by West Alexandria for the imposition and administration of
a municipal income tax.
      (50)   VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL (VLT) has the same meaning as in R.C. §
3770.21.
      (51)   VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL SALES AGENT means a lottery sales agent
licensed under R.C. Chapter 3770 to conduct video lottery terminals on behalf
of the state pursuant to R.C. § 3770.21.
(Ord. 917, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 36.232 IMPOSITION OF INCOME TAX.
   (A)   Individuals. Divisions (A) through (E) pertain to individuals. For
residents of West Alexandria, the income tax levied herein shall be on all
income, salaries, qualifying wages, commissions and other compensation from
whatever source earned or received by the resident, including the resident’s
distributive share of the net profit of pass-through entities owned directly or
indirectly by the resident and any net profit of the resident. This is further
detailed in the definition of income (§
36.231(C)(16)).
      (1)   Tax shall be levied on any resident of West Alexandria who is a
member or employee of the Ohio General Assembly, including the Lieutenant
Governor. The tax shall be levied on the income that is received as a result of
services rendered as such member or employee and is paid from appropriated
funds of this state. This tax can only be levied by the city of residence.
      (2)   Tax shall be levied by West Alexandria on the income of a judge
sitting by assignment of the Chief Justice or on the income of a district court
of appeals judge sitting in multiple locations within the district, received as
a result of services rendered as a judge. This tax can only be levied by the
municipality of residence.
      (3)   Tax shall be levied by West Alexandria on the income of the Chief
Justice or a justice of the Supreme Court received as a result of services
rendered as the chief justice or justice. This tax can only be levied by the
municipality of residence and the City of Columbus, and is subject to West
Alexandria’s credit provisions.
   (B)   Nonresidents. For nonresidents, all income, salaries, qualifying
wages, commissions and other compensation from whatever source earned or
received by the nonresident for work done, services performed or rendered, or
activities conducted in the municipal corporation, including any net profit of
the nonresident, but excluding the nonresident’s distributive share of the net
profit or loss of only pass- through entities owned directly or indirectly by
the nonresident.
   (C)   Reduction of income.
      (1)   For residents and nonresidents, income can be reduced to MUNICIPAL
TAXABLE INCOME as defined in §
36.231(C)(21). Exemptions which may apply are specified in §
36.231(C)(12).
      (2)   Income, and other compensation, includes but is not limited to:
         (a)   Tips received by waiters and others;
         (b)   Bonuses;
         (c)   Gifts or gratuities in connection with employment;
         (d)   Compensation paid to domestic servants (see §
36.233(B)(12) for withholding requirement), casual employees and other types of
employees;
         (e)   Fellowships, grants or stipends paid to a graduate in the full
amount, except that amount allocated in writing for tuition, books and
laboratory fees shall be excluded;
         (f)   Dismissal pay, severance pay, reduction-in-force pay and other
forms of termination pay;
         (g)   Retirement and other plans: employee contributions to retirement
plans are neither excludable nor deductible by the employee. Withholding
applies to the employee’s full compensation unreduced by an employee’s
contribution to a retirement plan. The same rules apply with respect to other
amounts withheld from employees and contributed to other types of plans;
         (h)   Stock options given as compensation and when exercised. The tax
is due to the municipality of the workplace and/or residence (i.e., if full
credit is not given by the resident municipality) at the time of the purchase.
The amount of taxable income is the difference between the price paid for the
stock and the fair market value of the stock at the time of purchase;
         (i)   Disqualifying disposition of an incentive stock option. The
taxpayer is responsible for payment of the tax if, at the time of the
disqualifying disposition, the municipal income tax was not withheld by the
corporation with respect to whose stock the option has been issued;
         (j)   Restricted stock given as compensation shall be taxed at the
fair market value at the time all restrictions lapse;
         (k)   Income from pass-through entities: initially taxed at entity
level. In regard to subchapter S corporations, a distribution from a subchapter
S corporation will be treated as wages if it was for services performed. If a
taxpayer does not claim such compensation as wages, RITA will treat the
distribution as wages to the extent that it is a fair wage for the services
performed;
         (l)   Royalty income: income earned by a taxpayer from a royalty
interest in the production of an oil or gas well, whether managed, extracted or
operated by the taxpayer individually or through an agent or other
representative, shall be included in the computation of net profits;
         (m)   Deferred compensation;
         (n)   Profit-sharing plans;
         (o)   Income derived from finance and carrying charges associated with
accounts receivable from customers;
         (p)   Federal Form 1099-MISC income;
         (q)   Payments made to employees by an employer as vacation, personal
or holiday wages are taxable. Payments made to an employee by an employer
directly under a wage continuation plan during periods of disability or
sickness are also taxable. All payments made under this provision are deemed to
be days spent in West Alexandria for purposes of taxation, and therefore are
not allocable to other municipalities; and
         (r)   Covenants not to compete and similar non-competition agreements.
   (D)   Refundable credit for nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      (1) As used in this division (D):
         (a)   NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN means a compensation
plan described in § 3121(v)(2)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         (b)   QUALIFYING LOSS means the amount of compensation attributable to
a taxpayer’s nonqualified deferred compensation plan, less the receipt of money
and property attributable to distributions from the nonqualified deferred
compensation plan. Full loss is sustained if no distribution of money and
property is made by the nonqualified deferred compensation plan. The taxpayer
sustains a qualifying loss only in the taxable year in which the taxpayer
receives the final distribution of money and property pursuant to that
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
         (c)   1.   QUALIFYING TAX RATE means the applicable tax rate for the
taxable year for the which the taxpayer paid income tax to West Alexandria with
respect to any portion of the total amount of compensation the payment of which
is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
            2.   If different tax rates applied for different taxable years,
then the “qualifying tax rate” is a weighted average of those different tax
rates. The weighted average shall be based upon the tax paid to West Alexandria
each year with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
         (d)   REFUNDABLE CREDIT means the amount of West Alexandria income tax
that was paid on the non-distributed portion, if any, of a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan.
      (2)   If, in addition to West Alexandria, a taxpayer has paid tax to
other municipal corporations with respect to the nonqualified deferred
compensation plan, the amount of the credit that a taxpayer may claim from each
municipal corporation shall be calculated on the basis of each municipal
corporation’s proportionate share of the total municipal corporation income tax
paid by the taxpayer to all municipal corporations with respect to the
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      (3)   In no case shall the amount of the credit allowed under this
section exceed the cumulative income tax that a taxpayer has paid to West
Alexandria for all taxable years with respect to the nonqualified deferred
compensation plan.
      (4)   The credit allowed under this division (D) is allowed only to the
extent the taxpayer’s qualifying loss is attributable to:
         (a)   The insolvency or bankruptcy of the employer who had established
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan; or
         (b)   The employee’s failure or inability to satisfy all of the
employer’s terms and conditions necessary to receive the nonqualified deferred
compensation.
   (E)   Domicile.
      (1)   (a)   An individual is presumed to be domiciled in West Alexandria
for all or part of a taxable year if the individual was domiciled in West
Alexandria on the last day of the immediately preceding taxable year or if the
Tax Administrator reasonably concludes that the individual is domiciled in West
Alexandria for all or part of the taxable year.
         (b)   An individual may rebut the presumption of domicile described in
division (E)(1)(a) of this section if the individual establishes by a
preponderance of the evidence that the individual was not domiciled in West
Alexandria for all or part of the taxable year.
      (2)   For the purpose of determining whether an individual is domiciled
in West Alexandria for all or part of a taxable year, primary factors that may
be considered include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The individual’s domicile in other taxable years;
         (b)   The location at which the individual is registered to vote;
         (c)   The address on the individual’s driver’s license;
         (d)   The location of real estate for which the individual claimed a
property tax exemption or reduction allowed on the basis of the individual’s
residence or domicile;
         (e)   The location and value of abodes owned or leased by the
individual;
         (f)   Declarations, written or oral, made by the individual regarding
the individual’s residency;
         (g)   The primary location at which the individual is employed;
         (h)   The location of educational institutions attended by the
individual’s dependents as defined in § 152 of the Internal Revenue Code, to
the extent that tuition paid to such educational institution is based on the
residency of the individual or the individual’s spouse in the municipal
corporation where the educational institution is located; and
         (i)   The number of contact periods the individual has with West
Alexandria. For the purposes of this division (E), an individual has one
“contact period” with West Alexandria if the individual is away overnight from
the individual’s abode located outside of West Alexandria and while away
overnight from that abode spends at least some portion, however minimal, of
each of two consecutive days in West Alexandria.
      (3)   Secondary factors that may be considered include the following:
         (a)   The location of financial institutions in which the individual
or the individual’s spouse have any accounts, including, but not limited to,
checking, savings, certificates of deposit or individual retirement accounts;
         (b)   The location of issuers of credit cards to the individual or the
individual’s spouse or of any other persons making installment loans to the
individual or the individual’s spouse;
         (c)   The location of institutional lenders which have made loans to,
or which are guaranteed by, the individual or the individual’s spouse;
         (d)   The location of investment facilities, brokerage firms,
realtors, financial advisors or consultants used by the individual or the
individual’s spouse;
         (e)   The location of either the insurance company that issued or the
insurance agent that sold any policy of insurance to the individual or the
individual’s spouse, including, but not limited to, life, health, disability,
automobile or homeowner’s insurance;
         (f)   The location of law firms, accounting firms and similar
professionals utilized by the individual or the individual’s spouse for legal,
tax, accounting, financial or retirement services;
         (g)   The location of physicians, dentists, osteopaths, optometrists
or other health care providers, or veterinarians utilized by the individual or
the individual’s spouse;
         (h)   The location of organizations described in § 501(c) of the
Internal Revenue Code to which the individual or the individual’s spouse make
contributions or other payments or in which they participate as a congregant,
member, board member, committee member, adviser or consultant;
         (i)   The location of burial plots owned by the individual or the
individual’s spouse;
         (j)   The location of business ventures or business entities in which
the individual or the individual’s spouse has a more than 25% ownership
interest or in which the individual exercises, either individually or jointly,
significant control over the affairs of the venture or entity;
         (k)   The recitation of residency or domicile in a will, trust or
other estate planning document;
         (l)   The location of the individual’s friends, dependents as defined
in § 152 of the Internal Revenue Code, and family members other than the
individual’s spouse, if the individual is not legally separated from the
individual’s spouse under a decree of divorce or separate maintenance as
provided in § 7703(a)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code;
         (m)   The location of trustees, executors, guardians or other
fiduciaries named in estate planning documents of the individual or the
individual’s spouse;
         (n)   The location of all businesses at which the individual or the
individual’s spouse makes purchases of tangible personal property;
         (o)   The location where the individual married; and
         (p)   The location or identity of recipients of political
contributions made by the individual or the individual’s spouse.
   (F)   Businesses. This division (F) pertains to businesses. This division
(F) applies to any taxpayer engaged in a business or profession in West
Alexandria, unless the taxpayer is an individual who resides in West Alexandria
or the taxpayer is an electric company, combined company, or telephone company
that is subject to and required to file reports under R.C. Chapter 5745.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (F)(3) of this section,
net profit from a business or profession conducted both within and without the
boundaries of West Alexandria shall be considered as having a taxable situs in
West Alexandria for purposes of municipal income taxation in the same
proportion as the average ratio of the following:
         (a)   1.   The average original cost of the real property and tangible
personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the business or profession
in West Alexandria during the taxable period to the average original cost of
all of the real and tangible personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in
the business or profession during the same period, wherever situated; and
            2.   As used in the division (F)(1)(a)1. of this section, tangible
personal or real property shall include property rented or leased by the
taxpayer and the value of such property shall be determined by multiplying the
annual rental thereon by eight.
         (b)   Wages, salaries and other compensation paid during the taxable
period to individuals employed in the business or profession for services
performed in West Alexandria to wages, salaries, and other compensation paid
during the same period to individuals employed in the business or profession,
wherever the individual’s services are performed, excluding compensation from
which taxes are not required to be withheld under §
36.233(C).
         (c)   Total gross receipts of the business or profession from sales
and rentals made and services performed during the taxable period in West
Alexandria to total gross receipts of the business or profession during the
same period from sales, rentals and services, wherever made or performed.
      (2)   The business allocation percentage shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Step 1 - Ascertain the percentage which the average original
cost of real and tangible personal property, including leasehold improvements
owned or used in the business and situated within West Alexandria, is of the
average original cost of all real and tangible personal property, including
leasehold improvements owned or used in the business wherever situated, during
the period covered by the return. The percentage of taxpayer’s real and
tangible personal property within West Alexandria is determined by dividing the
average original cost of such property within West Alexandria (without
deduction of any encumbrances) by the average original cost of all such
property within and without West Alexandria. In determining such percentage,
property rented by the taxpayer, as well as real and tangible personal property
owned by the taxpayer, must be considered.
            1.   The original cost of real and tangible personal property
rented by the taxpayer shall be determined by multiplying gross annual rents
payable by eight.
            2.   Gross rent means the actual sum of money or other
consideration payable, directly or indirectly, by the taxpayer for the use and
possession of property and includes:
               a.   Any amount payable for the use or possession of real and
tangible personal property or any part thereof, whether designated as a fixed
sum of money or as a percentage of sales profits or otherwise; and
               b.   Any amount payable as additional rent or in lieu of rent
such as interest, taxes, insurance, repairs or other amounts required to be
paid by the terms of a lease or other arrangement.
         (b)   Step 2 - Ascertain the percentage which the total wages,
salaries commissions and other compensation of employees within West Alexandria
is of the total wages, salaries, commissions and other compensation of all the
taxpayer’s employees within and without West Alexandria during the period
covered by the return.
            1.   Wages, salaries and other compensation may be computed on the
cash or accrual basis. Wages, salaries and other compensation shall be included
to the extent that they represent qualifying wages.
            2.   In the case of an employee who performs services both within
and without West Alexandria, the amount treated as compensation for services
performed within West Alexandria shall be deemed to be:
               a.   In the case of an employee whose compensation depends
directly on the volume of business secured by him or her, such as a salesman on
a commission basis, the amount earned or received by him or her for the
business attributable to his or her efforts within West Alexandria; and
               b.   In the case of an employee whose compensation depends on
other than the volume of business transacted, the proportion of the total
amount compensation received by him or her which is his or her for working time
within West Alexandria of his or her total working time.
            3.   For the purpose of the computation, wages should include a
reasonable amount attributable to the services of executives, officers, and
owners (see division (F)(2)(b)2. of this section) for the amount treated as
compensation for services performed within West Alexandria.
            4.   As used in division (F)(1)(b) of this section, WAGES, SALARIES
AND OTHER COMPENSATION includes only wages, salaries or other compensation paid
to an employee for services performed at any of the following locations:
               a.   A location that is owned, controlled or used by, rented to
or under the possession of one of the following:
                  i.   The employer;
                  ii.   A vendor, customer, client or patient of the employer,
or a related member of such a vendor, customer, client or patient; and
                  iii.   A vendor, customer, client or patient of a person
described in division (F)(2)(b)4.a.ii. of this section, or a related member of
such a vendor, customer, client or patient.
               b.   Any location at which a trial, appeal, hearing,
investigation, inquiry, review, court-martial or similar administrative,
judicial or legislative matter or proceeding is being conducted, provided that
the compensation is paid for services performed for, or on behalf of, the
employer or that the employee’s presence at the location directly or indirectly
benefits the employer;
               c.   Any other location, if the Tax Administrator determines
that the employer directed the employee to perform the services at the other
location in lieu of a location described in division (F)(2)(b)4.a. or (F)(2)
(b)4.b. of this section solely in order to avoid or reduce the employer’s
municipal income tax liability. If the Tax Administrator makes such a
determination, the employer may dispute the determination by establishing, by a
preponderance of the evidence, that the Tax Administrator’s determination was
unreasonable.
         (c)   Step 3 - Ascertain the percentage which the gross receipts of
the taxpayer derived from sales and rentals made and services performed in West
Alexandria is of the total gross receipts wherever derived during the period
covered by the return. In the application of the following sales determination
factors, a carrier shall be considered the agent of the seller regardless of
the FOB point or other conditions of the sale and the place at which orders are
accepted or contracts legally consummated shall be immaterial. Solicitations of
customers outside of West Alexandria by mail, telephone or otherwise
electronically from an office or place of business within West Alexandria shall
not be considered a solicitation of sales outside West Alexandria. For the
purposes of this division (F), receipts from sales and rentals made and
services performed shall be sitused to West Alexandria as follows:
            1.   Gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property
shall be sitused to the municipal corporation in which the sale originated. For
the purposes of this division (F), a sale of property originates in West
Alexandria if, regardless of where title passes, the property meets any of the
following criteria:
               a.   The property is shipped to or delivered within West
Alexandria from a stock of goods located within West Alexandria.
               b.   The property is delivered within West Alexandria from a
location outside West Alexandria, provided the taxpayer is regularly engaged
through its own employees in the solicitation or promotion of sales within West
Alexandria and the sales result from such solicitation or promotion; and
               c.   The property is shipped from a place within West Alexandria
to purchasers outside West Alexandria, provided that the taxpayer is not,
through its own employees, regularly engaged in the solicitation or promotion
of sales at the place where delivery is made.
            2.   Gross receipts from the sale of services shall be sitused to
West Alexandria to the extent that such services are performed in West
Alexandria;
            3.   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from the sale
of real property located in West Alexandria shall be sitused to West
Alexandria;
            4.   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from rents
and royalties from real property located in West Alexandria shall be sitused to
West Alexandria; and
            5.   Gross receipts from rents and royalties from tangible personal
property shall be sitused to West Alexandria based upon the extent to which the
tangible personal property is used in West Alexandria.
         (d)   Step 4 - Add the percentages determined in accordance with Steps
1, 2 and 3, or such of the aforesaid percentages as may be applicable to the
particular taxpayer’s business, and divide the total so obtained by the number
of percentages used in ascertaining said total. The result so obtained is the
business allocation percentage. In determining the average percentage, a factor
shall not be excluded from the computation merely because said factor is found
to be allocable entirely outside West Alexandria. A factor is excluded only
when it does not exist anywhere.
         (e)   Step 5 - The business allocation percentage determined in Step 4
above shall be applied to the entire taxable net profits of the taxpayer
wherever derived to determine the net profits allocable to West Alexandria.
      (3)   (a)   If the apportionment factors described in division (F)(1) of
this section do not fairly represent the extent of a taxpayer’s business
activity in West Alexandria, the taxpayer may request, or the Tax Administrator
of West Alexandria may require, that the taxpayer use, with respect to all or
any portion of the income of the taxpayer, an alternative apportionment method
involving one or more of the following:
            1.   Separate accounting (i.e., books and records). If the
Administrator approves the use of books and records as an alternative method,
the following shall apply:
               a.   The net profits allocable to West Alexandria from business,
professional or other activities conducted in West Alexandria by corporations
or unincorporated entities (whether resident or nonresident) may be determined
from the records of the taxpayer only if the taxpayer has bona fide records
which disclose with reasonable accuracy what portion of his or her net profits
is attributable to that part of his or her activities conducted within West
Alexandria;
               b.   If the books and records of the taxpayer are used as the
basis for apportioning net profits, a statement must accompany the return
explaining the manner in which such apportionment is made in sufficient detail
to enable the Administrator to determine whether the net profits attributable
to West Alexandria are apportioned with reasonable accuracy; and
               c.   In determining the income allocable to West Alexandria from
the books and records of a taxpayer, an adjustment may be made for the
contribution made to the production of such income by headquarters activities
of the taxpayer, whether such headquarters is within or without West
Alexandria.
            2.   The exclusion of one or more of the factors;
            3.   The inclusion of one or more additional factors that would
provide for a more fair apportionment of the income of the taxpayer to the
municipal corporation; and
            4.   A modification of one or more of the factors.
         (b)   A taxpayer request to use an alternative apportionment method
shall be in writing and shall accompany a tax return, timely filed appeal of an
assessment or timely filed amended tax return. Such written request
accompanying a tax return or timely filed amended tax return must be addressed
to the business manager and shall be attached as the first page of the tax
return or timely filed amended tax return to which it applies. The taxpayer may
use the requested alternative method unless the Tax Administrator denies the
request in an assessment issued within the period prescribed by §
36.241(A).
         (c)   The Tax Administrator may require a taxpayer to use an
alternative apportionment method as described in division (F)(3)(a) of this
section, but only by issuing an assessment to the taxpayer within the period
prescribed by §
36.241(A).
         (d)   Nothing in division (F)(3) of this section nullifies or
otherwise affects any alternative apportionment arrangement approved by the Tax
Administrator or otherwise agreed upon by both the Tax Administrator and
taxpayer before January 1, 2016.
      (4)   The net profit received by an individual taxpayer from the rental
of real estate owned directly by the individual, or by a disregarded entity
owned by the individual, shall be subject to West Alexandria’s tax only if the
property generating the net profit is located in West Alexandria or if the
individual taxpayer that receives the net profit is a resident of West
Alexandria. West Alexandria shall allow such taxpayers to elect to use separate
accounting for the purpose of calculating net profit sitused under this
division (F) to the municipal corporation in which the property is located.
      (5)   (a)   Commissions received by a real estate agent or broker
relating to the sale, purchase or lease of real estate shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation in which the real estate is located. Net profit reported
by the real estate agent or broker shall be allocated to West Alexandria, if
applicable, based upon the ratio of the commissions the agent or broker
received from the sale, purchase or lease of real estate located in West
Alexandria to the commissions received from the sale, purchase or lease of real
estate everywhere in the taxable year.
         (b)   An individual who is a resident of West Alexandria shall report
the individual’s net profit from all real estate activity on the individual’s
annual tax return for West Alexandria. The individual may claim a credit for
taxes the individual paid on such net profit to another municipal corporation
to the extent that such a credit is allowed under West Alexandria’s income tax
regulations.
      (6)   When calculating the ratios described in division (F)(1) of this
section for the purposes of that division or division (F)(2) of this section,
the owner of a disregarded entity shall include in the owner’s ratios the
property, payroll and gross receipts of such disregarded entity.
      (7)   (a)   Intentionally left blank. This indicates that stock options
are not exempt from tax. If they are exempt, the following language applies.
If, in computing a taxpayer’s adjusted federal taxable income, the taxpayer
deducted any amount with respect to a stock option granted to an employee, and
if the employee is not required to include in the employee’s income any such
amount or a portion thereof because it is exempted from taxation under R.C. §
718.01(C)(12) and (R)(1)(d) by a municipal corporation to which the taxpayer
has apportioned a portion of its net profit, the taxpayer shall add the amount
that is exempt from taxation to the taxpayer’s net profit that was apportioned
to that municipal corporation. In no case shall a taxpayer be required to add
to its net profit that was apportioned to that municipal corporation any amount
other than the amount upon which the employee would be required to pay tax were
the amount related to the stock option not exempted from taxation.
         (b)   This division (F)(7) applies solely for the purpose of making an
adjustment to the amount of a taxpayer’s net profit that was apportioned to a
municipal corporation under this section.
(Ord. 917, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 36.233 COLLECTIONS AT SOURCE.
   (A)   Withholding provisions.
      (1)   Each employer, agent of an employer, or other payer located or
doing business in West Alexandria shall withhold an income tax from the
qualifying wages earned and/or received by each employee in West Alexandria.
Except for qualifying wages for which withholding is not required under §
36.232 or division (B)(4) or (B)(6) of this section, the tax shall be withheld
at the rate, specified in §
36.232 of these rules and regulations, of [insert percentage number]%. An
employer, agent of an employer or other payer shall deduct and withhold the tax
from qualifying wages on the date that the employer, agent or other payer
directly, indirectly or constructively pays the qualifying wages to, or credits
the qualifying wages to the benefit of, the employee.
      (2)   In addition to withholding the amounts required under division (A)
(1) of this section, an employer, agent of an employer or other payer may also
deduct and withhold, on the request of an employee, taxes for the municipal
corporation in which the employee is a resident. This shall be considered to be
a courtesy withholding.
   (B)   Schedule.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, an employer,
agent of an employer or other payer shall remit to the Tax Administrator of
West Alexandria the greater of the income taxes deducted and withheld or the
income taxes required to be deducted and withheld by the employer, agent or
other payer according to the following schedule:
         (a)   1.   Taxes required to be deducted and withheld shall be
remitted monthly to the Tax Administrator if the total taxes deducted and
withheld or required to be deducted and withheld by the employer, agent or
other payer on behalf of West Alexandria in the preceding calendar year
exceeded $2,399, or if the total amount of taxes deducted and withheld or
required to be deducted and withheld on behalf of West Alexandria in any month
of the preceding calendar quarter exceeded $200; and
            2.   Payment under division (B)(1)(a) of this section shall be made
so that the payment is received by the Tax Administrator not later than 15 days
after the last day of each month for which the tax was withheld.
         (b)   Any employer, agent of an employer or other payer not required
to make payments under division (B)(1)(a) of this section of taxes required to
be deducted and withheld shall make quarterly payments to the Tax Administrator
not later than the fifteenth day of the month following the end of each
calendar quarter;
         (c)   Intentionally left blank. If, however, West Alexandria requires
semi-monthly withholding, in accordance with West Alexandria’s ordinance, then
the intentionally left blank language shall be replaced with the following.
Notwithstanding the provisions of division (B)(1)(a)and (B)(1)(b) of this
section, taxes required to be deducted and withheld shall be remitted
semimonthly to the Tax Administrator if the total taxes deducted and withheld
or required to be deducted and withheld on behalf of West Alexandria in the
preceding calendar year exceeded $11,999, or if in any month of the preceding
calendar year exceeded $1,000. Payment under division (B)(1)(c) of this section
shall be made so that the payment is received by the Tax Administrator not
later than one of the following:
            1.   If the taxes were deducted and withheld or required to be
deducted and withheld during the first 15 days of a month, the third banking
day after the fifteenth day of that month; and
            2.   If the taxes were deducted and withheld or required to be
deducted and withheld after the fifteenth day of a month and before the first
day of the immediately following month, the third banking day after the last
day of the month.
      (2)   If the employer, agent of an employer or other payer is required to
make payments electronically for the purpose of paying federal taxes withheld
on payments to employees under § 6302 of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 C.F.R.
31.6302-1, or any other federal statute or regulation, the payment shall be
made by electronic funds transfer to the Tax Administrator of all taxes
deducted and withheld on behalf of West Alexandria. The payment of tax by
electronic funds transfer under this division (B) does not affect an
employer’s, agent’s or other payer’s obligation to file any return as required
under this section.
      (3)   An employer, agent of an employer or other payer shall make and
file a return showing the amount of tax withheld by the employer, agent, or
other payer from the qualifying wages of each employee and remitted to the Tax
Administrator. A return filed by an employer, agent, or other payer under this
division (B) shall be accepted by the Tax Administrator and this municipality
as the return required of a nonresident employee whose sole income subject to
the tax under these rules and regulations is the qualifying wages reported by
the employee’s employer, agent of an employer or other payer.
      (4)   An employer, agent of an employer or other payer is not required to
withhold West Alexandria income tax with respect to an individual’s
disqualifying disposition of an incentive stock option if, at the time of the
disqualifying disposition, the individual is not an employee of either the
corporation with respect to whose stock the option has been issued or of such
corporation’s successor entity.
      (5)   (a)   An employee is not relieved from liability for a tax by the
failure of the employer, agent of an employer or other payer to withhold the
tax as required under these rules and regulations or by the employer’s, agent’s
or other payer’s exemption from the requirement to withhold the tax.
         (b)   The failure of an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer
to remit to West Alexandria the tax withheld relieves the employee from
liability for that tax unless the employee colluded with the employer, agent,
or other payer in connection with the failure to remit the tax withheld.
      (6)   Compensation deferred before June 26, 2003, is not subject to West
Alexandria income tax or income tax withholding requirement to the extent the
deferred compensation does not constitute qualifying wages at the time the
deferred compensation is paid or distributed.
      (7)   Each employer, agent of an employer or other payer required to
withhold taxes is liable for the payment of that amount required to be
withheld, whether or not such taxes have been withheld, and such amount shall
be deemed to be held in trust for West Alexandria until such time as the
withheld amount is remitted to the Tax Administrator.
      (8)   On or before the last day of February of each year, an employer
shall file a withholding reconciliation return with the Tax Administrator
listing:
         (a)   The names, addresses and social security numbers of all
employees from whose qualifying wages tax was withheld or should have been
withheld for West Alexandria during the preceding calendar year;
         (b)   The amount of tax withheld, if any, from each such employee, the
total amount of qualifying wages paid to such employee during the preceding
calendar year;
         (c)   The name of every other municipal corporation for which tax was
withheld or should have been withheld from such employee during the preceding
calendar year;
         (d)   Any other information required for federal income tax reporting
purposes on Internal Revenue Service Form W-2 or its equivalent form with
respect to such employee; and
         (e)   Other information as may be required by the Tax Administrator.
      (9)   The officer or the employee of the employer, agent of an employer
or other payer with control or direct supervision of or charged with the
responsibility for withholding the tax or filing the reports and making
payments as required by this section, shall be personally liable for a failure
to file a report or pay the tax due as required by this section. The
dissolution of an employer, agent of an employer or other payer does not
discharge the officer’s or employee’s liability for a failure of the employer,
agent of an employer or other payer to file returns or pay any tax due.
Further, the liquidation, bankruptcy and reorganization such as merger,
consolidation, acquisition, transfer or change in identity, form or
organization does not discharge the officer’s or employee’s liability for a
failure of the employer, agent of an employer or other payer to file returns or
pay any tax due.
      (10)   An employer is required to deduct and withhold West Alexandria
income tax on tips and gratuities received by the employer’s employees and
constituting qualifying wages, but only to the extent that the tips and
gratuities are under the employer’s control. For the purposes of this division
(B)(10), a tip or gratuity is under the employer’s control if the tip or
gratuity is paid by the customer to the employer for subsequent remittance to
the employee, or if the customer pays the tip or gratuity by credit card, debit
card or other electronic means.
      (11)   The Tax Administrator shall consider any tax withheld by an
employer at the request of an employee, when such tax is not otherwise required
to be withheld by these rules and regulations, to be tax required to be
withheld and remitted for the purposes of this section.
      (12)   A person who employs domestic help for such person’s private
residence shall not be considered an employer of the domestic for municipal
income tax withholding purposes, and shall not be required to withhold and/or
remit municipal income tax on behalf of the domestic help.
      (13)   Overwithholding of former employees.
         (a)   If the overwithholding is discovered in the same month, the
employer shall make the necessary adjustment directly with the employee and the
amount to be reported on the employer’s municipal tax withholding statement
(Form 11) as withheld shall be the corrected amount.
         (b)   If the overwithholding is discovered in a subsequent month of
the same calendar year, the employer may make proper adjustment with the
employee. In such case, the employer’s municipal tax withholding statement for
the month in which the adjustment is made shall reflect the total amount
actually withheld for the month and the amount of the adjustment deducted
therefrom. Also, an amended Form 11 must be filed for the month in which the
error occurred reflecting the adjustment.
         (c)   If the overwithholding is discovered in a subsequent month of
the following calendar year, the employee must make and file a request for a
refund. This request is to be filed on a form prescribed by and obtainable from
the Tax Administrator.
      (14)   Overwithholding of former employees.
         (a)   In the cases where an amount in excess of the tax has been
withheld from an employee who is no longer employed by the employer, the Tax
Administrator shall refund the amount of such excess withholding to the
employer.
         (b)   If the error is discovered by the employee, such employee shall
file a claim with the Tax Administrator and upon verification thereof by the
employer, the Tax Administrator shall refund the amount of such excess
withholding to the employee.
      (15)   Insufficient withholding: if less than the amount of tax required
to be deducted is withheld from the employee and is discovered in the same
year, such deficiency shall be withheld from subsequent wages. If the employee/
employer relationship has terminated, or if the underwithholding is discovered
in a later year and the employee/employer relationship still exists, the
employer shall notify the Administrator of such deficiency and the reason
therefore, and payment shall be made by the employer in conformity with this
section of these rules and regulations.
      (16)   All employers that provide any contractual service within West
Alexandria, and who employ subcontractors in conjunction with that service,
shall provide West Alexandria the names and addresses of the subcontractors.
The subcontractors shall be responsible for all income tax withholding
requirements under West Alexandria’s ordinance.
      (17)   (a)   The Regional Income Tax Agency requires all employers
issuing 250 or more W-2s in any tax year to file W-2s on electronic media.
Employers filing fewer than 250 W-2s are encouraged but are not required to
remit W-2 Forms electronically. All electronically submitted W-2s must conform
to the Social Security Administration’s (SSA) Specifications for Filing Forms
W-2 Electronically (EFW2) guidelines which can be obtained from the Social
Security Administration internet page, www.ssa.gov/employer. RITA guidelines
can be obtained from the RITA web site www.ritaohio.com. Also required to file
on electronic media are employers with 250 or more 1099-MISC Forms, and those
employers currently filing 100 or more 1099-MISC Forms electronically with SSA.
Employers not required to file 1099-MISC Forms electronically shall file paper
copies of the 1099-MISC Forms, or shall file a list of all 1099-MISC Forms
issued by the employer. The list shall include all information contained on
each 1099-MISC Form issued.
         (b)   Those employers using Form W-2 furnished commercially may submit
a copy of such commercial W-2 providing the copy furnished to West Alexandria
through its agent, the Regional Income Tax Agency, clearly shows the
information required in §
36.233(B)(8).
         (c)   Those employers not using Form W-2 furnished commercially may
obtain forms upon request from the Administrator.
         (d)   Where the furnishing of this information as above indicated will
create a distinct hardship, the employer, upon written request to the
Administrator, may be permitted to furnish a list of all employees subject to
the tax, which shall show the employee’s full name, last known address, social
security number, gross amount of qualifying wages paid during the year and the
amount of municipal income tax withheld for West Alexandria.
         (e)   Upon written request made to the Administrator on or before the
due date set forward in §
36.233(B)(8) of the regulations, in a format to be prescribed by the
Administrator, the information included in §
36.233(B)(8) of these regulations may be submitted electronically at
www.ritaohio.com or by CD-ROM, DVDs or on paper. USB drives will not be
accepted.
   (C)   Occasional entrant - withholding.
      (1) As used in this division (C):
         (a)   EMPLOYER includes a person that is a related member to or of an
employer.
         (b)   FIXED LOCATION means a permanent place of doing business in this
state, such as an office, warehouse, storefront or similar location owned or
controlled by an employer.
         (c)   1.   PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the fixed location to which
an employee is required to report for employment duties on a regular and
ordinary basis. If the employee is not required to report for employment duties
on a regular and ordinary basis to a fixed location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK
means the worksite location in this state to which the employee is required to
report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis. If the employee
is not required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis
to a fixed location or worksite location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the
location in this state at which the employee spends the greatest number of days
in a calendar year performing services for or on behalf of the employee’s
employer.
            2.   a.   If there is not a single municipal corporation in which
the employee spent the “greatest number of days in a calendar year” performing
services for or on behalf of the employer, but instead there are two or more
municipal corporations in which the employee spent an identical number of days
that is greater than the number of days the employee spent in any other
municipal corporation, the employer shall allocate any of the employee’s
qualifying wages subject to division (C)(2)(a)1. of this section among those
two or more municipal corporations. The allocation shall be made using any fair
and reasonable method, including, but not limited to, an equal allocation among
such municipal corporations or an allocation based upon the time spent or sales
made by the employee in each such municipal corporation. A municipal
corporation to which qualifying wages are allocated under this division (C)
shall be the employee’s “principal place of work” with respect to those
qualifying wages for the purposes of this section.
               b.   For the purposes of this division (C), the location at
which an employee spends a particular day shall be determined in accordance
with division (C)(2)(b) of this section, except that “location” shall be
substituted for “municipal corporation” wherever “municipal corporation”
appears in that division.
         (d)   PROFESSIONAL ATHLETE means an athlete who performs services in a
professional athletic event for wages or other remuneration.
         (e)   PROFESSIONAL ENTERTAINER means a person who performs services in
the professional performing arts for wages or other remuneration on a per-event
basis.
         (f)   PUBLIC FIGURE means a person of prominence who performs services
at discrete events, such as speeches, public appearances or similar events, for
wages or other remuneration on a per- event basis.
         (g)   WORKSITE LOCATION means a construction site or other temporary
worksite in this state at which the employer provides services for more than 20
days during the calendar year. WORKSITE LOCATION does not include the home of
an employee.
      (2)   (a)   Subject to divisions (C)(3), (C)(5) and (C)(6) of this
section, an employer is not required to withhold West Alexandria income tax on
qualifying wages paid to an employee for the performance of personal services
in West Alexandria if the employee performed such services in West Alexandria
on 20 or fewer days in a calendar year, unless one of the following conditions
applies:
            1.   The employee’s principal place of work is located in West
Alexandria;
            2.   The employee performed services at one or more presumed
worksite locations in West Alexandria. For the purposes of this division (C),
PRESUMED WORKSITE LOCATION means a construction site or other temporary
worksite in West Alexandria at which the employer provides or provided services
that can reasonably be, or would have been, expected by the employer to last
more than 20 days in a calendar year. Services can “reasonably be expected by
the employer to last more than 20 days” if either of the following applies at
the time the services commence:
               a.   The nature of the services are such that it will require
more than 20 days of the services to complete the services; or
               b.   The agreement between the employer and its customer to
perform services at a location requires the employer to perform the services at
the location for more than 20 days.
            3.   The employee is a resident of West Alexandria and has
requested that the employer withhold tax from the employee’s qualifying wages
as provided in this section; or
            4.   The employee is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer or public figure, and the qualifying wages are paid for the
performance of services in the employee’s capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer or public figure.
         (b)   For the purposes of division (C)(2)(a) of this section, an
employee shall be considered to have spent a day performing services in West
Alexandria only if the employee spent more time performing services for or on
behalf of the employer in West Alexandria than in any other municipal
corporation on that day. For the purposes of determining the amount of time an
employee spent in a particular location, the time spent performing one or more
of the following activities shall be considered to have been spent at the
employee’s principal place of work:
            1.   Traveling to the location at which the employee will first
perform services for the employer for the day;
            2.   Traveling from a location at which the employee was performing
services for the employer to any other location;
            3.   Traveling from any location to another location in order to
pick up or load, for the purpose of transportation or delivery, property that
has been purchased, sold, assembled, fabricated, repaired, refurbished,
processed, remanufactured or improved by the employee’s employer;
            4.   Transporting or delivering property described in division (C)
(2)(b)3. of this section, provided that, upon delivery of the property, the
employee does not temporarily or permanently affix the property to real estate
owned, used or controlled by a person other than the employee’s employer; and
            5.   Traveling from the location at which the employee makes the
employee’s final delivery or pick-up for the day to either the employee’s
principal place of work or a location at which the employee will not perform
services for the employer.
      (3)   If the principal place of work of an employee is located in another
Ohio municipal corporation that imposes an income tax, the exception from
withholding requirements described in division (C)(2)(a) of this section shall
apply only if, with respect to the employee’s qualifying wages described in
that division, the employer withholds and remits tax on such qualifying wages
to that municipal corporation.
      (4)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(4)(b) of this section, if,
during a calendar year, the number of days an employee spends performing
personal services in West Alexandria exceeds the 20-day threshold, the employer
shall withhold and remit tax to West Alexandria for any subsequent days in that
calendar year on which the employer pays qualifying wages to the employee for
personal services performed in West Alexandria.
         (b)   An employer required to begin withholding tax for West
Alexandria under division (C)(4)(a) of this section may elect to withhold tax
for West Alexandria for the first 20 days on which the employer paid qualifying
wages to the employee for personal services performed in West Alexandria.
      (5)   If an employer’s fixed location is West Alexandria and the employer
qualifies as a small employer as defined in §
36.231, the employer shall withhold municipal income tax on all of the
employee’s qualifying wages for a taxable year and remit that tax only to West
Alexandria, regardless of the number of days which the employee worked outside
the corporate boundaries of West Alexandria.
To determine whether an employer qualifies as a small employer for a taxable
year, the employer will be required to provide the Tax Administrator with the
employer’s federal income tax return for the preceding taxable year.
      (6)   Divisions (C)(2)(a) and (C)(2)(b) of this section shall not apply
to the extent that the Tax Administrator and an employer enter into an
agreement regarding the manner in which the employer shall comply with the
requirements of this section.
   (D)   Casino/racino - withholding. For any RITA member that requires
withholding tax from casinos and/or racinos, the provisions which follow shall
be applicable.
      (1)   This municipality shall require a casino facility or a casino
operator, as defined in § 6(C)(9) of Article XV, Ohio Constitution, and R.C. §
3772.01, respectively, or a lottery sales agent conducting video lottery
terminals on behalf of the state to withhold and remit this municipality income
tax with respect to amounts other than qualifying wages as provided in this
section.
      (2)   If a person’s winnings at a casino facility are an amount for which
reporting to the Internal Revenue Service of the amount is required by § 6041
of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, the casino operator shall deduct and
withhold this municipality income tax from the person’s winnings at the rate of
the tax imposed by this municipality.
      (3)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a casino operator for this
municipality are held in trust for the benefit of this municipality.
         (a)   On or before the tenth day of each month, the casino operator
shall file a return electronically with the Tax Administrator of this
municipality, providing the name, address and social security number of the
person from whose winnings amounts were deducted and withheld, the amount of
each such deduction and withholding during the preceding calendar month, the
amount of the winnings from which each such amount was withheld, the type of
casino gaming that resulted in such winnings, and any other information
required by the Tax Administrator. With this return, the casino operator shall
remit electronically to this municipality all amounts deducted and withheld
during the preceding month.
         (b)   Annually, on or before January 31, a casino operator shall file
an annual return electronically with the Tax Administrator of this municipality
in which the casino facility is located, indicating the total amount deducted
and withheld during the preceding calendar year. The casino operator shall
remit electronically with the annual return any amount that was deducted and
withheld and that was not previously remitted. If the name, address or social
security number of a person or the amount deducted and withheld with respect to
that person was omitted on a monthly return for that reporting period, that
information shall be indicated on the annual return.
         (c)   Annually, on or before January 31, a casino operator shall issue
an information return to each person with respect to whom an amount has been
deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year. The information
return shall show the total amount of municipal income tax deducted from the
person’s winnings during the preceding year. The casino operator shall provide
to the Tax Administrator a copy of each information return issued under this
division (D). The Tax Administrator may require that such copies be transmitted
electronically.
         (d)   A casino operator that fails to file a return and remit the
amounts deducted and withheld shall be personally liable for the amount
withheld and not remitted. Such personal liability extends to any penalty and
interest imposed for the late filing of a return or the late payment of tax
deducted and withheld.
         (e)   If a casino operator sells the casino facility or otherwise
quits the casino business, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any
penalties and interest thereon are immediately due and payable. The successor
shall withhold an amount of the purchase money that is sufficient to cover the
amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties and interest thereon
until the predecessor casino operator produces either of the following:
            1.   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid; or
            2.   a.   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that
no amounts are due.
               b.   If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the
successor is personally liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and
withheld and penalties and interest thereon.
         (f)   The failure of a casino operator to deduct and withhold the
required amount from a person’s winnings does not relieve that person from
liability for the municipal income tax with respect to those winnings.
      (4)   If a person’s prize award from a video lottery terminal is an
amount for which reporting to the Internal Revenue Service is required by §
6041 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, the video lottery sales agent
shall deduct and withhold municipal income tax from the person’s prize award at
the rate of the tax imposed by this municipality in which the video lottery
terminal facility is located.
      (5)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a video lottery sales agent are
held in trust for the benefit of this municipality.
         (a)   The video lottery sales agent shall issue to a person from whose
prize award an amount has been deducted and withheld a receipt for the amount
deducted and withheld, and shall obtain from the person receiving a prize award
the person’s name, address and social security number in order to facilitate
the preparation of returns required by this section.
         (b)   On or before the tenth day of each month, the video lottery
sales agent shall file a return electronically with the Tax Administrator of
this municipality providing the names, addresses and social security numbers of
the persons from whose prize awards amounts were deducted and withheld, the
amount of each such deduction and withholding during the preceding calendar
month, the amount of the prize award from which each such amount was withheld,
and any other information required by the Tax Administrator. With the return,
the video lottery sales agent shall remit electronically to the Tax
Administrator all amounts deducted and withheld during the preceding month.
         (c)   A video lottery sales agent shall maintain a record of all
receipts issued under division (D)(5) of this section and shall make those
records available to the Tax Administrator upon request. Such records shall be
maintained in accordance with R.C. § 5747.17 and any rules adopted pursuant
thereto.
         (d)   Annually, on or before January 31, each video lottery terminal
sales agent shall file an annual return electronically with the Tax
Administrator of this municipality in which the facility is located indicating
the total amount deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year. The
video lottery sales agent shall remit electronically with the annual return any
amount that was deducted and withheld and that was not previously remitted. If
the name, address or social security number of a person or the amount deducted
and withheld with respect to that person was omitted on a monthly return for
that reporting period, that information shall be indicated on the annual
return.
         (e)   Annually, on or before January 31, a video lottery sales agent
shall issue an information return to each person with respect to whom an amount
has been deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year. The
information return shall show the total amount of municipal income tax deducted
and withheld from the person’s prize award by the video lottery sales agent
during the preceding year. A video lottery sales agent shall provide to the Tax
Administrator of this municipality a copy of each information return issued
under this division (D). The Tax Administrator may require that such copies be
transmitted electronically.
         (f)   A video lottery sales agent who fails to file a return and remit
the amounts deducted and withheld is personally liable for the amount deducted
and withheld and not remitted. Such personal liability extends to any penalty
and interest imposed for the late filing of a return or the late payment of tax
deducted and withheld.
      (6)   If a video lottery sales agent ceases to operate video lottery
terminals, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties and
interest thereon are immediately due and payable. The successor of the video
lottery sales agent that purchases the video lottery terminals from the agent
shall withhold an amount from the purchase money that is sufficient to cover
the amounts deducted and withheld and any penalties and interest thereon until
the predecessor video lottery sales agent operator produces either of the
following:
         (a)   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid; or
         (b)   1.   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that no
amounts are due.
            2.   If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the
successor is personally liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and
withheld and penalties and interest thereon.
      (7)   The failure of a video lottery sales agent to deduct and withhold
the required amount from a person’s prize award does not relieve that person
from liability for the municipal income tax with respect to that prize award.
      (8)   If a casino operator or lottery sales agent files a return late,
fails to file a return, remits amounts deducted and withheld late, or fails to
remit amounts deducted and withheld as required under this section, the Tax
Administrator of a municipal corporation may impose the following applicable
penalty:
         (a)   For the late remittance of, or failure to remit, tax deducted
and withheld under this section, a penalty equal to 50% of the tax deducted and
withheld; and
         (b)   For the failure to file, or the late filing of, a monthly or
annual return, a penalty of $500 for each return not filed or filed late.
Interest shall accrue on past due amounts deducted and withheld at the rate
prescribed in R.C. § 5703.47.
      (9)   Amounts deducted and withheld on behalf of a municipal corporation
shall be allowed as a credit against payment of the tax imposed by this
municipality and shall be treated as taxes paid for purposes of R.C. § 718.08.
This division (D)(9) applies only to the person for whom the amount is deducted
and withheld.
      (10)   The Tax Administrator shall prescribe the forms of the receipts
and returns required under this section.
(Ord. 917, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 36.234 ANNUAL RETURNS.
   (A)   An annual this municipality income tax return shall be completed and
filed by every individual taxpayer 18 years of age or older, and any taxpayer
that is not an individual, for each taxable year for which the taxpayer is
subject to the tax, whether or not a tax is due thereon.
      (1)   The Tax Administrator may accept on behalf of all nonresident
individual taxpayers a return filed by an employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer under §
36.233 of these rules and regulations when the nonresident individual
taxpayer’s sole income subject to the tax is the qualifying wages reported by
the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer, and no additional tax is
due this municipality.
      (2)   Retirees having no municipal taxable income for this municipality
income tax purposes may file with the Tax Administrator a written exemption
from these filing requirements on a form prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
The written exemption shall indicate the date of retirement and the entity from
which retired. The exemption shall be in effect until such time as the retiree
receives municipal taxable income taxable to this municipality, at which time
the retiree shall be required to comply with all applicable provisions of this
ordinance/chapter.
   (B)   If an individual is deceased, any return or notice required of that
individual shall be completed and filed by that decedent’s executor,
administrator or other person charged with the property of that decedent.
   (C)   If an individual is unable to complete and file a return or notice
required by this municipality, the return or notice required of that individual
shall be completed and filed by the individual’s duly authorized agent,
guardian, conservator, fiduciary or other person charged with the care of the
person or property of that individual.
   (D)   Returns or notices required of an estate or a trust shall be completed
and filed by the fiduciary of the estate or trust.
   (E)   This municipality shall permit spouses to file a joint return. Both
spouses are liable jointly and severally for payment of the tax associated with
the joint return. A tax return shall be deemed a joint return whenever the
facts indicate that the taxpayers intended to have the filed tax return be a
joint return. Conclusive indications of such intention include when both
spouses have signed the tax return, when the return reports both spouses’
income, or when the return reports both spouses’ income but only one signed the
return.
   (F)   (1)   Each return required to be filed under this division (F) shall
contain the signature of the taxpayer or the taxpayer’s duly authorized agent
and of the person who prepared the return for the taxpayer. The return shall
include the taxpayer’s social security number or taxpayer identification
number. Each return shall be verified by a declaration under penalty of
perjury.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall require a taxpayer who is an individual
to include, with each annual return, and amended return, copies of the
following documents: all of the taxpayer’s Internal Revenue Service Form W-2,
Wage and Tax Statements, including all information reported on the taxpayer’s
federal W-2, as well as taxable wages reported or withheld for any municipal
corporation; the taxpayer’s Internal Revenue Service Form 1040; and, with
respect to an amended tax return, any other documentation necessary to support
the adjustments made in the amended return. An individual taxpayer who files
the annual return required by this section electronically is not required to
provide paper copies of any of the foregoing to the Tax Administrator unless
the Tax Administrator requests such copies after the return has been filed.
      (3)   (a)   The Tax Administrator may require a taxpayer that is not an
individual to include, with each annual net profit return, amended net profit
return or request for refund required under this section, copies of only the
following documents: the taxpayer’s Internal Revenue Service Form 1041; Form
1065; Form 1120; Form 1120-REIT; Form 1120F; or Form 1120S, and, with respect
to an amended tax return or refund request, any other documentation necessary
to support the refund request or the adjustments made in the amended return.
         (b)   A taxpayer that is not an individual and that files an annual
net profit return electronically through the Ohio Business Gateway or in some
other manner shall either mail the documents required under this division (E)
to the Tax Administrator at the time of filing or, if electronic submission is
available, submit the documents electronically through the Ohio Business
Gateway.
      (4)   After a taxpayer files a tax return, the Tax Administrator may
request, and the taxpayer shall provide, any information, statements or
documents required by this municipality to determine and verify the taxpayer’s
municipal income tax liability. The requirements imposed under division (F) of
this section apply regardless of whether the taxpayer files on a generic form
or on a form prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
   (G)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in these rules and
regulations, each individual income tax return required to be filed under this
section shall be completed and filed as required by the Tax Administrator on or
before the date prescribed for the filing of state individual income tax
returns under R.C. § 5747.08(G). The taxpayer shall complete and file the
return or notice on forms prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on generic
forms, together with remittance made payable to this municipality. No
remittance is required if the net amount due is $10 or less.
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this municipality’s ordinance,
each annual net profit return required to be filed under this section by a
taxpayer that is not an individual shall be completed and filed as required by
the Tax Administrator on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month
following the end of the taxpayer’s taxable year. The taxpayer shall complete
and file the return or notice on forms prescribed by the Tax Administrator or
on generic forms, together with remittance made payable to this municipality.
No remittance is required if the net amount due is $10 or less.
      (2)   Any taxpayer that has duly requested an automatic six-month
extension for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax return shall
automatically receive an extension for the filing of this municipality’s income
tax return. The extended due date of this municipality’s income tax return
shall be the fifteenth day of the tenth month after the last day of the taxable
year to which the return relates. An extension of time to file under this
division (G) is not an extension of the time to pay any tax due unless the Tax
Administrator grants an extension of that date.
         (a)   A copy of the federal extension request shall be included with
the filing of this municipality’s income tax return.
         (b)   A taxpayer that has not requested or received a six-month
extension for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax return may submit a
written request that the Tax Administrator grant the taxpayer a six-month
extension of the date for filing the taxpayer’s this municipality income tax
return. If the request is received by the Tax Administrator on or before the
date this municipality income tax return is due, the Tax Administrator shall
grant the taxpayer’s requested extension.
      (3)   If the State Tax Commissioner extends for all taxpayers the date
for filing state income tax returns under R.C. § 5747.08(G), a taxpayer shall
automatically receive an extension for the filing of this municipality’s income
tax return. The extended due date of this municipality’s income tax return
shall be the same as the extended due date of the state income tax return.
      (4)   If the Tax Administrator considers it necessary in order to ensure
the payment of the tax imposed by this municipality, the Tax Administrator may
require taxpayers to file returns and make payments otherwise than as provided
in this division (G), including taxpayers not otherwise required to file annual
returns.
      (5)   To the extent that any provision in this division (G) conflicts
with any provision in divisions (N), (O), (P) or (Q) of this section, the
provisions in divisions (N), (O), (P) or (Q) of this section will prevail.
      (6)   The failure of any taxpayer to receive or procure a return,
declaration or other required form shall not excuse him or her from making any
information return, declaration of return, from filing such form or from paying
the tax.
   (H)   (1)   For taxable years beginning after 2015, this municipality shall
not require a taxpayer to remit tax with respect to net profits if the net
amount due is $10 or less.
      (2)   Any taxpayer not required to remit tax to this municipality for a
taxable year pursuant to division (H)(1) of this section shall file with this
municipality an annual net profit return under division (F)(3) of this section.
   (I)   The date or prescribed period or filed by which payments or other
documents shall be considered as having been made timely are as follows.
      (1)   If a payment is required to be made by electronic funds transfer,
the payment is considered to be made when the payment is credited to an account
designated by the Tax Administrator for the receipt of tax payments, except
that, when a payment made by electronic funds transfer is delayed due to
circumstances not under the control of the taxpayer, the payment is considered
to be made when the taxpayer submitted the payment. This division (I) shall not
apply to payments required to be made under §
36.233(B)(1)(a) or provisions for semi-monthly withholding.
      (2)   If any payment required to be made, and/or any report, claim,
statement or other document required to be filed, within a prescribed period or
on or before a prescribed date, is delivered after that period or that date by
United States mail to the Tax Administrator or other municipal official to
which the payment is required to be made, and/or to which the report, claim,
statement or other document is required to be filed, the date of the postmark
stamped on the cover in which the payment, report, claim, statement or other
document, is mailed shall be deemed to be the date of delivery or the date of
payment. “The date of postmark” means, in the event there is more than one date
on the cover, the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
   (J)   Taxes withheld for this municipality by an employer, the agent of an
employer, or other payer as described in §
36.233 shall be allowed to the taxpayer as credits against payment of the tax
imposed on the taxpayer by this municipality, unless the amounts withheld were
not remitted to this municipality and the recipient colluded with the employer,
agent, or other payer in connection with the failure to remit the amounts
withheld.
   (K)   (1)   Each return required by this municipality to be filed in
accordance with this division (K) shall include a box that the taxpayer may
check to authorize another person, including a tax return preparer who prepared
the return, to communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters pertaining
to the return.
      (2)   The return or instructions accompanying the return shall indicate
that by checking the box the taxpayer authorizes the Tax Administrator to
contact the preparer or other person concerning questions that arise during the
examination or other review of the return and authorizes the preparer or other
person only to provide the Tax Administrator with information that is missing
from the return, to contact the Tax Administrator for information about the
examination or other review of the return or the status of the taxpayer’s
refund or payments, and to respond to notices about mathematical errors,
offsets or return preparation that the taxpayer has received from the Tax
Administrator and has shown to the preparer or other person.
      (3)   When income tax returns, reports or other documents include the
signature of a tax return preparer, the Tax Administrator shall accept a
facsimile of such a signature in lieu of a manual signature.
   (L)   The Tax Administrator shall accept for filing a generic form of any
income tax return, report, or document required by this municipality, provided
that the generic form, once completed and filed, contains all of the
information required by ordinance, resolution, or rules and regulations adopted
by this municipality or the Tax Administrator, and provided that the taxpayer
or tax return preparer filing the generic form otherwise complies with the
provisions of these rules and regulations and of this municipality’s ordinance,
resolution, or rules and regulations governing the filing of returns, reports,
or documents.
   (M)   (1)   Filing via Ohio Business Gateway: subject to the eligibility
requirements of the Ohio Business Gateway, any taxpayer subject to municipal
income taxation with respect to the taxpayer’s net profit from a business or
profession may file this municipality’s income tax return, estimated municipal
income tax return, or extension for filing a municipal income tax return, and
may make payment of amounts shown to be due on such returns, by using the Ohio
Business Gateway.
      (2)   Any employer, agent of an employer or other payer may report the
amount of municipal income tax withheld from qualifying wages, and may make
remittance of such amounts, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
      (3)   Nothing in this section affects the due dates for filing employer
withholding tax returns.
      (4)   This municipality shall not be required to pay any fee or charge
for the operation or maintenance of the Ohio Business Gateway.
      (5)   The use of the Ohio Business Gateway by municipal corporations,
taxpayers or other persons pursuant to this division (M) does not affect the
legal rights of this municipality or taxpayers as otherwise permitted by law.
This state shall not be a party to the administration of this municipality
income taxes or to an appeal of this municipality income tax matters, except as
otherwise specifically provided by law.
      (6)   (a)   The State Tax Commissioner shall adopt rules establishing:
            1.   The format of documents to be used by taxpayers to file
returns and make payments through the Ohio Business Gateway; and
            2.   a.   The information taxpayers must submit when filing
municipal income tax returns through the Ohio Business Gateway.
               b.   The State Tax Commissioner shall not adopt rules under this
division (M) that conflict with the requirements of R.C. § 718.05.
         (b)   The State Tax Commissioner shall consult with the Ohio Business
Gateway steering committee before adopting the rules described in division (M)
(6)(a) of this section.
      (7)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting or removing
the authority of this municipality to administer, audit and enforce the
provisions of its municipal income tax.
   (N)   Extension for service in or for the armed forces. Each member of the
national guard of any state and each member of a reserve component of the armed
forces of the United States called to active duty pursuant to an executive
order issued by the President of the United States or an act of the Congress of
the United States, and each civilian serving as support personnel in a combat
zone or contingency operation in support of the armed forces, may apply to the
Tax Administrator of this municipality for both an extension of time for filing
of the return and an extension of time for payment of taxes required by this
municipality during the period of the member’s or civilian’s duty service, and
for 180 days thereafter. The application shall be filed on or before the one
hundred eightieth day after the member’s or civilian’s duty terminates. An
applicant shall provide such evidence as the Tax Administrator considers
necessary to demonstrate eligibility for the extension.
   (O)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is
qualified for an extension under this section, the Tax Administrator shall
enter into a contract with the applicant for the payment of the tax in
installments that begin on the one-hundred and eighty-first day after the
applicant’s active duty or service terminates. The Tax Administrator may
prescribe such contract terms as the Tax Administrator considers appropriate.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator determines that an applicant is qualified
for an extension under this section, the applicant shall neither be required to
file any return, report or other tax document nor be required to pay any tax
otherwise due this municipality before the one-hundred and eighty-first day
after the applicant’s active duty or service terminates.
      (3)   Taxes paid pursuant to a contract entered into under (O)(1) of this
section are not delinquent. The Tax Administrator shall not require any
payments of penalties or interest in connection with those taxes for the
extension period.
   (P)   (1)   Nothing in this division (P) denies to any person described in
this division (P) the application of divisions (N) and (O) of this section.
      (2)   (a)   A qualifying taxpayer who is eligible for an extension under
the Internal Revenue Code shall receive both an extension of time in which to
file any return, report or other tax document and an extension of time in which
to make any payment of taxes required by a municipal corporation in accordance
with these rules and regulations. The length of any extension granted under
division (P)(2)(a) of this section shall be equal to the length of the
corresponding extension that the taxpayer receives under the Internal Revenue
Code. As used in this division (P), QUALIFYING TAXPAYER means a member of the
national guard or a member of a reserve component of the armed forces of the
United States called to active duty pursuant to either an executive order
issued by the President of the United States or an act of the Congress of the
United States, or a civilian serving as support personnel in a combat zone or
contingency operation in support of the armed forces.
         (b)   Taxes whose payment is extended in accordance with division (P)
(2)(a) of this section are not delinquent during the extension period. Such
taxes become delinquent on the first day after the expiration of the extension
period if the taxes are not paid prior to that date. The Tax Administrator
shall not require any payment of penalties or interest in connection with those
taxes for the extension period. The Tax Administrator shall not include any
period of extension granted under division (P)(2)(a) of this section in
calculating the penalty or interest due on any unpaid tax.
   (Q)   For each taxable year to which division (N), (O) or (P) of this
section applies to a taxpayer, the provisions of divisions (O)(2) and (O)(3) of
this section, as applicable, apply to the spouse of that taxpayer if the filing
status of the spouse and the taxpayer is married filing jointly for that year.
   (R)   Consolidated municipal income tax return: as used in this section:
      (1)   AFFILIATED GROUP OF CORPORATIONS means an affiliated group as
defined in § 1504 of the Internal Revenue Code, except that, if such a group
includes at least one incumbent local exchange carrier that is primarily
engaged in the business of providing local exchange telephone service in this
state, the affiliated group shall not include any incumbent local exchange
carrier that would otherwise be included in the group.
      (2)   CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN means a consolidated return
filed for federal income tax purposes pursuant to § 1501 of the Internal
Revenue Code.
      (3)   CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME means the consolidated taxable
income of an affiliated group of corporations, as computed for the purposes of
filing a consolidated federal income tax return, before consideration of net
operating losses or special deductions. CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME
does not include income or loss of an incumbent local exchange carrier that is
excluded from the affiliated group under division (R)(1) of this section.
      (4)   INCUMBENT LOCAL EXCHANGE CARRIER has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4927.01.
      (5)   LOCAL EXCHANGE TELEPHONE SERVICE has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5727.01.
   (S)   (1)   For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016, a
taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations may elect to
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year if at least
one member of the affiliated group of corporations is subject to this
municipality’s income tax in that taxable year, and if the affiliated group of
corporations filed a consolidated federal income tax return with respect to
that taxable year. The election is binding for a five-year period beginning
with the first taxable year of the initial election unless a change in the
reporting method is required under federal law. The election continues to be
binding for each subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to
discontinue filing consolidated municipal income tax returns under division (S)
(2) of this section or a taxpayer receives permission from the Tax
Administrator. The Tax Administrator shall approve such a request when, within
the Tax Administrator’s sole discretion, there is good cause shown by the
taxpayer.
      (2)   An election to discontinue filing consolidated municipal income tax
returns under this section must be made in the first year following the last
year of a five-year consolidated municipal income tax return election period in
effect under division (S)(1) of this section. The election to discontinue
filing a consolidated municipal income tax return is binding for a five-year
period beginning with the first taxable year of the election.
      (3)   An election made under division (S)(1) or (S)(2) of this section is
binding on all members of the affiliated group of corporations subject to a
municipal income tax.
   (T)   A taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations
that filed a consolidated federal income tax return for a taxable year shall
file a consolidated this municipality income tax return for that taxable year
if the Tax Administrator determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, that
intercompany transactions have not been conducted at arm’s length and that
there has been a distortive shifting of income or expenses with regard to
allocation of net profits to this municipality. A taxpayer that is required to
file a consolidated this municipality income tax return for a taxable year
shall file a consolidated this municipality income tax return for all
subsequent taxable years, unless the taxpayer requests and receives written
permission from the Tax Administrator to file a separate return or a taxpayer
has experienced a change in circumstances. A change in circumstances means any
substantial alteration, including liquidation, dissolution, bankruptcy or
merger.
   (U)   A taxpayer shall prepare a consolidated West Alexandria income tax
return in the same manner as is required under the United States Department of
Treasury regulations that prescribe procedures for the preparation of the
consolidated federal income tax return required to be filed by the common
parent of the affiliated group of which the taxpayer is a member.
   (V)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (V)(2), (V)(3) and (V)
(4) of this section, corporations that file a consolidated municipal income tax
return shall compute adjusted federal taxable income, as defined in §
36.231, by substituting “consolidated federal taxable income” for “federal
taxable income” wherever “federal taxable income” appears in that division and
by substituting “an affiliated group of corporation’s” for “a C corporation’s”
wherever “a C corporation’s” appears in that division.
      (2)   No corporation filing a consolidated West Alexandria income tax
return shall make any adjustment otherwise required under §
36.231(C)(1) to the extent that the item of income or deduction otherwise
subject to the adjustment has been eliminated or consolidated in the
computation of consolidated federal taxable income.
      (3)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having at least
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group’s consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, the
corporation filing a consolidated West Alexandria income tax return shall do
one of the following with respect to that pass-through entity’s net profit or
loss for that taxable year:
         (a)   Exclude the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in §
36.234(R) through (Y), exclude the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the
pass-through entity in the computation of the affiliated group’s net profit
sitused to West Alexandria. If the entity’s net profit or loss is so excluded,
the entity shall be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of
the entity’s net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group; and
         (b)   Include the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in divisions (R) through (Y) of
this section, include the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-
through entity in the computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused
to West Alexandria. If the entity’s net profit or loss is so included, the
entity shall not be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of
the entity’s net profits that are included in the consolidated federal taxable
income of the affiliated group.
      (4)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having less than
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group’s consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, all
of the following shall apply:
         (a)   The corporation filing the consolidated municipal income tax
return shall exclude the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purposes of making the computations required in §
36.234(R) through (Y), exclude the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the
pass-through entity in the computation of the affiliated group’s net profit
sitused to West Alexandria; and
         (b)   The pass-through entity shall be subject to West Alexandria’s
income taxation as a separate taxpayer in accordance with these rules and
regulations on the basis of the entity’s net profits that would otherwise be
included in the consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
   (W)   Corporations filing a consolidated West Alexandria income tax return
shall make the computations required under divisions (R) through (Y) of this
section by substituting “consolidated federal taxable income attributable to”
for “net profit from” wherever “net profit from” appears in that section and by
substituting “affiliated group of corporations” for “taxpayer” wherever
“taxpayer” appears in that section.
   (X)   Each corporation filing a consolidated West Alexandria income tax
return is jointly and severally liable for any tax, interest, penalties, fines,
charges or other amounts imposed by West Alexandria in accordance with these
rules and regulations on the corporation, an affiliated group of which the
corporation is a member for any portion of the taxable year, or any one or more
members of such an affiliated group.
   (Y)   Corporations and their affiliates that made an election or entered
into an agreement with West Alexandria before January 1, 2016, to file a
consolidated or combined tax return with West Alexandria may continue to file
consolidated or combined tax returns in accordance with such election or
agreement for taxable years beginning on and after January 1, 2016.
   (Z)   (1)   Application of payments; currency and checks: if any taxpayer or
other debtor owes multiple debts and makes any single, partial payment to West
Alexandria with respect to such debts, such municipality shall apply such
payment in accordance with the debtor’s directions. Otherwise, West Alexandria
shall apply partial payments to the taxpayer’s oldest unpaid tax debt, then to
his or her oldest interest debt, and then to his or her oldest penalty debt.
      (2)   Payments must be made in U.S. currency.
      (3)   Checks:
         (a)   The term CHECKS shall include personal checks, bank checks,
money orders and other such instruments for the payment of money which may be
handled as cash items by the Federal Reserve Banks. The payment must be drawn
on a solvent savings and loan or commercial bank or other recognized financial
institution located within one of the 12 U.S. Federal Reserve Districts.
         (b)   If any check or money order in payment of any amount receivable
under these rules and regulations, other than those provided for under division
(Z)(3)(c) of this section, is not duly paid, there shall be charged to the
person who tendered such check, upon notice and demand by the Tax
Administrator, an amount equal to the processing fee(s) incurred due to the bad
check.
         (c)   If any check in payment of any amount receivable under rules and
regulations, is drawn on a financial institution not located within one of the
12 Federal Reserve Districts and results in a processing fee charged to RITA,
there shall be charged to the person who tendered such check, upon notice and
demand by the Tax Administrator, in the same manner as tax, an amount equal to
such processing fee.
(Ord. 917, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 36.235 CREDIT FOR TAX PAID TO OTHER MUNICIPALITIES.
   (A)   (1)   The credit, if any, provided to residents for municipal tax paid
elsewhere on the same income taxable under West Alexandria’s ordinance is as
stated in West Alexandria’s income tax ordinance.
      (2)   The credit allowed to resident individuals for the taxable net
profits (if any), on business income for taxable years 2016 and later shall be
calculated as follows:
         (a)   1.   Annual profits and losses from business activities owned by
the taxpayer and earned in West Alexandria and/or outside of West Alexandria
(collectively known as jurisdictions) shall be netted (i.e. offset) in order to
calculate the resultant amount of current year taxable net profits to West
Alexandria.
            2.   If West Alexandria provides a residence tax credit and the
results of division (A)(2)(a) of this section produced a positive resultant
amount of current year taxable net profits, then proceed to division (A)(2)(b)
of this section to compute the allowable credit. If the result is negative, no
credit is allowed under this section.
         (b)   1.   Add the current year business net profits from each
jurisdiction that had taxable current year net profits. Do not include in this
total a jurisdiction with current year business activities that resulted in a
net loss for that jurisdiction.
            2.   If the taxpayer has multiple business activities in the
current year within one jurisdiction, those business activity current year
profits and losses must be offset to determine that jurisdiction’s resultant
current year taxable business net profits, if any. If the offsetting results in
positive taxable income, that jurisdiction is deemed to have taxable current
year net profits. This offset calculation must be done for each jurisdiction in
which the taxpayer has multiple business activities.
            3.   Each jurisdiction which has taxable current year net profits
(either from a single business activity within the jurisdiction, or after
application of division (A)(2)(b)2. of this section) shall divide that
jurisdiction’s taxable current year net profits by the sum of all
jurisdictions’ current year taxable net profits determined in divisions (A)(2)
(b)1. and (A)(2)(b)2. of this section to determine that jurisdiction’s
percentage of the total.
         (c)   The resultant amount of current year taxable net profits
determined in division (A)(2)(a) of this section shall be multiplied by each
jurisdiction’s percentage share calculated in division (A)(2)(b)2. of this
section, and that result shall be multiplied by the respective jurisdiction’s
tax rate, if any, to determine the amount of tax paid to that jurisdiction that
may be eligible for credit from West Alexandria.
         (d)   West Alexandria shall then apply the credit rate (whether 100%
or a reduced credit) and any credit limit, as stated in West Alexandria’s
ordinance, to the amount calculated in division (A)(2)(c) of this section for
each jurisdiction to determine the amount of credit West Alexandria shall allow
for purposes of this section.
   (B)   West Alexandria shall grant a credit against its tax on income to a
resident of West Alexandria who works in a joint economic development zone
created under R.C. § 715.691 or a joint economic development district created
under R.C. §§ 715.70, 715.71 or 715.72 to the same extent that it grants a
credit against its tax on income to its residents who are employed in another
municipal corporation.
   (C)   If the amount of tax withheld or paid to the other municipality is
less than the amount of tax required to be withheld or paid to the other
municipality, then for purposes of division (A) of this section, the income,
qualifying wages, commissions, net profits or other compensation subject to tax
in the other municipality shall be limited to the amount computed by dividing
the tax withheld or paid to the other municipality by the tax rate for that
municipality.
   (D)   Intentionally left blank. This indicates that West Alexandria does not
give credit for county income taxes.
(Ord. 917, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 36.236 ESTIMATED TAXES.
   (A) As used in this section:
      (1)   ESTIMATED TAXES means the amount that the taxpayer reasonably
estimates to be the taxpayer’s tax liability for West Alexandria’s income tax
for the current taxable year.
      (2)   TAX LIABILITY means the total taxes due to West Alexandria for the
taxable year, after allowing any credit to which the taxpayer is entitled, and
after applying any estimated tax payment, withholding payment, or credit from
another taxable year.
   (B)   (1)   Every taxpayer shall make a declaration of estimated taxes for
the current taxable year, on the form prescribed by the Tax Administrator, if
the amount payable as estimated taxes is $200 or more. For the purposes of this
section:
         (a)   Taxes withheld for West Alexandria from qualifying wages shall
be considered as paid to West Alexandria in equal amounts on each payment date
unless the taxpayer establishes the dates on which all amounts were actually
withheld, in which case they shall be considered as paid on the dates on which
the amounts were actually withheld.
         (b)   An overpayment of tax applied as a credit to a subsequent
taxable year is deemed to be paid on the date of the postmark stamped on the
cover in which the payment is mailed or, if the payment is made by electronic
funds transfer, the date the payment is submitted. As used in this division
(B), DATE OF THE POSTMARK means, in the event there is more than one date on
the cover, the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
         (c)   If applicable to West Alexandria, taxes withheld by a casino
operator or by a lottery sales agent under R.C. § 718.031 are deemed to be paid
to West Alexandria for which the taxes were withheld on the date the taxes are
withheld from the taxpayer’s winnings.
      (2)   Taxpayers filing joint returns shall file joint declarations of
estimated taxes. A taxpayer may amend a declaration under rules prescribed by
the Tax Administrator. A taxpayer having a taxable year of less than 12 months
shall make a declaration under rules prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
      (3)   The declaration of estimated taxes shall be filed on or before the
date prescribed for the filing of municipal income tax returns under §
36.234(G) or on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the
taxpayer becomes subject to tax for the first time.
      (4)   Taxpayers reporting on a fiscal year basis shall file a declaration
on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the beginning of each
fiscal year or period.
      (5)   The original declaration or any subsequent amendment may be
increased or decreased on or before any subsequent quarterly payment day as
provided in this section.
   (C)   (1)   The required portion of the tax liability for the taxable year
that shall be paid through estimated taxes made payable to West Alexandria,
including the application of tax refunds applied as credits to estimated taxes
and withholding on or before the applicable payment date, shall be as follows:
         (a)   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 22.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (b)   On or before the fifteenth day of the sixth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 45% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (c)   On or before the fifteenth day of the ninth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 67.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
and
         (d)   On or before the fifteenth day of the twelfth month of the
taxable year, 90% of the tax liability for the taxable year.
      (2)   When an amended declaration has been filed, the unpaid balance
shown due on the amended declaration shall be paid in equal installments on or
before the remaining payment dates.
      (3)   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month of the year
following that for which the declaration or amended declaration was filed, an
annual return shall be filed and any balance which may be due shall be paid
with the return in accordance with §
36.234.
   (D)   (1)   In the case of any underpayment of any portion of a tax
liability, penalty and interest may be imposed pursuant to §
36.247 upon the amount of underpayment for the period of underpayment, unless
the underpayment is due to reasonable cause as described in division (E) of
this section. The amount of the underpayment shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   For the first payment of estimated taxes each year, 22.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (b)   For the second payment of estimated taxes each year, 45% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (c)   For the third payment of estimated taxes each year, 67.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment; and
         (d)   For the fourth payment of estimated taxes each year, 90% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment.
      (2)   The period of the underpayment shall run from the day the estimated
payment was required to be made to the date on which the payment is made. For
purposes of this section, a payment of estimated taxes on or before any payment
date shall be considered a payment of any previous underpayment only to the
extent the payment of estimated taxes exceeds the amount of the payment
presently required to be paid to avoid any penalty.
   (E)   An underpayment of any portion of tax liability determined under
division (D) of this section shall be due to reasonable cause and the penalty
imposed by this section shall not be added to the taxes for the taxable year if
any of the following apply:
      (1)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at 90% of the
tax liability for the current taxable year, determined by annualizing the
income received during the year up to the end of the month immediately
preceding the month in which the payment is due;
      (2)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 100%
of the tax liability shown on the return of the taxpayer for the preceding
taxable year, provided that the immediately preceding taxable year reflected a
period of 12 months and the taxpayer filed a return with West Alexandria under
§
36.247 for that year; and
      (3)   The taxpayer is an individual who resides in West Alexandria but
was not domiciled there on the first day of January of the calendar year that
includes the first day of the taxable year.
(Ord. 917, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 36.237 ROUNDING OF AMOUNTS.
   A person may round to the nearest whole dollar all amounts the person is
required to enter on any return, report, voucher or other document required
under these rules and regulations. Any fractional part of a dollar that equals
or exceeds $0.50 shall be rounded to the next whole dollar, and any fractional
part of a dollar that is less than $0.50 shall be dropped. If a person chooses
to round amounts entered on a document, the person shall round all amounts
entered on the document.
(Ord. 917, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 36.238 REQUESTS FOR REFUNDS.
   (A)   As used in this section, WITHHOLDING TAX has the same meaning as in §
36.247.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a request for a refund, the Tax Administrator, in
accordance with this section, shall refund to employers, agents of employers,
other payers or taxpayers, with respect to any income or withholding tax levied
by West Alexandria:
      (1)   Overpayments of $10 or more; and
      (2)   Amounts paid erroneously if the refund requested is $10 or more.
   (C)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in these rules and regulations,
requests for refund shall be filed with the Tax Administrator, on the form
prescribed by the Tax Administrator within three years after the tax was due or
paid, whichever is later. The Tax Administrator may require the requestor to
file with the request any documentation that substantiates the requestor’s
claim for a refund.
      (2)   On filing of the refund request, the Tax Administrator shall
determine the amount of refund due and certify such amount for payment. Except
as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, the Tax Administrator shall
issue an assessment to any taxpayer whose request for refund is fully or
partially denied. The assessment shall state the amount of the refund that was
denied, the reasons for the denial, and instructions for appealing the
assessment.
      (3)   If the Tax Administrator denies in whole or in part a refund
request included within the taxpayer’s originally filed annual income tax
return, or RITA Form 10-A, or a similar request for refund, the Tax
Administrator shall notify the taxpayer, in writing, of the amount of the
refund that was denied, the reasons for the denial, and instructions for
requesting an assessment that may be appealed under §
36.250.
   (D)   A request for a refund that is received after the last day for filing
specified in division (C) of this section shall be considered to have been
filed in a timely manner if any of the following situations exist:
      (1)   The request is delivered by the postal service, and the earliest
postal service postmark on the cover in which the request is enclosed is not
later than the last day for filing the request;
      (2)   The request is delivered by the postal service, the only postmark
on the cover in which the request is enclosed was affixed by a private postal
meter, the date of that postmark is not later than the last day for filing the
request, and the request is received within seven days of such last day; and
      (3)   The request is delivered by the postal service, no postmark date
was affixed to the cover in which the request is enclosed or the date of the
postmark so affixed is not legible, and the request is received within seven
days of the last day for making the request.
   (E)   Interest shall be allowed and paid on any overpayment by a taxpayer of
any municipal income tax obligation from the date of the overpayment until the
date of the refund of the overpayment, except that if any overpayment is
refunded within 90 days after the final filing date of the annual return or 90
days after the completed return is filed, whichever is later, no interest shall
be allowed on the refund. For the purpose of computing the payment of interest
on amounts overpaid, no amount of tax for any taxable year shall be considered
to have been paid before the date on which the return on which the tax is
reported is due, without regard to any extension of time for filing that
return. Interest shall be paid at the interest rate described in §
36.247(A)(4).
   (F)   Refunds for days worked out of West Alexandria are available only to
nonresidents, and refunds shall be computed by dividing total wages by total
days worked in order to determine an average daily wage. The work year shall be
considered 260 days. Saturdays and Sundays shall not normally be considered
workdays. Additions, deletions or other changes to the method for calculating
refunds shall be at the discretion of the Administrator.
   (G)   Overpayments will either be refunded or credited to the taxpayer’s
current year’s liability at his or her option, except that where taxes are owed
for any previous years overpayments shall be applied in the order in which such
taxes became due before any refund is made or credit granted. Where no election
has been made by the taxpayer, overpayments of any year’s taxes shall be
applied as follows:
      (1)   To taxes, penalty or interest owed for any previous years; and
      (2)   To his or her current estimated tax liability (and any excess
refunded).
(Ord. 917, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 36.239 SECOND MUNICIPALITY IMPOSING TAX AFTER TIME PERIOD ALLOWED FOR REFUND.
   (A)   Income tax that has been deposited with West Alexandria, but should
have been deposited with another municipality, is allowable by West Alexandria
as a refund but is subject to the three-year limitation on refunds.
   (B)   Income tax that was deposited with another municipality but should
have been deposited with West Alexandria is subject to recovery by West
Alexandria. If West Alexandria’s tax on that income is imposed after the time
period allowed for a refund of the tax or withholding paid to the other
municipality, West Alexandria shall allow a nonrefundable credit against the
tax or withholding West Alexandria claims is due with respect to such income or
wages, equal to the tax or withholding paid to the first municipality with
respect to such income or wages.
   (C)   If West Alexandria’s tax rate is less than the tax rate in the other
municipality, then the nonrefundable credit shall be calculated using West
Alexandria’s tax rate. However, if West Alexandria’s tax rate is greater than
the tax rate in the other municipality, the tax due in excess of the
nonrefundable credit is to be paid to West Alexandria, along with any penalty
and interest that accrued during the period of nonpayment.
   (D)   Nothing in this section permits any credit carryforward.
(Ord. 917, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 36.240 AMENDED RETURNS.
   (A)   (1)   If a taxpayer’s tax liability shown on the annual tax return for
West Alexandria changes as a result of an adjustment to the taxpayer’s federal
or state income tax return, the taxpayer shall file an amended return with West
Alexandria. The amended return shall be filed on a form required by the Tax
Administrator. A taxpayer may not change the method of accounting or
apportionment of the net profits, nor the method of filing, after the due date
for filing the original return.
      (2)   If a taxpayer intends to file an amended consolidated municipal
income tax return, or to amend its type of return from a separate return to a
consolidated return based on the taxpayer’s consolidated federal income tax
return, or to amend its type of return from a consolidated return to a separate
return, the taxpayer shall notify the Tax Administrator before filing the
amended return. Nothing in this division (A) shall require the Tax
Administrator to accept such amended returns.
   (B)   (1)   In the case of an underpayment, the amended return shall be
accompanied by payment of any additional tax due, together with any penalty and
interest thereon. If the tax, penalty and interest shown to be due is $10 or
less, no payment need be made. The amended return shall reopen those facts,
figures, computations or attachments from a previously filed return that are
not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the
taxpayer’s federal or state income tax return only:
         (a)   To determine the amount of tax that would be due if all facts,
figures, computations and attachments were reopened; or
         (b)   If the applicable statute of limitations for civil actions or
prosecutions under §
36.241 has not expired for a previously filed return.
      (2)   The additional tax to be paid shall not exceed the amount of tax
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations, and attachments were
reopened; i.e., the payment shall be the lesser of the two amounts.
   (C)   (1)   In the case of an overpayment, a request for refund may be filed
under this division (C) within the period prescribed by division (D) of this
section for filing the amended return, even if it is filed beyond the period
prescribed in that division if it otherwise conforms to the requirements of
that division. If the amount of the refund is less than $10, no refund need be
paid by West Alexandria. A request filed under this division (C) shall claim
refund of overpayments resulting from alterations only to those facts, figures,
computations, or attachments required in the taxpayer’s annual return that are
affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the taxpayer’s
federal or state income tax return, unless it is also filed within the time
prescribed in §
36.238.
      (2)   The amount to be refunded shall not exceed the amount of refund
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations, and attachments were
reopened. All facts, figures, computations and attachments may be reopened to
determine the refund amount due by inclusion of all facts, figures,
computations, and attachments.
   (D)   Within 60 days after the final determination of any federal or state
tax liability affecting the taxpayer’s West Alexandria’s tax liability, that
taxpayer shall make and file an amended West Alexandria return showing income
subject to West Alexandria income tax based upon such final determination of
federal or state tax liability. The taxpayer shall pay any additional West
Alexandria income tax shown due thereon or make a claim for refund of any
overpayment, unless the tax or overpayment is less than $10.
(Ord. 917, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 36.241 LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Civil actions to recover municipal income taxes and
penalties and interest on municipal income taxes shall be brought within the
later of:
            1.   Three years after the tax was due or the return was filed,
whichever is later; or
            2.   One year after the conclusion of the qualifying deferral
period, if any.
         (b)   The time limit described in division (A)(1)(a) of this section
may be extended at any time if both the Tax Administrator and the employer,
agent of the employer, other payer or taxpayer consent in writing to the
extension. Any extension shall also extend for the same period of time the time
limit described in division (C) of this section.
      (2)   As used in this section, QUALIFYING DEFERRAL PERIOD means a period
of time beginning and ending as follows.
         (a)   Beginning on the date a person who is aggrieved by an assessment
files with the Board of Tax Review the request described in §
36.250. That date shall not be affected by any subsequent decision, finding, or
holding by any administrative body or court that the Board of Tax Review did
not have jurisdiction to affirm, reverse, or modify the assessment or any part
of that assessment.
         (b)   Ending the later of the sixtieth day after the date on which the
final determination of the Board of Tax Review becomes final or, if any party
appeals from the determination of the Board of Tax Review, the sixtieth day
after the date on which the final determination of the Board of Tax Review is
either ultimately affirmed in whole or in part or ultimately reversed and no
further appeal of either that affirmation, in whole or in part, or that
reversal is available or taken.
   (B)   Prosecutions for an offense made punishable under a resolution or
ordinance imposing an income tax shall be commenced within three years after
the commission of the offense, provided that in the case of fraud, failure to
file a return, or the omission of 25% or more of income required to be
reported, prosecutions may be commenced within six years after the commission
of the offense.
   (C)   A claim for a refund of municipal income taxes shall be brought within
the time limitation provided in §
36.238.
   (D)   (1)   Notwithstanding the fact that an appeal is pending, the
petitioner may pay all or a portion of the assessment that is the subject of
the appeal. The acceptance of a payment by West Alexandria does not prejudice
any claim for refund upon final determination of the appeal.
      (2)   If upon final determination of the appeal an error in the
assessment is corrected by the Tax Administrator, upon an appeal so filed or
pursuant to a final determination of the Board of Tax Review, of the Ohio Board
of Tax Appeals, or any court to which the decision of the Ohio Board of Tax
Appeals has been appealed, so that the resultant amount due is less than the
amount paid, a refund will be paid in the amount of the overpayment as provided
by §
36.238, with interest on that amount as provided by §
36.238(E).
   (E)   No civil action to recover West Alexandria income tax or related
penalties or interest shall be brought during either of the following time
periods:
      (1)   The period during which a taxpayer has a right to appeal the
imposition of that tax or interest or those penalties; and
      (2)   The period during which an appeal related to the imposition of that
tax or interest or those penalties is pending.
(Ord. 917, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 36.242 AUDITS.
   (A)   At or before the commencement of an audit, the Tax Administrator shall
provide to the taxpayer a written description of the roles of the Tax
Administrator and of the taxpayer during the audit and a statement of the
taxpayer’s rights, including any right to obtain a refund of an overpayment of
a tax. At or before the commencement of an audit, the Tax Administrator shall
inform the taxpayer when the audit is considered to have commenced.
   (B)   Except in cases involving suspected criminal activity, the Tax
Administrator shall conduct an audit of a taxpayer during regular business
hours and after providing reasonable notice to the taxpayer. A taxpayer who is
unable to comply with a proposed time for an audit on the grounds that the
proposed time would cause inconvenience or hardship must offer reasonable
alternative dates for the audit.
   (C)   (1)   At all stages of an audit by the Tax Administrator, a taxpayer
is entitled to be assisted or represented by an attorney, accountant,
bookkeeper or other tax practitioner. The Tax Administrator shall prescribe a
form by which a taxpayer may designate such a person to assist or represent the
taxpayer in the conduct of any proceedings resulting from actions by the Tax
Administrator. If a taxpayer has not submitted such a form, the Tax
Administrator may accept other evidence, as the Tax Administrator considers
appropriate, that a person is the authorized representative of a taxpayer.
      (2)   A taxpayer may refuse to answer any questions asked by the person
conducting an audit until the taxpayer has an opportunity to consult with the
taxpayer’s attorney, accountant, bookkeeper or other tax practitioner.
      (3)   This division (C) does not authorize the practice of law by a
person who is not an attorney.
   (D)   A taxpayer may record, electronically or otherwise, the audit
examination.
   (E)   The failure of the Tax Administrator to comply with a provision of
this section shall neither excuse a taxpayer from payment of any taxes owed by
the taxpayer nor cure any procedural defect in a taxpayer’s case.
   (F)   If the Tax Administrator fails to substantially comply with the
provisions of this section, the Tax Administrator, upon application by the
taxpayer, shall excuse the taxpayer from penalties and interest.
(Ord. 917, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 36.243 SERVICE OF ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   LAST KNOWN ADDRESS means the address the Tax Administrator has at
the time a document is originally sent by certified mail, or any address the
Tax Administrator can ascertain using reasonable means such as the use of a
change of address service offered by the postal service or an authorized
delivery service under R.C. § 5703.056.
      (2)   UNDELIVERABLE ADDRESS means an address to which the postal service
or an authorized delivery service under R.C. § 5703.056 is not able to deliver
an assessment of the Tax Administrator, except when the reason for non-delivery
is because the addressee fails to acknowledge or accept the assessment.
   (B)   Subject to division (C) of this section, a copy of each assessment
shall be served upon the person affected thereby either by personal service, by
certified mail, or by a delivery service authorized under R.C. § 5703.056. With
the permission of the person affected by an assessment, the Tax Administrator
may deliver the assessment through alternative means as provided in this
section, including, but not limited to, delivery by secure electronic mail.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   If certified mail is returned because of an undeliverable
address, the Tax Administrator shall utilize reasonable means to ascertain a
new last known address, including the use of a change of address service
offered by the postal service or an authorized delivery service under R.C. §
5703.056. If the Tax Administrator is unable to ascertain a new last known
address, the assessment shall be sent by ordinary mail and considered served.
If the ordinary mail is subsequently returned because of an undeliverable
address, the assessment remains appealable within 60 days after the
assessment’s postmark.
         (b)   Once the Tax Administrator or other West Alexandria official, or
the designee of either, serves an assessment on the person to whom the
assessment is directed, the person may protest the ruling of that assessment by
filing an appeal with the local Board of Tax Review within 60 days after the
receipt of service. The delivery of an assessment of the Tax Administrator
under division (C)(1)(a) of this section is prima facie evidence that delivery
is complete and that the assessment is served.
      (2)   (a)   If mailing of an assessment by the Tax Administrator by
certified mail is returned for some cause other than an undeliverable address,
the Tax Administrator shall resend the assessment by ordinary mail. The
assessment shall show the date the Tax Administrator sends the assessment and
include the following statement:
      “This assessment is deemed to be served on the addressee under applicable
law ten days from the date this assessment was mailed by the Tax Administrator
as shown on the assessment, and all periods within which an appeal may be filed
apply from and after that date.”
         (b)   Unless the mailing is returned because of an undeliverable
address, the mailing of that information is prima facie evidence that delivery
of the assessment was completed ten days after the Tax Administrator sent the
assessment by ordinary mail and that the assessment was served.
         (c)   If the ordinary mail is subsequently returned because of an
undeliverable address, the Tax Administrator shall proceed under division (C)
(1)(a) of this section. A person may challenge the presumption of delivery and
service under this division (C) in accordance with division (D) of this
section.
   (D)   (1)   A person disputing the presumption of delivery and service under
division (C) of this section bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of
the evidence that the address to which the assessment was sent by certified
mail was not an address with which the person was associated at the time the
Tax Administrator originally mailed the assessment. For the purposes of this
section, a person is associated with an address at the time the Tax
Administrator originally mailed the assessment if, at that time, the person was
residing, receiving legal documents or conducting business at the address; or
if, before that time, the person had conducted business at the address and,
when the assessment was mailed, the person’s agent or the person’s affiliate
was conducting business at the address. For the purposes of this section, a
person’s affiliate is any other person that, at the time the assessment was
mailed, owned or controlled at least 20%, as determined by voting rights, of
the addressee’s business.
      (2)   If a person elects to appeal an assessment on the basis described
in division (D)(1) of this section, and if that assessment is subject to
collection and is not otherwise appealable, the person must do so within 60
days after the initial contact by the Tax Administrator or other West
Alexandria official, or the designee of either, with the person. Nothing in
this division (D) prevents the Tax Administrator or other official from
entering into a compromise with the person if the person does not actually file
such an appeal with the local Board of Tax Review.
   (E)   Nothing in this section prohibits the Tax Administrator or the Tax
Administrator’s designee from delivering an assessment by personal service.
   (F)   Collection actions taken upon any assessment being appealed under
division (C)(1)(b) of this section, including those on which a claim has been
delivered for collection, shall be stayed upon the pendency of an appeal under
this section.
(Ord. 917, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 36.244 ADMINISTRATION OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a claim for an amount payable to
West Alexandria that arises pursuant to West Alexandria’s income tax imposed in
accordance with these rules and regulations.
   (B)   Nothing in these rules and regulations prohibits the Tax Administrator
from doing either of the following if such action is in the best interests of
West Alexandria:
      (1)   Compromise a claim; and
      (2)   Extend for a reasonable period the time for payment of a claim by
agreeing to accept monthly or other periodic payments.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator’s rejection of a compromise or payment-over-time
agreement proposed by a person with respect to a claim shall not be appealable.
   (D)   The Tax Administrator may consider the following standards when
ascertaining with respect to a claim whether a compromise or payment-over-time
agreement is in the best interests of the municipal corporation:
      (1)   There exists a doubt as to whether the claim can be collected;
      (2)   There exists a substantial probability that, upon payment of the
claim and submission of a timely request for refund with respect to that
payment, the Tax Administrator would refund an amount that was illegally or
erroneously paid;
      (3)   There exists an economic hardship such that a compromise or
agreement would facilitate effective tax administration;
      (4)   There exists a joint liability among spouses, one of whom is an
innocent spouse, provided that any relief under this standard shall only affect
the claim as to the innocent spouse. A spouse granted relief under § 6015 of
the Internal Revenue Code with regard to any income item is rebuttably presumed
to be an innocent spouse with regard to that income item to the extent that
income item is included in or otherwise affects the computation of a municipal
income tax or any penalty or interest on that tax; and
      (5)   Any other reasonable standard that the Tax Administrator
establishes.
   (E)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a claim
shall be binding upon and shall be to the benefit of only the parties to the
compromise or agreement, and shall not eliminate or otherwise affect the
liability of any other person.
   (F)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a claim
shall be void if the taxpayer defaults under the compromise or agreement or if
the compromise or agreement was obtained by fraud or by misrepresentation of a
material fact. Any amount that was due before the compromise or agreement and
that is unpaid shall remain due, and any penalties or interest that would have
accrued in the absence of the compromise or agreement shall continue to accrue
and be due.
(Ord. 917, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 36.245 TAX INFORMATION CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Any information gained as a result of returns, investigations,
hearings or verifications required or authorized by these rules and regulations
is confidential, and no person shall access or disclose such information except
in accordance with a proper judicial order or in connection with the
performance of that person’s official duties or the official business of West
Alexandria as authorized by these rules and regulations. The Tax Administrator
or a designee thereof may furnish copies of returns filed or otherwise received
under these rules and regulations and other related tax information to the
Internal Revenue Service, the State Tax Commissioner and Tax Administrators of
other municipal corporations.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit West Alexandria from publishing or
disclosing statistics in a form that does not disclose information with respect
to particular taxpayers.
(Ord. 917, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 36.246 FRAUD.
   No person shall knowingly make, present, aid or assist in the preparation or
presentation of a false or fraudulent report, return, schedule, statement,
claim or document authorized or required by West Alexandria’s ordinance or
state law to be filed with the Tax Administrator, or knowingly procure, counsel
or advise the preparation or presentation of such report, return, schedule,
statement, claim, or document, or knowingly change, alter, or amend, or
knowingly procure, counsel or advise such change, alteration, or amendment of
the records upon which such report, return, schedule, statement, claim, or
document is based with intent to defraud West Alexandria or the Tax
Administrator.
(Ord. 917, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 36.247 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (A) As used in this section:
      (1)   APPLICABLE LAW means these rules and regulations, the resolutions,
ordinances, codes, directives, instructions, and rules adopted by West
Alexandria provided they impose or directly or indirectly address the levy,
payment, remittance, or filing requirements of West Alexandria.
      (2)   FEDERAL SHORT-TERM RATE means the rate of the average market yield
on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States with remaining
periods to maturity of three years or less, as determined under § 1274 of the
Internal Revenue Code, for July of the current year.
      (3)   INCOME TAX, ESTIMATED INCOME TAX AND WITHHOLDING TAX means any
income tax, estimated income tax, and withholding tax imposed by West
Alexandria pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before January 1,
2016.
      (4)   INTEREST RATE AS DESCRIBED IN DIVISION (A) OF THIS SECTION means
the federal short-term rate, rounded to the nearest whole number percent, plus
5%. The rate shall apply for the calendar year next following the July of the
year in which the federal short-term rate is determined in accordance with
division (A)(2) of this section.
      (5)   RETURN includes any tax return, report, reconciliation, schedule
and other document required to be filed with the Tax Administrator or West
Alexandria by a taxpayer, employer, any agent of the employer, or any other
payer pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before January 1, 2016.
      (6)   UNPAID ESTIMATED INCOME TAX means estimated income tax due but not
paid by the date the tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (7)   UNPAID INCOME TAX means income tax due but not paid by the date the
income tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (8)   UNPAID WITHHOLDING TAX means withholding tax due but not paid by
the date the withholding tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (9)   WITHHOLDING TAX includes amounts an employer, any agent of an
employer, or any other payer did not withhold in whole or in part from an
employee’s qualifying wages, but that, under applicable law, the employer,
agent or other payer is required to withhold from an employee’s qualifying
wages.
   (B)   (1)   This section applies to the following:
         (a)   Any return required to be filed under applicable law for taxable
years beginning on or after January 1, 2016; and
         (b)   Income tax, estimated income tax, and withholding tax required
to be paid or remitted to West Alexandria on or after January 1, 2016.
      (2)   This section does not apply to returns required to be filed or
payments required to be made before January 1, 2016, regardless of the filing
or payment date. Returns required to be filed or payments required to be made
before January 1, 2016, but filed or paid after that date shall be subject to
the ordinances and/or rules and regulations, as adopted before January 1, 2016,
of West Alexandria to which the return is to be filed or the payment is to be
made.
   (C)   Should any taxpayer, employer, agent of the employer or other payer
for any reason fails, in whole or in part, to make timely and full payment or
remittance of income tax, estimated income tax, or withholding tax or to file
timely with West Alexandria any return required to be filed, the following
penalties and interest shall apply:
      (1)   Interest shall be imposed at the rate described in division (A) of
this section, per annum, on all unpaid income tax, unpaid estimated income tax,
and unpaid withholding tax;
      (2)   (a)   With respect to unpaid income tax and unpaid estimated income
tax, West Alexandria may impose a penalty equal to 15% of the amount not timely
paid.
         (b)   With respect to any unpaid withholding tax, West Alexandria may
impose a penalty equal to 50% of the amount not timely paid.
      (3)   With respect to returns other than estimated income tax returns,
West Alexandria may impose a penalty of $25 for each failure to timely file
each return, regardless of the liability shown thereon for each month, or any
fraction thereof, during which the return remains unfiled regardless of the
liability shown thereon. The penalty shall not exceed $150 for each failure.
   (D)   Nothing in this section requires West Alexandria to refund or credit
any penalty, amount of interest, charges or additional fees that West
Alexandria has properly imposed or collected before January 1, 2016.
   (E)   Nothing in this section limits the authority of West Alexandria to
abate or partially abate penalties or interest imposed under this section when
the Tax Administrator determines, in the Tax Administrator’s sole discretion,
that such abatement is appropriate.
   (F)   By October 31 of each year West Alexandria shall publish the rate
described in division (A) of this section applicable to the next succeeding
calendar year.
   (G)   West Alexandria may impose on the taxpayer, employer, any agent of the
employer, or any other payer West Alexandria’s post-judgment collection costs
and fees, including attorney fees.
(Ord. 917, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 36.248 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; VERIFICATION OF INFORMATION.
   (A)   Authority. Nothing in these rules and regulations shall limit the
authority of the Tax Administrator to perform any of the following duties or
functions, unless the performance of such duties or functions is expressly
limited by a provision of the Ohio Revised Code:
      (1)   (a)   Exercise all powers whatsoever of an inquisitorial nature as
provided by law, including, the right to inspect books, accounts, records,
memorandums, and federal and state income tax returns, to examine persons under
oath, to issue orders or subpoenas for the production of books, accounts,
papers, records, documents, and testimony, to take depositions, to apply to a
court for attachment proceedings as for contempt, to approve vouchers for the
fees of officers and witnesses, and to administer oaths.
         (b)   The powers referred to in this division (A) shall be exercised
by the Tax Administrator only in connection with the performance of the duties
respectively assigned to the Tax Administrator under West Alexandria’s income
tax ordinance.
      (2)   Appoint agents and prescribe their powers and duties;
      (3)   Confer and meet with officers of other municipal corporations and
states and officers of the United States on any matters pertaining to their
respective official duties as provided by law;
      (4)   Exercise the authority provided by law, including orders from
bankruptcy courts, relative to remitting or refunding taxes, including
penalties and interest thereon, for any reason overpaid. In addition, the Tax
Administrator may investigate any claim of overpayment and, if the Tax
Administrator finds that there has been an overpayment, make a written
statement of the Tax Administrator’s findings, and approve and issue a refund
payable to the taxpayer, the taxpayer’s assigns or legal representative as
provided in these rules and regulations;
      (5)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to consenting to
the compromise and settlement of tax claims;
      (6)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to the use of
alternative apportionment methods by taxpayers in accordance with §
36.232;
      (7)   (a)   Make all tax findings, determinations, computations and
orders the Tax Administrator is by law authorized and required to make and,
pursuant to time limitations provided by law, on the Tax Administrator’s own
motion, review, re-determine or correct any tax findings, determinations,
computations or orders the Tax Administrator has made.
         (b)   If an appeal has been filed with the Board of Tax Review or
other appropriate tribunal, the Tax Administrator shall not review, re-
determine or correct any tax finding, determination, computation or order which
the Tax Administrator has made, unless such appeal or application is withdrawn
by the appellant or applicant, is dismissed, or is otherwise final.
      (8)   Destroy any or all returns or other tax documents in the manner
authorized by law; and
      (9)   Enter into an agreement with a taxpayer to simplify the withholding
obligations described in §
36.233.
   (B)   Verification of accuracy of returns and determination of liability.
      (1)   The Tax Administrator, or any authorized agent or employee thereof
may examine the books, papers, records, and federal and state income tax
returns of any employer, taxpayer or other person that is subject to, or that
the Tax Administrator believes is subject to, the provisions of these rules and
regulations for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of any return made or, if
no return was filed, to ascertain the tax due under these rules and
regulations. Upon written request by the Tax Administrator or a duly authorized
agent or employee thereof, every employer, taxpayer or other person subject to
this section is required to furnish the opportunity for the Tax Administrator,
authorized agent or employee to investigate and examine such books, papers,
records, and federal and state income tax returns at a reasonable time and
place designated in the request.
      (2)   The records and other documents of any taxpayer, employer or other
person that is subject to, or that the Tax Administrator believes is subject
to, the provisions of these rules and regulations shall be open to the Tax
Administrator’s inspection during business hours and shall be preserved for a
period of six years following the end of the taxable year to which the records
or documents relate, unless the Tax Administrator, in writing, consents to
their destruction within that period, or by order requires that they be kept
longer. The Tax Administrator may require any person, by notice served on that
person, to keep such records as the Tax Administrator determines necessary to
show whether or not that person is liable, and the extent of such liability,
for the income tax levied by West Alexandria or for the withholding of such
tax.
      (3)   The Tax Administrator may examine under oath any person that the
Tax Administrator reasonably believes has knowledge concerning any income that
was or would have been returned for taxation or any transaction tending to
affect such income. The Tax Administrator may, for this purpose, compel any
such person to attend a hearing or examination and to produce any books,
papers, records, and federal and state income tax returns in such person’s
possession or control. The person may be assisted or represented by an
attorney, accountant, bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner at any such hearing
or examination. This division (B) does not authorize the practice of law by a
person who is not an attorney.
      (4)   No person issued written notice by the Tax Administrator compelling
attendance at a hearing or examination or the production of books, papers,
records or federal or state income tax returns under this section shall fail to
comply.
   (C)   Identification information.
      (1)   (a)   Nothing in these rules and regulations prohibits the Tax
Administrator from requiring any person filing a tax document with the Tax
Administrator to provide identifying information, which may include the
person’s social security number, federal employer identification number or
other identification number requested by the Tax Administrator. A person
required by the Tax Administrator to provide identifying information that has
experienced any change with respect to that information shall notify the Tax
Administrator of the change before, or upon, filing the next tax document
requiring the identifying information.
         (b)   When transmitting or otherwise making use of a tax document that
contains a person’s social security number, the Tax Administrator shall take
all reasonable measures necessary to ensure that the number is not capable of
being viewed by the general public, including, when necessary, masking the
number so that it is not readily discernible by the general public. The Tax
Administrator shall not put a person’s social security number on the outside of
any material mailed to the person.
      (2)   (a)   If the Tax Administrator makes a request for identifying
information and the Tax Administrator does not receive valid identifying
information within 30 days of making the request, nothing in these rules and
regulations prohibits the Tax Administrator from imposing a penalty upon the
person to whom the request was directed pursuant to §
36.247, in addition to any applicable penalty described in §
36.999.
         (b)   If a person required by the Tax Administrator to provide
identifying information does not notify the Tax Administrator of a change with
respect to that information as required under §
36.248(C) within 30 days after filing the next tax document requiring such
identifying information, nothing in these rules and regulations prohibits the
Tax Administrator from imposing a penalty pursuant to §
36.247.
         (c)   The penalties provided for under divisions (C)(2)(a) and (C)(2)
(b) of this section may be billed and imposed in the same manner as the tax or
fee with respect to which the identifying information is sought and are in
addition to any applicable criminal penalties described in §
36.999 for a violation of §
36.246 and any other penalties that may be imposed by the Tax Administrator by
law.
(Ord. 917, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 36.249 REQUEST FOR OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   An OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR means an opinion issued under this
section with respect to prospective municipal income tax liability. It does not
include ordinary correspondence of the Tax Administrator.
   (B)   A taxpayer may submit a written request for an opinion of the Tax
Administrator in accordance with these rules and regulations as to whether or
how certain income, source of income or a certain activity or transaction will
be taxed. The written response of the Tax Administrator shall be an opinion of
the Tax Administrator and shall bind the Tax Administrator, in accordance with
divisions (C), (G) and (H) of this section, provided all of the following
conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The taxpayer’s request fully and accurately describes the specific
facts or circumstances relevant to a determination of the taxability of the
income, source of income, activity or transaction, and, if an activity or
transaction, all parties involved in the activity or transaction are clearly
identified by name, location or other pertinent facts;
      (2)   The request relates to a tax imposed by West Alexandria in
accordance with these rules and regulations; and
      (3)   The Tax Administrator’s response is signed by the Tax Administrator
and designated as an “opinion of the Tax Administrator”.
   (C)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator shall remain in effect and shall
protect the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and who reasonably
relies on it from liability for any taxes, penalty or interest otherwise
chargeable on the activity or transaction specifically held by the Tax
Administrator’s opinion to be taxable in a particular manner or not to be
subject to taxation for any taxable years that may be specified in the opinion,
or until the earliest of the following dates:
      (1)   The effective date of a written revocation by the Tax Administrator
sent to the taxpayer by certified mail, return receipt requested. The effective
date of the revocation shall be the taxpayer’s date of receipt or one year
after the issuance of the opinion, whichever is later;
      (2)   The effective date of any amendment or enactment of a relevant
section of the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified state law, or West Alexandria’s
income tax ordinance that would substantially change the analysis and
conclusion of the opinion of the Tax Administrator;
      (3)   The date on which a court issues an opinion establishing or
changing relevant case law with respect to the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified
state law, or West Alexandria’s income tax ordinance;
      (4)   If the opinion of the Tax Administrator was based on the
interpretation of federal law, the effective date of any change in the relevant
federal statutes or regulations, or the date on which a court issues an opinion
establishing or changing relevant case law with respect to federal statutes or
regulations;
      (5)   The effective date of any change in the taxpayer’s material facts
or circumstances;
      (6)   The effective date of the expiration of the opinion, if specified
in the opinion.
   (D)   A taxpayer is not relieved of tax liability for any activity or
transaction related to a request for an opinion that contained any
misrepresentation or omission of one or more material facts.
   (E)   If the Tax Administrator provides written advice under this section,
the opinion shall include a statement that:
      (1)   The tax consequences stated in the opinion may be subject to change
for any of the reasons stated in division (C) of this section; and
      (2)   It is the duty of the taxpayer to be aware of such changes.
   (F)   The Tax Administrator may refuse to offer an opinion on any request
received under this section. Such refusal is not subject to appeal.
   (G)   This section binds the Tax Administrator only with respect to opinions
of the Tax Administrator issued on or after January 1, 2016.
   (H)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator binds the Tax Administrator only
with respect to the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and does not
bind the Tax Administrator of any other municipal corporation.
   (I)   The Tax Administrator shall make available the text of all opinions
issued under this section, except those opinions prepared for a taxpayer who
has requested that the text of the opinion remain confidential. In no event
shall the text of an opinion be made available until the Tax Administrator has
removed all information that identifies the taxpayer and any other parties
involved in the activity or transaction.
   (J)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator issued under this section is not
subject to appeal.
(Ord. 917, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 36.250 BOARD OF TAX REVIEW.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Tax Review shall consist of three members. Two
members shall be appointed by the legislative authority of West Alexandria, but
such appointees may not be employees, elected officials, or contractors with
West Alexandria at any time during their term or in the five years (which
applies only to these two appoints) immediately preceding the date of
appointment. One member shall be appointed by the [position name of the
official] of West Alexandria. This member may be an employee of West
Alexandria, but may not be the Director of Finance or equivalent officer, or
the Tax Administrator or other similar official or an employee directly
involved in municipal tax matters, or any direct subordinate thereof.
      (2)   The term for members of the Board of Tax Review West Alexandria
shall be two years. There is no limit on the number of terms that a member may
serve if the member is reappointed by the legislative authority. The Board
member appointed by the [position name of the official] of West Alexandria
shall serve at the discretion of the administrative official.
      (3)   Members of the Board of Tax Review appointed by the legislative
authority may be removed by the legislative authority by majority vote for
malfeasance, misfeasance or nonfeasance in office. To remove such a member, the
legislative authority must give the member a copy of the charges against the
member and afford the member an opportunity to be publicly heard in person or
by counsel in the member’s own defense upon not less than ten days’ notice. The
decision by the legislative authority on the charges is final and not
appealable.
      (4)   A member of the Board of Tax Review who, for any reason, ceases to
meet the qualifications for the position prescribed by this section shall
resign immediately by operation of law.
      (5)   A vacancy in an unexpired term shall be filled in the same manner
as the original appointment within 60 days of when the vacancy was created. Any
member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the
term for which the member’s predecessor was appointed shall hold office for the
remainder of such term. No vacancy on the Board of Tax Review shall impair the
power and authority of the remaining members to exercise all the powers of the
Board of Tax Review.
      (6)   If a member is temporarily unable to serve on the Board of Tax
Review due to a conflict of interest, illness, absence or similar reason, the
legislative authority or top administrative official that appointed the member
shall appoint another individual to temporarily serve on the Board of Tax
Review in the member’s place. The appointment of such an individual shall be
subject to the same requirements and limitations as are applicable to the
appointment of the member temporarily unable to serve.
   (B)   Whenever the Tax Administrator issues an assessment, the Tax
Administrator shall notify the taxpayer in writing at the same time of the
taxpayer’s right to appeal the assessment, the manner in which the taxpayer may
appeal the assessment, and the address to which the appeal should be directed.
   (C)   Any person who has been issued an assessment may appeal the assessment
to the Board of Tax Review by filing a request with the Board of Tax Review.
The request shall be in writing, shall specify the reason or reasons why the
assessment should be deemed incorrect or unlawful, and shall be filed within 60
days after the taxpayer receives the assessment.
   (D)   The Board of Tax Review shall schedule a hearing to be held within 60
days after receiving an appeal of an assessment under division (C) of this
section, unless the taxpayer requests additional time to prepare or waives a
hearing. If the taxpayer does not waive the hearing, the taxpayer may appear
before the Board of Tax Review and may be represented by an attorney at law,
certified public accountant, or other representative. The Board of Tax Review
may allow a hearing to be continued as jointly agreed to by the parties. In
such a case, the hearing must be completed within 120 days after the first day
of the hearing unless the parties agree otherwise.
   (E)   The Board of Tax Review may affirm, reverse or modify the Tax
Administrator’s assessment or any part of that assessment. The Board of Tax
Review shall issue a final determination on the appeal within 90 days after the
Board of Tax Review’s final hearing on the appeal, and send a copy of its final
determination by ordinary mail to all of the parties to the appeal within 15
days after issuing the final determination. The taxpayer or the Tax
Administrator may appeal the Board of Tax Review’s final determination as
provided in R.C. § 5717.011.
   (F)   The Board of Tax Review created pursuant to this section shall adopt
rules governing its procedures and shall keep a record of its transactions.
Such records are not public records available for inspection under R.C. §
149.43. Hearings requested by a taxpayer before a Board of Tax Review created
pursuant to this section are not meetings of a public body subject to R.C. §
121.22.
(Ord. 917, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 36.251 AUTHORITY TO CREATE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in these rules and regulations prohibits the legislative
authority of West Alexandria, or the Tax Administrator pursuant to authority
granted to the Tax Administrator by resolution or ordinance, to adopt rules to
administer an income tax imposed by West Alexandria in accordance with these
rules and regulations. Such rules shall not conflict with or be inconsistent
with any provision of these rules and regulations. Taxpayers are hereby
required to comply with the rules and regulations as they are required to
comply with West Alexandria’s income tax ordinance.
   (B)   All rules adopted under this section shall be published and posted on
the internet.
(Ord. 917, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 36.252 RENTAL AND LEASED PROPERTY.
   (A)   All property owners of real property located in West Alexandria, who
rent or otherwise lease the same, or any part thereof, to any person for
residential dwelling purposes, including apartments, rooms and other rental
accommodations, during any calendar year, or part thereof, commencing with the
effective date of this section, shall file with the Tax Administrator on or
before the January 31 first following such calendar year a written report
disclosing the name, address and also telephone number, if available, of each
tenant known to have occupied on December 31 during such calendar year such
apartment, room or other residential dwelling rental property.
   (B)   The Tax Administrator may order the appearance before him or her, or
his or her duly authorized agent, of any person whom he or she believes to have
any knowledge of the name, address, telephone number and/or email address of
any tenant of residential rental real property in West Alexandria. The Tax
Administrator, or his or her duly authorized agent, is authorized to examine
any person, under oath, concerning the name, address, telephone number and/or
email address of any tenant of residential real property located in West
Alexandria. The Tax Administrator, or his or her duly authorized agent, may
compel the production of papers and records and the attendance of all personal
before him or her, whether as parties or witnesses, whenever he or she believes
such person has knowledge of the name, address, telephone number and/or email
address of any tenant of residential real property in West Alexandria.
   (C)   Any property owner or person that violates one or more of the
following shall be subject to §
36.999 of these rules and regulations:
      (1)   Fails, refuses or neglects to timely file a written report required
by division (A) of this section;
      (2)   Makes an incomplete or intentionally false written report required
by division (A) of this section;
      (3)   Fails to appear before the Tax Administrator or any duly authorized
agent and to produce and disclose any tenant information pursuant to any order
or subpoena of the Tax Administrator as authorized in this section; or
      (4)   Fails to comply with the provisions of this section or any order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator.
(Ord. 917, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 36.253 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   These rules and regulations shall not apply to any person, firm or
corporation, or to any property as to whom or which it is beyond the power of
West Alexandria’s Council to impose the tax herein provided for. Any sentence,
clause, section or part of these rules and regulations or any tax against or
exception granted any individual or any of the several groups of persons, or
forms of income specified herein if found to be unconstitutional, illegal or
invalid, such unconstitutionality, illegality or invalidity shall affect only
such clause, sentence, section or part of these rules and regulations and shall
not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences, clauses,
sections or other parts of these rules and regulations. It is hereby declared
to be the intention of West Alexandria’s Council that these rules and
regulations would have been adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or
invalid sentence, or part hereof, not been included therein.
(Ord. 917, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 36.254 COLLECTION OF TAX AFTER TERMINATION OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall continue effective insofar as the levy of taxes
is concerned until repealed, and insofar as the collection of taxes levied
hereunder and actions or proceedings for collecting any tax so levied or
enforcing any provisions of this subchapter are concerned, it shall continue
effective until all of said taxes levied hereunder in the aforesaid periods are
fully paid and any and all suits and prosecutions for the collection of said
taxes or for the punishment of violations of this subchapter shall have been
fully terminated, subject to the limitations contained in §§
36.247 and
36.999.
   (B)   Annual returns due for all or any part of the last effective year of
this subchapter shall be due on the date provided in §§
36.233 and
36.234 as though the same were continuing.
(Ord. 917, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 36.255 ADOPTION OF RITA RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   West Alexandria hereby adopts the Regional Income Tax Agency (RITA) rules
and regulations, including amendments that may be made from time to time, for
use as West Alexandria’s Income Tax rules and regulations. In the event of a
conflict with any provision(s) of West Alexandria Income Tax Ordinance and the
RITA rules and regulations, the ordinance will supersede. Until and if the
contractual relationship between West Alexandria and RITA ceases, this section
will supercede all other provisions regarding promulgation of rules and
regulations by the Tax Administrator.
(Ord. 917, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 36.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, whoever
violates §§
36.171,
36.170(A) or
36.060 by failing to remit municipal income taxes deducted and withheld from an
employee, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for a term of up to
six months, or both. In addition, the violation is punishable by dismissal from
office or discharge from employment, or both.
      (2)   Person who discloses information received from the Internal Revenue
Service in violation of Internal Revenue Code § 7213(a), 7213A, or 7431 shall
be guilty of a felony of the fifth degree and shall be subject to a fine of not
more than $5,000 plus the costs of prosecution, or imprisonment for a term not
exceeding five years, or both. In addition, the violation is punishable by
dismissal from office or discharge from employment, or both.
      (3)   Each instance of access or disclosure in violation of §
36.170(A) constitutes a separate offense.
      (4)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
36.015 through
36.018,
36.030,
36.031,
36.045 through
36.047,
36.060 through
36.062,
36.075 through
36.079,
36.090,
36.105 through
36.108,
36.120 through
36.125,
36.140 through
36.142,
36.155 through
36.158,
36.170,
36.171,
36.185 through
36.187 and
36.200 through
36.204 for which violation no penalty is otherwise provided, is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense; on a second offense within
one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree; on each subsequent offense within one year after the first
offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. By way of
an illustrative enumeration, violations of §§
36.015 through
36.018,
36.030,
36.031,
36.045 through
36.047,
36.060 through
36.062,
36.075 through
36.079,
36.090,
36.105 through
36.108,
36.120 through
36.125,
36.140 through
36.142,
36.155 through
36.158,
36.170,
36.171,
36.185 through
36.187 and
36.200 through
36.204 shall include, but not be limited to, the following acts, conduct, and/
or omissions:
         (a)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any return or declaration
required by §§
36.015 through
36.018,
36.030,
36.031,
36.045 through
36.047,
36.060 through
36.062,
36.075 through
36.079,
36.090,
36.105 through
36.108,
36.120 through
36.125,
36.140 through
36.142,
36.155 through
36.158,
36.170,
36.171,
36.185 through
36.187 and
36.200 through
36.204;
         (b)   Knowingly make any incomplete return;
         (c)   Willfully fail, neglect, or refuse to pay the tax, penalties,
and interest, or any combination thereof, imposed by §§
36.015 through
36.018,
36.030,
36.031,
36.045 through
36.047,
36.060 through
36.062,
36.075 through
36.079,
36.090,
36.105 through
36.108,
36.120 through
36.125,
36.140 through
36.142,
36.155 through
36.158,
36.170,
36.171,
36.185 through
36.187 and
36.200 through
36.204;
         (d)   Cause to not be remitted the city income tax withheld from
qualifying wages of employees to the municipal corporation as required by §
36.060;
         (e)   Neglect or refuse to withhold or remit municipal income tax from
employees;
         (f)   Refuse to permit the Tax Administrator or any duly authorized
agent or employee to examine his or her or her books, records, papers, federal
and state income tax returns, or any documentation relating to the income or
net profits of a taxpayer;
         (g)   Fail to appear before the Tax Administrator and to produce his
or her books, records, papers, federal and state income tax returns, or any
documentation relating to the income or net profits of a taxpayer upon order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator;
         (h)   Refuse to disclose to the Tax Administrator any information with
respect to such person’s income or net profits, or in the case of a person
responsible for maintaining information relating to his or her employers’
income or net profits, such person’s employer’s income or net profits;
         (i)   Fail to comply with the provisions of §§
36.015 through
36.018,
36.030,
36.031,
36.045 through
36.047,
36.060 through
36.062,
36.075 through
36.079,
36.090,
36.105 through
36.108,
36.120 through
36.125,
36.140 through
36.142,
36.155 through
36.158,
36.170,
36.171,
36.185 through
36.187 and
36.200 through
36.204 or any order or subpoena of the Tax Administrator;
         (j)   To avoid imposition or collection of municipal income tax,
willfully give to an employer or prospective employer false information as to
his or her true name, correct social security number and residence address, or
willfully fail to promptly notify an employer or a prospective employer of any
change in residence address and date thereof;
         (k)   Fail, as an employer, agent of an employer or other payer, to
maintain proper records of employees residence addresses, total qualifying
wages paid and municipal tax withheld, or to knowingly give the Tax
Administrator false information; or
         (l)   Willfully fail, neglect or refuse to make any payment of
estimated municipal income tax for any taxable year or any part of any taxable
year in accordance with §§
36.015 through
36.018,
36.030,
36.031,
36.045 through
36.047,
36.060 through
36.062,
36.075 through
36.079,
36.090,
36.105 through
36.108,
36.120 through
36.125,
36.140 through
36.142,
36.155 through
36.158,
36.170,
36.171,
36.185 through
36.187 and
36.200 through
36.204;
         (m)   Attempt to do anything whatsoever to avoid the payment of the
whole or any part of the tax, penalties or interest imposed by §§
36.015 through
36.018,
36.030,
36.031,
36.045 through
36.047,
36.060 through
36.062,
36.075 through
36.079,
36.090,
36.105 through
36.108,
36.120 through
36.125,
36.140 through
36.142,
36.155 through
36.158,
36.170,
36.171,
36.185 through
36.187 and
36.200 through
36.204;
         (n)   For purposes of this division (B), any violation that does not
specify a culpable mental state or intent, shall be one of strict liability and
no culpable mental state or intent shall be required for a person to be guilty
of that violation;
         (o)   For purposes of this division (B), the term PERSON shall, in
addition to the meaning prescribed in §
36.031, include in the case of a corporation, association, pass-through entity
or unincorporated business entity not having any resident owner or officer
within the city, any employee or agent of such corporation, association, pass-
through entity or unincorporated business entity who has control or supervision
over or is charged with the responsibility of filing the municipal income tax
returns and making the payments of the municipal income tax as required by §§
36.015 through
36.018,
36.030,
36.031,
36.045 through
36.047,
36.060 through
36.062,
36.075 through
36.079,
36.090,
36.105 through
36.108,
36.120 through
36.125,
36.140 through
36.142,
36.155 through
36.158,
36.170,
36.171,
36.185 through
36.187 and
36.200 through
36.204.
(R.C. § 718.99)
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates §§
36.246,
36.245(A) or
36.233 by failing to remit West Alexandria income taxes deducted and withheld
from an employee, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and
shall be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for a term
of up to six months, or both. If the individual that commits the violation is
an employee, or official, of West Alexandria, the individual is subject to
discharge from employment or dismissal from office.
      (2)   Any person who discloses information received from the Internal
Revenue Service in violation of §
36.245(A) shall be guilty of a felony of the fifth degree and shall be subject
to a fine of not more than $5,000 plus the costs of prosecution, or
imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years, or both. If the individual
that commits the violation is an employee, or official, of West Alexandria, the
individual is subject to discharge from employment or dismissal from office.
      (3)   Each instance of access or disclosure in violation of §
36.245(A) constitutes a separate offense.
      (4)   If not otherwise specified herein, no person shall:
         (a)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any return or declaration
required by §§
36.230 through
36.255;
         (b)   File any incomplete or false return;
         (c)   Fail, neglect or refuse to pay the tax, penalties or interest
imposed by these rules and regulations;
         (d)   Refuse to permit the Tax Administrator or any duly authorized
agent or employee to examine his or her books, records, papers and federal,
state, and local income tax returns relating to the income or net profits of a
taxpayer;
         (e)   Fail to appear before the Tax Administrator and to produce his
or her books, records, papers or federal, state, and local income tax returns
relating to the income or net profits of a taxpayer upon order or subpoena of
the Tax Administrator;
         (f)   Refuse to disclose to the Tax Administrator any information with
respect to the income or net profits of a taxpayer;
         (g)   Fail to comply with the provisions of this ordinance or any
order or subpoena of the Tax Administrator authorized hereby;
         (h)   Give to an employer false information as to his or her true
name, correct social security number, and residence address, or fail to
promptly notify an employer of any change in residence address and date
thereof; or
         (i)   Attempt to do anything whatsoever to avoid the payment of the
whole or any part of the tax, penalties or interest imposed by these rules and
regulations.
      (5)   Any person who violates any of the provisions in division (C)(4) of
this section shall be subject to the penalties provided for in division (C)(1)
of these rules and regulations.
(Ord. 800, passed 10-19-2015, § 880.99; Ord. 917, passed 7-19-2021)
CHAPTER 37: PUBLIC MEETINGS
Section
   
37.01    Definition
   
37.02    Calling and scheduling of public meetings
   
37.03    Village Fiscal Officer’s duties
   
37.04    Advance notification of news media organization
   
37.05    Advance notification of public
   
37.06    Village Fiscal Officer to prescribe forms
   
37.07    Regular meetings
   
37.08    Invalidity of actions
   
37.09    Record of meeting minutes
§ 37.01 DEFINITION.
   This chapter regulates all public meetings of the Village of West
Alexandria, except regular meetings of Council. Included, but not exclusive of
other meetings, are the following:
   (A)   Special meetings of Council;
   (B)   Emergency meetings of Council;
   (C)   Committee meetings of Council; and
   (D)   Meetings of other public bodies such as a Planning Commission, Board
of Zoning Appeals, Recreation Board, Board of Park Trustees, Board of Library
Trustees or any other public body that Council may from time to time create or
that may be created or exist by law.
(Prior Code, § 224.01) (Ord. 721, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 37.02 CALLING AND SCHEDULING OF PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   (A)   All public meetings regulated by this chapter should be called and
scheduled in accordance with other applicable law. After a public meeting is
called and scheduled, the official or public body calling and scheduling the
meeting shall deliver to the Village Fiscal Officer a “Notice of Public
Meeting” containing the following information:
      (1)   The name of the public body that is scheduled to meet;
      (2)   The date, time and location of the meeting; and
      (3)   An agenda for the meeting which may include a general purpose
statement of “any other business as may properly come before such municipal
body”, except that the agenda requirement is waived for regularly scheduled
meetings.
   (B)   Members of the public body that has been scheduled to meet shall be
notified in accordance with other applicable law or shall waive notice or
attend the scheduled meeting.
(Prior Code, § 224.02) (Ord. 721, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 37.03 VILLAGE FISCAL OFFICER’S DUTIES.
   Upon receipt of a “Notice of Public Meeting,” the Village Fiscal Officer
shall post a copy of the notice in at least three but not more than five public
locations in the village as Council may from time to time establish by motion
for the notice purposes. A village internet website may be designated by
Council as one of the public locations. The notices should be posted as soon as
practical for public awareness, and except for emergency meetings of Council,
at least 24 hours in advance of the public meeting. Citizens interested in
attending public meetings regulated herein have a duty to daily monitor the
postings for the notice information contained on the postings.
(Prior Code, § 224.03) (Ord. 721, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 37.04 ADVANCE NOTIFICATION OF NEWS MEDIA ORGANIZATION.
   Any news media organization that desires to be given advance notification of
a public meeting regulated herein shall file with the Village Fiscal Officer a
written request thereof that specifies the name or names of the public body
that is subject to the request, the name of the news media organization, the
name and address of the person to whom written notification to the news media
organization may be mailed, delivered or transmitted, and the names, addresses
and telephone numbers of at least two persons to either one of whom oral
notification of the public meeting regulated herein may be given. Any such
request shall be effective for a period of one year from the date of filing
with the Village Fiscal Officer. The Village Fiscal Officer should give such
oral notification or written notification or both as the official determines to
the requesting news media organization as soon as practical, and except for
emergency meetings of Council, at least 24 hours in advance of the public
meeting.
(Prior Code, § 224.04) (Ord. 721, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 37.05 ADVANCE NOTIFICATION OF PUBLIC.
   Any person that desires to be given advance notification of a public meeting
regulated herein in which any specific type of public business is to be
discussed, shall file with the Village Fiscal Officer a written request thereof
that specifies the name or names of the public body that is subject to the
request, as well as the name, address and telephone number of the requestor to
whom oral and/or written notification can be mailed, delivered, otherwise
transmitted, or given. Any such request shall be effective for a period of
three months from the date of filing with the Village Fiscal Officer. The
Village Fiscal Officer should give such oral notification or written
notification or both as the official determines to said requesting person as
soon as practical, and except for emergency meetings of Council, at least 24
hours in advance of the public meeting.
(Prior Code, § 224.05) (Ord. 721, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 37.06 VILLAGE FISCAL OFFICER TO PRESCRIBE FORMS.
   The Village Fiscal Officer may prescribe forms to use for a “Notice of
Public Meeting” or for written notice of public meetings to news media
organizations or persons.
(Prior Code, § 224.06) (Ord. 721, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 37.07 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   Since regular meetings of Council are scheduled by law, the schedule of
which is obtainable by review of public records and/or regular attendance at
the meetings, and since every regular meeting of Council is open to the entire
universe of all specific types of public business that can come before a
Village Council, any person or news media organization interested in a specific
type of public business that can come before a Village Council is expected to
come to all regular meetings of Council. Since regular meetings of Council are
not otherwise regulated by this chapter, this chapter constitutes advance
notification to all persons and news media organizations of the universe of all
specific types of public business that can come before a Village Council may
come before it at any regular meeting of Council.
(Prior Code, § 224.07) (Ord. 721, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 37.08 INVALIDITY OF ACTIONS.
   No action taken by a public body at a public meeting regulated herein shall
be invalid merely because of a technical defect, error or failure of the public
body, the Village Fiscal Officer, or any other village official in complying
with the terms of this chapter or any other applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 224.08) (Ord. 721, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 37.09 RECORD OF MEETING MINUTES.
   A record of meeting minutes shall be kept of all public meetings regulated
herein, and upon approval, recorded with the Village Fiscal Officer.
(Prior Code, § 224.09) (Ord. 721, passed 12-4-2006)
CHAPTER 38: VILLAGE RECORDS
Section
   
38.01    Findings of fact
   
38.02    Preservation of records
   
38.03    Destruction of records
   
38.04    First target destruction date
   
38.05    Confidentiality of records
   
38.06    Notice
   
38.07    Further rules and regulations
   
38.08    Effective date
   
38.09    Public records
§ 38.01 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The West Alexandria Council hereby makes the following findings of fact:
   (a)   Village records continue to pile up at an excessive rate compared to
storage capacity;
   (b)   The laws of the State of Ohio permit the destruction of some but not
all village records; and
   (c)   The destruction of village records that are permitted to be destroyed
is useful, appropriate and in the long run, cost effective.
(Prior Code, § 249.01) (Ord. 687, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 38.02 PRESERVATION OF RECORDS.
   All West Alexandria village records required by the laws of the State of
Ohio to be kept and preserved shall continue to be kept and preserved.
(Prior Code, § 249.02) (Ord. 687, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 38.03 DESTRUCTION OF RECORDS.
   (A)   All West Alexandria village records permitted by the laws of the State
of Ohio to be destroyed shall be timely destroyed by the Village Fiscal Officer
or authorized agent by fire or other allowable means.
   (B)   The date of records destruction shall be December 31 (or as soon
thereafter as feasible) of the calendar year in which the record has to be
maintained under the laws of the State of Ohio and/or the Ohio Municipal
Records Manual. Example: May 15, 1998, village dated record has a legally
required retention period of five years would have a target destruction date of
December 31, 2003.
(Prior Code, § 249.03) (Ord. 687, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 38.04 FIRST TARGET DESTRUCTION DATE.
   The first target destruction date is herein scheduled for December 31, 2003,
from which all village records currently existing and other records allowed to
be destroyed shall be destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 249.04) (Ord. 687, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 38.05 CONFIDENTIALITY OF RECORDS.
   All village records required by any federal, state or other applicable law
to remain confidential or under privacy rules shall remain confidential or
under privacy rules up to the time of and including their destruction. Included
in this rule, but not exclusive of other village records, are income tax
returns and records.
(Prior Code, § 249.05) (Ord. 687, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 38.06 NOTICE.
   All notice and appropriate offerings of village records targeted for
destruction shall be done according to the laws of the State of Ohio and/or the
Ohio Municipal Records Manual before the village records are destroyed, subject
to §
38.05 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 249.06) (Ord. 687, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 38.07 FURTHER RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The West Alexandria Public Records Commission may make further rules and
regulations to supplement this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 249.07) (Ord. 687, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 38.08 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective from and after January 1, 2003.
(Prior Code, § 249.08) (Ord. 687, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 38.09 PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   The village recognizes the importance of the availability of its
public records for inspection and copying, and hereby adopts the regulations to
comply with R.C. Chapter 149 and other applicable law.
   (B)   Attached as Exhibit “A” to Ordinance No. 738, passed March 17, 2008,
is a model policy for public records. Council herein adopts this policy for all
village offices, departments, boards and official village record keepers, and
authorizes the Mayor to amend it from time to time so that it continues to
match any changes made to said model policy by the state or so that it
otherwise complies with Ohio law.
   (C)   The availability of all village public records shall be requested from
and coordinated through the Village Clerk, who in turn shall work with the
appropriate village officials and/or employees in complying with this section
and Ohio public records law.
   (D)   The Village Clerk shall do the following with the attached Exhibit “A”
public records policy and any future amendments thereto:
      (1)   Acknowledge receipt of said public records policy;
      (2)   Create a poster(s) and attach said public records policy to said
poster(s);
      (3)   Post the poster(s) in a conspicuous place in all locations or
offices in the village where public records are located;
      (4)   Post said public records policy on the village internet web site,
if any; and
      (5)   Work with appropriate village officials to have said public records
policy made a part of employee manuals or handbooks, if any.
   (E)   A Village Records Commission is hereby created and/or reestablished
pursuant to R.C. § 149.39 and other applicable law, and its membership, powers,
duties and functions shall be as described therein. Any Commission member may
serve as a designee of any village official for purposes of education or other
training seminars mandated by Ohio law regarding public records.
(Prior Code, § 249.09) (Ord. 738, passed 3-17-2008)
CHAPTER 39: MAYOR’S COURT
Section
   
39.01    Generally
§ 39.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The general operation of the Mayor’s Court shall be handled by a
Magistrate and a Clerk of Courts. The Magistrate shall receive a stipend of
$500 per month and the Clerk of Courts shall receive a stipend of $400 per
month, with the compensation for said positions being subject to amendment as
the Village Council may from time to time determine by Motion of said
legislative body. The Magistrate and Clerk of Courts shall be appointed by the
Mayor with the advice and consent of the Village Council.
   (B)   The Magistrate shall be the regular judicial officer of Mayor’s Court
and the Clerk of Courts shall be the record keeping officer of the Mayor’s
Court, and they shall have all powers and duties as prescribed by Ohio law for
Mayor’s Courts.
   (C)   The Village Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Village Council,
may remove and/or change either the Magistrate or the Clerk of Courts, with or
without cause, upon giving either of them 30 days’ written notice.
   (D)   The Village Council authorizes the use of a part of the Village Towne
Hall, at 16 North Main Street, West Alexandria, Ohio, 45381, to be the initial
location of the Mayor’s Court, with such location being subject to change at
the Village Council’s discretion, as it may from time to time determine by
motion of said legislative body.
(Prior Code, Ch. 270) (Ord. 818, passed 8-21-2017)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWERS
      
54.   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Extension of utility services outside village corporate limits
   
50.02   Water, sewer and trash bills
§ 50.01 EXTENSION OF UTILITY SERVICES OUTSIDE VILLAGE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   Findings. Council hereby makes the following determinations.
      (1)   The Village Administrator has recommended the passage of this
section.
      (2)   This section is necessary to ensure the availability and priority
of furnishing limited resources and utility services to village resident
consumers.
      (3)   This section is necessary to encourage village territorial growth.
   (B)   Sewer and water service extensions; annexation required.
      (1)   Sewer services shall no longer be extended to consumers situated
outside the village corporate limits. Annexation is a prerequisite for sewer
service availability.
      (2)   Water services shall no longer be extended to consumers situated
outside the village corporate limits and whose real estate abuts the village
corporate limits. Annexation is a prerequisite for water service availability
under this section.
      (3)   Water service shall no longer be extended or made available to non-
abutting consumers (including consumers wishing to tap-in to an existing line)
situated outside the village corporate limits, except as follows:
         (a)   Consumers must pay for all costs of surveying, designing,
engineering and constructing the extended water line, as well as all tap-in
fees. Any legal fees, court costs, recording fees or other miscellaneous
expenses are similarly to be paid by consumers;
         (b)   Consumers must give all appropriate easement rights to the
village for purposes of the utility line;
         (c)   The Village Administrator must determine that the proposed water
line will not unduly burden the village water system and will not endanger the
availability and priority of furnishing limited resources of water to village
resident consumers. The Village Administrator may rule any development proposal
beyond existing structures, such as a plat of proposed homes or an industrial
park, automatically as an undue burden.
         (d)   1.   Consumers must sign and have recorded, at their expense,
with the Preble County Recorder, a legal document approved by the Village
Solicitor that pledges and binds the current owners, their heirs,
administrators, executors, successors and assigns, to full cooperation in any
proceedings to annex their real estate in the future, including all of the
following:
               a.   Initiating or signing an annexation petition as requested
by the village when their real estate abuts the village corporate limits or
when their real estate abuts the real estate of other annexation petitioners;
               b.   Signing annexation petitions and providing supporting
affidavits;
               c.   Furnishing representatives to testify in favor of
annexation at hearings;
               d.   Providing information concerning the benefits of
annexation;
               e.   Remaining as a party in annexation proceedings through all
stages of the proceedings, including the appellate process;
               f.   Not encouraging opposition to annexation; and
               g.   Such other assistance in furtherance of annexation as the
village may reasonably request.
            2.   The recordable document shall treat the annexation pledge as
both a contract and a covenant running with the land.
   (C)   Rates. To help ensure the availability and priority of furnishing
water and sewer services to consumers situated within the village corporate
limits and to encourage village territorial growth, and because lengthy utility
lines outside the village limits have high maintenance costs, beginning on
January 1, 1996, the 110% rate charge to water and sewer consumers situated
outside the village corporate limits shall progressively be increased to the
following percentages of basic rates as follows:
Effective Date Percentage of Basic Rate
Effective Date  Percentage of Basic Rate
January 1, 1996 120
January 1, 1997 130
January 1, 1998 140
January 1, 1999 150
January 1, 2000 160
January 1, 2001 170
January 1, 2002 180
January 1, 2003 190
January 1, 2004 200
 
(Prior Code, § 1054.01) (Ord. 608, passed 4-3-1995)
§ 50.02 WATER, SEWER AND TRASH BILLS.
   (A)   All billing for water, sewer and trash service shall be sent to the
owner of record for all properties serviced.
   (B)   Owners shall be responsible for the payment of the billing by the due
date.
   (C)   Owners are subject to all applicable rules and regulations, by-laws,
ordinances and state laws governing the collection of water, sewer and trash
bills.
(Prior Code, § 1054.02) (Ord. 566, passed 3-2-1992)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Containers
   
51.03   Prohibited practices
   
51.04   Prescribed time periods
   
51.05   Collection charges
   
51.06   Classifications; service change
   
51.07   Contracts with private haulers
   
51.08   Noxious weeds or other various vegetation declared to be refuse
available for special disposition
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible wastes, including every refuse accumulation of animal,
fruit or vegetable matter, used or intended for food, or that attends dealing
in or storing meat, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetables.
   OTHER WASTE. Those discarded materials required to be removed from private
or public places, but not falling into either the classification of garbage or
trash. OTHER WASTES may include building materials and debris resulting from
construction operations.
   REFUSE. Garbage, trash and other wastes.
   TRASH. Refuse and rubbish which is accumulated by individuals and businesses
in their normal day-to-day operations, excluding garbage and excluding building
materials and debris resulting from or accumulating in the construction,
alteration or major repairing of any building or structure. TRASH includes, but
is not limited to, the following: paper, boxes and other packaging materials,
ashes, metal, clothing and glass. TRASH does not include grass, leaves, brush
and tree or shrubbery trimmings.
(Prior Code, § 1060.01) (Ord. 376, passed 12-3-1973; Ord. 604, passed 7-18-
1994)
§ 51.02 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Generally. It shall be the duty of every person occupying the premises
for any purpose from which the creation or accumulation of refuse results, to
provide a portable vessel, vessels or containers for holding garbage and trash
as hereinafter described. It shall be the duty of each user of refuse
collection service to keep all containers clean and in a sanitary condition.
   (B)   Containers. Shall be defined for the purpose of this chapter as a
receptacle manufactured for the purpose of refuse containment that includes a
securable covering sufficient to prevent spillage of the contents if overturned
and to keep the container watertight. Each container shall not hold more than
50 gallons, but in no case shall the combined weight of the container and
contents exceed 75 pounds. Non-perishable refuse may be disposed of in baskets,
crates or other containers of such size that may easily be handled by one
person and of containers substantial enough not to be broken in handling. No
container and contents may weigh more than 75 pounds.
   (C)   Wastewheelers. Shall be defined as a single container with a minimum
of two wheels and an attached, hinged lid. This type of container shall be
supplied by the contractual refuse hauler and must be contracted through the
village.
   (D)   Dumpsters. Shall be defined as “front or rear loader” commercially
manufactured container ranging in size from two yard to eight yard capacity.
These containers shall have top covers which shall remain closed except during
pickup. The village or contracted refuse hauler shall provide these containers.
The property owner shall be responsible to provide a sufficient area and access
to accommodate a dumpster in accordance with the refuse hauler’s
specifications.
(Prior Code, § 1060.02) (Ord. 376, passed 12-3-1973; Ord. 604, passed 7-18-
1994; Ord. 708, passed 9-20-2004)
§ 51.03 PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   (A)   No person shall retain on his or her premises garbage or waste for a
longer period of time than ten days or retain the same for more than 12 hours
unless enclosed in a watertight tightly covered container. If plastic bags are
utilized for trash or garbage containment, it will be the responsibility of the
property owner to see that each is tied securely and free of holes or tears
through which garbage might escape.
   (B)   No person shall throw garbage, trash or refuse into any stream flowing
through the village or into the banks thereof, or onto any public property or
property owned by others.
   (C)   No person shall burn upon his or her premises or the public ways any
refuse, trash, garbage or debris of any kind.
   (D)   No person who is not a resident of the village shall deposit or cause
to be deposited garbage, trash or refuse within the village for pick-up by the
village trash removal operations or by the franchise holder. No person shall
bring into the village, or allow any other person to bring into the village,
garbage, trash or refuse for pick-up by the village trash removal operations or
by the franchise holder.
(Prior Code, § 1060.03) (Ord. 428, passed 4-21-1980)
§ 51.04 PRESCRIBED TIME PERIODS.
   The village hereby sets forth the following time periods during which
village residents may set out or place refuse and solid waste for collection.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner, occupant or person in charge of the
premises to place or cause to be placed any refuse or solid waste for
collection, in container(s) approved by the village, after 6:00 a.m. on the day
preceding the day of collection and before 6:00 a.m. on the day of collection
or during any other prescribed times as may be scheduled by Council.
   (B)   Any refuse or solid waste, or the waste wheeler or other container(s)
containing such refuse or solid waste, that is set out after 6:00 a.m. on the
day of collection, may be subject to being declared as non-collectible.
   (C)   In the event that any such refuse or solid waste is declared as non-
collectible by the village and if it is not collected by the contractor, it
shall be the responsibility of the owner, occupant or person in charge of the
premises to remove any such waste or container from the curb or adjacent
roadway no later than midday on the day following the day of collection.
   (D)   In any event, the wastewheeler or other container(s) shall be removed
from the curb or adjacent roadway no later than midday on the day following the
day of collection.
   (E)   No owner, occupant or person in charge of the premises shall allow
refuse or solid waste, or the wastewheeler or other container(s) containing or
potentially containing such refuse or solid waste, to be in the area of the
curb or adjacent roadway other than from 6:00 a.m. on the day preceding the day
of collection and midday on the day following the day of collection.
(Prior Code, § 1060.031) (Ord. 780, passed 9-17-2012)
§ 51.05 COLLECTION CHARGES.
   Charges for collection of refuse, garbage, trash or other waste shall be as
follows:
   (A)   Class 1 Residential.
      (1)   Shall include all single family, duplexes and multi-family
dwellings. Each unit shall be assessed a separate amount. Properties in this
classification must be used exclusively for residential purposes. The monthly
charge shall be $25 for one wastewheeler for each residential unit. Each
additional wastewheeler shall be $5 per month.
      (2)   For health, safety and aesthetic benefits to the citizens of the
village, owners of two-family, multi-family, or other residential dwelling
complexes larger than single family dwellings, may be required to appropriately
pool their refuse, garbage, trash or other wastes into dumpsters and be billed
under Class B business a one pooled rental business.
   (B)   Wastewheelers. Charges for additional wastewheelers shall be an
additional $5 per month charge with one pickup per week.
   (D)   Class 2 Business. Shall include all commercial, industrial,
professional, nonprofit, business/residential dwelling, or any combination
thereof. The monthly rate shall be according to the following schedule:
Class A Business Number of     Number of Stops per Week Rate Per Month
                 Wastewheelers
Class A   Number of Wastewheelers Number of Stops per Week Rate Per Month
Business
          1                       1                        $25
Each additional wastewheeler up to a maximum of 4 will be $14 each.
Class B  Size              EOW     1X      2X               3X
Business
        2 Yds.            $49.54  $93.46  $161.86          $273.59
        3 Yds.            $53.94  $114.97 $205.28          $322.17
        4 Yds.            $60.49  $128.74 $237.71          $386.28
        6 Yds.            $80.64  $171.58 $321.37          $503.30
        8 Yds.            $97.18  $206.77 $391.58          $598.35
        2 Yds.-Commingled X       X       $69.28           X
        3 Yds.-Cardboard  X       $39.90  X                X
        8 Yds.-Cardboard  X       $62.10  X                X
 
(Prior Code, § 1060.04) (Ord. 631, passed 7-7-1997; Ord. 683, passed 12-17-
2001; Ord. 696, passed 6-2-2003; Ord. 708, passed 9-20-2004; Ord. 731, passed
7-16-2007; Ord. 787, passed 7-15-2013; Ord. 799, passed 6-15-2015; Ord. 920,
passed 11-15-2021)
§ 51.06 CLASSIFICATIONS; SERVICE CHANGE.
   (A)   Classifications are determined by the billing collection agent.
Customers’ classifications can be renegotiated upon written request to the
billing collection agent; such request shall state the reason for any change in
service. The billing collection agent shall be the Utility Billing Clerk.
   (B)   Classification changes. Classification changes include: changes in
size or number of rear or front loaders; number of pick-ups per week; special
requests for service; or for any other changes in service.
   (C)   Cases of dispute. In cases of dispute that the billing agent cannot
resolve, the matter will be referred to the Village Administrator (or the next
higher authority) for resolution. The Village Administrator (or next higher
authority) will be the final arbitrator.
(Prior Code, § 1060.05) (Ord. 631, passed 7-7-1997; Ord. 683, passed 12-17-
2001; Ord. 696, passed 6-2-2003; Ord. 708, passed 9-20-2004)
§ 51.07 CONTRACTS WITH PRIVATE HAULERS.
   No person shall contract with any private hauler to collect or dispose of
any refuse, garbage, trash or other waste produced or accumulated by such
person or by any other person.
(Prior Code, § 1060.06)
§ 51.08 NOXIOUS WEEDS OR OTHER VARIOUS VEGETATION DECLARED TO BE REFUSE
AVAILABLE FOR SPECIAL DISPOSITION.
   (A)   Noxious weeds, as determined by the State Director of Agriculture
pursuant to the authority granted him or her by R.C. § 907.10(B)(2), or other
vegetation, including grasses, which is eight inches or more in height, or any
weed or vegetation growth causing a hazardous condition to pedestrian or
vehicular traffic, or which is likely to harbor rats, vermin or other pests,
may be declared to be refuse available for special disposition by the Village
Administrator or his or her authorized representative, at any time and at any
place in the village where he or she finds such conditions to exist.
   (B)   Whenever the Village Administrator or his or her authorized
representative declares “refuse available for special disposition” conditions
to exist under this section, a sign, poster, written letter or other written
warning shall be placed in a conspicuous location on the land harboring said
refuse, stating:
PURSUANT TO SECTION 51.08 OF THE WEST ALEXANDRIA CODIFIED ORDINANCES, THIS LAND
HAS BEEN FOUND TO HAVE NOXIOUS, HAZARDOUS, AND/OR TALL WEEDS, GRASS, AND/OR
OTHER VEGETATION THAT MUST BE CUT OR OTHERWISE ELIMINATED WITHIN 48 HOURS. THE
OWNER’S FAILURE TO CUT OR OTHERWISE ELIMINATE THE PROBLEM WITHIN 48 HOURS SHALL
ALLOW VILLAGE EMPLOYEES TO ENTER THE LAND AND CUT OR OTHERWISE ELIMINATE THE
PROBLEM, WITH THE COSTS TO BE BILLED ON THE OWNER’S REFUSE ACCOUNT PORTION OF
SAID OWNER’S NEXT VILLAGE UTILITY BILL.
   (C)   Whenever the village actually cuts or otherwise eliminates declared
“refuse available for special disposition” under this section, the property
owner shall be billed for the services rendered by the village in the sum of
$125 per hour. Said amount shall be billed on the property owner’s refuse
account portion of his or her next village utility bill or billed directly to
the property owner of record with the County Recorder. Council reserves the
right to amend the above $125 per hour service fee, by motion, as it may from
time to time deem to be useful and appropriate.
   (D)   The Village Administrator shall make sure that the correct property
owner gets billed for the special refuse services rendered under this section.
Partial payments on water, sewer and refuse collection accounts shall be
completely applied to refuse charges first, then completely applied to sewer
charges second, and then completely applied to water charges last.
   (E)   The provisions contained in this section shall supercede all other
provisions contained in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1060.07) (Ord. 756, passed 6-21-2010)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be fined not more than $100. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 1060.99)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
   
52.01   Rates
   
52.02   Tap-in fees
   
52.03   Water meters
   
52.04   Private wells; inspections
   
52.05   Backflow prevention devices
§ 52.01 RATES.
   (A)   (1)   The following monthly rates shall be charged by the village for
furnishing water system services, based upon metered water consumption, or as
otherwise furnished to each individual premises:
         (a)   All users shall be charged a monthly base rate in the amount of
$29.69.
         (b)   An additional surcharge of $3.36 shall be charged for every
1,000 gallons used, or part
thereof, above 3500 gallons.
      (2)   The foregoing minimum water rates shall apply to all owners of
improved property within the corporate limits for which water services is
available.
   (B)   Procedurally, customers shall be invoiced on a monthly basis, with the
meters to be read monthly, but may be estimated by the village when deemed
necessary due to circumstances beyond the village’s control.
   (C)   Customers outside the village limits shall pay an additional
percentage rate over and above customers inside the village based on other
ordinance(s).
(Prior Code, § 1040.01) (Ord. 530, passed 3-6-1989; Ord. 675, passed 6-4-2001;
Ord. 689, passed 2-3-2003; Ord. 702, passed 3-15-2004; Ord. 706, passed 9-20-
2004; Ord. 736, passed 1-7-2008; Ord. 844, passed 1-24-2019; Ord. 900, passed
4-20-2020)
§ 52.02 TAP-IN FEES.
   A fee for tapping into the village sewerage system is hereby established as
follows.
 
Tap Size                           Charge Per Tap
4-inch sewer with 3/4-inch water   $1,250
4-inch sewer with 1-inch water     $1,800
4-inch sewer with 1-1/2 inch water $2,700
4-inch sewer with 2-inch water     $4,000
 
(Prior Code, § 1040.02) (Ord. 599, passed 4-18-1994; Ord. 676, passed 6-4-2001;
Ord. 677, passed 6-4-2001)
§ 52.03 WATER METERS.
   (A)   Any property owner of real estate in the village who engages in or
allows new construction or new remodeling of any residential, commercial or
other business structure, consisting of or establishing multiple residential,
commercial or business units (in any combination), shall have installed a
separate water meter and a separate tap to each individual unit within such
structure at the owner’s expense.
   (B)   Any property owner of real estate in the village consisting of
existing multiple residential, commercial or business units (in any
combination), upon the change in the number or type of the units, shall either
have installed a separate water meter and a separate tap to each individual
unit within such structure at the owner’s expense or shall have such structure
designated as a multiple unit structure for billing purposes, with each
individual unit to receive a pro-rata billing assessment at the owner’s
expense.
   (C)   The placement of the water meter(s) and water tap(s) shall be
determined by the Village Water Superintendent or authorized agent.
   (D)   Any property owner of real estate in the village who would be normally
regulated by division (A) of this section, but who can establish “good cause”
to be regulated the same as property owners are regulated under division (B) of
this section, may apply to the Village Administrator or his or her designated
agent to be treated as a division (B) regulated property owner as opposed to a
division (A) regulated property owner. If denied, the property owner may appeal
to the Village Council within 30 days of the date of written denial, with the
Village Council being the property owner’s last place of administrative appeal
before Common Pleas Court.
   (E)   GOOD CAUSE under division (D) of this section shall mean that all of
the following circumstances exist.
      (1)   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the property owner would result, as distinguished from a mere
inconvenience if the strict letter of this section were to be carried out.
      (2)   The conditions upon which the application for exception is based
are unique to the property for which the exception is sought, including but not
exclusive of other matters, construction logistics.
      (3)   The purpose of the exception is not based exclusively upon
financial considerations.
      (4)   The alleged difficulty or hardship is caused by strict
interpretation of this section and has not been created by any persons
presently having an interest in the property.
      (5)   The granting of the exception will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the neighborhood in
which the property is located.
(Prior Code, § 1040.03) (Ord. 713, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 52.04 PRIVATE WELLS; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   No person or legal entity, being the owner, occupant or person in
charge of any premises so situated within the village, that a connection with
the village water system can or has been made, shall drill, construct or
institute a private water well site, irrespective of purpose or intent.
   (B)   For cases in which division (A) of this section would work as undue
hardship, the person or legal entity so burdened may apply to the Village
Council for a special permit and waiver from the provisions of this section.
The reason of claimed undue hardship and proof that the proposed water well
site will not adversely affect the health and safety of the community must
appear on the application to the Village Council.
   (C)   (1)   The village, the Village Administrator, the County Health
Department and/or any of these entities’ authorized agents are hereby
authorized to inspect any water well system within the village, upon giving the
owner, user or occupier of the premises 24 hours advance written notice of its
intent to inspect, for the following purposes:
         (a)   To make sure the water well system is sanitary and not a health
hazard;
         (b)   To make sure that the water well system is not being used as a
means to bypass the regular village water and sewer system, including, but not
exclusive of other means, the linking of a water well system with the village
water and sewer system; and
         (c)   To make sure that the owner, user or occupier of the premises is
being charged the appropriate rate for usage of the village water and sewer
system.
      (2)   When an inspection discloses a water well site problem as
enumerated above, the inspector is authorized to issue appropriate orders,
including abatement of the problem or an adjustment of water/sewer charges, to
bring about compliance. If the owner, user or occupier fails to comply with the
inspector’s orders within ten days of the receipt of the orders, the individual
may be punished pursuant to division (D) of this section.
   (D)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
section shall be fined not more than $100, and, in addition, shall be required
by a court of competent jurisdiction to abate or have abated the water well
site at the violator’s cost and expense.
(Prior Code, § 1040.04) (Ord. 521, passed 7-11-1988)
§ 52.05 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving premises, where, in the
judgment of the supplier of water or the Director, a health, pollution, or
system hazard to the public water system exists.
   (B)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water system, unless such auxiliary
system is accepted as an additional source by the supplier of water and the
source is approved by the Director;
      (2)   Premises on which any substance is handled in such a fashion as to
create an actual or potential hazard to a public water system. This shall
include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from a public water system which are no longer under the control of
the supplier of water;
      (3)   Premises having internal cross-connections that, in the judgment of
the supplier of water, are not correctable, or intricate plumbing arrangements
which make it impractical to determine whether or not cross-connections exist;
      (4)   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey; and
      (5)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or re-established.
   (C)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving, but not necessarily limited
to, the following types of facilities, unless the Director determines that no
health, pollution or system hazard to the public water system exists.
      (1)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics and nursing homes;
      (2)   Laboratories;
      (3)   Piers, docks and waterfront facilities;
      (4)   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations, or storm water
pumping stations;
      (5)   Food or beverage processing plants;
      (6)   Chemical plants;
      (7)   Metal plating industries;
      (8)   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
      (9)   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors;
      (10)   Car washes; and
      (11)   Others specified by the Director.
   (D)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed at the
consumer’s expense, at any point of connection between a public water system or
a potable consumer’s water system and an auxiliary water system, unless such
system is accepted as an additional source by the supplier of water and sources
approved by the Director.
   (E)   The backflow devices shall be installed by the Water and Sewer
Department personnel, at the consumer’s expense, and checked routinely by the
Water and Sewer Department personnel.
(Prior Code, § 1040.05) (Ord. 482, passed 6-17-1985)
CHAPTER 53: SEWERS
Section
   
53.01   Rental rates
   
53.02   Tap-in fees
   
53.03   Billing and payment
   
53.04   Surcharges for extra strength wastes
   
53.05   Collection of charges
   
53.06   Delinquent payments
   
53.07   Responsibility of owners and lessees
   
53.08   Discharge of clean water into sanitary sewers
   
53.09   Storm Sewer Fund
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 RENTAL RATES.
   (A)   Rate:
 
Rate: $41.76 Base Rate + $6.96 for every 1,000 gallons used, or part thereof
 
   (B)   However, where water not requiring treatment is used by the owner of
property located within the corporate limits and such water is not discharged
into the sanitary sewer system, upon application made by such user to the
Village Administrator, the Village Administrator may authorize the installation
of a separate meter to measure and charge for the water so used without adding
the sewage system charge. Such installation shall be made solely at the expense
of the applicant property owner.
   (C)   Procedurally, customers shall be invoiced on monthly basis, with the
meters to be read monthly, but may be estimated by the village when deemed
necessary due to circumstances beyond the village’s control.
(Prior Code, § 1044.01) (Ord. 572, passed 5-18-1992; Ord. 639, passed 1-4-1999;
Ord. 640, passed 1-19-1999; Ord. 690, passed 2-3-2003; Ord. 703, passed 3-15-
2004; Ord. 707, passed 9-20-2004; Ord. 737, passed 1-7-2008; Ord. 843, passed
1-24-2019; Ord. 901, passed 4-20-2020)
§ 53.02 TAP-IN FEES.
   (A)   A fee for tapping into the village sewerage system is hereby
established as follows.
 
Tap Size                           Charge Per Tap
4-inch sewer with 3/4-inch water   $1,250
4-inch sewer with 1-inch water     $1,800
4-inch sewer with 1-1/2-inch water $2,700
4-inch sewer with 2 inch-water     $4,000
 
   (B)   Each tap-in to the sewerage system shall use the same size sewer line
from the public sewer main to the building attachment.
   (C)   Cleanouts shall be installed as designated by the agent of the Village
Administrator and in accordance with the regulations of such Board.
(Prior Code, § 1044.02) (Ord. 381, passed 4-2-1974; Ord. 599, passed 4-18-1994;
Ord. 677, passed 6-4-2001)
§ 53.03 BILLING AND PAYMENT.
   All sewer service furnished by the village through its sewerage system to
the inhabitants and other users shall be billed and paid in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and no free service shall be furnished to any user,
excluding the village.
(Prior Code, § 1044.03) (Ord. 509, passed 12-7-1987)
§ 53.04 SURCHARGES FOR EXTRA STRENGTH WASTES.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably
adjusted to the services rendered, the village shall have the right to base its
charges not only on the volume, but also on the strength and character, of the
wastes which it is required to treat and to dispose of.
   (B)   The village shall have the right to measure and to determine the
strength and content of all wastes discharged, either directly or indirectly,
into the village sewerage system, in such manner and by such method as it may
deem practicable in the light of the conditions and attending circumstances of
the case, in order to determine the proper charge.
   (C)   Extra charges or surcharges based on the strength of the liquid wastes
shall be made in the following manner.
      (1)   For suspended solids in excess of two pounds for each 1,000 gallons
of wastes, an additional charge shall be made at the rate of $0.04 per 1,000
gallons for each such excess pound. For five-day biological oxygen demand
(B.O.D.) in excess of 1.75 pounds for each 1,000 gallons of wastes, an
additional charge shall be made at the rate of $0.04 per 1,000 gallons for each
such excess pound.
      (2)   For other solubles, such as oil and grease, in excess of 50 parts
per million on an average basis, or 100 parts per million on a peak or catch
sample basis, an additional charge shall be made at the rate of $0.04 per 1,000
gallons for each such excess pound. No wastes containing chromium or cyanide
compounds shall be discharged into the sanitary sewerage system.
      (3)   To determine the strength of wastes, samplings and analyses may be
made from time to time and whenever it is deemed desirable by the village.
After charges have been established, based on the strength of the wastes, the
owner may request reconsideration of the charges by the village by submitting,
if requested, analyses of composite samples of the wastes, certified by a
registered engineer or a graduate chemist, subject to such charges. The village
may then adjust the charges to the rates as required by such analysis or may
recheck the findings by additional sampling and analysis. Requests for rate
adjustments may be submitted no more often than once in every 12-month period.
   (D)   The determination of suspended solids and five-day B.O.D. contained in
the wastes shall be in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods
for Examination of Water, Sewage and Industrial Wastes, as published by the
American Public Health Association, the American Waterworks Association and the
Federation of Sewage and Industrial Wastes Association.
   (E)   The charges established in this section and in §
53.03 are minimum charges, not maximum charges, and the village reserves the
right and is obligated to increase the same at any time should revenues of the
sewerage system prove to be insufficient to pay the operating and maintenance
expenses and the debt service charges of the bonds issued to pay the costs of
extending and improving such system, and to refund outstanding bonds.
(Prior Code, § 1044.04) (Ord. 2-1970, passed 2-2-1970)
§ 53.05 COLLECTION OF CHARGES.
   Charges for services furnished the village inhabitants and other users by
the sewerage system shall be rendered and collected quarterly by the Utility
Billing Clerk on the same bill and at the same time as charges for water
service. Payments for the water charge may not be accepted without payment of
the sewer charge.
(Prior Code, § 1044.05) (Ord. 509, passed 12-7-1987)
§ 53.06 DELINQUENT PAYMENTS.
   Should the bill for any water, sewer and/or refuse services provided by the
village to any property owner and/or customer of the village remain not paid in
full by the due date (determined by the Village Administrator) on the bill, a
10% penalty shall be added to the then account balance. The Village
Administrator or his or her designee is then authorized to mark the next bill
sent to the property owner and/or customer as “Delinquent Shutoff Notice”, with
a written explanation informing the property owner and/or customer that the
account is in serious arrears and that services will be subject to shutoff if
not paid in full by the due date on the bill. The written explanation should
also inform the property owner and/or customer that he or she can make a
personal or written request with the Village Administrator for a hearing with
the Village Council if he or she feels the bill is incorrect. Should any bill
marked “Delinquent Shutoff Notice” remain not paid in full by the due date
(determined by the Village Administrator) on the bill, another 10% penalty
shall be added to the then account balance, and the Village Administrator or
his or her designee is then authorized to shutoff services. Services that are
shut-off will be restored, when the property owner and/or customer’s account is
paid in full in addition to a reconnect fee. The reconnect fee shall be $25 if
restoration occurs during regular weekday village office hours (8:00 a.m. to 3:
00 p.m.) or $50 if restoration occurs at any other time.
(Prior Code, § 1044.06) (Ord. 509, passed 12-7-1987; Ord. 724, passed 3-19-
2007; Ord. 760, passed 8-3-2010)
§ 53.07 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNERS AND LESSEES.
   The owner of private property which is served by the sewerage system by
pipes connected to the system and plant to convey sanitary sewerage therefrom
shall, as well as the lessee of the premises, be liable to the village for all
sanitary sewer charges furnished by such system to such premises. Where sewer
service charges are not paid, the village shall have the right to shut off the
water supply, or to remove or close sewer connections, or both, until payments
are made.
(Prior Code, § 1044.07) (Ord. 2-1970, passed 2-2-1970)
§ 53.08 DISCHARGE OF CLEAN WATER INTO SANITARY SEWERS.
   No person shall discharge or permit the discharge of surface water,
foundation or downspout drain water or other clean water into the sanitary
sewerage system of the village.
(Ord. 353, passed 3-12-1969)
(Prior Code, § 1044.08)
§ 53.09 STORM SEWER FUND.
   (A)   A West Alexandria Storm Sewer Fund is hereby created for allocation of
moneys received under special grant applications, including Issue Two moneys
and/or other revenue sources at the future budgetary direction of Council.
   (B)   The Village Fiscal Officer may notify the Ohio State Auditor’s office
regarding the creation of this Fund, and an appropriate accounting number for
this Fund will be given by the Village Fiscal Officer, the County Auditor and/
or the State Auditor.
   (C)   The Storm Sewer Fund shall be used for the construction, repair and
maintenance of storm sewers.
(Prior Code, § 1044.09) (Ord. 555, passed 3-18-1991)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
more than $100. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 1044.99)
CHAPTER 54: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
Section
   
54.01   Systems within 300 feet of wells
   
54.02   Connections with sewers mandatory when available
   
54.03   Unsanitary vaults
   
54.04   Removal of contents of vault
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01 SYSTEMS WITHIN 300 FEET OF WELLS.
   (A)   No privy vault, cesspool, public or private receptacle for sewage or
excreta, hogpen, barn, manure pit or other source of pollution shall be
established, constructed, maintained or permitted to remain within 300 feet of
the wells now or hereafter installed for the purpose of furnishing the public
water supply of the village unless such privy, vault, cesspool, receptacle for
sewage or excreta, hogpen, barn, manure pit or other source of pollution is so
constructed as to be watertight and so maintained that none of the liquefied or
solid substances contained therein or intended to be contained therein is
permitted to reach the surface of the ground or to enter the soil within such
distance of 300 feet.
   (B)   Each owner, agent, tenant, lessee or occupant of occupied lots or land
within 300 feet of such wells shall make, maintain and use a connection with a
public sanitary sewer if such sewer is accessible. Such connections to sanitary
sewers shall be of cast iron pipe or equal, with watertight joints within 300
feet of such wells. If a sanitary sewer is accessible or, if not, as soon as
such sewer is made accessible, any privy, cesspool or other receptacle for
sewerage or excreta within such distance of 300 feet shall be thoroughly
cleaned, disinfected, filled with suitable filling material and abandoned. If a
public sanitary sewer is not accessible, a watertight privy vault, cesspool or
other receptacle for sewage or excreta shall be installed and maintained as
provided in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   No person shall deposit or place or cause to be deposited or placed
any dead animal, offal, garbage or other filthy or poisonous substance upon or
under the ground or in any stream or body of water within 300 feet of such
wells.
   (D)   No person who pleaded guilty to or been convicted of a violation of
any of the provision of divisions (A) through (C) of this section shall fail to
remove forthwith any source of pollution, for the construction, maintenance or
placing of which such person had been convicted. In the event such person fails
or refuses to remove such source of pollution, the Village Administrator shall
remove the same and the expense of such removal shall be paid by the person
convicted as aforesaid. Such remedy shall be in addition to the penalty
provided in §
54.99.
(Prior Code, § 1048.01) (Ord. 225, passed 8-30-1954)
§ 54.02 CONNECTIONS WITH SEWERS MANDATORY WHEN AVAILABLE.
   No person, being the owner, occupant or person in charge of any premises so
situated that a connection with a sanitary sewer can be made, shall maintain or
permit to be maintained, on or in connection with such premises any privy
vault, cesspool, septic tank or other repository for human excreta.
(Prior Code, § 1048.02) (Ord. 260, passed 4-1-1957)
§ 54.03 UNSANITARY VAULTS.
   No person, being the owner, lessor, occupant or person in charge of any
premises upon which a privy vault, cesspool or septic tank is located, shall
permit such vault, pool or tank, or other building, fixture or device
appurtenant thereto, to become foul, noisome, filthy or offensive to
neighboring property owners.
(Prior Code, § 1048.03) (Ord. 260, passed 4-1-1957)
§ 54.04 REMOVAL OF CONTENTS OF VAULT.
   Whenever any part of the waste of any privy vault or cesspool extends to a
point less than two feet below the surface of the ground adjacent thereto, or
whenever use of any such vault or cesspool is abandoned or where such use or
maintenance is prohibited by ordinance or health order, the owner, lessor,
occupant or person in charge of such premises shall cause such vault or
cesspool to be emptied of its contents, thoroughly cleaned and disinfected and,
if abandoned, to be filled with clean earth or mineral matter to the level of
the adjacent ground.
(Prior Code, § 1048.04) (Ord. 260, passed 4-1-1957)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
more than $100. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 1048.99)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
73.   MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
      
74.   EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
      
75.   BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
      
76.   PARKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Compliance with order of police officer
   
70.03   Emergency vehicles to proceed cautiously past red or stop signal
   
70.04   Exceptions generally; emergency, public safety and coroner vehicles
exempt
   
70.05   Persons riding or driving animals upon roadways
   
70.06   Prohibitions against pedestrians and slow-moving vehicles on freeways
   
70.07   Use of private property for vehicular travel
   
70.08   Names of persons damaging real property by operation of vehicle to be
provided to owner
   
70.09   Limited access highways; barriers along; vehicles to enter and leave at
designated intersections
   
70.10   Through highways
   
70.11   Officer may remove ignition key
   
70.12   Removal of vehicles after accidents
   
70.13   Impounding of vehicles; redemption
   
70.14   Traffic direction in emergencies; obedience to school guards
   
70.15   Application to drivers of government vehicles
   
70.16   Traffic law photo-monitoring devices
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.30   Obeying traffic-control devices
   
70.31   Signal lights
   
70.32   Signals over reversible lanes
   
70.33   Ambiguous or non-working traffic signals
   
70.34   Pedestrian-control signals
   
70.35   Unauthorized signs and signals prohibited
   
70.36   Alteration, defacement, or removal prohibited
   
70.37   Unauthorized possession or sale of devices
   
70.38   Signal preemption devices; prohibitions
Traffic Control
   
70.50   Authority and considerations for placement of devices
   
70.51   Conformity with State Manual
   
70.52   Powers of Mayor
   
70.53   Posting of signs and signals required
   
70.54   Mayor’s powers not limited
   
70.55   Records of Mayor
   
70.56   Reservation of power to Council
   
70.57   Violations subject to General Code penalty
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Local traffic regulations, scope and authority, see R.C. § 4511.07
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Traffic law photo-monitoring devices, state regulations, see R.C. §§
4511.092 et seq.
   Uniform application and precedence of state traffic laws, see R.C. § 4511.06
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
      Except as otherwise provided, the definitions set forth in R.C. § 4501.01
shall apply to this title and the penal laws of the municipality. For the
purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. Every self-propelled vehicle designed or used for
drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery, but having no provision for
carrying loads independently of such other vehicles, and used principally for
agricultural purposes.
   ALLEY. A street or highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of
lots or buildings in urban districts, and not intended for the purpose of
through vehicular traffic, and any street or highway that has been declared an
ALLEY by the Council of the municipality in which the street or highway is
located.
   ARTERIAL STREET. Any United States or state numbered route, controlled-
access highway, or other major radial or circumferential street or highway
designated by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions as part
of a major arterial system of streets or highways.
   BEACON. A highway traffic signal with one or more signal sections that
operate in a flashing mode.
   BICYCLE. Every device, other than a device that is designed solely for use
as a play vehicle by a child, that is propelled solely by human power upon
which a person may ride, and that has two or more wheels, any of which is more
than 14 inches in diameter.
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than nine passengers,
and used for the transportation of persons other than in a ridesharing
arrangement, and every motor vehicle, automobile for hire, or funeral car,
other than a taxicab or motor vehicle used in a ridesharing arrangement,
designed and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory fronting upon a street or highway,
including the street or highway, between successive intersections within the
municipality, where 50% or more of the frontage between successive
intersections is occupied by buildings in use for business, or within or
outside the municipality where 50% or more of the frontage for a distance of
300 feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for business, and the
character of the territory is indicated by official traffic-control devices.
   CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE. A motor vehicle that is designed to carry nine or
fewer passengers and is operated for hire pursuant to a prearranged contract
for the transportation of passengers on public roads and highways along a route
under the control of the person hiring the vehicle and not over a defined and
regular route. PREARRANGED CONTRACT means an agreement, made in advance of
boarding, to provide transportation from a specific location in an chauffeured
limousine. The term does not include any vehicle that is used exclusively in
the business of funeral directing.
(R.C. § 4501.01(LL))
   CHILD DAY-CARE CENTER. Has the same meaning as set forth in R.C. § 5104.01.
   COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle having motive power designed or used
for drawing other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load
thereon, or designed or used for drawing other vehicles while carrying a
portion of the other vehicles, or the load thereon, or both.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every street or highway in respect to which
owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right or
access to or from the same except at certain points only and in a manner as may
be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over the street or
highway.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   That part of a roadway at intersections ordinarily included within
the real or projected prolongation of property lines and curb lines or, in the
absence of curbs, the edges of the traversable roadway;
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere,
distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the
surface;
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this definition, there
shall not be a crosswalk where the Council has placed signs indicating no
crossing.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a “class 1 electric bicycle”, a “class 2 electric
bicycle”, or a “class 3 electric bicycle” as defined below.
      (1)   CLASS 1 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that
provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles per hour.
      (2)   CLASS 2 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that may
provide assistance regardless of whether the rider is pedaling and is not
capable of providing assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles
per hour.
      (3)   CLASS 3 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that
provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 28 miles per hour.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Emergency vehicles of municipal, township or county
departments or public utility corporations, when identified as such as required
by law, the Director of Public Safety, or local authorities, and motor vehicles
when commandeered by a police officer.
   EXPLOSIVES. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is intended for
the purpose of producing an explosion that contains any oxidizing and
combustible units or other ingredients in such proportions, quantities, or
packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by percussion, or
by a detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause a sudden
generation of highly heated gases, such that the resultant gaseous pressures
are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects, or of
destroying life or limb. Manufactured articles shall not be held to be
explosives when the individual units contain explosives in limited quantities
of such nature or in such packing that it is impossible to procure a
simultaneous or a destructive explosion of the units, to the injury of life,
limb, or property by fire, friction, concussion, percussion, or by a detonator,
such as fixed ammunition for small arms, firecrackers, or safety fuse matches.
   EXPRESSWAY. A divided arterial highway for through traffic with full or
partial control of access with an excess of 50% of all crossroads separated in
grade.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F or less, as
determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
   FREEWAY. A divided multi-lane highway for through traffic with crossroads
separated in grade and with full control of access.
   FUNERAL ESCORT VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, including a funeral hearse, while
used to facilitate the movement of a funeral procession.
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle plus the weight of any load thereon.
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way open to
the use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular travel.
   HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle used in snow and ice removal or road
surface maintenance, including a snow plow, traffic line striper, road sweeper,
mowing machine, asphalt distributing vehicle, or other such vehicle designed
for use in specific highway maintenance activities.
   HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SIGNAL. A power-operated traffic control device by which
traffic is warned or directed to take some specific action. The term does not
include a power-operated sign, steadily illuminated pavement marker, warning
light, or steady burning electric lamp.
   HYBRID BEACON. A type of beacon that is intentionally placed in a dark mode
between periods of operation where no indications are displayed and, when in
operation, displays both steady and flashing traffic control signal
indications.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of
two highways that join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways that join at
any other angle might come into conflict. The junction of an alley or driveway
with a roadway or highway does not constitute an intersection unless the
roadway or highway at the junction is controlled by a traffic control device.
      (2)   If a highway includes two roadways that are 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway constitutes a separate intersection. If both intersecting highways
include two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of any two
roadways of such highways constitutes a separate intersection.
      (3)   At a location controlled by a traffic control signal, regardless of
the distance between the separate intersections as described in division (2) of
this definition:
         (a)   If a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk has not been designated
on the roadway within the median between the separate intersections, the two
intersections and the roadway and median constitute one intersection.
         (b)   Where a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk line is designated
on the roadway on the intersection approach, the area within the crosswalk and
any area beyond the designated stop line or yield line constitute part of the
intersection.
         (c)   Where a crosswalk is designated on a roadway on the departure
from the intersection, the intersection includes the area that extends to the
far side of the crosswalk.
   LANED HIGHWAY. A highway the roadway of which is divided into two or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. Every county, municipal, and other local board or body
having authority to adopt police regulations under the Constitution and laws of
this state.
   LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICE. Means a device weighing less than 100 pounds
that has handlebars, is propelled by an electric motor or human power, and has
an attainable speed on a paved level surface of not more than 20 miles per hour
when propelled by the electric motor.
   MEDIAN. The area between two roadways of a divided highway, measured from
edge of traveled way to edge of traveled way, but excluding turn lanes. The
width of a median may be different between intersections, between interchanges,
and at opposite approaches of the same intersection.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than muscular
power or power collected from overhead electric trolley wires, except motorized
bicycles, electric bicycles, road rollers, traction engines, power shovels,
power cranes and other equipment used in construction work, and not designed
for or employed in general highway transportation, hole-digging machinery,
well- drilling machinery, ditch-digging machinery, farm machinery, and trailers
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per
hour or less.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle, other than a tractor, having a seat or
saddle for the use of the operator and designed to travel on not more than
three wheels in contact with the ground, including but not limited to motor
vehicles known as “motor-driven cycle”, “motor scooter”, “autocycle”, “cab-
enclosed motorcycle”, or “motorcycle” without regard to weight or brake
horsepower.
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE or MOPED. Any vehicle having either two tandem wheels or
one wheel in the front and two wheels in the rear, that may be pedaled, and
that is equipped with a helper motor of not more than 50 cubic centimeters
piston displacement that produces not more than one brake horsepower and is
capable of propelling the vehicle at a speed of not greater than 20 miles per
hour on a level surface. The terms do not include an electric bicycle.
   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR. Any self-propelled vehicle designed for, and used by,
a person with a disability and that is incapable of a speed in excess of eight
miles per hour.
   MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. A type of agricultural tractor that has
two or more wheels or tires on each side of one axle at the rear of the
tractor, is designed or used for drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery,
has no provision for carrying loads independently of the drawn vehicles or
machinery, and is used principally for agricultural purposes.
   OPERATE. To cause or have caused movement of a vehicle.
   OPERATOR. Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   PARKED or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle upon a street, road, alley,
highway or public ground, whether accompanied or unaccompanied by a driver, but
does not include the temporary standing of a vehicle for the purpose of and
while actually engaged in loading or loading merchandise or passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any natural person afoot. The term includes a personal delivery
device as defined in R.C. § 4511.513 unless the context clearly suggests
otherwise.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
   POLE TRAILER. Every trailer or semitrailer attached to the towing vehicle by
means of a reach, pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing
vehicle, and ordinarily used for transporting long or irregular shaped loads
such as poles, pipes, or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining
themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or
to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   PREDICATE MOTOR VEHICLE OR TRAFFIC OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12, 4511.132,
4511.16, 4511.20, 4511.201, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32,
4511.33, 4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40,
4511.41, 4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451,
4511.452, 4511.46, 4511.47, 4511.48, 4511.481, 4511.49, 4511.50, 4511.511,
4511.53, 4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.56, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60,
4511.61, 4511.64, 4511.66, 4511.661, 4511.68, 4511.70, 4511.701, 4511.71,
4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, 4511.73, 4511.763, 4511.771, 4511.78, or
4511.84;
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.17(A)(2), 4511.51(A) through (D), or
4511.74(A);
      (3)   A violation of any provision of R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.76 for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section that contains the
provision violated;
      (4)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.214;
      (5)   A violation of a municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any section or provision set forth or described in division (1),
(2), (3), or (4) of this definition.
   PRIVATE ROAD OPEN TO PUBLIC TRAVEL. A private toll road or road, including
any adjacent sidewalks that generally run parallel to the road, within a
shopping center, airport, sports arena, or other similar business or recreation
facility that is privately owned but where the public is allowed to travel
without access restrictions. The term includes a gated toll road but does not
include a road within a private gated property where access is restricted at
all times, a parking area, a driving aisle within a parking area, or a private
grade crossing.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership used for
vehicular travel by the owner, and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Ambulances, including private ambulance companies under contract to
a municipality, township, or county, and private ambulances and nontransport
vehicles bearing license plates issued under R.C. § 4503.49;
      (2)   Motor vehicles used by public law enforcement officers or other
persons sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state;
      (3)   Any motor vehicle when properly identified as required by the
Director of Public Safety, when used in response to fire emergency calls or to
provide emergency medical service to ill or injured persons, and when operated
by a duly qualified person who is a member of a volunteer rescue service or a
volunteer fire department, and who is on duty pursuant to the rules or
directives of that service. The State Fire Marshal shall be designated by the
Director of Public Safety as the certifying agency for all public safety
vehicles described herein;
      (4)   Vehicles used by fire departments, including motor vehicles when
used by volunteer firefighters responding to emergency calls in the fire
department service when identified as required by the Director of Public
Safety;
      (5)   Any vehicle used to transport or provide emergency medical service
to an ill or injured person, when certified as a public safety vehicle, shall
be considered such a vehicle when transporting an ill or injured person to a
hospital, regardless of whether such vehicle has already passed a hospital;
      (6)   Vehicles used by the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit for the
enforcement of orders and rules of the Public Utilities Commission as specified
in R.C. § 5503.34.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property operating upon rails placed
principally on a private right-of-way.
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal, or device erected by authority of
a public body or official or by a railroad, and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine or an electric or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated by a railroad.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory, not comprising a business district,
fronting on a street or highway, including the street or highway, where, for a
distance of 300 feet or more, the frontage is improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
   RIDESHARING ARRANGEMENT. Includes the transportation of persons in a motor
vehicle where the transportation is incidental to another purpose of a
volunteer driver, and includes arrangements known as carpools, vanpools, and
buspools.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Either of the following, as the context requires:
      (1)   The right of a vehicle or pedestrian to proceed uninterruptedly in
a lawful manner in the direction in which it, he or she is moving, in
preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching from a different
direction into its, his or her path;
      (2)   A general term denoting land, property, or the interest therein,
usually in the configuration of a strip, acquired for or devoted to
transportation purposes. When used in this context, “right-of-way” includes the
roadway, shoulders or berm, ditch, and slopes extending to the right-of-way
limits under the control of the state or local authority.
   ROAD SERVICE VEHICLE. Means wreckers, utility repair vehicles, and state,
county, and municipal service vehicles equipped with visual signals by means of
flashing, rotating, or oscillating lights.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two or
more separate roadways, the term means any roadway separately, but not all the
roadways collectively.
   RURAL MAIL DELIVERY VEHICLE. Every vehicle used to deliver United States
mail on a rural mail delivery route.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, and protected or marked or indicated by adequate
signs so as to be plainly visible at all times.
   SCHOOL BUS. Every bus designed for carrying more than nine passengers which
is owned by a public, private, or governmental agency or institution of
learning, and operated for the transportation of children to or from a school
session or a school function, or owned by a private person and operated for
compensation for the transportation of children to or from a school session or
a school function; provided the term does not include a bus operated by a
municipally owned transportation system, a mass transit company operating
exclusively within the territorial limits of a municipality, or within such
limits and the territorial limits of municipalities immediately contiguous to
the municipality, nor a common passenger carrier certified by the Public
Utilities Commission unless the bus is devoted exclusively to the
transportation of children to and from a school session or a school function,
and the term does not include a van or bus used by a licensed child day-care
center or Type A Family Day-Care Home to transport children from the child day-
care center or Type A Family Day-Care Home to a school if the van or bus does
not have more than 15 children in the van or bus at any time.
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
with another and separate motor vehicle so that in operation a part of its own
weight or that of its load, or both, rests upon and is carried by another
vehicle.
   SHARED-USE PATH. A bikeway outside the traveled way and physically separated
from motorized vehicular traffic by an open space or barrier and either within
the highway right-of-way or within an independent alignment. A shared-use path
also may be used by pedestrians, including skaters, joggers, users of manual
and motorized wheelchairs, and other authorized motorized and non-motorized
users. A shared-use path does not include any trail that is intended to be used
primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar uses,
or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically been
reserved for non-motorized use.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
line of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STANDING. When prohibited, means any halting of a vehicle, even momentarily,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic control device.
   STATE HIGHWAY. A highway under the jurisdiction of the Department of
Transportation, outside the limits of municipalities, provided that the
authority conferred upon the Director of Transportation in R.C. § 5511.01 to
erect state highway route markers and signs directing traffic shall not be
modified by R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.79 and 4511.99.
   STATE ROUTE. Every highway which is designated with an official state route
number and so marked.
   STOP. When required, means a complete cessation of movement.
   STOP INTERSECTION. Any intersection at one or more entrances of which stop
signs are erected.
   STOPPING. When prohibited, means any halting of a vehicle, even momentarily,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic control device.
   STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way open to the
use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular travel.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway as provided in R.C. § 4511.65, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   THRUWAY. A through highway whose entire roadway is reserved for through
traffic and on which roadway parking is prohibited.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other devices, either singly or together, while using for purposes of travel
any highway or private road open to public travel.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. A flagger, sign, signal, marking, or other device
used to regulate, warn, or guide traffic, placed on, over, or adjacent to a
street, highway, private road open to public travel, pedestrian facility, or
shared-use path by authority of a public agency or official having
jurisdiction, or, in the case of a private road open to public travel, by
authority of the private owner or private official having jurisdiction.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any highway traffic signal by which traffic is
alternately directed to stop and permitted to proceed.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
wholly on its own structure, and for being drawn by a motor vehicle, including
any vehicle when formed by or operated as a combination of a semitrailer and a
vehicle of the dolly type, such as that commonly known as a trailer dolly, a
vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production
materials between a local place of storage or supply and the farm when drawn or
towed on a street or highway at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour and a
vehicle designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of
storage and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a
street or highway for a distance of more than ten miles or at a speed of more
than 25 miles per hour.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers, designed and
used to carry property.
   TYPE A FAMILY DAY-CARE HOME. Has the same meaning as set forth in R.C. §
5104.01.
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street or
highway which is built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or
dwelling houses situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of
one-quarter of a mile or more, and the character of the territory is indicated
by official traffic-control devices.
   VEHICLE. Every device, including a motorized bicycle and an electric
bicycle, in, upon, or by which any person or property may be transported or
drawn upon a highway, except that the term does not include any motorized
wheelchair, any electric personal assistive mobility device, any low-speed
micromobility device, any personal delivery device as defined in R.C. §
4511.513, any device that is moved by power collected from overhead electric
trolley wires or that is used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, or
any device, other than a bicycle, that is moved by human power.
   WASTE COLLECTION VEHICLE. A vehicle used in the collection of garbage,
refuse, trash, or recyclable materials.
(R.C. § 4511.01) (Prior Code, §§ 402.01—402.53)
§ 70.02 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDER OF POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any police officer invested with authority to direct, control, or regulate
traffic.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle so as willfully to elude or
flee a police officer after receiving a visible or audible signal from a police
officer to bring the person’s motor vehicle to a stop.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to comply
with an order or signal of a police officer.
      (2)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (C)(4) and (C)(5) of this section,
a violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (C)(5) of this section, a violation
of division (B) of this section is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier of fact finds by proof
beyond a reasonable doubt that in committing the offense, the offender was
fleeing immediately after the commission of a felony.
      (5)   (a)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier
of fact finds any of the following by proof beyond a reasonable doubt:
            1.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender was a
proximate cause of serious physical harm to persons or property.
            2.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender caused a
substantial risk of serious physical harm to persons or property.
         (b)   If a police officer pursues an offender who is violating
division (B) of this section and division (C)(5)(a) of this section applies,
the sentencing court, in determining the seriousness of an offender’s conduct
for purposes of sentencing the offender for a violation of division (B) of this
section, shall consider, along with the factors set forth in R.C. §§ 2929.12
and 2929.13 that are required to be considered, all of the following:
            1.   The duration of the pursuit;
            2.   The distance of the pursuit;
            3.   The rate of speed at which the offender operated the motor
vehicle during the pursuit;
            4.   Whether the offender failed to stop for traffic lights or stop
signs during the pursuit;
            5.   The number of traffic lights or stop signs for which the
offender failed to stop during the pursuit;
            6.   Whether the offender operated the motor vehicle during the
pursuit without lighted lights during a time when lighted lights are required;
            7.   Whether the offender committed a moving violation during the
pursuit;
            8.   The number of moving violations the offender committed during
the pursuit;
            9.   Any other relevant factors indicating that the offender’s
conduct is more serious than conduct normally constituting the offense.
   (D)   In addition to any other sanction imposed for a violation of division
(A) of this section or a misdemeanor violation of division (B) of this section,
the court shall impose a class five suspension from the range specified in R.C.
§ 4510.02(A)(5). If the offender previously has been found guilty of an offense
under this section or under R.C. § 2921.331 or any other substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, in addition to any other sanction imposed for
the offense, the court shall impose a class one suspension as described in R.C.
§ 4510.02(A)(1). The court may grant limited driving privileges to the offender
on a suspension imposed for a misdemeanor violation of this section as set
forth in R.C. § 4510.021. No judge shall suspend any portion of the suspension
under a class one suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege
required by this division.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      MOVING VIOLATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2743.70.
      POLICE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F)) (Prior Code, § 404.01)
§ 70.03 EMERGENCY VEHICLES TO PROCEED CAUTIOUSLY PAST RED OR STOP SIGNAL.
   (A)   The driver of any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, upon approaching a red or stop signal or any
stop sign, shall slow down as necessary for safety to traffic, but may proceed
cautiously past the red or stop sign or signal with due regard for the safety
of all persons using the street or highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.03) (Prior Code, § 432.18)
§ 70.04 EXCEPTIONS GENERALLY; EMERGENCY, PUBLIC SAFETY AND CORONER VEHICLES
EXEMPT.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code, except for §§
73.01 and
73.02, do not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment
while actually engaged in work upon the surface of a highway within an area
designated by traffic-control devices, but apply to those persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from such work.
   (B)   The driver of a highway maintenance vehicle owned by this state or any
political subdivision of this state, while the driver is engaged in the
performance of official duties upon a street or highway, provided the highway
maintenance vehicle is equipped with flashing lights and such other markings as
are required by law and such lights are in operation when the driver and
vehicle are so engaged, shall be exempt from criminal prosecution for
violations of R.C. §§ 4511.22, 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30,
4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.66, and 4513.02, and R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, and any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not exempt a driver of a highway maintenance
vehicle from civil liability arising from a violation of R.C. § 4511.22,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35,
4511.66, or 4513.02 or R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   This section does not exempt a driver of a vehicle who is not a
state employee and who is engaged in the transport of highway maintenance
equipment from criminal liability for a violation of R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 404.03)
   (D)   As used in this section, ENGAGED IN THE PERFORMANCE OF OFFICIAL DUTIES
includes driving a highway maintenance vehicle to and from the manufacturer or
vehicle maintenance provider and transporting a highway maintenance vehicle,
equipment, or materials to and from a work location.
(R.C. § 4511.04)
   (E)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.12, 4511.13, 4511.131, 4511.132,
4511.14, 4511.202, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25, 4511.26,
4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.34,
4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41, 4511.42,
4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59,
4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.62, 4511.66, 4511.68, 4511.681, and 4511.69, and any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle if the emergency vehicle or public
safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle and if the driver of the vehicles is giving an audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle, or bell. This section does not relieve the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.041)
   (F)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29,
4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, and
4511.66, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to
a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle
in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. This division does not relieve a coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.042)
(Prior Code, § 404.035)
§ 70.05 PERSONS RIDING OR DRIVING ANIMALS UPON ROADWAYS.
   Every person riding, driving, or leading an animal upon a roadway is subject
to the provisions of this traffic code, applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except those provisions of this traffic code which by their nature are
inapplicable.
(R.C. § 4511.05) (Prior Code, § 404.04)
§ 70.06 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST PEDESTRIANS AND SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES ON FREEWAYS.
   (A)   No person, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, shall:
      (1)   As a pedestrian, occupy any space within the limits of the right-
of-way of a freeway, except: in a rest area; on a facility that is separated
from the roadway and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately
marked for pedestrian use; in the performance of public works or official
duties; as a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown of a
motor vehicle; or to obtain assistance;
      (2)   Occupy any space within the limits of the right-of-way of a
freeway, with: an animal-drawn vehicle; a ridden or led animal; herded animals;
a pushcart; a bicycle, except on a facility that is separated from the roadway
and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately marked for
bicycle use; an electric bicycle; a bicycle with motor attached; a motor-driven
cycle with a motor which produces not to exceed five brake horsepower; an
agricultural tractor; farm machinery; except in the performance of public works
or official duties.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.051) (Prior Code, § 412.05)
Statutory reference:
Designation of a freeway, see R.C. § 4511.011
§ 70.07 USE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY FOR VEHICULAR TRAVEL.
   The provisions of this traffic code do not prevent the owner of real
property, used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel by permission of
the owner and not as a matter of right, from prohibiting such use or from
requiring additional conditions to those specified in this traffic code, or
otherwise regulating such use as may seem best to the owner.
(R.C. § 4511.08)
§ 70.08 NAMES OF PERSONS DAMAGING REAL PROPERTY BY OPERATION OF VEHICLE TO BE
PROVIDED TO OWNER.
   (A)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 4501.01.
   (B)   If damage is caused to real property by the operation of a motor
vehicle in, or during the, violation of any section of the Ohio Revised Code or
of any municipal ordinance, the law enforcement agency that investigates the
case, upon request of the real property owner, shall provide the owner with the
names of the persons who are charged with the commission of the offense. If a
request for the names is made, the agency shall provide the names as soon as
possible after the persons are charged with the offense.
   (C)   The personnel of law enforcement agencies who act pursuant to division
(B) of this section in good faith are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from their actions taken pursuant to that division. Political
subdivisions and the state are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from the actions of personnel of their law enforcement
agencies if the personnel have immunity under this division.
(R.C. § 2935.28)
§ 70.09 LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAYS; BARRIERS ALONG; VEHICLES TO ENTER AND LEAVE AT
DESIGNATED INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall cut, injure, remove, or destroy
any fence or other barrier designed and erected to prevent traffic from
entering or leaving a limited access highway without the permission of the
Director of Transportation, except in a case of emergency where life or
property is in danger. No person, firm or corporation shall cause a vehicle of
any character to enter or leave a limited access highway at any point other
than intersections designated by the Director for such purposes, except in a
case of emergency where life or property is in danger.
(R.C. § 3767.201)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3767.99(D))
§ 70.10 THROUGH HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   All state routes are hereby designated as through highways, provided
that stop signs, yield signs, or traffic-control signals shall be erected at
all intersections with such through highways by the Department of
Transportation as to highways under its jurisdiction and by local authorities
as to highways under their jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this
section. Where two or more state routes that are through highways intersect,
and no traffic-control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall
be erected at one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local
authorities having jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
Whenever the Director of Transportation determines on the basis of an
engineering and traffic investigation that stop signs are necessary to stop
traffic on a through highway for safe and efficient operation, nothing in this
section shall be construed to prevent such installations. When circumstances
warrant, the Director also may omit stop signs on roadways intersecting through
highways under his or her jurisdiction. Before the Director either installs or
removes a stop sign under this division, he or she shall give notice, in
writing, of that proposed action to the affected local authority at least 30
days before installing or removing the stop sign.
   (B)   Other streets or highways, or portions thereof, are hereby designated
as through highways if they are within the municipality, if they have a
continuous length of more than one mile between the limits of the street or
highway or portion thereof, and if they have stop or yield signs or traffic-
control signals at the entrances of the majority of intersecting streets or
highways. For purposes of this section, the limits of the street or highway, or
portion thereof, shall be the municipal corporation line, the physical terminus
of the street or highway, or any point on the streets or highway at which
vehicular traffic thereon is required by regulatory signs to stop or yield to
traffic on the intersecting street, provided, that in residence districts, the
municipality may by ordinance designate such street or highway, or portion
thereof, not to be a through highway and thereafter the affected residence
district shall be indicated by official traffic-control devices. Where two or
more through highways designated under this division intersect and no traffic-
control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall be erected at
one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local authorities having
jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
   (C)   The Department or local authorities having jurisdiction need not erect
stop signs at intersections they find to be so constructed as to permit traffic
to safely enter a through highway without coming to a stop. Signs shall be
erected at such intersections indicating that the operator of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to or merge with all traffic proceeding on the through
highway.
   (D)   Local authorities, with reference to highways under their
jurisdiction, may designate additional through highways, and shall erect stop
signs, yield signs, or traffic-control signals at all streets and highways
intersecting such through highways, or may designate any intersection as a stop
or yield intersection, and shall erect like signs at one or more entrances to
the intersection.
(R.C. § 4511.65) (Prior Code, § 414.02)
§ 70.11 OFFICER MAY REMOVE IGNITION KEY.
   A law enforcement officer may remove the ignition key left in the ignition
switch of an unlocked and unattended motor vehicle parked on a street or
highway. The officer removing the key shall place notification upon the vehicle
detailing his or her name and badge number, the place where the key may be
reclaimed, and the procedure for reclaiming the key. The key shall be returned
to the owner of the motor vehicle upon presentation of proof of ownership.
(R.C. § 4549.05) (Prior Code, § 444.02)
§ 70.12 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES AFTER ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   If a motor vehicle accident occurs on any highway, public street, or
other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel and if any
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that has been damaged or spilled as
a result of the motor vehicle accident is blocking the highway, street, or
other property or is otherwise endangering public safety, a public safety
official may do either of the following without the consent of the owner but
with the approval of the law enforcement agency conducting any investigation of
the accident:
      (1)   Remove, or order the removal of, the motor vehicle if the motor
vehicle is unoccupied, cargo, or personal property from the portion of the
highway, public street, or property ordinarily used for vehicular travel on the
highway, public street, or other property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel.
      (2)   If the motor vehicle is a commercial motor vehicle, allow the owner
or operator of the vehicle the opportunity to arrange for the removal of the
motor vehicle within a period of time specified by the public safety official.
If the public safety official determines that the motor vehicle cannot be
removed within the specified period of time, the public safety official shall
remove or order the removal of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, the
Department of Transportation, any employee of the Department of Transportation,
or a public safety official who authorizes or participates in the removal of
any unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by
division (A) of this section, regardless of whether the removal is executed by
a private towing service, is not liable for civil damages for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that results from the removal of that
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property. Further, except as
provided in division (B)(2) of this section, if a public safety official
authorizes, employs, or arranges to have a private towing service remove any
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by division
(A) of this section, that private towing service is not liable for civil
damages for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that results from
the removal of that unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   Any person or entity involved in the removal of an unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property pursuant to division (A) of this
section if that removal causes or contributes to the release of a hazardous
material or to structural damage to the roadway;
         (b)   A private towing service that was not authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to remove an unoccupied motor vehicle,
cargo, or personal property under this section;
         (c)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(d) of this section, a
private towing service that was authorized, employed, or arranged by a public
safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo,
or personal property but the private towing service performed the removal in a
negligent manner;
         (d)   A private towing service that was authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that was endangering public safety
but the private towing service performed the removal in a reckless manner.
   (C)   As used in divisions (A) and (B) of this section:
      HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.232.
      PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICIAL. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The sheriff of the county, or the chief of police in the
municipal corporation, township, or township, port authority, or joint police
district, in which the accident occurred;
         (b)   A state highway patrol trooper;
         (c)   The chief of the fire department having jurisdiction where the
accident occurred;
         (d)   A duly authorized subordinate acting on behalf of an official
specified in divisions (a) to (c) of this definition.
(R.C. § 4513.66)
   (D)   If a towing service is removing a motor vehicle, and the removal was
not authorized under R.C. § 4513.60, 4513.601, 4513.61, or 4513.66, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, prior to removing the motor
vehicle, the towing service shall provide a written estimate of the price for
the removal to the operator of the motor vehicle, if requested.
   (E)   The towing service shall ensure that any estimate provided under
division (D) of this section includes the fees, services to be rendered, and
destination of the vehicle.
   (F)   If a towing service fails to provide a written estimate as required by
this section, the towing service shall not charge fees for the towing and
storage of the motor vehicle that exceed 25% of any applicable fees established
by the public utilities commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25(B)(4)
or, if the vehicle was towed within a municipal corporation that has
established vehicle removal and storage fees, 25% of the fees established by
the municipal corporation.
   (G)   Any storage facility that accepts towed vehicles shall conspicuously
post a notice at the entrance to the storage facility that states the
limitation on fees established under division (F) of this section.
(R.C. § 4513.68)
(Prior Code, § 436.14)
§ 70.13 IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   Police officers are authorized to provide for the removal and
impounding of a vehicle under the following circumstances:
      (1)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any street, bridge or
causeway and is so illegally parked so as to constitute a hazard or obstruction
to the normal movement of traffic, or so as to unreasonably interfere with
street cleaning or snow removal operations;
      (2)   When any motor vehicle, including an abandoned junk motor vehicle,
as defined in R.C. § 4513.63, is left on private residential property, as
defined in R.C. § 4513.60, or on private agricultural property, for at least
four consecutive hours without the permission of the person having the right to
the possession of the property, or on a public street or other property open to
the public for purposes of vehicular travel, or upon or within the right-of-way
of any road or highway, for 48 consecutive hours or longer, without
notification to the Police Chief of the reasons for leaving the vehicle in that
place, except that when such a motor vehicle constitutes an obstruction to
traffic, it may be ordered into storage immediately;
      (3)   When any vehicle has been stolen or operated without the consent of
the owner;
      (4)   When any vehicle displays illegal license plates or fails to
display the current lawfully required license plates;
      (5)   When any vehicle has been used in or connected with the commission
of a felony;
      (6)   When any vehicle has been damaged or wrecked so as to be inoperable
or violates equipment provisions of this traffic code whereby its continued
operation would constitute a condition hazardous to life, limb or property;
      (7)   When any vehicle is left unattended due to the removal of an ill,
injured or arrested operator;
      (8)   When any vehicle has been operated by any person who has failed to
stop in case of an accident or collision;
      (9)   When any vehicle has been operated by any person who is driving
without a lawful license or while his or her license has been suspended or
revoked;
      (10)   When any vehicle is found for which two or more citation tags for
violations of this traffic code have been issued and the owner or operator
thereof has failed to respond to the citation tags as lawfully required.
   (B)   Any vehicle removed under authority of division (A)(2) of this section
shall be ordered into storage and/or disposed of as provided under R.C. §§
4513.60 et seq. Any other vehicle removed under authority of this section shall
be ordered into storage and the Police Department shall forthwith notify the
registered vehicle owner of the fact of the removal and impounding, reasons
therefor and the place of storage. Any person desiring to redeem an impounded
vehicle shall appear at the Police Department to furnish satisfactory evidence
of identity and ownership or right to possession. Prior to issuance of a
release form, the claimant, owner or operator shall either pay the amount due
for any fines for violations on account of which the vehicle was impounded or,
as the court may require, post a bond in an amount set by the court, to appear
to answer to the violations. The pound operator shall release the vehicle upon
the receipt of the release form and payment of all towage and storage charges.
   (C)   No owner or operator shall remove an impounded vehicle from the place
of storage without complying with the above procedure. Possession of a vehicle
which has been impounded and unlawfully taken from the place of storage, by the
owner or operator, shall constitute prima facie evidence that it was so removed
by the owner or operator.
(Prior Code, § 404.05)
§ 70.14 TRAFFIC DIRECTION IN EMERGENCIES; OBEDIENCE TO SCHOOL GUARDS.
   (A)   Police officers shall direct or regulate traffic in accordance with
the provisions of this traffic code, provided that, in the event of fire or
other emergency or to expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians, they are
authorized to direct traffic as conditions may require notwithstanding the
provisions of this traffic code. Firefighters, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity. The direction of traffic may be by word or audible signal, by gesture
or visible signal or by any combination thereof. No person shall fail to comply
with any lawful order or direction of any police officer or firefighter issued
pursuant to this section.
   (B)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any school crossing guard invested with authority to direct, control or
regulate traffic in the vicinity of the school to which the guard may be
assigned.
(Prior Code, § 404.06)
§ 70.15 APPLICATION TO DRIVERS OF GOVERNMENT VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this traffic code applicable to the drivers of vehicles
shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or operated by the United
States, any state or any political subdivision thereof, including this
municipality, except as may be otherwise provided by law and subject to such
specific exceptions as are set forth with reference to authorized emergency and
public safety vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 404.07)
§ 70.16 TRAFFIC LAW PHOTO-MONITORING DEVICES.
   (A)   As used in this section, TRAFFIC LAW PHOTO-MONITORING DEVICE means an
electronic system consisting of a photographic, video or electronic camera and
a means of sensing the presence of a motor vehicle that automatically produces
photographs, videotape or digital images of the vehicle or its license plate.
   (B)   (1)   The municipality shall not use traffic law photo-monitoring
devices to enforce any traffic law until after it has erected signs on every
highway that is not a freeway that is part of the state highway system and that
enters the municipality. The signs shall inform inbound traffic that the
municipality utilizes traffic law photo-monitoring devices to enforce traffic
laws. The signs shall be erected within the first 300 feet of the boundary of
the municipality or, if the signs cannot be located within the first 300 feet
of the boundary of the municipality, as close to that distance as possible,
provided that if a particular highway enters and exits the territory of the
municipality multiple times, the municipality shall erect the signs as required
by this division at the locations in each direction of travel where inbound
traffic on the highway first enters the territory of the municipality and is
not required to erect additional signs along such highway each time the highway
reenters the territory of the municipality. The municipality is responsible for
all costs associated with the erection, maintenance and replacement, if
necessary, of the signs. All signs erected under this division shall conform in
size, color, location and content to standards contained in the manual adopted
by the Department of Transportation pursuant to R.C. § 4511.09 and shall remain
in place for as long as the municipality utilizes traffic law photo- monitoring
devices to enforce any traffic law. Any ticket, citation or summons issued by
or on behalf of the municipality for any traffic law violation based upon
evidence gathered by a traffic law photo- monitoring device after March 12,
2009, but before the signs have been erected, is invalid; provided that no
ticket, citation or summons is invalid if the municipality is in substantial
compliance with the requirement of this division to erect the signs.
      (2)   The municipality is deemed to be in substantial compliance with the
requirement of division (B)(1) of this section to erect the advisory signs if
the municipality does both of the following:
         (a)   First erects all signs as required by division (B)(1) of this
section and subsequently maintains and replaces the signs as needed so that at
all times at least ninety percent of the required signs are in place and
functional;
         (b)   Annually documents and upon request certifies its compliance
with division (B)(2)(a) of this section.
   (C)   If the municipality uses traffic law photo-monitoring devices to
enforce any traffic law at an intersection where traffic is controlled by
traffic-control signals that exhibit different colored lights or colored
lighted arrows, the municipality shall time the operation of the yellow lights
and yellow arrows of those traffic-control signals so that the steady yellow
indication exceeds by one second the minimum duration for yellow indicators at
similar intersections as established by the provisions of the manual adopted by
the Department of Transportation under R.C. § 4511.09.
(R.C. § 4511.094) (Prior Code, § 414.11)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.30 OBEYING TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   No pedestrian or driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
instructions of any traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code, unless at the time otherwise directed by a
police officer.
      (2)   No provision of this traffic code for which signs are required
shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular
section of this traffic code does not state that signs are required, that
section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
(R.C. § 4511.12(A))
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, any operator
of a commercial motor vehicle, upon approaching a scale location established
for the purpose of determining the weight of the vehicle and its load, shall
comply with any traffic control device or the order of a peace officer
directing the vehicle to proceed to be weighed or otherwise inspected.
      (2)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle, upon bypassing a scale
location in accordance with division (C) of this section, shall comply with an
order of a peace officer to stop the vehicle to verify the use and operation of
an electronic clearance device.
   (C)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle that is equipped with an
electronic clearance device authorized by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4549.081 may bypass a scale location, regardless of
the instruction of a traffic control device to enter the scale facility, if
either of the following apply:
      (1)   The in-cab transponder displays a green light or other affirmative
visual signal and also sounds an affirmative audible signal;
      (2)   Any other criterion established by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol is met.
   (D)   Any peace officer may order the operator of a commercial motor vehicle
that bypasses a scale location to stop the vehicle to verify the use and
operation of an electronic clearance device.
   (E)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE means any
combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating or an actual gross
vehicle weight of more than 10,000 pounds if the vehicle is used in interstate
or intrastate commerce to transport property and also means any vehicle that is
transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is required pursuant to
49 C.F.R. parts 100 through 180.
(R.C. § 4511.121(A) - (C), (E))
   (F)   No person shall use an electronic clearance device if the device or
its use is not in compliance with rules of the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol.
(R.C. § 4549.081(B))
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. If
the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting activity
is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the offender is
subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.12(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) of this
section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender commits the offense while
distracted and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the
commission of the offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine
established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.121(D))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.081(C))
(Prior Code, § 414.01)
Statutory reference:
   Placing traffic-control devices on state highways, permission required, see
R.C. § 4511.10
   Traffic-control devices to conform to the state manual and specifications,
see R.C. § 4511.11
   Uniform system of traffic-control devices, see R.C. § 4511.09
§ 70.31 SIGNAL LIGHTS.
   Highway traffic signal indications for vehicles and pedestrians shall have
the following meanings:
   (A)   Steady green signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal indication
is permitted to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-turn
movement except as such movement is modified by a lane-use sign, turn
prohibition sign, lane marking, roadway design, separate turn signal
indication, or other traffic control device. Such vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the
right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
movement to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching
from the opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the
intersection.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal indication, displayed
alone or in combination with another signal indication, is permitted to
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow, or such other movement as is permitted by other indications displayed at
the same time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left
or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the
following:
         (a)   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
         (b)   Other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   (a)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication,
as provided in R.C. § 4511.14, pedestrians facing a circular green signal
indication are permitted to proceed across the roadway within any marked or
unmarked associated crosswalk. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection or so close as to create an immediate
hazard at the time that the green signal indication is first displayed.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing a green arrow signal indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or other traffic control
device, shall not cross the roadway.
   (B)   Steady yellow signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow signal indication
is thereby warned that the related green movement or the related flashing arrow
movement is being terminated or that a steady red signal indication will be
exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter the
intersection. The provisions governing vehicular operation under the movement
being terminated shall continue to apply while the steady circular yellow
signal indication is displayed.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow arrow signal indication is
thereby warned that the related green arrow movement or the related flashing
arrow movement is being terminated. The provisions governing vehicular
operation under the movement being terminated shall continue to apply while the
steady yellow arrow signal indication is displayed.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal
indication, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, shall not start to
cross the roadway.
   (C)   Steady red signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal
indication, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted
by another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, traffic shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before
entering the intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication
to proceed is displayed except as provided in divisions (C)(1), (C)(2), and (C)
(3) of this section.
         (b)   Except when a traffic control device is in place prohibiting a
turn on red or a steady red arrow signal indication is displayed, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal indication is permitted, after
stopping, to enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-
way street into a one-way street. The right to proceed with the turn shall be
subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a stop
sign.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow signal indication
shall not enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by the arrow
and, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted by
another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before entering the
intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication or other
traffic control device permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is
displayed.
         (b)   When a traffic control device is in place permitting a turn on a
steady red arrow signal indication, vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow
indication is permitted, after stopping, to enter the intersection to turn
right, or to turn left from a one-way street into a one-way street. The right
to proceed with the turn shall be limited to the direction indicated by the
arrow and shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a
stop at a stop sign.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, pedestrians facing
a steady circular red or steady red arrow signal indication shall not enter the
roadway.
      (4)   Local authorities by ordinance, or the Director of Transportation
on state highways, may prohibit a right or a left turn against a steady red
signal at any intersection, which shall be effective when signs giving notice
thereof are posted at the intersection.
   (D)   Flashing green signal indication. A flashing green signal indication
has no meaning and shall not be used.
   (E)   Flashing yellow signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing circular yellow signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter
the intersection to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-
turn movement except as such movement is modified by lane-use signs, turn
prohibition signs, lane markings, roadway design, separate turn signal
indications, or other traffic control devices. Such vehicular traffic,
including vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall
yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing yellow arrow signal indication, displayed alone or in combination
with another signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or other such
movement as is permitted by other signal indications displayed at the same
time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left or
making a u-turn, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing any flashing yellow signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of- way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing yellow signal indication is first displayed.
      (4)   When a flashing circular yellow signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory or warning requirements of the other traffic
control device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently
applicable.
   (F)   Flashing red signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing circular red signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line; but if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. The right to proceed
shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a
stop sign.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing any flashing red signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of- way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing red signal indication is first displayed.
      (3)   When a flashing circular red signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory requirements of the other traffic control
device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently applicable.
Use of this signal indication shall be limited to supplementing stop, do not
enter, or wrong way signs, and to applications where compliance with the
supplemented traffic control device requires a stop at a designated point.
   (G)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of
any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
   (H)   This section does not apply at railroad grade- crossings. Conduct of
drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed by
R.C. §§ 4511.61 and 4511.62.
(R.C. § 4511.13) (Prior Code, § 414.03)
§ 70.32 SIGNALS OVER REVERSIBLE LANES.
   The meanings of lane-use control signal indications are as follows:
   (A)   A steady downward green arrow. A road user is permitted to drive in
the lane over which the arrow signal indication is located.
   (B)   A steady yellow “X”. A road user is to prepare to vacate the lane over
which the signal indication is located because a lane control change is being
made to a steady red “X” signal indication.
   (C)   A steady white two-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, but not
for through travel, with the understanding that common use of the lane by
oncoming road users for left turns also is permitted.
   (D)   A steady white one-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, without
opposing turns in the same lane, but not for through travel.
   (E)   A steady red “X”. A road user is not permitted to use the lane over
which the signal indication is located and that this signal indication shall
modify accordingly the meaning of other traffic controls present.
(R.C. § 4511.131) (Prior Code, § 414.04)
§ 70.33 AMBIGUOUS OR NON-WORKING TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle who approaches an intersection where traffic
is controlled by traffic control signals shall do all of the following if the
signal facing the driver exhibits no colored lights or colored lighted arrows,
exhibits a combination of such lights or arrows that fails to clearly indicate
the assignment of right-of-way, or, if the vehicle is a bicycle or an electric
bicycle, the signals are otherwise malfunctioning due to the failure of a
vehicle detector to detect the presence of the bicycle or electric bicycle:
      (1)   Stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if none, stop
before entering the intersection;
      (2)   Yield the right-of-way to all vehicles in the intersection or
approaching on an intersecting road, if the vehicles will constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways;
      (3)   Exercise ordinary care while proceeding through the intersection.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.132) (Prior Code, § 432.155)
§ 70.34 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“don’t walk”, or the symbol of a walking person or an upraised palm are in
place, these signals shall indicate the following instructions:
   (A)   A steady walking person signal indication, which symbolizes “walk”,
means that a pedestrian facing the signal indication is permitted to start to
cross the roadway in the direction of the signal indication, possibly in
conflict with turning vehicles. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the walking person
signal indication is first shown.
   (B)   A flashing upraised hand signal indication, which symbolizes “don’t
walk”, means that a pedestrian shall not start to cross the roadway in the
direction of the signal indication, but that any pedestrian who has already
started to cross on a steady walking person signal indication shall proceed to
the far side of the traveled way of the street or highway, unless otherwise
directed by a traffic control device to proceed only to the median of a divided
highway or only to some other island or pedestrian refuge area.
   (C)   A steady upraised hand signal indication means that a pedestrian shall
not enter the roadway in the direction of the signal indication.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the continued
use of pedestrian control signals utilizing the word “wait” if those signals
were installed prior to March 28, 1985.
   (E)   A flashing walking person signal indication has no meaning and shall
not be used.
(R.C. § 4511.14) (Prior Code, § 414.05)
§ 70.35 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of
any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to
be, is an imitation of, or resembles a traffic-control device or railroad sign
or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or hides from
view or interferes with the effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal, and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any
public authority permit, upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising. This section does not prohibit either the
erection upon private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for traffic-
control devices, or the erection upon private property of traffic-control
devices by the owner of real property in accordance with R.C. §§ 4511.211 and
4511.432.
      (2)   Every prohibited sign, signal, marking, or device is a public
nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway may remove the
same or cause it to be removed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.16) (Prior Code, § 414.07)
§ 70.36 ALTERATION, DEFACEMENT, OR REMOVAL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, without lawful authority, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly
tamper with any traffic-control device, any railroad sign or signal, or any
inscription, shield, or insignia on the device, sign, or signal, or any part of
the device, sign, or signal;
      (2)   Knowingly drive upon or over any freshly applied pavement marking
material on the surface of a roadway while the marking material is in an
undried condition, and is marked by flags, markers, signs, or other devices
intended to protect it;
      (3)   Knowingly move, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper
with a manhole cover.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of
this section causes serious physical harm to property that is owned, leased, or
controlled by a state or local authority, the offender is guilty of a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within
one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.17) (Prior Code, § 414.08)
§ 70.37 UNAUTHORIZED POSSESSION OR SALE OF DEVICES.
   (A)   As used in this section, TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE means any sign,
traffic control signal or other device conforming to and placed or erected in
accordance with the manual adopted under R.C. § 4511.09 by authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic, including signs denoting the names of streets and
highways, but does not mean any pavement marking.
   (B)   No individual shall buy or otherwise possess, or sell, a traffic
control device, except when one of the following applies:
      (1)   In the course of the individual’s employment by the state or a
local authority for the express or implied purpose of manufacturing, providing,
erecting, moving or removing such a traffic control device;
      (2)   In the course of the individual’s employment by any manufacturer of
traffic control devices other than a state or local authority;
      (3)   For the purpose of demonstrating the design and function of a
traffic control device to state or local officials;
      (4)   When the traffic control device has been purchased from the state
or a local authority at a sale of property that is no longer needed or is unfit
for use; or
      (5)   When the traffic control device has been properly purchased from a
manufacturer for use on private property and the person possessing the device
has a sales receipt for the device or other acknowledgment of sale issued by
the manufacturer.
   (C)   This section does not preclude, and shall not be construed as
precluding, prosecution for theft in violation of R.C. § 2913.02, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or for receiving stolen property
in violation of R.C. § 2913.51, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.18) (Prior Code, § 414.09)
§ 70.38 SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICES; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall possess a portable signal preemption device.
      (2)   No person shall use a portable signal preemption device to affect
the operation of a traffic- control device.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the following
persons and division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any of the
following persons when responding to an emergency call:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 109.71(A)(1), (A)(12), (A)
(14), or (A)(19);
      (2)   A state highway patrol officer;
      (3)   A person while occupying a public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01(E)(1), (E)(3), or (E)(4).
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, PORTABLE SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICE means a
device that, if activated by a person, is capable of changing a traffic-control
signal to green out of sequence.
(R.C. § 4511.031) (Prior Code, § 414.10)
TRAFFIC CONTROL
§ 70.50 AUTHORITY AND CONSIDERATIONS FOR PLACEMENT OF DEVICES.
   The Mayor/Council is hereby authorized to place and maintain traffic control
devices upon any street or highway under municipal jurisdiction as are
necessary to effectuate the provisions of this Traffic Code, or to regulate,
warn or guide traffic, and such other traffic control devices as such person
shall deem necessary for the proper control of traffic. The Mayor shall
determine the location, timing and coordination of such traffic control devices
upon the basis of an applicable engineering or traffic investigation and shall
consider the following:
   (A)   The maximum safety and protection of vehicular and pedestrian traffic
from physical injury or property damage;
   (B)   The existing and potential traffic movement, volume and conditions;
   (C)   The location and frequency of accidents, including studies of remedial
measures;
   (D)   The recommendations of the Chief of Police and Fire Chief;
   (E)   The acceleration of transportation of persons and property by vehicles
so as to expedite travel and promote public safety;
   (F)   The convenience and welfare of the general public in parking,
standing, loading and unloading, and the use of the streets as affecting
business concerns and places of assembly; and
   (G)   Economy in the expenditure of money.
(Prior Code, § 406.01)
§ 70.51 CONFORMITY WITH STATE MANUAL.
   All traffic-control devices placed pursuant to the provisions of this
traffic code shall conform to the Ohio Manual and Specifications for a Uniform
System of Traffic-Control Devices, as adopted under R.C. § 4511.09.
(Prior Code, § 406.02)
§ 70.52 POWERS OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to:
   (A)   Designate any street or highway as a through street or highway and
require that all vehicles stop or yield the right-of-way as may be required
before entering the same;
   (B)   Designate any intersection as a stop intersection and require all
vehicles to stop at one or more entrances to the intersection;
   (C)   Designate any intersection as a yield intersection and require all
vehicles to yield the right-of- way as required;
   (D)   Designate any street as a one-way street and require that all vehicles
thereon be moved in one specific direction;
   (E)   Designate and mark lanes to be used by traffic moving in a particular
direction regardless of the centerline of the roadway;
   (F)   Erect signs directing slow-moving traffic to use a designated lane or
allocating specified lanes to traffic moving in the same direction;
   (G)   Designate those portions of any street, where overtaking and passing
other traffic or driving to the left of the center or centerline of the roadway
would be especially hazardous, by appropriate signs or markings on the street
to indicate the beginning and end of such zones. These zones may be marked by
an auxiliary yellow line placed parallel and to the right of the normal
centerline or offset marked lane line;
   (H)   Place markers, buttons or signs within or adjacent to intersections
and require that a specific course of direction be traveled by vehicles
proceeding in lanes by either permitting, prohibiting or requiring turns at the
intersections;
   (I)   Install traffic-control devices, signals and signs at any location to
regulate traffic;
   (J)   Establish safety zones, crosswalks, zones of quiet and play streets;
   (K)   Close any street or portion thereof to vehicular traffic which is in
the process of construction, reconstruction or repair;
   (L)   Determine the location of any necessary bus stops and taxicab stands;
   (M)   Determine the location and limiting hours of truck loading zones;
   (N)   Designate dangerous railroad crossings and erect stop signs thereat;
   (O)   Erect “No U Turn” signs at any location to prohibit a vehicle from
being turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction;
   (P)   Regulate or prohibit the stopping, standing and parking of vehicles on
streets, alleys or public property by erecting signs plainly indicating the
prohibitions, restrictions or limitations;
   (Q)   Designate individual parking spaces by markings, which may either be
parallel or at a prescribed angle to the curb or edge of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 406.03)
§ 70.53 POSTING OF SIGNS AND SIGNALS REQUIRED.
   No provision of this chapter shall be effective until signs, signals,
markings or other devices giving notice of the local traffic regulations are
posted upon or at the entrance to the street or part thereof affected, as may
be most appropriate, so that in a proper position they are sufficiently legible
to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
(Prior Code, § 406.04)
§ 70.54 MAYOR’S POWERS NOT LIMITED.
   The powers of the Mayor pursuant to §
70.50 shall not be limited by the specific enumeration of subjects contained in
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 406.05)
§ 70.55 RECORDS OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall keep a record of all rules, regulations and proceedings
promulgated in connection with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 406.06)
§ 70.56 RESERVATION OF POWER TO COUNCIL.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, Council may override any
decision of the Mayor and may assume any of the powers delegated to such
person, by a resolution adopted by a vote of a majority of the members duly
elected thereto. Upon the adoption of any such resolution, the same may be
changed only by an amending or repealing resolution adopted by Council.
(Prior Code, § 406.07)
§ 70.57 VIOLATIONS SUBJECT TO GENERAL CODE PENALTY.
   Any person violating the rules and regulations promulgated in connection
with this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be subject to the penalties provided for in §
70.99.
(Prior Code, § 406.08)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section violated is guilty of one
of the following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section, a minor misdemeanor;
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
      (3)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.99) (Prior Code, § 408.01)
   (B)   Violations committed while distracted.
      (1)   As used in this section and each section referenced in division (B)
(2) of this section, all of the following apply:
         (a)   “Distracted” means doing either of the following while operating
a vehicle:
            1.   Using a handheld electronic wireless communications device, as
defined in R.C. § 4511.204, except when utilizing any of the following:
               a.   The device’s speakerphone function;
               b.   A wireless technology standard for exchanging data over
short distances;
               c.   A “voice-operated or hands-free” device that allows the
person to use the electronic wireless communications device without the use of
either hand except to activate, deactivate, or initiate a feature or function;
               d.   Any device that is physically or electronically integrated
into the motor vehicle.
            2.   Engaging in any activity that is not necessary to the
operation of a vehicle and impairs, or reasonably would be expected to impair,
the ability of the operator to drive the vehicle safely.
         (b)   “Distracted” does not include operating a motor vehicle while
wearing an earphone or earplug over or in both ears at the same time. A person
who so wears earphones or earplugs may be charged with a violation of R.C. §
4511.84, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (c)   “Distracted” does not include conducting any activity while
operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or on behalf of a utility,
provided that the driver of the vehicle is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage, or a circumstance affecting the health or safety of individuals.
As used in this division (B)(1)(c):
            UTILITY means an entity specified in R.C. § 4905.03(A), (C), (D),
(E), or (G).
            UTILITY SERVICE VEHICLE means a vehicle owned or operated by a
utility.
      (2)   If an offender violates R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12,
4511.121, 4511.132, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25,
4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33,
4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41,
4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451, 4511.46, 4511.47,
4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.64,
4511.71, 4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, or 4511.73, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
violation, the offender is subject to the applicable penalty for the violation
and, notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, is subject to an additional fine of not
more than $100 as follows:
         (a)   1.   Subject to Traffic Rule 13, if a law enforcement officer
issues an offender a ticket, citation, or summons for a violation of any of the
aforementioned sections of the Ohio Revised Code, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that indicates that the offender was distracted
while committing the violation and that the distracting activity was a
contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the offender may enter
a written plea of guilty and waive the offender’s right to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial provided that the offender pays the total
amount of the fine established for the violation and pays the additional fine
of $100.
            2.   In lieu of payment of the additional fine of $100, the
offender instead may elect to attend a distracted driving safety course, the
duration and contents of which shall be established by the Ohio Director of
Public Safety. If the offender attends and successfully completes the course,
the offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of $100, so long as the offender submits to the court both the
offender’s payment in full and such written evidence.
         (b)   1.   If the offender appears in person to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial and the offender pleads guilty to or is
convicted of the violation, the court, in addition to all other penalties
provided by law, may impose the applicable penalty for the violation and may
impose the additional fine of not more than $100.
            2.   If the court imposes upon the offender the applicable penalty
for the violation and an additional fine of not more than $100, the court shall
inform the offender that, in lieu of payment of the additional fine of not more
than $100, the offender instead may elect to attend the distracted driving
safety course described in division (B)(2)(a) of this section. If the offender
elects the course option and attends and successfully completes the course, the
offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of not more than $100, so long as the offender submits to the
court the offender’s payment and such written evidence.
(R.C. § 4511.991)
   (C)   Sentencing. Whoever is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor
or minor misdemeanor shall be sentenced in accordance with §
130.99.
(Prior Code, § 408.02)
Statutory reference:
   Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
CHAPTER 71: LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
Motor Vehicle Licensing
   
71.01   Display of license plates or validation stickers; registration
   
71.02   Improper use of noncommercial motor vehicle
   
71.03   Operating motor vehicle ordered immobilized; forfeiture
   
71.04   Operation or sale without certificate of title
   
71.05   Display of certificate of registration
   
71.06   Use of unauthorized plates
   
71.07   Operating without dealer or manufacturer license plates
Driver’s Licenses
   
71.20   Prohibited acts
   
71.21   Permitting minor to operate vehicle prohibited; temporary instruction
permit; probationary license
   
71.22   License required as driver or commercial driver on public or private
property; nonresident exemption
   
71.23   Employment of a minor to operate a taxicab prohibited
   
71.24   Restriction against owner lending vehicle for use of another
   
71.25   Suspension of driver’s licenses; license suspended by court of record
   
71.26   Display of license
   
71.27   Prohibition against false statements
   
71.28   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction
   
71.29   Operating motor vehicle or motorcycle without valid license
   
71.30   Driving under OVI suspension
   
71.31   Driving under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation;
driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension
   
71.32   Failure to reinstate license
Commercial Driver’s Licenses
   
71.45   Definitions
   
71.46   Use of actual gross weight in lieu of rating
   
71.47   Prohibited acts
   
71.48   Prerequisites to operation of commercial motor vehicle
   
71.49   Physical qualification to operate commercial motor vehicles
   
71.50   Criminal offenses
   
71.51   Application of federal regulations
   
71.52   Employment of drivers of commercial vehicles
 
   
71.99   Penalty
MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSING
§ 71.01 DISPLAY OF LICENSE PLATES OR VALIDATION STICKERS; REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person who is the owner or operator of a motor vehicle shall
fail to display in plain view on the rear of the motor vehicle a license plate
that displays the distinctive number and registration mark assigned to the
motor vehicle by the Ohio Director of Public Safety, including any county
identification sticker and any validation sticker when required by and issued
under R.C. §§ 4503.19 and 4503.191. However, a commercial tractor shall display
the license plate on the front of the commercial tractor.
      (2)   The license plate shall be securely fastened so as not to swing,
and shall not be covered by any material that obstructs its visibility.
      (3)   No person to whom a temporary motor vehicle license registration
has been issued for the use of a motor vehicle under R.C. § 4503.182, and no
operator of that motor vehicle, shall fail to display the temporary motor
vehicle license registration in plain view from the rear of the vehicle either
in the rear window or on an external rear surface of the motor vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall cover a temporary motor vehicle license
registration by any material that obstructs its visibility.
(R.C. § 4503.21(A))
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by R.C. §§ 4503.103, 4503.173, 4503.41,
4503.43, and 4503.46, no person who is the owner or chauffeur of a motor
vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways shall fail to file
annually the application for registration or to pay the tax therefor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(A))
   (C)    (1)   Within 30 days of becoming a resident of this state, any person
who owns a motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways
shall register the vehicle in this state. If such a person fails to register a
vehicle owned by the person, the person shall not operate any motor vehicle in
this state under a license issued by another state.
      (2)   For purposes of division (C)(1) of this section, RESIDENT means any
person to whom any of the following applies:
         (a)   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         (b)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to
be a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C.
§ 4507.01.
(R.C. § 4503.111(A), (C))
   (D)   Upon the transfer of ownership of a motor vehicle, the registration of
the motor vehicle expires, and the original owner immediately shall remove the
license plates from the motor vehicle, except as otherwise provided in R.C. §
4503.12.
(R.C. § 4503.12(A))
   (E)   No person shall operate or drive upon the highways of this
municipality a motor vehicle acquired from a former owner who has registered
the motor vehicle, while the motor vehicle displays the distinctive number or
identification mark assigned to it upon its original registration.
(R.C. § 4549.11(A))
   (F)   No person who is the owner of a motor vehicle and a resident of this
state shall operate or drive the motor vehicle upon the highways of this
municipality while it displays a distinctive number or identification mark
issued by or under the authority of another state, without complying with the
laws of this state relating to the registration and identification of motor
vehicles.
(R.C. § 4549.12(A))
   (G)   (1)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offenses established under division (A) of this section are
strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4503.21(B), (C))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(D))
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offense established under division (G)(3)(a) of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4503.111(B))
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4503.12(D))
      (5)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of
operation of a motor vehicle bearing license plates or an identification mark
issued to another, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.11(B))
      (6)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation by a resident of this state of a motor vehicle bearing the
distinctive number or identification mark issued by a foreign jurisdiction, a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.12(B))
(Prior Code, § 436.09)
§ 71.02 IMPROPER USE OF NONCOMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall use a motor vehicle registered as a noncommercial
motor vehicle for other than the purposes set forth in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4503.05)
§ 71.03 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE ORDERED IMMOBILIZED; FORFEITURE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or permit the operation of a
motor vehicle upon any public or private property used by the public for
vehicular travel or parking knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that
the motor vehicle has been ordered immobilized pursuant to an immobilization
order issued under R.C. § 4503.233.
   (B)   A motor vehicle that is operated by a person during a violation of
division (A) of this section shall be criminally forfeited to the state in
accordance with the procedures contained in R.C. § 4503.234.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4503.236)
§ 71.04 OPERATION OR SALE WITHOUT CERTIFICATE OF TITLE.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this municipality a motor vehicle for which a
certificate of title is required without having that certificate in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 4505 or, if a physical certificate of title has not been
issued for a motor vehicle, operate the motor vehicle in this state knowing
that the ownership information relating to the vehicle has not been entered
into the automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common
Pleas;
      (2)   Display or display for sale or sell as a dealer or acting on behalf
of a dealer, a motor vehicle without having obtained a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate, a certificate of title, or an assignment of a
certificate of title for it as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title or any certificate of
registration or license plates upon cancellation of the same by the Registrar
of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed in R.C. Chapter
4505;
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505 in case of the destruction or
dismantling or change of a motor vehicle in such respect that it is not the
motor vehicle described in the certificate of title;
      (5)   Violate any rules adopted pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (6)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapters 4505 and 4517, sell
at wholesale a motor vehicle ownership of which is not evidenced by an Ohio
certificate of title, or the current certificate of title issued for the motor
vehicle, or the manufacturer’s certificate of origin, and all title assignments
that evidence the seller’s ownership of the motor vehicle, and an odometer
disclosure statement that complies with R.C. § 4505.06 and subchapter IV of the
Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act, 86 Stat. 961 (1972), 15 U.S.C.
§ 1981;
      (7)   Operate in this state a motor vehicle knowing that the certificate
of title to the vehicle or ownership of the vehicle as otherwise reflected in
the automated title processing system has been canceled.
   (B)   This section does not apply to persons engaged in the business of
warehousing or transporting motor vehicles for the purpose of salvage
disposition.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200,
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4505.18) (Prior Code, § 436.08)
§ 71.05 DISPLAY OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a “commercial car”, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, when the commercial car is required to be registered under state law,
shall, when operating the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer on the
streets, roads, or highways of this municipality display inside or on the
vehicle the certificate of registration for the commercial car, trailer or
semitrailer provided for in R.C. § 4503.19, or shall carry the certificate on
the operator’s person and display it upon the demand of any peace officer.
      (2)   Every person operating a commercial car, trailer or semitrailer
required to be registered under state law shall permit the inspection of the
certificate of registration upon demand of any peace officer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
commercial car certificate of registration violation, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.18)
§ 71.06 USE OF UNAUTHORIZED PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle upon the public roads
and highways in this municipality if it displays a license plate or a
distinctive number or identification mark that meets any of the following
criteria:
      (1)   It is fictitious;
      (2)   It is a counterfeit or an unlawfully made copy of any distinctive
number or identification mark;
      (3)   It belongs to another motor vehicle, provided that this section
does not apply to a motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads and
highways in this municipality when the motor vehicle displays license plates
that originally were issued for a motor vehicle that previously was owned by
the same person who owns the motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads
and highways in this municipality during the 30-day period described in R.C. §
4503.12(A)(4).
   (B)   A person who fails to comply with the transfer of registration
provisions of R.C. § 4503.12 and is charged with a violation of that section
shall not be charged with a violation of this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3) of this section is
guilty of operating a motor vehicle bearing an invalid license plate or
identification mark, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and
a misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.08) (Prior Code, § 436.10)
§ 71.07 OPERATING WITHOUT DEALER OR MANUFACTURER LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated upon a public road or
highway a motor vehicle of a manufacturer or dealer unless the vehicle carries
and displays a placard, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.21, issued by the
Director of Public Safety that displays the registration number of its
manufacturer or dealer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation of a manufacturer’s or dealer’s motor vehicle, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.10)
DRIVER’S LICENSES
§ 71.20 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Display or cause or permit to be displayed, or possess any
identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
knowing the same to be fictitious, or to have been canceled, suspended, or
altered;
      (2)   Lend to a person not entitled thereto, or knowingly permit a person
not entitled thereto to use any identification card, driver’s or commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or commercial driver’s license
temporary instruction permit issued to the person so lending or permitting the
use thereof;
      (3)   Display, or represent as one’s own, any identification card,
driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit not issued to the
person so displaying the same;
      (4)   Fail to surrender to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, upon the
Registrar’s demand, any identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit that has been suspended or canceled;
      (5)   In any application for an identification card, driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or any renewal, reprint, or
duplicate thereof, knowingly conceal a material fact or present any physician’s
statement required under R.C. § 4507.08 or 4507.081 when knowing the same to be
false or fictitious.
   (B)   Whoever violates any division of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.30) (Prior Code, § 436.04)
Statutory reference:
   Use of license to violate liquor laws; suspension; procedures, see R.C. §
4510.33
§ 71.21 PERMITTING MINOR TO OPERATE VEHICLE PROHIBITED; TEMPORARY INSTRUCTION
PERMIT; PROBATIONARY LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall cause or knowingly permit any minor to drive a motor
vehicle upon a highway as an operator, unless the minor has first obtained a
license or permit to drive a motor vehicle under R.C. Chapter 4507.
(R.C. § 4507.31(A))
   (B)   (1)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
in violation of the conditions established under R.C. § 4507.05(A).
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this section, no
holder of a temporary instruction permit that is issued under R.C. § 4507.05(A)
and that is issued on or after July 1, 1998, and who has not attained the age
of 18 years, shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m.
         (b)   The holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) on or after July 1, 1998, who has not attained the age of 18 years,
may operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or private property
used by the public for purposed of vehicular travel or parking between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. if, at the time of such operation, the holder
is accompanied by the holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian, and the parent,
guardian, or custodian holds a current valid driver’s or commercial driver’s
license issued by this state, is actually occupying a seat beside the permit
holder, and does not have a prohibited concentration of alcohol in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as provided in R.C. § 4511.19
(A).
(R.C. § 4507.05(F))
   (C)   (1)   (a)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held
the license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a
highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. unless
the holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
         (b)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for 12 months or longer shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. unless the
holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
      (2)   (a)   Subject to division (E)(1) of this section, division (C)(1)
(a) of this section does not apply to the holder of a probationary driver’s
license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of midnight and 6:
00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided
that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written documentation
from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
         (b)   Division (C)(1)(b) of this section does not apply to the holder
of a probationary driver’s license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and
5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.,
provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written
documentation from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
      (3)   An employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event is not liable in damages in a civil action for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises from, or is related
to, the fact that the employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event provided the holder of a probationary driver’s license with the
written documentation described in division (C)(2) of this section. The
Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall make available at no cost a form to serve as
the written documentation described in division (C)(2) of this section, and
employers, school officials, officials affiliated with religious events, and
holders of probationary driver’s licenses may utilize that form or may choose
to utilize any other written documentation to meet the requirements of that
division.
      (4)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking with more than one person who is not a family member
occupying the vehicle unless the probationary license holder is accompanied by
the probationary license holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or
(C)(1)(b) of this section if, at the time of the violation, an emergency
existed that required the holder of the probationary driver’s license to
operate a motor vehicle in violation of division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this
section or the holder was an emancipated minor.
   (E)   (1)   If a person is issued a probationary driver’s license prior to
attaining the age of 17 years and the person pleads guilty to, is convicted of,
or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a moving violation
during the six-month period commencing on the date on which the person is
issued the probationary driver’s license, the court with jurisdiction over the
violation may order that the holder must be accompanied by the holder’s parent
or guardian whenever the holder is operating a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking for a period not to exceed six months or the date the holder
attains the age of 17 years, whichever occurs first.
      (2)   Any person who is subject to the operating restrictions established
under division (E)(1) of this section as a result of a first moving violation
may petition the court for driving privileges without being accompanied by the
holder’s parent or guardian during the period of time determined by the court
under that division. In granting the driving privileges, the court shall
specify the purposes of the privileges and shall issue the person appropriate
forms setting forth the privileges granted. If a person is convicted of, pleads
guilty to, or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a second or
subsequent moving violation, the court with jurisdiction over the violation may
terminate any driving privileges previously granted under this division.
      (3)   No person shall violate any operating restriction imposed under
division (E)(1) or (E)(2) of this section.
   (F)   No holder of a probationary license shall operate a motor vehicle upon
a highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking unless the total number of occupants of the vehicle
does not exceed the total number of occupant restraining devices originally
installed in the motor vehicle by its manufacturer, and each occupant of the
vehicle is wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted
occupant restraining device.
   (G)   A restricted license may be issued to a person who is 14 or 15 years
of age under proof of hardship satisfactory to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether each occupant of the motor vehicle is wearing all of the
available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device as
required by division (F) of this section, or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons if that requirement has been or is being violated,
or for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a
violation of that requirement.
   (I)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this
section has been or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons for such a violation or for causing the arrest or
commencing a prosecution of a person for such a violation.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      FAMILY MEMBER. A family member of a probationary license holder includes
any of the following:
         (a)   A spouse;
         (b)   A child or stepchild;
         (c)   A parent, stepparent, grandparent, or parent-in-law;
         (d)   An aunt or uncle;
         (e)   A sibling, whether of the whole or half blood or by adoption, a
brother-in-law, or a sister-in-law;
         (f)   A son or daughter of the probationary license holder’s
stepparent if the stepparent has not adopted the probationary license holder;
         (g)   An eligible adult, as defined in R.C. § 4507.05.
      MOVING VIOLATION. Means any violation of any statute or ordinance that
regulates the operation of vehicles on the highways or streets. The term does
not include a violation of R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a violation of any statute or ordinance regulating
pedestrians or the parking of vehicles, vehicle size or load limitations,
vehicle fitness requirements, or vehicle registration.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4513.263.
(R.C. § 4507.071(B) - (I))
   (K)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.31(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates divisions (B), (C)(1), (C)(4), (E)(3), or (F) of
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4507.05(I), 4507.071(J))
(Prior Code, §§ 436.03, 436.035)
§ 71.22 LICENSE REQUIRED AS DRIVER OR COMMERCIAL DRIVER ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE
PROPERTY; NONRESIDENT EXEMPTION.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   No person shall permit the operation of a motor vehicle
upon any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking, knowing the operator does not have a valid
driver’s license issued to the operator by the Registrar of Motor Vehicle or a
deputy registrar under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid commercial driver’s license
issued under R.C. Chapter 4506. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
whoever violates this division is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   No person shall receive a driver’s license, or a motorcycle
operator’s endorsement of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card unless and until the person
surrenders to the Registrar or a deputy registrar all valid licenses, temporary
instruction permits, and identification cards issued to the person by another
jurisdiction recognized by this state.
      (3)   The Registrar shall report the cancellation of a license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card to the issuing authority, together
with information that the license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card is now issued in this state. The Registrar or a deputy
registrar shall destroy any such license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (4)   No person shall possess more than one valid license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card at any time.
(R.C. § 4507.02(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling a road roller or road machinery upon a street or highway.
      (2)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling any agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a
street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
      (3)   No person shall drive, operate, draw, move, or propel any
agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a street or highway at a
speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the person has a current, valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (4)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate a
motorcycle having three wheels with a motor of not more than 50 cubic
centimeters piston displacement.
      (5)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate an
autocycle or a cab-enclosed motorcycle.
      (6)   Every person on active duty in the military or naval forces of the
United States, when furnished with a driver’s permit and when operating an
official motor vehicle in connection with such duty, is exempt from the license
requirements of R.C. Chapters 4506 and 4507. Every person on active duty in the
military or naval forces of the United States or in service with the peace
corps, volunteers in service to America, or the foreign service of the United
States, is exempt from the license requirements of such sections for the period
of the person’s active duty or service and for six months thereafter, provided
such person was a licensee under such sections at the time the person commenced
the person’s active duty or service. This section does not prevent such a
person or the person’s spouse or dependent from making an application, as
provided in R.C. § 4507.10(C), for the renewal of a driver’s license or
motorcycle operator’s endorsement or as provided in R.C. § 4506.14 for the
renewal of a commercial driver’s license during the period of the person’s
active duty or service.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.03)
   (C)   Nonresidents, permitted to drive upon the highways of their own state,
may operate any motor vehicle upon any highway in this state without
examination or license under R.C. §§ 4507.01 through 4507.39, inclusive, upon
condition that such nonresident may be required at any time or place to prove
lawful possession or their right to operate such motor vehicle, and to
establish proper identity.
(R.C. § 4507.04) (Prior Code, § 436.01)
   (D)   Surrender of driver’s license from another state.
      (1)   Any person who becomes a resident of this state, within 30 days of
becoming a resident, shall surrender any driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card issued by another state to the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a deputy registrar. If such a person intends to
operate a motor vehicle upon the public roads or highways, the person shall
apply for a temporary instruction permit or driver’s license in this state. If
the person fails to apply for a driver’s license or temporary instruction
permit or within 30 days of becoming a resident, the person shall not operate
any motor vehicle in this state under a license or permit issued by another
state.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (D)(1) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offense established under division (D)(2)(a) of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
      (3)   For purposes of division (D)(1) of this section, “resident” means
any person to whom any of the following applies:
         (a)   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         (b)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to
be a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C.
§ 4507.01.
(R.C. § 4507.213)
(Prior Code, § 436.02)
§ 71.23 EMPLOYMENT OF A MINOR TO OPERATE A TAXICAB PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the definition of “chauffeur” in R.C. § 4501.01, no
person shall employ any minor for the purpose of operating a taxicab.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.321)
§ 71.24 RESTRICTION AGAINST OWNER LENDING VEHICLE FOR USE OF ANOTHER.
   (A)   No person shall permit a motor vehicle owned by the person or under
the person’s control to be driven by another if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person does not have a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or valid nonresident driving privileges;
      (2)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privileges have been suspended or canceled under R.C. Chapter 4510 or
any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (3)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving the motor vehicle would violate any prohibition
contained in R.C. Chapter 4509.
      (4)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving would violate R.C. § 4511.19 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (5)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
vehicle is the subject of an immobilization waiver order issued under R.C. §
4503.235 and the other person is prohibited from operating the vehicle under
that order.
   (B)   Without limiting or precluding the consideration of any other evidence
in determining whether a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section has occurred, it shall be prima facie evidence that
the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the operator of the
motor vehicle owned by the offender or under the offender’s control is in a
category described in division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(1), (A)(3), or (A)(5) of this section, the offender and the
operator of the motor vehicle reside in the same household and are related by
consanguinity or affinity.
      (2)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(2) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle reside in the same household, and the offender knows or has reasonable
cause to believe that the operator has been charged with or convicted of any
violation of law or ordinance, or has committed any other act or omission, that
would or could result in the suspension or cancellation of the operator’s
license, permit, or privilege.
      (3)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(4) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle occupied the motor vehicle together at the time of the offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of wrongful entrustment of a
motor vehicle, and shall be punished as provided in divisions (C) to (H) of
this section.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of an
unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the
offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   (a)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)
(2), or (A)(3) of this section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to
or been convicted of two or more violations of division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)
(3) of this section, R.C. § 4511.203(A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   For any violation of this section, in addition to the penalties
imposed under this Code or R.C. Chapter 2929, the court may impose a class
seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), and, if
the vehicle involved in the offense is registered in the name of the offender,
the court may order one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
of this section, the court may order, for 30 days, the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license
plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §
4503.233.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order, for 60 days, the
immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of
that vehicle’s license plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and
enforced under R.C. § 4503.233.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order the criminal
forfeiture to the state of the vehicle involved in the offense. If issued, the
order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234.
      (4)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order for
criminal forfeiture under division (C)(3)(c) of this section is assigned or
transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in addition to or
independent of any other penalty established by law, the court may fine the
offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the National
Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine imposed under this
division shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (D)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(a) or (C)(3)(b) of this section, the court shall not release the vehicle
from the immobilization before the termination of the period of immobilization
ordered unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
   (E)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(c) of this section, upon receipt of the order from the court, neither
the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor any deputy registrar shall accept any
application for the registration or transfer of registration of any motor
vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the order. The period of denial
shall be five years after the date the order is issued, unless, during that
five-year period, the court with jurisdiction of the offense that resulted in
the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar of the
termination. If the court terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar,
the Registrar shall take all necessary measures to permit the person to
register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to transfer the
registration of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section does not apply to motor vehicle rental dealers or motor
vehicle leasing dealers, as defined in R.C. § 4549.65.
   (G)   Evidence of a conviction of, plea of guilty to, or adjudication as a
delinquent child for a violation of this section shall not be admissible as
evidence in any civil action that involves the offender or delinquent child who
is the subject of the conviction, plea, or adjudication and that arises from
the wrongful entrustment of a motor vehicle.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, a vehicle is owned by a person if, at
the time of a violation of this section, the vehicle is registered in the
person’s name.
(R.C. § 4511.203) (Prior Code, § 436.05) (Ord. 248, passed 2-4-1957)
§ 71.25 SUSPENSION OF DRIVER’S LICENSES; LICENSE SUSPENDED BY COURT OF RECORD.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4510.07 or in any other
provision of the Ohio Revised Code, whenever an offender is convicted of or
pleads guilty to a violation of any provision of this code that is
substantially equivalent to a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, and a court
is permitted or required to suspend a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit for a violation of that provision, a court, in addition to
any other penalties authorized by law, may suspend the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or non resident operating privileges for
the period of time the court determines appropriate, but the period of
suspension imposed for the violation of the provision of this code shall not
exceed the period of suspension that is permitted or required to be imposed for
the violation of the provision of the Ohio Revised Code to which the provision
of this code is substantially equivalent.
(R.C. § 4510.05) (Prior Code, § 408.03)
   (B)   Whenever a person is found guilty under the laws of this state or any
ordinance of any political subdivision of this state, of operating a motor
vehicle in violation of any such law or ordinance relating to reckless
operation, the trial court of any court of record, in addition to or
independent of all other penalties provided by law, may impose a class five
suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(5).
   (C)   Suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section shall
be concurrent with any period of suspension disqualification under R.C. §
3123.58 or 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from holding a
commercial driver’s license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a driver’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the commercial
driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person whose
commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be issued a
driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the suspension.
(R.C. § 4510.15)
(Prior Code, § 698.07)
§ 71.26 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall display the operator’s driver’s
license, or furnish satisfactory proof that the operator has a driver’s
license, upon demand of any peace officer or of any person damaged or injured
in any collision in which the licensee may be involved. When a demand is
properly made, and the operator has the operator’s driver’s license on or about
the operator’s person, the operator shall not refuse to display the license. A
person’s failure to furnish satisfactory evidence that the person is licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4507 when the person does not have the person’s license on
or about the person’s person shall be prima facie evidence of the person’s not
having obtained a driver’s license.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section,
R.C. § 4507.35, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.35) (Prior Code, § 436.06)
§ 71.27 PROHIBITION AGAINST FALSE STATEMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement to any matter or
thing required by the provisions of this traffic code.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.36)
§ 71.28 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR IN VIOLATION OF LICENSE RESTRICTION.
   (A)   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, division (B)
of this section, §
71.31 and in R.C. §§ 4510.111 and 4510.16, no person whose driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended under any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, other than R.C.
Chapter 4509, or under any applicable law in any other jurisdiction in which
the person’s license or permit was issued shall operate any motor vehicle upon
the public roads and highways or upon any public or private property used by
the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking within this municipality
during the period of suspension unless the person is granted limited driving
privileges and is operating the vehicle in accordance with the terms of the
limited driving privileges.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality in violation of any restriction of the person’s
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit imposed under R.C. § 4506.10
(D) or 4507.14.
      (3)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under
suspension at the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(1) of this
section or the person operated a motor vehicle in violation of a restriction at
the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(2) of this section. The
person charged with a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. The court may impose upon the
offender a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. §
4510.02(A)(7).
         (b)   1.   Except as provided in division (A)(4)(b)2. or (A)(4)(b)3.
of this section, the court, in addition to any other penalty that it imposes on
the offender and if the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111
or 4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in
addition to or independent of any other sentence that it imposes upon the
offender, may order the immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense
for 30 days and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license plates for 30 days in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            2.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to two violations of this section, or any combination of
two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to any
other sentence that it imposes on the offender, may order the immobilization of
the vehicle involved in the offense for 60 days and the impoundment of that
vehicle’s license plates for 60 days in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            3.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, or any
combination of three or more violations of this section or R.C. § 4510.11,
4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the
court, in addition to any other sentence that it imposes on the offender, may
order the criminal forfeiture of the vehicle involved in the offense to the
state.
      (5)   Any order for immobilization and impoundment under this section
shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §§ 4503.233 and 4507.02, as applicable.
The court shall not release a vehicle from immobilization ordered under this
section unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
      (6)   Any order of criminal forfeiture under this section shall be issued
and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234. Upon receipt of the copy of the order from
the court, neither the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor a deputy registrar shall
accept any application for the registration or transfer of registration of any
motor vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the declaration of
forfeiture. The period of registration denial shall be five years after the
date of the order, unless, during that period, the court having jurisdiction of
the offense that led to the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the
Registrar of the termination. The Registrar then shall take necessary measures
to permit the person to register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to
transfer registration of the vehicle.
      (7)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.11)
   (B)   Driving under suspension in violation of other provisions.
      (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license
has been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2151.354, 2151.87, 2935.27, 3123.58,
4301.99, 4510.032, 4510.22, or 4510.33, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
      (2)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (B)(1) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under suspension at the
time of the alleged violation of division (B)(1) of this section. The person
charged with a violation of division (B)(1) of this section may offer evidence
to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
driving under suspension and shall be punished as provided in division (B)(3)
(a) or division (B)(3)(b) of this section.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3)(b) of this
section, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. The offender shall be
sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
was convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)(1)
of this section, or any combination of two or more violations of division (B)
(1) of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree, and the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.111)
   (C)   Repeat traffic offender; point system suspension. Any person whose
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privileges are suspended as a repeat traffic offender under R.C. § 4510.037 and
who, during the suspension, operates any motor vehicle upon any public roads
and highways is guilty of driving under a twelve-point suspension, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to a
minimum term of three days in jail. No court shall suspend the first three days
of jail time imposed pursuant to this division.
(R.C. § 4510.037(J))
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under division
(A) of this section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a
valid permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
(Prior Code, § 436.071)
§ 71.29 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE OR MOTORCYCLE WITHOUT VALID LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   No person, except those expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public
road or highway or any public or private property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person
has a valid driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a commercial
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506.
      (2)   No person, except a person expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motorcycle upon a public road
or highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person has a valid
license as a motorcycle operator that was issued upon application by the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. Chapter 4507. The license shall be in
the form of an endorsement, as determined by the Registrar, upon a driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, if the person has a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle, or in the form of a restricted
license as provided in R.C. § 4507.14, if the person does not have a valid
license to operate a motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the person did not have either a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(1) of this section or a valid license as a motorcycle operator
either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or a restricted license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(2) of this section. The person charged with a violation of
division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may offer evidence to rebut this
prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or motorcycle without a valid license and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   If the trier of fact finds that the offender never has held a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license issued by this state or any other
jurisdiction, or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the
offender, if the offender has never held a valid license as a motorcycle
operator, either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or in the form of a restricted license, except as otherwise
provided in this division, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the offender, the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license bearing the motorcycle
endorsement or the offender’s restricted license was expired at the time of the
offense, except as otherwise provided in this division, the offense is a minor
misdemeanor. If within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
   (D)   The court shall not impose a license suspension for a first violation
of this section or if more than three years have passed since the offender’s
last violation of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (E)   If the offender is sentenced under division (C)(2) of this section, if
within three years of the offense the offender previously was convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one or more violations of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and if the offender’s license was
expired for more than six months at the time of the offense, the court may
impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or
nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)
(7).
(R.C. § 4510.12) (Prior Code, § 436.072)
§ 71.30 DRIVING UNDER OVI SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege has been suspended under R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191, or 4511.196 or under R.C. § 4510.07 for a conviction of a violation
of a municipal OVI ordinance shall operate any motor vehicle upon the public
roads or highways within this municipality during the period of the suspension.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of driving under OVI
suspension. The court shall sentence the offender under R.C. Chapter 2929,
subject to the differences authorized or required by this section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this
section, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first degree. The
court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of three consecutive days. The three-day
term shall be imposed, unless, subject to division (C) of this section, the
court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 30 consecutive days of house
arrest with electronic monitoring. A period of house arrest with electronic
monitoring imposed under this division shall not exceed six months. If the
court imposes a mandatory three-day jail term under this division, the court
may impose a jail term in addition to that term, provided that in no case shall
the cumulative jail term imposed for the offense exceed six months;
         (b)   A fine of not less than $250 and not more than $1,000;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization for 30 days of the
offender’s vehicle and impoundment for 30 days of the identification license
plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment shall be
issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (2)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section or one
equivalent offense, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of ten consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The ten-
day mandatory jail term shall be imposed unless, subject to division (C) of
this section, the court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 90
consecutive days of house arrest with electronic monitoring. The period of
house arrest with electronic monitoring shall not exceed one year;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines provided for in R.C. Chapter 2929, a
fine of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization of the offender’s
vehicle for 60 days and the impoundment for 60 days of the identification
license plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment
shall be issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (3)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or two or more equivalent offenses, driving under OVI suspension is a
misdemeanor. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of 30 consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The
court shall not sentence the offender to a term of house arrest with electronic
monitoring in lieu of the mandatory portion of the jail term;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines set forth in R.C. Chapter 2929, a fine
of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, criminal forfeiture to the state
of the offender’s vehicle. The order of criminal forfeiture shall be issued and
enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234. If title to a motor vehicle that
is subject to an order for criminal forfeiture under this division is assigned
or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, the court may fine
the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the
National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine so imposed
shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (C)   (1)   No court shall impose an alternative sentence of house arrest
with electronic monitoring under division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section
unless, within 60 days of the date of sentencing, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the jail term imposed, the offender
will not be able to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following
the date of sentencing.
      (2)   An offender sentenced under this section to a period of house
arrest with electronic monitoring shall be permitted work release during that
period.
   (D)   Fifty percent of any fine imposed by a court under division (B)(1),
(B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section shall be deposited into the municipal
Indigent Drivers Alcohol Treatment Fund under the control of that court, as
created by the municipality pursuant to R.C. § 4511.191(H).
   (E)   In addition to or independent of all other penalties provided by law
or ordinance, the trial judge of any court of record or the mayor of a mayor’s
court shall impose on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of this section a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
      (1)   When permitted as specified in R.C. § 4510.021, if the court grants
limited driving privileges during a suspension imposed under this section, the
privileges shall be granted on the additional condition that the offender must
display restricted license plates, issued under R.C. § 4503.231, on the vehicle
driven subject to the privileges, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (2)   A suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section
shall be concurrent with any period of suspension or disqualification under
R.C. § 3123.58 or R.C. § 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from
holding a commercial driver’s license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a
driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the
commercial driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person
whose commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be
issued a driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the
suspension.
   (F)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree under this
section for which the offender is sentenced.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC MONITORING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of a municipal ordinance, law of another state, or
law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to division (A) of
this section;
         (b)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to division (A) of this section.
      JAIL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Means the mandatory term in jail of 3, 10, or 30
consecutive days that must be imposed under division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3)
of this section upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of
this section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to any provision
of the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 4510.14)
   (H)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
(Prior Code, § 436.073)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 71.31 DRIVING UNDER FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY LAW SUSPENSION OR CANCELLATION;
DRIVING UNDER A NONPAYMENT OF JUDGMENT SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person, whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or temporary
instruction permit or nonresident’s operating privilege has been suspended or
canceled pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4509, shall operate any motor vehicle within
this municipality, or knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to
be operated by another person in the municipality, during the period of the
suspension or cancellation, except as specifically authorized by R.C. Chapter
4509. No person shall operate a motor vehicle within this municipality, or
knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to be operated by
another person in the municipality, during the period in which the person is
required by R.C. § 4509.45 to file and maintain proof of financial
responsibility for a violation of R.C. § 4509.101, unless proof of financial
responsibility is maintained with respect to that vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any public
or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking in this municipality if the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or temporary instruction permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 4509.37 or 4509.40 for nonpayment of a
judgment.
   (C)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may be admitted into evidence
as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under either a
financial responsibility law suspension at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A) of this section or a nonpayment of judgment suspension at the time
of the alleged violation of division (B) of this section. The person charged
with a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may offer evidence to
rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of driving
under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation and shall be
punished as provided in this division (D). Whoever violates division (B) of
this section is guilty of driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension and
shall be punished as provided in this division (D).
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(2) of this section,
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified
misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously was
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section, or
any combination of two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or
4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.16)
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
(Prior Code, § 436.074)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 71.32 FAILURE TO REINSTATE LICENSE.
   (A)   No person whose driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, or nonresident’s operating privilege has been
suspended shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public road or highway or any
public or private property after the suspension has expired unless the person
has complied with all license reinstatement requirements imposed by the court,
the bureau of motor vehicles, or another provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person had not been reinstated by
the person at the time of the alleged violation of division (A) of this
section. The person charged with a violation of division (A) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to reinstate a
license, and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A) of this
section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of two
or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   In all cases, the court may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
(R.C. § 4510.21)
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
(Prior Code, § 436.075)
COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSES
§ 71.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL CONCENTRATION. The concentration of alcohol in a person’s blood,
breath or urine. When expressed as a percentage, it means grams of alcohol per
the following: 100 milliliters of whole blood, blood serum, or blood plasma;
210 liters of breath; or 100 milliliters of urine.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE. A license issued in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 4506 that authorizes an individual to drive a commercial motor vehicle.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE INFORMATION SYSTEM. The information system
established pursuant to the requirements of the Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety
Act of 1986, 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App. 2701.
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Except when used in R.C. § 4506.25, any motor
vehicle designed or used to transport persons or property that meets any of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Any combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight or combined
gross vehicle weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more, provided that the gross
vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight rating of the vehicle or vehicles being
towed is in excess of 10,000 pounds;
      (2)   Any single vehicle with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle
weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more;
      (3)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is not a Class A
or Class B vehicle, but is designed to transport 16 or more passengers
including the driver;
      (4)   Any school bus with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight
rating of less than 26,001 pounds that is designed to transport fewer than 16
passengers including the driver;
      (5)   Is transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is
required under 49 C.F.R. part 172, subpart F, as amended; or
      (6)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is designed to
be operated and to travel on a public street or highway and is considered by
the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration to be a commercial motor
vehicle, including but not limited to a motorized crane, a vehicle whose
function is to pump cement, a rig for drilling wells, and a portable crane.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Includes all of the following:
      (1)   Any substance classified as a controlled substance under the
Controlled Substances Act, 80 Stat. 1242 (1970), 21 U.S.C. § 802(6), as
amended;
      (2)   Any substance included in Schedules I through V of 21 C.F.R. part
1308, as amended;
      (3)   Any drug of abuse.
   CONVICTION. An unvacated adjudication of guilt or a determination that a
person has violated or failed to comply with the law in a court of original
jurisdiction or an authorized administrative tribunal, an unvacated forfeiture
of bail or collateral deposited to secure the person’s appearance in court, a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere accepted by the court, the payment of a fine
or court cost, or violation of a condition of release without bail, regardless
of whether or not the penalty is rebated, suspended or probated.
   DISQUALIFICATION. Means any of the following:
      (1)   The suspension, revocation, or cancellation of a person’s
privileges to operate a commercial motor vehicle;
      (2)   Any withdrawal of a person’s privileges to operate a commercial
motor vehicle as the result of a violation of state or local law relating to
motor vehicle traffic control other than parking, vehicle weight, or vehicle
defect violations;
      (3)   A determination by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
that a person is not qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle under 49
C.F.R. § 391.
   DOMICILED. Having a true, fixed, principal, and permanent residence to which
an individual intends to return.
   DOWNGRADE. Any of the following, as applicable:
      (1)   A change in the commercial driver’s license, or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit, holder’s self-certified status as
described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1);
      (2)   A change to a lesser class of vehicle;
      (3)   Removal of commercial driver’s license privileges from the
individual’s driver’s license.
   DRIVE. To drive, operate or be in physical control of a motor vehicle.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives, operates or is in physical control of a
commercial motor vehicle or is required to have a commercial driver’s license.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A license issued by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles that
authorizes an individual to drive.
   DRUG OF ABUSE. Any controlled substance, dangerous drug as defined in R.C. §
4729.01, or over-the-counter medication that, when taken in quantities
exceeding the recommended dosage, can result in impairment of judgment or
reflexes.
   ELECTRONIC DEVICE. Includes a cellular telephone, a personal digital
assistant, a pager, a computer, and any other device used to input, write,
send, receive, or read text.
   ELIGIBLE UNIT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. A village, township, or county that has a
population of not more than 3,000 persons according to the most recent federal
census.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, including the federal government, any state, and a
political subdivision of any state, that owns or leases a commercial motor
vehicle or assigns a person to drive such a motor vehicle.
   ENDORSEMENT. An authorization on a person’s commercial driver’s license that
is required to permit the person to operate a specified type of commercial
motor vehicle.
   FARM TRUCK. A truck controlled and operated by a farmer for use in the
transportation to or from a farm, for a distance of not more than 150 miles, of
products of the farm, including livestock and its products, poultry and its
products, floricultural and horticultural products, and in the transportation
to the farm, from a distance of not more than 150 miles, of supplies for the
farm, including tile, fence and every other thing or commodity used in
agricultural, floricultural, horticultural, livestock, and poultry production,
and livestock, poultry, and other animals and things used for breeding,
feeding, or other purposes connected with the operation of the farm, when the
truck is operated in accordance with this definition and is not used in the
operations of a motor carrier, as defined in R.C. § 4923.01.
   FATALITY. The death of a person as the result of a motor vehicle accident
occurring not more than 365 days prior to the date of death.
   FELONY. Any offense under federal or state law that is punishable by death
or imprisonment for a term exceeding one year and includes any offense
specifically classified as a felony under the law of this state, regardless of
the penalty that may be imposed.
   FOREIGN JURISDICTION. Any jurisdiction other than a state.
   GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING. The value specified by the manufacturer as the
maximum loaded weight of a single or a combination vehicle. The gross vehicle
weight rating of a combination vehicle is the gross vehicle weight rating of
the power unit plus the gross vehicle weight rating of each towed unit.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material that has been designated as hazardous
under 49 U.S.C. § 5103 and is required to be placarded under 49 C.F.R. part
172, subpart F or any quantity of a material listed as a select agent or toxin
in 42 C.F.R. part 73, as amended.
   IMMINENT HAZARD. The existence of a condition that presents a substantial
likelihood that death, serious illness, severe personal injury, or a
substantial endangerment to health, property, or the environment may occur
before the reasonably foreseeable completion date of a formal proceeding begun
to lessen the risk of death, illness, injury, or endangerment.
   MEDICAL VARIANCE. One of the following received by a driver from the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration that allows the driver to be issued a
medical certificate:
      (1)   An exemption letter permitting operation of a commercial motor
vehicle under 49 C.F.R. part 381, subpart C or 49 C.F.R. § 391.64;
      (2)   A skill performance evaluation certificate permitting operation of
a commercial motor vehicle pursuant to 49 C.F.R. § 391.49.
   MOBILE TELEPHONE. A mobile communication device that falls under or uses any
commercial mobile radio service as defined in 47 C.F.R. part 20, except that
mobile telephone does not include two- way or citizens band radio services.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or semitrailer
propelled or drawn by mechanical power used on highways, except that such term
does not include a vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or semitrailer operated
exclusively on a rail.
   OUT-OF-SERVICE ORDER. A declaration by an authorized enforcement officer of
a federal, state, local, Canadian, or Mexican jurisdiction declaring that the
driver, commercial motor vehicle, or commercial motor carrier operation is out
of service as defined in 49 C.F.R. § 390.5.
   PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
   PORTABLE TANK. A liquid or gaseous packaging designed primarily to be loaded
onto or temporarily attached to a vehicle and equipped with skids, mountings,
or accessories to facilitate handling of the tank by mechanical means.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01(E)(1) and
(E)(3).
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Includes every vehicle that is defined as a
recreational vehicle in R.C. § 4501.01 and is used exclusively for purposes
other than engaging in business for profit.
   RESIDENCE. Any person’s residence determined in accordance with standards
prescribed in the rules adopted by the Registrar.
   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SERIOUS TRAFFIC VIOLATION. Any of the following:
      (1)   A conviction arising from a single charge of operating a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of any provision of R.C. § 4506.03;
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (2)(b) of this definition, a
violation while operating a commercial motor vehicle of a law of this state, or
any municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or any other
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, prohibiting either of the following:
            1.   Texting while driving;
            2.   Using a handheld mobile telephone.
         (b)   It is not a serious traffic violation if the person was texting
or using a handheld mobile telephone to contact law enforcement or other
emergency services.
      (3)   A conviction arising from the operation of any motor vehicle that
involves any of the following:
         (a)   A single charge of any speed in excess of the posted speed limit
by 15 miles per hour or more;
         (b)   Violations of R.C. § 4511.20 or R.C. § 4511.201 or any
substantially equivalent ordinance or resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state;
         (c)   Violation of a law of this state or an ordinance or resolution
relating to traffic control, other than a parking violation, or of any
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, that results in a fatal accident;
         (d)   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license with the proper class or endorsement for the specific vehicle
group being operated or for the passengers or type of cargo being transported;
         (e)   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license being in the person’s possession;
         (f)   Violation of R.C. § 4511.33 or R.C. § 4511.34, or any municipal
ordinance or county or township resolution substantially equivalent to either
of those sections, or any substantially equivalent law of another state or
political subdivision of another state;
         (g)   Violation of any other law of this state, any law of another
state, or any ordinance or resolution of a political subdivision of this state
or another state that meets both of the following requirements:
            1.   It relates to traffic control, other than a parking violation;
            2.   It is determined to be a serious traffic violation by the
United States Secretary of Transportation and is designated by the director as
such by rule.
   STATE. A state of the United States and includes the District of Columbia.
   TANK VEHICLE. Any commercial motor vehicle that is designed to transport any
liquid or gaseous materials within a tank or tanks that are either permanently
or temporarily attached to the vehicle or its chassis and have an individual
rated capacity of more than 119 gallons and an aggregate rated capacity of
1,000 gallons or more. The term does not include a commercial motor vehicle
transporting an empty storage container tank that is not designed for
transportation, has a rated capacity of 1,000 gallons or more, and is
temporarily attached to a flatbed trailer.
   TESTER. Means a person or entity acting pursuant to a valid agreement
entered into pursuant to R.C. § 4506.09(B).
   TEXTING. Manually entering alphanumeric text into, or reading text from, an
electronic device. Texting includes short message service (SMS), e-mail,
instant messaging, a command or request to access a world wide web page,
pressing more than a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone, or engaging in any other form of
electronic text retrieval or entry, for present or future communication.
Texting does not include the following:
      (1)   Using voice commands to initiate, receive, or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone;
      (2)   Inputting, selecting, or reading information on a global
positioning system or navigation system;
      (3)   Pressing a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone; or
      (4)   Using, for a purpose that is not otherwise prohibited by law, a
device capable of performing multiple functions, such as a fleet management
system, a dispatching device, a mobile telephone, a citizens band radio, or a
music player.
   TEXTING WHILE DRIVING. Texting while operating a commercial motor vehicle,
with the motor running, including while temporarily stationary because of
traffic, a traffic control device, or other momentary delays. Texting while
driving does not include operating a commercial motor vehicle with or without
the motor running when the driver has moved the vehicle to the side of, or off,
a highway and is stopped in a location where the vehicle can safely remain
stationary.
   UNITED STATES. The 50 states and the District of Columbia.
   UPGRADE. A change in the class of vehicles, endorsements, or self-certified
status as described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1) that expands the ability of a
current commercial driver’s license holder to operate commercial motor vehicles
under this chapter or R.C. Chapter 4506.
   USE OF A HANDHELD MOBILE TELEPHONE. Means:
      (1)   Using at least one hand to hold a mobile telephone to conduct a
voice communication;
      (2)   Dialing or answering a mobile telephone by pressing more than a
single button; or
      (3)   Reaching for a mobile telephone in a manner that requires a driver
to maneuver so that the driver is no longer in a seated driving position, or
restrained by a seat belt that is installed in accordance with 49 C.F.R. §
393.93 and adjusted in accordance with the vehicle manufacturer’s instructions.
   VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4506.01) (Prior Code, § 442.01)
§ 71.46 USE OF ACTUAL GROSS WEIGHT IN LIEU OF RATING.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the actual gross weight of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles may be used in lieu of a gross vehicle weight rating to
determine whether a vehicle or combination of vehicles qualifies as a
commercial motor vehicle if the gross vehicle weight rating specified by the
manufacturer for the vehicle of combination of vehicles is not determinable, or
if the manufacturer of the vehicle has not specified a gross vehicle weight
rating.
(R.C. § 4506.011) (Prior Code, § 442.02)
§ 71.47 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having in the person’s
possession or otherwise under the person’s control more than one valid driver’s
license issued by this state, any other state, or by a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality
in violation of an out- of-service order while the person’s driving privilege
is suspended, revoked, or cancelled, or while the person is subject to
disqualification;
      (3)   Drive a motor vehicle on a highway in the municipality under the
authority of a commercial driver’s license issued by another state or a foreign
jurisdiction, after having been a resident of this state for 30 days or longer;
      (4)   Knowingly give false information in any application or
certification required by R.C. § 4506.07.
   (B)   The municipality shall give every conviction occurring out of this
state and notice of which was received by the state Department of Public Safety
after December 31, 1989, full faith and credit and treat it for sanctioning
purposes under this chapter as though the conviction had occurred in this
state.
(R.C. § 4506.04(A), (B))
   (C)   No person shall drive any commercial motor vehicle for which an
endorsement is required under R.C. § 4506.12 unless the proper endorsement
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit. No person shall drive a commercial motor
vehicle in violation of a restriction established under R.C. § 4506.12 that
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit.
(R.C. § 4506.12(I))
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of
falsification, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition, the provisions
of R.C. § 4507.19 apply.
(R.C. § 4506.04(C))
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   The offenses established under division (C) of this section are
strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
whether in this section or another section of this code or the Ohio Revised
Code, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4506.12(J))
(Prior Code, § 442.03)
§ 71.48 PREREQUISITES TO OPERATION OF COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) or (C) of this section, the
following shall apply:
      (1)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in
this state unless the person holds, and has in the person’s possession, any of
the following:
         (a)   A valid commercial driver’s license with proper endorsements for
the motor vehicle being driven, issued by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or by
another jurisdiction recognized by this state;
         (b)   A valid examiner’s commercial driving permit issued under R.C. §
4506.13;
         (c)   A valid restricted commercial driver’s license and waiver for
farm-related service industries issued under R.C. § 4506.24;
         (d)   A valid commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
issued by the Registrar, provided that the person is accompanied by an
authorized state driver’s license examiner or tester or a person who has been
issued and has in the person’s immediate possession a current, valid commercial
driver’s license and who meets the requirements of R.C. § 4506.06(B).
      (2)   No person’s commercial driver’s license temporary instruction
permit shall be upgraded, and no commercial driver’s license shall be upgraded,
renewed, or issued to a person until the person surrenders to the registrar of
motor vehicles all valid licenses and permits issued to the person by this
state or by another jurisdiction recognized by this state. If the license or
permit was issued by any other state or another jurisdiction recognized by this
state, the Registrar shall report the surrender of a license or permit to the
issuing authority, together with information that a license or permit is now
issued in this state. The Registrar shall destroy any such license or permit
that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (3)   No person who has been a resident of this state for 30 days or
longer shall drive a commercial motor vehicle under the authority of a
commercial driver’s license issued in another jurisdiction.
   (B)   Nothing in division (A) of this section applies to any qualified
person when engaged in the operation of any of the following:
      (1)   A farm truck;
      (2)   Fire equipment for a fire department, volunteer or nonvolunteer
fire company, fire district, joint fire district, or the State Fire Marshal;
      (3)   A public safety vehicle used to provide transportation or emergency
medical service for ill or injured persons;
      (4)   A recreational vehicle;
      (5)   A commercial motor vehicle within the boundaries of an eligible
unit of local government, if the person is employed by the eligible unit of
local government and is operating the commercial motor vehicle for the purpose
of removing snow or ice from a roadway by plowing, sanding, or salting, but
only if either the employee who holds a commercial driver’s license issued
under R.C. Chapter 4506 and ordinarily operates a commercial motor vehicle for
these purposes is unable to operate the vehicle, or the employing eligible unit
of local government determines that a snow or ice emergency exists that
requires additional assistance;
      (6)   A vehicle operated for military purposes by any member or uniformed
employee of the armed forces of the United States or their reserve components,
including the Ohio National Guard. This exception does not apply to United
States reserve technicians;
      (7)   A commercial motor vehicle that is operated for nonbusiness
purposes. “Operated for nonbusiness purposes” means that the commercial motor
vehicle is not used in commerce as “commerce” is defined in 49 C.F.R. § 383.5,
as amended, and is not regulated by the Public Utilities Commission pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 4905, 4921, or 4923;
      (8)   A motor vehicle that is designed primarily for the transportation
of goods and not persons, while that motor vehicle is being used for the
occasional transportation of personal property by individuals not for
compensation and not in the furtherance of a commercial enterprise;
      (9)   A police SWAT team vehicle;
      (10)   A police vehicle used to transport prisoners.
   (C)   Nothing contained in division (B)(5) of this section shall be
construed as preempting or superseding any law, rule or regulation of this
state concerning the safe operation of commercial motor vehicles.
(R.C. § 4506.03(A) - (C))
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a person may drive a
commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality if all of the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person has a valid commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit issued by any state or
jurisdiction in accordance with the minimum standards adopted by the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration under the Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety
Act of 1986, 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App., for issuance of commercial
driver’s licenses;
      (2)   The person’s commercial driver’s license or temporary instruction
permit is not suspended, revoked, or canceled, and the person has the
appropriate endorsements for the vehicle that is being driven;
      (3)   The person is not disqualified from driving a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (4)   The person is not subject to an out-of-service order;
      (5)   The person is medically certified as physically qualified to
operate a commercial motor vehicle in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4506.
         (a)   A person who submitted a medical examiner’s certificate to the
Registrar in accordance with R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1) and whose medical
certification information is maintained in the commercial driver’s license
information system is not required to have the medical examiner’s certificate
in the person’s possession when on duty.
         (b)   A person whose medical certification information is not
maintained in the commercial driver’s license information system shall have in
the person’s possession when on duty the original or a copy of the current
medical examiner’s certificate that was submitted to the Registrar. However,
the person may operate a commercial motor vehicle with such proof of medical
certification for not more than 15 days after the date the current medical
examiner’s certificate was issued to the person.
         (c)   A person who has a medical variance shall have in the person’s
possession the original or copy of the medical variance documentation at all
times while on duty.
   (E)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this
municipality if the person does not meet the conditions specified in division
(D) of this section.
   (F)   Except as set forth in 49 C.F.R. §§ 390.3(f), 391.2, 391.62, 391.67,
and 391.68, no person holding a commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit or a commercial driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter
4506 may drive a commercial motor vehicle in interstate commerce until the
person is at least 21 years of age.
(R.C. § 4506.05(A) - (C))
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under divisions (D), (E) and (F) of this
section are strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The
designation of these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be
construed to imply that any other offense, for which there is no specified
degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4506.03(D), 4506.05(D))
§ 71.49 PHYSICAL QUALIFICATION TO OPERATE COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person who holds a valid commercial driver’s license shall drive a
commercial motor vehicle unless the person is physically qualified to do so.
      (1)   Any person applying for a commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit, the renewal or upgrade of a
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit, or the transfer of a commercial driver’s license from out
of state shall self-certify to the Registrar for purposes of 49 C.F.R. § 383.71
one of the following in regard to the applicant’s operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, as applicable:
         (a)   1.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in interstate or foreign commerce and is subject to
and meets the requirements under 49 C.F.R. part 391, the applicant shall self-
certify that the applicant is non-excepted interstate and shall provide the
Registrar with the original or a copy of a medical examiner’s certificate and
each subsequently issued medical examiner’s certificate prepared by a qualified
medical examiner to maintain a medically certified status on the applicant’s
commercial driver licensing system driver record;
            2.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in interstate commerce, but engages in transportation or
operations excepted under 49 C.F.R. §§ 390.3(f), 391.2, 391.68, or 398.3 from
all or parts of the qualification requirements of 49 C.F.R. part 391, the
applicant shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted interstate and is
not required to obtain a medical examiner’s certificate;
         (b)   1.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and
is subject to state driver qualification requirements, the applicant shall
self-certify that the applicant is non-excepted intrastate;
            2.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and is
excepted from all or parts of the state driver qualification requirements, the
applicant shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted intrastate.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the expiration date on a person’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit,
every commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit holder shall provide the Registrar with the certification
required by this section on or after January 30, 2012, but prior to January 30,
2014.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.10(A), (E)) (Prior Code, § 442.04)
§ 71.50 CRIMINAL OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person who holds a commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or who operates a motor vehicle
for which a commercial driver’s license or permit is required shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having a measurable or
detectable amount of alcohol or of a controlled substance in the person’s
blood, breath, or urine;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of 0.04% or more by whole blood or breath;
      (3)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of .048% or more by blood serum or blood plasma;
      (4)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of .056% or more by urine;
      (5)   Drive a motor vehicle while under the influence of a controlled
substance;
      (6)   Drive a motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a municipal
OVI ordinance as defined in R.C. § 4511.181;
      (7)   Use a vehicle in the commission of a felony;
      (8)   Refuse to submit to a test under R.C. § 4506.17 or R.C. § 4511.191,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (9)   Operate a commercial motor vehicle while the person’s commercial
driver’s license or permit or other commercial driving privileges are revoked,
suspended, cancelled, or disqualified;
      (10)   Cause a fatality through the negligent operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, including but not limited to the offenses of aggravated
vehicular homicide, vehicular homicide, and vehicular manslaughter;
      (11)   Fail to stop after an accident in violation of R.C. §§ 4549.02 to
4549.03, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (12)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle in violation of any provision of
R.C. §§ 4511.61 through 4511.63 or any federal or local law or ordinance
pertaining to railroad-highway grade crossings;
      (13)   Use a motor vehicle in the commission of a felony involving the
manufacture, distribution, or dispensing of a controlled substance as defined
in R.C. § 3719.01 or the possession with intent to manufacture, distribute, or
dispense a controlled substance.
(R.C. § 4506.15(A))
   (B)   No person shall refuse to immediately surrender the person’s
commercial driver’s license or permit to a peace officer when required to do so
by R.C. § 4506.17.
(R.C. § 4506.17(H))
   (C)   (1)   Within the jurisdictional limits of the appointing authority,
any peace officer shall stop and detain any person found violating division (A)
of this section without obtaining a warrant. When there is reasonable ground to
believe that a violation of division (A) of this section has been committed and
a test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood plasma or blood serum,
breath or urine is necessary, the peace officer shall take the person to an
appropriate place for testing. If a person refuses to submit to a test after
being warned as provided in R.C. § 4506.17(C), or submits to a test that
discloses the presence of a controlled substance or an alcohol concentration of
0.04% or more by whole blood or breath, an alcohol concentration of .048% or
more by blood serum or blood plasma, or an alcohol concentration of .056% or
more by urine, the peace officer shall require that the person immediately
surrender the person’s commercial driver’s license to the peace officer.
      (2)   As used in this division (C), JURISDICTIONAL LIMITS means the
limits within which a peace officer may arrest and detain a person without a
warrant under R.C. § 2935.03, except that the Superintendent and the troopers
of the State Highway Patrol may stop and detain, without warrant, any person
who, in the presence of the Superintendent or any trooper, is engaged in a
violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter or R.C. Chapter 4506.
(R.C. § 4506.23)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. §§ 4506.15(B), 4506.17(N))
(Prior Code, § 442.05, 442.08)
Statutory reference:
   Alcohol or controlled substance testing, disqualification of drivers, see
R.C. § 4506.17
   Disqualification of drivers for violations, see R.C. § 4506.16
§ 71.51 APPLICATION OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of 49 C.F.R. part 383, subpart C (Notification
Requirements and Employer Responsibilities), as amended, shall apply to all
commercial drivers or persons who apply for employment as commercial drivers.
No person shall fail to make a report to the person’s employer as required by
this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.19) (Prior Code, § 442.06)
§ 71.52 EMPLOYMENT OF DRIVERS OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Each employer shall require every applicant for employment as a driver
of a commercial vehicle to provide the applicant’s employment history for the
ten years preceding the date the employment application is submitted to the
prospective employer. The following information shall be submitted:
      (1)   A list of the names and addresses of the applicant’s previous
employers for which the applicant was the operator of a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (2)   The dates the applicant was employed by these employers;
      (3)   The reason for leaving each of these employers.
   (B)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize any driver employed by
the employer to drive a commercial motor vehicle during any period in which any
of the following apply:
      (1)   The driver’s commercial driver’s license is suspended, revoked, or
cancelled by any state or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   The driver has lost the privilege to drive, or currently is
disqualified from driving, a commercial motor vehicle in any state or foreign
jurisdiction;
      (3)   The driver, the commercial motor vehicle the driver is driving, or
the motor carrier operation is subject to an out-of-service order in any state
or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (4)   The driver has more than one driver’s license.
   (C)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4506.15.
   (D)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle if the driver does not hold a valid, current
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit bearing the proper class or endorsements for the vehicle. No
employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of the restrictions on the driver’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A), (B) or (D) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 4506.20) (Prior Code, § 442.07)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty
otherwise is provided in the section that contains the provision violated is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. §§ 4506.99, 4507.99)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
72.001   Lanes of travel upon roadways
   
72.002   Driving through safety zone
   
72.003   Vehicles traveling in opposite directions
   
72.004   Rules governing overtaking and passing of vehicles
   
72.005   Permission to overtake and pass on the right
   
72.006   Driving to left of center line
   
72.007   Prohibition against driving upon left side of roadway
   
72.008   Hazardous zones
   
72.009   One-way highways and rotary traffic islands
   
72.010   Rules for driving in marked lanes
   
72.011   Space between moving vehicles
   
72.012   Divided roadways
   
72.013   Rules for turns at intersections
   
72.014   U-turns and turning in roadway prohibited
   
72.015   Starting and backing vehicles
   
72.016   Turn and stop signals
   
72.017   Hand and arm signals
   
72.018   Entering and exiting controlled-access highway
   
72.019   Weaving; full time and attention
Right-of-Way
   
72.030   Right-of-way at intersections
   
72.031   Right-of-way when turning left
   
72.032   Right-of-way at through highways; stop signs; yield signs
   
72.033   Stop at sidewalk area; stop signs on private roads and driveways
   
72.034   Right-of-way on public highway
   
72.035   Pedestrian on sidewalk has right-of-way
   
72.036   Right-of-way of public safety vehicles
   
72.037   Funeral procession has right-of-way
   
72.038   Pedestrians yield right-of-way to public safety vehicle
   
72.039   Pedestrian on crosswalk has right-of-way
   
72.040   Right-of-way yielded to blind person
   
72.041   Right-of-way yielded by pedestrian
Pedestrians
   
72.055   Pedestrian movement in crosswalks
   
72.056   Pedestrian walking along highway
   
72.057   Prohibition against soliciting rides; riding on outside of vehicle
   
72.058   Pedestrian on bridge or railroad crossing
   
72.059   Persons operating motorized wheelchairs
   
72.060   Intoxicated or drugged pedestrian hazard on highway
   
72.061   Operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices
   
72.062   Operation of personal delivery device on sidewalks and crosswalks
   
72.063   Low-speed micromobility devices
Grade Crossings
   
72.075   Stop signs at grade crossings
   
72.076   Driving vehicle across railroad grade crossing
   
72.077   Vehicles required to stop at grade crossings
   
72.078   Slow-moving vehicles or equipment crossing railroad tracks
School Buses
   
72.090   Regulations concerning school buses
   
72.091   Violation of regulations; report; investigation; citation; warning
   
72.092   Restrictions on the operation of school buses
   
72.093   School bus inspection
   
72.094   School bus not used for school purposes
   
72.095   Licensing by Department of Public Safety
   
72.096   Registration and identification of school buses
   
72.097   School bus marking
   
72.098   Flashing light signal lamps
   
72.099   Occupant restraining device for operator
Prohibitions
   
72.115   Obstruction and interference affecting view and control of driver
   
72.116   House trailer; defined; uses; mobility; violations
   
72.117   Occupying travel trailer while in motion
   
72.118   Driving upon closed highway prohibited
   
72.119   Driving upon sidewalk area or paths exclusively for bicycles
   
72.120   Obstructing passage of other vehicles
   
72.121   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited; approaching
stationary public safety vehicle and certain other vehicles with caution
   
72.122   Driving over unprotected fire hose
   
72.123   Placing injurious material on highway or depositing litter from motor
vehicle
   
72.124   Transporting child not in child-restraint system prohibited
   
72.125   Occupant restraining devices
   
72.126   Use of engine brakes prohibited
   
72.127   Operating motor vehicle while wearing earphones or earplugs
   
72.128   Chauffeured limousines and livery services
   
72.129   Operating traction engine upon improved highway
   
72.130   Cracking exhaust noises; peeling out
   
72.131   Shortcutting across private property
   
72.132   Texting while driving prohibited
   
72.133   Use of electronic wireless communication devices by minors or
probationary drivers while driving prohibited
   
72.134   Zones of quiet
   
72.135   Play streets
   
72.136   Toy vehicles on roadway
Statutory reference:
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.001 LANES OF TRAVEL UPON ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, or when making a left turn under the rules governing such movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   When driving upon a roadway divided into three or more marked lanes
for traffic under the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   When driving upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for
one-way traffic;
      (5)   When otherwise directed by a police officer or traffic-control
device.
   (B)   (1)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the
prevailing and lawful speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall be driven in the right-hand lane then available
for traffic, and far enough to the right to allow passing by faster vehicles if
such passing is safe and reasonable, except under any of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
         (b)   When preparing for a left turn;
         (c)   When the driver must necessarily drive in a lane other than the
right-hand lane to continue on the driver’s intended route.
      (2)   Nothing in division (B)(1) of this section requires a driver of a
slower vehicle to compromise the driver’s safety to allow overtaking by a
faster vehicle.
   (C)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the center line of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left of the center of
the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the lanes, or
except as permitted under division (A)(2) of this section. This division shall
not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the center line in making a
left turn into or from an alley, private road, or driveway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.25) (Prior Code, § 432.01)
§ 72.002 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety
zone.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.60) (Prior Code, § 432.27)
§ 72.003 VEHICLES TRAVELING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   Operators of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass
each other to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one
line of traffic in each direction, each operator shall give to the other one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway or as nearly one-half as is
reasonably possible.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.26) (Prior Code, § 432.02)
§ 72.004 RULES GOVERNING OVERTAKING AND PASSING OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction:
      (1)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall, except as provided in division (A)(3) of this
section, signal to the vehicle to be overtaken, shall pass to the left thereof
at a safe distance, and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway
until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle. When a motor vehicle overtakes and
passes a bicycle or electric bicycle, three feet or greater is considered a
safe passing distance.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
operator of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle at the latter’s audible signal, and the operator shall not
increase the speed of the operator’s vehicle until completely passed by the
overtaking vehicle.
      (3)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction on a divided highway as defined in R.C. §
4511.35, a limited access highway as defined in R.C. § 5511.02, or a highway
with four or more traffic lanes is not required to signal audibly to the
vehicle being overtaken and passed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.27) (Prior Code, § 432.03)
§ 72.005 PERMISSION TO OVERTAKE AND PASS ON THE RIGHT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass on the right of another
vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
or
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle only
under conditions permitting the movement in safety. The movement shall not be
made by driving off the roadway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.28) (Prior Code, § 432.04)
§ 72.006 DRIVING TO LEFT OF CENTER LINE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing traffic proceeding in the same direction, unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic approaching from the
opposite direction or any traffic overtaken. In every event, the overtaking
vehicle must return to an authorized lane of travel as soon as practicable, and
in the event the passing movement involves the use of a lane authorized for the
traffic approaching from the opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet
of any approaching vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.29) (Prior Code, § 432.05)
§ 72.007 PROHIBITION AGAINST DRIVING UPON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven upon the left side of the roadway under the
following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway, where the operator’s view is obstructed within such a distance as to
create a hazard in the event traffic might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct, or tunnel; or
      (3)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing.
   (B)   This section does not apply to vehicles upon a one-way roadway, upon a
roadway where traffic is lawfully directed to be driven to the left side, or
under the conditions described in R.C. § 4511.25(A)(2) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.30) (Prior Code, § 432.06)
§ 72.008 HAZARDOUS ZONES.
   (A)   The Department of Transportation may determine those portions of any
state highway where overtaking and passing other traffic or driving to the left
of the center or center line of the roadway would be especially hazardous, and
may, by appropriate signs or markings on the highway, indicate the beginning
and end of such zones. When signs or markings are in place and clearly visible,
every operator of a vehicle shall obey the directions of the signs or markings,
notwithstanding the distances set out in R.C. § 4511.30.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply when all of the following
apply:
      (1)   The slower vehicle is proceeding at less than half the speed of the
speed limit applicable to that location.
      (2)   The faster vehicle is capable of overtaking and passing the slower
vehicle without exceeding the speed limit.
      (3)   There is sufficient clear sight distance to the left of the center
or center line of the roadway to meet the overtaking and passing provisions of
R.C. § 4511.29, considering the speed of the slower vehicle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.31) (Prior Code, § 432.07)
§ 72.009 ONE-WAY HIGHWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for one-way
traffic, a vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
      (2)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven
only to the right of the rotary traffic island.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.32) (Prior Code, § 432.28)
§ 72.010 RULES FOR DRIVING IN MARKED LANES.
   (A)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic, or wherever within the municipality traffic is lawfully
moving in two or more substantially continuous lines in the same direction, the
following rules apply:
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven, as nearly as is practicable, entirely
within a single lane or line of traffic and shall not be moved from the lane or
line until the driver has first ascertained that the movement can be made with
safety.
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for
the two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center
lane, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle where the roadway is
clearly visible and the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance,
or when preparing for a left turn, or where the center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding, and is posted with signs to give notice of such allocation.
      (3)   Official signs may be erected directing specified traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway, or restricting
the use of a particular lane to only buses during certain hours or during all
hours, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of such signs.
      (4)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey
the directions of every such device.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.33) (Prior Code, § 432.08)
§ 72.011 SPACE BETWEEN MOVING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle
more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of
the vehicle and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
      (2)   The driver of any truck, or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle,
when traveling upon a roadway outside a business or residence district, shall
maintain a sufficient space, whenever conditions permit, between the vehicle
and another vehicle ahead so an overtaking motor vehicle may enter and occupy
the space without danger. This division does not prevent overtaking and passing
nor does it apply to any lane specially designated for use by trucks.
      (3)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business
or residence district in a caravan or motorcade shall maintain a sufficient
space between the vehicles so an overtaking vehicle may enter and occupy the
space without danger. This division shall not apply to funeral processions.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.34) (Prior Code, § 432.09)
§ 72.012 DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two roadways by an
intervening space, or by a physical barrier, or a clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway, and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across, or within any dividing space, barrier, or section, except through an
opening, crossover, or intersection established by public authority. This
section does not prohibit the occupancy of the dividing space, barrier, or
section for the purpose of an emergency stop, or in compliance with an order of
a police officer.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.35) (Prior Code, § 432.29)
§ 72.013 RULES FOR TURNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall be
governed by the following rules:
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right- hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
center line thereof and by passing to the right of the center line where it
enters the intersection, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn
shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center line
of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made
in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
      (3)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of the
vehicle, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so
as to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane
of the roadway being entered lawfully available to traffic moving in that lane.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities may cause
markers, buttons, or signs to be placed within or adjacent to intersections,
and thereby require and direct that a different course from that specified in
this section be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when
markers, buttons, or signs are so placed, no operator of a vehicle shall turn
the vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and required by the
markers, buttons, or signs.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.36) (Prior Code, § 432.10)
§ 72.014 U-TURNS AND TURNING IN ROADWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.13 and division (B) of this section,
no vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any
curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, if such vehicle
cannot be seen within 500 feet by the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from either direction.
   (B)   The driver of an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, may turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction. This division applies only when the emergency vehicle or
public safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle, and when the driver of the vehicle is giving an audible signal by
siren, exhaust whistle, or bell. This division does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.37) (Prior Code, § 432.11)
§ 72.015 STARTING AND BACKING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or
parked until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
      (2)   Before backing, operators of vehicles shall give ample warning, and
while backing they shall exercise vigilance not to injure person or property on
the street or highway.
      (3)   No person shall back a motor vehicle on a freeway, except:
         (a)   In a rest area;
         (b)   In the performance of public works or official duties;
         (c)   As a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown
of a motor vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.38) (Prior Code, § 432.12)
§ 72.016 TURN AND STOP SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle or move right or left upon a
highway unless and until the person has exercised due care to ascertain that
the movement can be made with reasonable safety, nor without giving an
appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
      (2)   When required, a signal of intention to turn or move right or left
shall be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by
the vehicle before turning, except that in the case of a person operating a
bicycle or electric bicycle, the signal shall be made not less than one time
but is not required to be continuous. A bicycle or electric bicycle operator is
not required to make a signal if the bicycle is in a designated turn lane, and
a signal shall not be given when the operator’s hands are needed for the safe
operation of the bicycle or electric bicycle.
      (3)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear, when there is opportunity to
give a signal.
      (4)   Any stop or turn signal required by this section shall be given
either by means of the hand and arm, or by signal lights that clearly indicate
to both approaching and following traffic the intention to turn or move right
or left, except that any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped
with, and the required signal shall be given by, signal lights when the
distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the left outside
limit of the body, cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches, or when
the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit
of the body or load thereof exceeds 14 feet, whether a single vehicle or a
combination of vehicles.
      (5)   The signal lights required by this section shall not be flashed on
one side only on a disabled vehicle, flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal
to operators of other vehicles approaching from the rear, nor be flashed on one
side only of a parked vehicle except as may be necessary for compliance with
this section.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.39) (Prior Code, § 432.13)
§ 72.017 HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, all signals
required by the provisions of this traffic code, when given by hand and arm,
shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and
the signals shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn, hand and arm extended upward;
      (3)   Stop or decrease speed, hand and arm extended downward.
   (B)   As an alternative to division (A)(2) of this section, a person
operating a bicycle or electric bicycle may give a right turn signal by
extending the right hand and arm horizontally and to the right side of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.40) (Prior Code, § 432.14)
§ 72.018 ENTERING AND EXITING CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access highway
except at such entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
(Prior Code, § 432.37)
§ 72.019 WEAVING; FULL TIME AND ATTENTION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle upon any street
or highway in a weaving or zigzag course unless the irregular course is
necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle without giving
his or her full time and attention to the operation of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 432.38)
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 72.030 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
streets or highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle
on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (B)   The right-of-way rule declared in division (A) of this section is
modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in this traffic code or
R.C. Chapter 4511.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.41) (Prior Code, § 432.15)
§ 72.031 RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.42) (Prior Code, § 432.16)
§ 72.032 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT THROUGH HIGHWAYS; STOP SIGNS; YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a law enforcement officer, every
driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering it. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-
way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so
closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is
moving across or within the intersection or junction of roadways.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow down to a
speed reasonable for the existing conditions, and if required for safety to
stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering it. After
slowing, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways. Whenever a driver is involved in a
collision with a vehicle in the intersection or junction of roadways, after
driving past a yield sign without stopping, the collision shall be prima facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield the right-of-way.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.43) (Prior Code, § 432.17)
§ 72.033 STOP AT SIDEWALK AREA; STOP SIGNS ON PRIVATE ROADS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private
road, or driveway within a business or residence district shall stop the
vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area
extending across the alley, building entrance, road, or driveway, or in the
event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the point nearest the street to
be entered where the driver has a view of approaching traffic thereon.
(R.C. § 4511.431(A))
   (B)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may erect stop signs at
places where the road or driveway intersects with another private road or
driveway in the residential area, in compliance with all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   The stop sign is sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily
observant person and meets the specifications of and is placed in accordance
with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation pursuant to R.C. §
4511.09;
      (2)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road or
driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road or
driveway that they are entering private property, stop signs have been posted
and must be obeyed, and the signs are enforceable by law enforcement officers
under state law. The sign required by this division, where appropriate, may be
incorporated with the sign required by R.C. § 4511.211(A)(2), or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   The provisions of R.C. § 4511.43(A) and R.C. § 4511.46, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be deemed to apply to the
driver of a vehicle on a private road or driveway where a stop sign is placed
in accordance with division (B) of this section and to a pedestrian crossing
such a road or driveway at an intersection where a stop sign is in place.
   (D)   When a stop sign is placed in accordance with division (B) of this
section, any law enforcement officer may apprehend a person found violating the
stop sign and may stop and charge the person with violating the stop sign.
   (E)   As used in this section, and for the purpose of applying R.C. §
4511.43(A) and R.C. § 4511.46, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, to conduct under this section:
      INTERSECTION. Means:
         (a)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two private roads or driveways which join one another at, or
approximately at, right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling
upon different private roads or driveways joining at any other angle may come
in conflict.
         (b)   Where a private road or driveway includes two roadways 30 feet
or more apart, then every crossing of two roadways of such private roads or
driveways shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      OWNER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.211.
      PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS. Has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.211.
      ROADWAY. Means that portion of a private road or driveway improved,
designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder.
If a private road or driveway includes two or more separate roadways, the term
means any such roadway separately but not all such roadways collectively.
(R.C.§ 4511.432(A) - (C), (E))
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. §§ 4511.431(B), 4511.432(D))
   (G)   If the offender violates division (A) of this section while distracted
and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.431(B))
(Prior Code, § 432.205)
§ 72.034 RIGHT-OF-WAY ON PUBLIC HIGHWAY.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from any
place other than another roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all traffic
approaching on the roadway to be entered or crossed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender violates division (A) of this section while distracted
and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.44) (Prior Code, § 432.20)
§ 72.035 PEDESTRIAN ON SIDEWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
on a sidewalk.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.441) (Prior Code, § 416.09)
§ 72.036 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the approach of a public safety vehicle or coroner’s vehicle,
equipped with at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible
under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
the vehicle, and the driver is giving an audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle, or bell, no driver of any other vehicle shall fail to yield the right-
of-way, immediately drive if practical to a position parallel to, and as close
as possible to, the right edge or curb of the highway clear of any
intersection, and stop and remain in that position until the public safety
vehicle or coroner’s vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (B)   This section does not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle or
coroner’s vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   This section applies to a coroner’s vehicle only when the vehicle is
operated in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. As used in this section, CORONER’S VEHICLE means a vehicle
used by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator that is equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and a siren, exhaust
whistle or bell capable of giving an audible signal.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (E), whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on a first offense. On a second offense within one year after the first
offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree, and, on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4511.45)
   (E)   (1)   When the failure of a motor vehicle operator to yield the right-
of-way to a public safety vehicle as required by division (A) of this section
impedes the ability of the public safety vehicle to respond to an emergency,
any emergency personnel in the public safety vehicle may report the license
plate number and a general description of the vehicle and the operator of the
vehicle to the law enforcement agency exercising jurisdiction over the area
where the alleged violation occurred.
      (2)   (a)   Upon receipt of a report under division (E)(1) of this
section, the law enforcement agency may conduct an investigation to attempt to
determine or confirm the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation.
         (b)   If the identity of the operator at the time of an alleged
violation of division (A) of this section is established, the law enforcement
agency has probable cause to issue either a written warning or a citation for
that violation, and the agency shall issue a written warning or a citation to
the operator.
         (c)   If the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency may
issue a written warning to the person who owned the vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation. However, in the case of a leased or rented vehicle, the law
enforcement agency shall issue the written warning to the person who leased or
rented the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation.
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section based on a
report filed under division (E)(1) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be fined $150.
         (b)   If a person who is issued a citation for a violation of division
(A) of this section based on a report filed under division (E)(1) of this
section does not enter a written plea of guilty and does not waive the person’s
right to contest the citation but instead appears in person in the proper court
to answer the charge, the trier of fact cannot find beyond a reasonable doubt
that the person committed that violation unless the emergency personnel who
filed the report appears in person in the court and testifies.
      (4)   As used in this division (E):
         LICENSE PLATE. Includes any temporary motor vehicle license
registration issued under R.C. § 4503.182 or similar law of another
jurisdiction.
         PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Does not include an unmarked public safety
vehicle or a vehicle used by a public law enforcement officer or other person
sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state or a vehicle used
by the motor carrier enforcement unit for the enforcement of orders and rules
of the public utilities commission.
(R.C. § 4511.454)
(Prior Code, § 432.19)
§ 72.037 FUNERAL PROCESSION HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   As used in this section, FUNERAL PROCESSION means two or more vehicles
accompanying the cremated remains or the body of a deceased person in the
daytime when each of the vehicles has its headlights lighted and is displaying
a purple and white or an orange and white pennant attached to each vehicle in
such a manner as to be clearly visible to traffic approaching from any
direction.
   (B)   Excepting public safety vehicles proceeding in accordance with R.C. §
4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or when directed
otherwise by a police officer, pedestrians and the operators of all vehicles
shall yield the right-of-way to each vehicle that is a part of a funeral
procession. Whenever the lead vehicle in a funeral procession lawfully enters
an intersection, the remainder of the vehicles in the procession may continue
to follow the lead vehicle through the intersection, notwithstanding any
traffic-control devices or right-of-way provisions of the Ohio Revised Code,
provided that the operator of each vehicle exercises due care to avoid
colliding with any other vehicle or pedestrian.
   (C)   No person shall operate any vehicle as a part of a funeral procession
without having the headlights of the vehicle lighted and without displaying a
purple and white or an orange and white pennant in such a manner as to be
clearly visible to traffic approaching from any direction.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.451) (Prior Code, § 432.21)
§ 72.038 PEDESTRIANS YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY TO PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of a public safety vehicle, as stated in
R.C. § 4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, every
pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the public safety vehicle.
   (B)   This section shall not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle
from the duty to exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.452) (Prior Code, § 416.08)
§ 72.039 PEDESTRIAN ON CROSSWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place, not in operation, or
are not clearly assigning the right-of-way, the driver of a vehicle shall yield
the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield, or if
required by R.C. § 4511.132 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is
upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the
pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as
to be in danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply under the conditions
stated in R.C. § 4511.48(B), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (F)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.46) (Prior Code, § 416.01)
§ 72.040 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED TO BLIND PERSON.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section BLIND PERSON or BLIND PEDESTRIAN means a
person having not more than 20/200 visual acuity in the better eye with
correcting lenses, or visual acuity greater than 20/200, but with a limitation
in the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual field
subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees.
      (2)   The driver of every vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to every
blind pedestrian guided by a guide dog, or carrying a cane which is
predominantly white or metallic in color, with or without a red tip.
   (B)   No person, other than a blind person, while on any public highway,
street, alley, or other public thoroughfare, shall carry a white or metallic
cane, with or without a red tip.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.47) (Prior Code, § 416.02)
§ 72.041 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED BY PEDESTRIAN.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all traffic upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic- control devices; and when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
   (E)   This section does not relieve the operator of a vehicle from
exercising due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway.
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.48) (Prior Code, § 416.03)
PEDESTRIANS
§ 72.055 PEDESTRIAN MOVEMENT IN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.49) (Prior Code, § 416.04)
§ 72.056 PEDESTRIAN WALKING ALONG HIGHWAY.
   (A)   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of the roadway, and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on
the left side of the roadway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. §§ 4511.13 and 4511.46, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, any pedestrian upon a roadway
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.50) (Prior Code, § 416.05)
§ 72.057 PROHIBITION AGAINST SOLICITING RIDES; RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person while on a roadway outside a safety zone shall solicit a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, no person
shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting employment, business, or
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle.
      (2)   The Council, by ordinance, may authorize the issuance of a permit
to a charitable organization to allow a person acting on behalf of the
organization to solicit charitable contributions from the occupant of a vehicle
by standing on a highway, other than a freeway as provided in R.C. § 4511.051
(A)(1), that is under the jurisdiction of the municipality. The permit shall be
valid for only one period of time, which shall be specified in the permit, in
any calendar year. The Council also may specify the locations where
contributions may be solicited and may impose any other restrictions on or
requirements regarding the manner in which the solicitations are to be
conducted that the Council considers advisable.
      (3)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section, CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION
means an organization that has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
currently valid ruling or determination letter recognizing the tax-exempt
status of the organization pursuant to IRC § 501(c)(3).
   (C)   No person shall hang onto or ride on the outside of any motor vehicle
while it is moving upon a roadway, except mechanics or test engineers making
repairs or adjustments, or workers performing specialized highway or street
maintenance or construction under authority of a public agency.
   (D)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person to hang onto or ride on
the outside of any motor vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway, except
mechanics or test engineers making repairs or adjustments, or workers
performing specialized highway or street maintenance or construction under
authority of a public agency.
   (E)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall knowingly permit
any person who has not attained the age of 16 years to ride in the unenclosed
or unroofed cargo storage area of the driver’s vehicle if the vehicle is
traveling faster than 25 miles per hour, unless either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The cargo storage area of the vehicle is equipped with a properly
secured seat to which is attached a seat safety belt that is in compliance with
federal standards for an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. §
4513.263(A)(2), the seat and seat safety belt were installed at the time the
vehicle was originally assembled, and the person riding in the cargo storage
area is in the seat and is wearing the seat safety belt; or
      (2)   An emergency exists that threatens the life of the driver or the
person being transported in the cargo storage area of the truck, trailer, or
semitrailer.
   (F)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall permit any person,
except for those workers performing specialized highway or street maintenance
or construction under authority of a public agency, to ride in the cargo
storage area or on a tailgate of the driver’s vehicle while the tailgate is
unlatched.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
any provision of divisions (A) through (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates any provision of divisions (A) through (D) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates any provision of
divisions (A) through (D) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E) or (F) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.51)
(Prior Code, § 416.06)
§ 72.058 PEDESTRIAN ON BRIDGE OR RAILROAD CROSSING.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate, or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.511) (Prior Code, § 416.07)
§ 72.059 PERSONS OPERATING MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS.
   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair shall have all of the rights
and duties applicable to a pedestrian that are contained in this chapter,
except those provisions which by their nature can have no application.
(R.C. § 4511.491) (Prior Code, § 416.11)
§ 72.060 INTOXICATED OR DRUGGED PEDESTRIAN HAZARD ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol, any drug of abuse,
or any combination of them to a degree that renders the pedestrian a hazard
shall not walk or be upon a highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.481) (Prior Code, § 416.10)
§ 72.061 OPERATION OF ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Electric personal assistive mobility devices may be operated on
the public streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this Traffic Code that by their nature are applicable to an electric personal
assistive mobility device apply to the device and the person operating it
whenever it is operated upon any public street, highway, sidewalk, or path or
upon any portion of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
      (3)   The municipality may regulate or prohibit the operation of electric
personal assistive mobility devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and
paths, or portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles,
under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   No operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians and human-powered
vehicles at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (4)   Operate the device on any portion of a street or highway that has
an established speed limit of 55 miles per hour or more;
      (5)   Operate the device upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
pedestrians or other specialized use when an appropriate sign giving notice of
the specialized use is posted on the path;
      (6)   If under 18 years of age, operate the device unless wearing a
protective helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened;
      (7)   If under 16 years of age, operate the device unless, during the
operation, the person is under the direct visual and audible supervision of
another person who is 18 years of age or older and is responsible for the
immediate care of the person under 16 years of age.
   (C)   No person who is under 14 years of age shall operate an electric
personal assistive mobility device.
   (D)   No person shall distribute or sell an electric personal assistive
mobility device unless the device is accompanied by a written statement that is
substantially equivalent to the following: “WARNING: TO REDUCE THE RISK OF
SERIOUS INJURY, USE ONLY WHILE WEARING FULL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT – HELMET,
WRIST GUARDS, ELBOW PADS, AND KNEE PADS”.
   (E)   Nothing in this section affects or shall be construed to affect any
rule of the Director of Natural Resources or a board of park district
commissioners governing the operation of vehicles on lands under the control of
the Director or board, as applicable.
   (F)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor and shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be fined $10;
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to imposing
the fine required under division (F)(1)(a) of this section, shall do one of the
following:
            1.   Order the impoundment for not less than one day but not more
than 30 days of the electric personal assistive mobility device that was
involved in the current violation of that division. The court shall order the
device to be impounded at a safe indoor location designated by the court and
may assess storage fees of not more than $5 per day; provided the total
storage, processing, and release fees assessed against the offender or the
device in connection with the device’s impoundment or subsequent release shall
not exceed $50.
            2.    If the court does not issue an impoundment order pursuant to
division (F)(1)(b)1. of this section, issue an order prohibiting the offender
from operating any electric personal assistive mobility device on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles for not less than one day but not more than 30
days.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.512)
   (G)   As used in this code, ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE
means a self- balancing two non-tandem wheeled device that is designed to
transport only one person, has an electric propulsion system of an average of
750 watts, and when ridden on a paved level surface by an operator who weighs
170 pounds has a maximum speed of less than 20 miles per hour.
(R.C. § 4501.01(TT))
(Prior Code, § 416.12)
§ 72.062 OPERATION OF PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE ON SIDEWALKS AND CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ELIGIBLE ENTITY. Means a corporation, partnership, association, firm,
sole proprietorship, or other entity engaged in business.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE. Means an electrically powered device to which
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The device is intended primarily to transport property and cargo
on sidewalks and crosswalks.
         (b)   The device weighs less than 250 pounds excluding any property or
cargo being carried in the device.
         (c)   The device has a maximum speed of ten miles per hour.
         (d)   The device is equipped with technology that enables the
operation of the device with active control or monitoring by a person, without
active control or monitoring by a person, or both with or without active
control or monitoring by a person.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE OPERATOR. Means an agent of an eligible entity
who exercises direct physical control over, or monitoring of, the navigation
and operation of a personal delivery device. The phrase does not include, with
respect to a delivery or other service rendered by a personal delivery device,
the person who requests the delivery or service. The phrase also does not
include a person who only arranges for and dispatches a personal delivery
device for a delivery or other service.
   (B)   An eligible entity may operate a personal delivery device on sidewalks
and crosswalks so long as all of the following requirements are met:
      (1)   The personal delivery device is operated in accordance with all
regulations, if any, established by each local authority within which the
personal delivery device is operated.
      (2)   A personal delivery device operator is actively controlling or
monitoring the navigation and operation of the personal delivery device.
      (3)   The eligible entity maintains an insurance policy that includes
general liability coverage of not less than $100,000 for damages arising from
the operation of the personal delivery device by the eligible entity and any
agent of the eligible entity.
      (4)   The device is equipped with all of the following:
         (a)   A marker that clearly identifies the name and contact
information of the eligible entity operating the personal delivery device and a
unique identification number;
         (b)   A braking system that enables the personal delivery device to
come to a controlled stop;
         (c)   If the personal delivery device is being operated between sunset
and sunrise, a light on both the front and rear of the personal delivery device
that is visible in clear weather from a distance of at least 500 feet to the
front and rear of the personal delivery device when directly in front of low
beams of headlights on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   No personal delivery device operator shall allow a personal delivery
device to do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with traffic or pedestrian control devices and
signals;
      (2)   Unreasonably interfere with pedestrians or traffic;
      (3)   Transport any hazardous material that would require a permit issued
by the Public Utilities Commission;
      (4)   Operate on a street or highway, except when crossing the street or
highway within a crosswalk.
   (D)   A personal delivery device has all of the rights and obligations
applicable to a pedestrian under the same circumstances, except that a personal
delivery device shall yield the right-of-way to human pedestrians on sidewalks
and crosswalks.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall operate a personal delivery device unless the
person is authorized to do so under this section and complies with the
requirements of this section.
      (2)   An eligible entity is responsible for both of the following:
         (a)   Any violation of this section that is committed by a personal
delivery device operator; and
         (b)   Any other circumstance, including a technological malfunction,
in which a personal delivery device operates in a manner prohibited by
divisions (C)(1) to (C)(4) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.513)
§ 72.063 LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   A low-speed micromobility device may be operated on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and may be operated on any
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance
with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this title that by their nature could apply to a low-speed micromobility device
do apply to the device and the person operating it whenever it is operated upon
any public street, highway, sidewalk, or shared-use path, or upon any portion
of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   No operator of a low-speed micromobility device shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   No person who is under 16 years of age shall rent a low-speed
micromobility device.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device to
a person who is under 16 years of age.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device on
behalf of a person who is under 16 years of age.
   (D)   No person shall operate a low-speed micromobility device at a speed
greater than 20 miles per hour.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Unless a mens rea is otherwise specified in this section, an
offense established under this section is a strict liability offense and R.C. §
2901.20 does not apply. The designation of that offense as a strict liability
offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for which there
is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
   (F)   Notwithstanding division (A)(1) of this section, the municipality,
county, township, metropolitan park district, township park district,
recreation district, or any division of the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources if the division has the approval of the Ohio Director of Natural
Resources may do any of the following:
      (1)   Regulate or prohibit the operation of low-speed micromobility
devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, under its
jurisdiction;
      (2)   Include low-speed micromobility devices that are adapted to expand
access for people with various physical limitations into a shared bicycle,
shared electric bicycle, or similar vehicle sharing program, under its
jurisdiction;
      (3)   Require the owner or operator of a low-speed micromobility device
rental service or low- speed micromobility device sharing program to maintain
commercial general liability insurance related to the operation of the devices,
with limits of up to $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 per aggregate.
(R.C. § 4511.514)
GRADE CROSSINGS
§ 72.075 STOP SIGNS AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   As used in this section, ACTIVE GRADE CROSSING WARNING DEVICE means
signs, signals, gates, or other protective devices erected or installed at a
public highway-railway crossing at common grade and activated by an electrical
circuit.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities, with the
approval of the Department, may designate dangerous highway crossings over
railroad tracks and erect stop signs thereat.
   (C)   (1)   The Department and local authorities shall erect stop signs at a
railroad highway grade crossing in either of the following circumstances:
         (a)   New warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning
devices are being installed at the grade crossing, and railroad crossbucks were
the only warning devices at the grade crossing prior to the installation of the
new warning devices.
         (b)   The grade crossing is constructed after July 1, 2013, and only
warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning devices are
installed at the grade crossing.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a railroad
highway grade crossing that the Director of Transportation has exempted from
that division because of traffic flow or other considerations or factors.
   (D)   When stop signs are erected pursuant to division (B) or (C) of this
section, the operator of any vehicle shall stop within 50, but not less than
15, feet from the nearest rail of the railroad tracks and shall exercise due
care before proceeding across such grade crossing.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (F)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.61) (Prior Code, § 432.32)
§ 72.076 DRIVING VEHICLE ACROSS RAILROAD GRADE CROSSING.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad
grade crossing, the person shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet
from the nearest rail of the railroad if any of the following circumstances
exist at the crossing:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a train.
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered.
         (c)   A flagperson gives or continues to give a signal of the approach
or passage of a train.
         (d)   There is insufficient space on the other side of the railroad
grade crossing to accommodate the vehicle the person is operating without
obstructing the passage of other vehicles, pedestrians or railroad trains,
notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed.
         (e)   An approaching train is emitting an audible signal or is plainly
visible, and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing.
         (f)   There is insufficient undercarriage clearance to safely
negotiate the crossing.
      (2)   A person who is driving a vehicle and who approaches a railroad
grade crossing shall not proceed as long as any of the circumstances described
in divisions (A)(1)(a) through (A)(1)(f) of this section exist at the crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed, or is being opened or closed unless the person is signaled by a law
enforcement officer or flagperson that it is permissible to do so.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.62) (Prior Code, § 432.31)
§ 72.077 VEHICLES REQUIRED TO STOP AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the operator of
any bus, any school vehicle, or any vehicle transporting material required to
be placarded under 49 C.F.R. parts 100 through 185, before crossing at grade
any track of a railroad, shall stop the vehicle, and while so stopped, shall
listen through an open door or open window, and look in both directions along
the track for any approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of
a train, and shall proceed only upon exercising due care after stopping,
looking, and listening as required by this section. Upon proceeding, the
operator of such a vehicle shall cross only in a gear that will ensure there
will be no necessity for changing gears while traversing the crossing, and
shall not shift gears while crossing the tracks.
   (B)   This section does not apply at grade crossings when any local
authority has filed an application with the Public Utilities Commission
requesting the approval of an exempt crossing, and the Public Utilities
Commission has authorized and approved an exempt crossing as provided in R.C. §
4511.63(B).
   (C)   As used in this section:
      BUS. Means any vehicle originally designed by its manufacturer to
transport 16 or more passengers, including the driver, or carries 16 or more
passengers, including the driver.
      EXEMPT CROSSING. Means a highway rail grade crossing authorized and
approved by the Public Utilities Commission under R.C. § 4511.63(B) at which
vehicles may cross without making the stop otherwise required by this section.
      SCHOOL VEHICLE. Means any vehicle used for the transportation of pupils
to and from a school or school-related function if the vehicle is owned or
operated by, or operated under contract with, a public or nonpublic school.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or 4511.79, or
a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of those
sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.63)
(Prior Code, § 432.32)
§ 72.078 SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES OR EQUIPMENT CROSSING RAILROAD TRACKS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move any crawler-type tractor, steam
shovel, derrick, roller, or any equipment or structure having a normal
operating speed of six or less miles per hour or a vertical body or load
clearance of less than nine inches above the level surface of a roadway, upon
or across any tracks at a railroad grade crossing without first complying with
divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) of this section.
      (1)   Before making any such crossing, the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same, and while stopped, the
person shall listen and look in both directions along the track for any
approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of a train, and shall
proceed only upon exercising due care.
      (2)   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal, crossing gates, or a flagperson, or otherwise of the immediate approach
of a railroad train or car.
   (B)   If the normal sustained speed of the vehicle, equipment, or structure
is not more than three miles per hour, the person owning, operating, or moving
the same shall also give notice of the intended crossing to a station agent or
superintendent of the railroad, and a reasonable time shall be given to the
railroad to provide proper protection for the crossing. Where the vehicles or
equipment are being used in constructing or repairing a section of highway
lying on both sides of a railroad grade crossing, and in this construction or
repair it is necessary to repeatedly move the vehicles or equipment over the
crossing, one daily notice specifying when the work will start and stating the
hours during which it will be prosecuted is sufficient.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.64) (Prior Code, § 432.33)
SCHOOL BUSES
§ 72.090 REGULATIONS CONCERNING SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle, upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging
any school child, person attending programs offered by community boards of
mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child
attending a program offered by a head start agency, shall stop at least ten
feet from the front or rear of the school bus and shall not proceed until such
school bus resumes motion, or until signaled by the school bus driver to
proceed. It is no defense to a charge under this division that the school bus
involved failed to display or be equipped with an automatically extended stop
warning sign as required by division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Every school bus shall be equipped with amber and red visual signals
meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.771 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the state Board of Education, which shall be actuated by the driver
of the bus whenever but only whenever the bus is stopped or stopping on the
roadway for the purpose of receiving or discharging school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities, or children attending programs offered by
head start agencies. A school bus driver shall not actuate the visual signals
or the stop warning sign in designated school bus loading areas where the bus
is entirely off the roadway or at school buildings when children or persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities are loading or unloading at curbside or at
buildings when children attending programs offered by head start agencies are
loading or unloading at curbside. The visual signals and stop warning sign
shall be synchronized or otherwise operated as required by rule of the Board.
   (C)   Where a highway has been divided into four or more traffic lanes, a
driver of a vehicle need not stop for a school bus approaching from the
opposite direction which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school child, persons attending programs offered by community
boards of mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or
children attending programs offered by head start agencies. The driver of any
vehicle overtaking the school bus shall comply with division (A) above.
   (D)   School buses operating on divided highways or on highways with four or
more traffic lanes shall receive and discharge all school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities, and children attending programs offered
by head start agencies on their residence side of the highway.
   (E)   No school bus driver shall start the driver’s bus until after any
child, person attending programs offered by community boards of mental health
and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child attending a program
offered by a head start agency who may have alighted therefrom has reached a
place of safety on the child’s or person’s residence side of the road.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section may be fined an
amount not to exceed $500. A person who is issued a citation for a violation of
division (A) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty
and waive the person’s right to contest the citation in a trial but instead
must appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
      (2)   In addition to and independent of any other penalty provided by
law, the court or mayor may impose upon an offender who violates this section a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7). When a
license is suspended under this section, the court or mayor shall cause the
offender to deliver the license to the court, and the court or clerk of the
court immediately shall forward the license to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles,
together with notice of the court’s action.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      HEAD START AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3301.32.
      SCHOOL BUS. As used in relation to children who attend a program offered
by a head start agency, means a bus that is owned and operated by a head start
agency, is equipped with an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the State Board of Education, is painted the color and displays the
markings described in R.C. § 4511.77, and is equipped with amber and red visual
signals meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.77, irrespective of whether or
not the bus has 15 or more children aboard at any time. The term does not
include a van owned and operated by a head start agency, irrespective of its
color, lights or markings.
(R.C. § 4511.75) (Prior Code, § 432.30)
§ 72.091 VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS; REPORT; INVESTIGATION; CITATION; WARNING.
   (A)   As used in this section, LICENSE PLATE includes but is not limited to
any temporary motor vehicle license registration issued under R.C. § 4503.182
or substantially equivalent law of another jurisdiction.
   (B)   When the operator of a school bus believes that a motorist has
violated R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
the operator shall report the license plate number and general description of
the vehicle and of the operator of the vehicle to the law enforcement agency
exercising jurisdiction over the area where the alleged violation occurred. The
information contained in the report relating to the license plate number and to
the general description of the vehicle and the operator of the vehicle at the
time of the alleged violation may be supplied by any person with first-hand
knowledge of the information. Information of which the operator of the school
bus has first-hand knowledge also may be corroborated by any other person.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the report of the alleged violation of R.C. § 4511.75
(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the law enforcement
agency shall conduct an investigation to attempt to determine the identity of
the operator of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation. If the
identity of the operator at the time of the alleged violation is established,
the reporting of the license plate number of the vehicle shall establish
probable cause for the law enforcement agency to issue a citation for the
violation of R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. However, if the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time
of the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency
shall issue a warning to the owner of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation, except in the case of a leased or rented vehicle when the warning
shall be issued to the lessee at the time of the alleged violation.
(R.C. § 4511.751)
§ 72.092 RESTRICTIONS ON THE OPERATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle used for pupil transportation within
this municipality in violation of the rules of the Department of Education of
the Department of Public Safety. No person, being the owner thereof, or having
the supervisory responsibility therefor, shall permit the operation of a
vehicle used for pupil transportation within this municipality in violation of
the rules of the Department of Education or the Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   As used in this section, VEHICLE USED FOR PUPIL TRANSPORTATION means
any vehicle that is identified as such by the Department of Education by rule
and that is subject to O.A.C. Chapter 3301-83.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.76, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.76(C), (F), (G))
§ 72.093 SCHOOL BUS INSPECTION.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof,
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of, a
school bus within this municipality, unless there is displayed thereon the
decals issued by the state highway patrol bearing the proper date of inspection
for the calendar year for which the inspection decals were issued.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.761, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.761)
§ 72.094 SCHOOL BUS NOT USED FOR SCHOOL PURPOSES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no person who is
the owner of a bus that previously was registered as a school bus that is used
or is to be used exclusively for purposes other than the transportation of
children shall operate the bus or permit it to be operated within this
municipality unless the bus has been painted a color different from that
prescribed for school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance and painted in such a way that the words “stop” and “school
bus” are obliterated.
   (B)   Any church bus that previously was registered as a school bus and is
registered under R.C. § 4503.07 may retain the paint color prescribed for
school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance if the bus complies with all of the following:
      (1)   The words “school bus” required by R.C. § 4511.77 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or obliterated and the
bus is marked on the front and rear with the words “church bus” painted in
black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
      (2)   The automatically extending stop warning sign required by R.C. §
4511.75 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance is removed and the
word “stop” required by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance is covered or obliterated.
      (3)   The flashing red and amber lights required by R.C. § 4511.771 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or removed.
      (4)   The inspection decal required by R.C. § 4511.761 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance is covered or removed.
      (5)   The identification number assigned under R.C. § 4511.764 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance and marked in black lettering on
the front and rear of the bus is covered or obliterated.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.762, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (D)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.762)
§ 72.095 LICENSING BY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   No person, partnership, association, or corporation shall transport
pupils to or from school on a school bus or enter into a contract with a board
of education of any school district for the transportation of pupils on a
school bus without being licensed by the Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.763)
§ 72.096 REGISTRATION AND IDENTIFICATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of a school
bus within this municipality unless there is displayed thereon an identifying
number in accordance with R.C. § 4511.764.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of R.C. § 4511.63,
4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.77, or 4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that
is substantially equivalent to any of those sections, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.764)
§ 72.097 SCHOOL BUS MARKING.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor permit the operation of, a school
bus within this municipality unless it is painted national school bus yellow
and is marked on both front and rear with the words “school bus” in black
lettering not less than eight inches in height and on the rear of the bus with
the word “stop” in black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.77, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend, for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.77)
§ 72.098 FLASHING LIGHT SIGNAL LAMPS.
   (A)   Every school bus shall, in addition to any other equipment and
distinctive markings required pursuant to R.C. §§ 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764
and 4511.77, and any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, be equipped
with signal lamps mounted as high as practicable, which shall display to the
front two alternately flashing red lights and two alternately flashing amber
lights located at the same level and to the rear two alternately flashing red
lights and alternately flashing amber lights located at the same level, and
these lights shall be visible at 500 feet in normal sunlight. The alternately
flashing red lights shall be spaced as widely as practicable, and the
alternately flashing amber lights shall be located next to them.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.771)
§ 72.099 OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE FOR OPERATOR.
   (A)   On and after May 6, 1986, no person, school board, or governmental
entity shall purchase, lease, or rent a new school bus unless the school bus
has an occupant restraining device, as defined in R.C. § 4513.263, installed
for use in its operator’s seat.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.772)
PROHIBITIONS
§ 72.115 OBSTRUCTION AND INTERFERENCE AFFECTING VIEW AND CONTROL OF DRIVER.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, as to obstruct the view of the
driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in a position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.70) (Prior Code, §§ 432.23, 452.07)
§ 72.116 HOUSE TRAILER; DEFINED; USES; MOBILITY; VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, HOUSE TRAILER or MANUFACTURED HOME means any
vehicle used as sleeping and/or living quarters, mounted on wheels, and capable
of being propelled either by its own power or by other power-driven vehicles to
which it may be attached. The term includes campers, recreation vehicles,
mobile homes or any other vehicle of a similar nature, by whatever name known.
(Prior Code, § 446.01)
   (B)   No person shall use for human habitation or sleeping quarters within
the limits of the village any house trailer.
(Prior Code, § 446.02)
   (C)   No person owning or operating a house trailer located in the village
shall remove, or cause to have removed, the wheels or any similar transporting
devices from such trailer or otherwise fix it to the ground in a manner that
would prevent the ready removal of such house trailer.
(Prior Code, § 446.03)
   (D)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on
which a violation of any of the provisions of this section occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 446.05) (Ord. 203, passed 8-6-1951)
§ 72.117 OCCUPYING TRAVEL TRAILER WHILE IN MOTION.
   (A)   No person shall occupy any travel trailer or manufactured or mobile
home while it is being used as a conveyance upon a street or highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.701) (Prior Code, § 446.04)
§ 72.118 DRIVING UPON CLOSED HIGHWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall drive upon, along, or across a street or highway, or
any part of a street or highway that has been closed in the process of its
construction, reconstruction, or repair, and posted with appropriate signs by
the authority having jurisdiction to close the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.71(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on or onto a public street or
highway that is temporarily covered by a rise in water level, including
groundwater or an overflow of water, and that is clearly marked by a sign that
specifies that the road is closed due to the rise in water level and that any
person who uses the closed portion of the road may be fined up to $2,000.
      (2)   A person who is issued a citation for a violation of division (B)
(1) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty and
waive the person’s right to contest the citation in court, but instead must
appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
(R.C. § 4511.714(A), (B))
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.71(B))
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required
under R.C. § 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required under
any provision of law, the court imposing the sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (B) of this section
shall order the offender to reimburse one or more rescuers for the cost any
such rescuer incurred in rescuing the person, excluding any cost of
transporting the rescued person to a hospital or other facility for treatment
of injuries, up to a cumulative maximum of $2,000. If more than one rescuer was
involved in the emergency response, the court shall allocate the reimbursement
proportionately, according to the cost each rescuer incurred. A financial
sanction imposed under this section is a judgment in favor of the rescuer and,
subject to a determination of indigency under R.C. § 2929.28(B), a rescuer may
collect the financial sanction in the same manner as provided in R.C. §
2929.28.
(R.C. § 4511.714(C))
   (D)   As used in this section:
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Has the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 9.60.
      FIREFIGHTING AGENCY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      PRIVATE FIRE COMPANY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      RESCUER. Means a state agency, political subdivision, firefighting
agency, private fire company, or emergency medical service organization.
(R.C. § 4511.714(D)) (Prior Code, § 432.24)
§ 72.119 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK AREA OR PATHS EXCLUSIVELY FOR BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall drive any vehicle, other than a bicycle or an
electric bicycle if the motor is not engaged, upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area,
except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
      (2)   This prohibition does not apply to a law enforcement officer, or
other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state, using
an electric bicycle with the motor engaged while in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting local
authorities from regulating the operation of bicycles or electric bicycles,
except that no local authority may require that bicycles or electric bicycles
be operated on sidewalks.
(R.C. § 4511.711(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, snowmobile, or all-
purpose vehicle upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, when
an appropriate sign giving notice of such use is posted on the path.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect any rule of
the Director of Natural Resources governing the operation of motor vehicles,
snowmobiles, all-purpose vehicles, and bicycles on lands under the Director’s
jurisdiction.
(R.C. § 4511.713(A))
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.711(B), 4511.713(B))
(Prior Code, §§ 432.22, 432.39)
§ 72.120 OBSTRUCTING PASSAGE OF OTHER VEHICLES.
   (A)   No driver shall enter an intersection or marked crosswalk, or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing, unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk, or grade crossing to accommodate the
vehicle the driver is operating without obstructing the passage of other
vehicles, pedestrians, or railroad trains, notwithstanding any traffic-control
signal indication to proceed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.712) (Prior Code, § 432.34)
§ 72.121 FOLLOWING AN EMERGENCY OR PUBLIC VEHICLE PROHIBITED; APPROACHING
STATIONARY PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE AND CERTAIN OTHER VEHICLES WITH CAUTION.
   (A)   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited. The driver of any
vehicle, other than an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle on official
business, shall not follow any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle
traveling in response to an alarm closer than 500 feet, or drive into or park
the vehicle within the block where the fire apparatus has stopped in answer to
a fire alarm, unless directed to do so by a police officer or a firefighter.
(R.C. § 4511.72(A))
   (B)   Approaching stationary public safety vehicle with caution.
      (1)   The driver of a motor vehicle, upon approaching a stationary public
safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection
vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor
vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a
highway maintenance vehicle that is displaying the appropriate visual signals
by means of flashing, oscillating, or rotating lights, as prescribed in R.C. §
4513.17, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   If the driver of the motor vehicle is traveling on a highway
that consists of at least two lanes that carry traffic in the same direction of
travel as that of the driver’s motor vehicle, the driver shall proceed with due
caution and, if possible and with due regard to the road, weather, and traffic
conditions, shall change lanes into a lane that is not adjacent to that of the
stationary public safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle,
waste collection vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to
conduct motor vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and
4923.06, or a highway maintenance vehicle.
         (b)   If the driver is not traveling on a highway of a type described
in division (B)(1)(a) of this section, or if the driver is traveling on a
highway of that type but it is not possible to change lanes or if to do so
would be unsafe, the driver shall proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of
the motor vehicle, and maintain a safe speed for the road, weather, and traffic
conditions.
      (2)   This division (B) does not relieve the driver of a public safety
vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection vehicle,
vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor vehicle
inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a highway
maintenance vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of
all persons and property upon the highway.
      (3)   No person shall fail to drive a motor vehicle in compliance with
divisions (B)(1)(a) or (B)(1)(b) of this section when so required by division
(B) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.213(A) - (C))
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding §
130.99 or R.C. § 2929.28, upon a finding that a person operated a motor vehicle
in violation of division (B)(3) of this section, the court, in addition to all
other penalties provided by law, shall impose a fine of two times the usual
amount imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.213(D), 4511.72(B))
   (D)   The offense established under division (B) of this section is a strict
liability offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this
offense as a strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any
other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a
strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4511.213(E))
(Prior Code, §§ 432.25; 432.195)
§ 72.122 DRIVING OVER UNPROTECTED FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall, without the consent of the fire department official
in command, be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department that is
laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of
fire.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.73)
(Prior Code, § 432.26)
§ 72.123 PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON HIGHWAY OR DEPOSITING LITTER FROM MOTOR
VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a
highway, lane, road, street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails,
or other articles which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal
traveling along or upon the highway, except such substances that may be placed
upon the roadway by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
      (2)   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the
same.
      (3)   Any person authorized to remove a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a
highway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
highway from such vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall place any obstruction in or upon a highway without
proper authority.
   (B)   No person, with intent to cause physical harm to a person or a
vehicle, shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a highway, lane, road,
street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails, or other articles
which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal traveling along or
upon such highway, except such substances that may be placed upon the roadway
by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
(R.C. § 4511.74(A), (B))
   (C)   No operator or occupant of a motor vehicle shall, regardless of
intent, throw, drop, discard, or deposit litter from any motor vehicle in
operation upon any street, road, or highway, except into a litter receptacle in
a manner that prevents its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (D)   No operator of a motor vehicle in operation upon any street, road, or
highway shall allow litter to be thrown, dropped, discarded, or deposited from
the motor vehicle, except into a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents
its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (E)   As used in this section, LITTER means garbage, trash, waste, rubbish,
ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts, furniture,
glass, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
(R.C. § 4511.82(A), (B), (D))
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4511.74(C))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.82(C))
(Prior Code, §§ 412.01, 432.40)
§ 72.124 TRANSPORTING CHILD NOT IN CHILD-RESTRAINT SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly secured in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child
restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (B)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab, that is owned,
leased, or otherwise under the control of a nursery school or day-care center,
the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child properly secured in
accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child restraint system
that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (C)   When any child who is less than eight years of age and less than four
feet nine inches in height, who is not required by division (A) or (B) of this
section to be secured in a child restraint system, is being transported in a
motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01 or a vehicle that is regulated under R.C. § 5104.015, that is
required by the United States Department of Transportation to be equipped with
seat belts at the time of manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor
vehicle shall have the child properly secured in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions on a booster seat that meets federal motor vehicle
safety standards.
   (D)   When any child who is at least eight years of age but not older than
15 years of age, and who is not otherwise required by division (A), (B), or (C)
of this section to be secured in a child restraint system or booster seat, is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly restrained either in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions
in a child restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards
or in an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. § 4513.263.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section or causing the
arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of division
(C) or (D) of this section, and absent another violation of law, a law
enforcement officer’s view of the interior or visual inspection of a motor
vehicle being operated on any street or highway may not be used for the purpose
of determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section has
been or is being committed.
   (F)   The Director of Public Safety shall adopt such rules as are necessary
to carry out this section.
   (G)   The failure of an operator of a motor vehicle to secure a child in a
child restraint system, a booster seat, or an occupant restraining device as
required in this section is not negligence imputable to the child, is not
admissible as evidence in any civil action involving the rights of the child
against any other person allegedly liable for injuries to the child, is not to
be used as a basis for a criminal prosecution of the operator of the motor
vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section, and is not
admissible as evidence in any criminal action involving the operator of the
motor vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
   (H)   This section does not apply when an emergency exists that threatens
the life of any person operating or occupying a motor vehicle that is being
used to transport a child who otherwise would be required to be restrained
under this section. This section does not apply to a person operating a motor
vehicle who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states that the child who otherwise would be
required to be restrained under this section has a physical impairment that
makes use of a child restraint system, booster seat, or an occupant restraining
device impossible or impractical, provided that the person operating the
vehicle has safely and appropriately restrained the child in accordance with
any recommendations of the physician or chiropractor as noted on the affidavit.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any person to
carry with the person the birth certificate of a child to prove the age of the
child, but the production of a valid birth certificate for a child showing that
the child was not of an age to which this section applies is a defense against
any ticket, citation, or summons issued for violating this section.
   (J)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section
shall be punished as follows, provided that the failure of an operator of a
motor vehicle to secure more than one child in a child restraint system,
booster seat, or occupant restraining device as required by this section that
occurred at the same time, on the same day, and at the same location is deemed
to be a single violation of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (J)(1)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than $25 nor more than $75.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section or of a
state law or municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent any of those
divisions, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   All fines imposed pursuant to division (J)(1) of this section shall
be forwarded to the State Treasurer for deposit in the Child Highway Safety
Fund created by R.C. § 4511.81(I).
(R.C. § 4511.81(A) - (H), (K), (L)) (Prior Code, § 438.28)
§ 72.125 OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      AUTOMOBILE. Means any commercial tractor, passenger car, commercial car,
or truck that is required to be factory-equipped with an occupant restraining
device for the operator or any passenger by regulations adopted by the United
States Secretary of Transportation pursuant to the National Traffic and Motor
Vehicle Safety Act of 1966, 80 Stat. 719, 15 U.S.C. § 1392.
      COMMERCIAL CAR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. A seat safety belt, shoulder belt, harness,
or other safety device for restraining a person who is an operator of or
passenger in an automobile and that satisfies the minimum federal vehicle
safety standards established by the United States Department of Transportation.
      PASSENGER. Any person in an automobile, other than its operator, who is
occupying a seating position for which an occupant restraining device is
provided.
      PASSENGER CAR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      TORT ACTION. A civil action for damages for injury, death, or loss to
person or property. The term includes a product liability claim, as defined in
R.C. § 2307.71, and as asbestos claim, as defined in R.C. § 2307.91, but does
not include a civil action for damages for breach of contract or another
agreement between persons.
      VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE. As used in the definitions of the terms set
forth above, VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE have the same meanings as in R.C. §
4511.01.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless he or she is
wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device, or operate a school bus that has an occupant restraining
device installed for use in its operator’s seat unless he or she is wearing all
of the available elements of the device, as properly adjusted.
      (2)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless each
passenger in the automobile who is subject to the requirement set forth in
division (B)(3) of this section is wearing all of the available elements of a
properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
      (3)   Occupy, as a passenger, a seating position on the front seat of an
automobile being operated on any street or highway unless he or she is wearing
all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining
device.
      (4)   Operate a taxicab on any street or highway unless all factory-
equipped occupant restraining devices in the taxicab are maintained in usable
form.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person who is
required by R.C. § 4511.81 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to
be secured in a child restraint device or booster seat.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
an employee of the United States Postal Service or of a newspaper home delivery
service, during any period in which the person is engaged in the operation of
an automobile to deliver mail or newspapers to addressees.
      (3)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states the following:
         (a)   That the person has a physical impairment that makes use of an
occupant restraining device impossible or impractical;
         (b)   Whether the physical impairment is temporary, permanent, or
reasonably expected to be permanent;
         (c)   If the physical impairment is temporary, how long the physical
impairment is expected to make the use of an occupant restraining device
impossible or impractical.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has registered with the Registrar of Motor Vehicles in accordance
with division (C)(5) of this section.
      (5)   A person who has received an affidavit under division (C)(3) of
this section stating that the person has a permanent or reasonably expected to
be permanent physical impairment that makes use of an occupant restraining
device impossible or impracticable may register with the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles attesting to that fact. Upon such registration, the Registrar shall
make that information available in the law enforcement automated data system. A
person included in the database under division (C)(5) of this section is not
required to have the affidavit obtained in accordance with division (C)(3) of
this section in their possession while operating or occupying an automobile.
      (6)   A physician or chiropractor who issues an affidavit for the
purposes of division (C)(3) or (C)(4) of this section is immune from civil
liability arising from any injury or death sustained by the person who was
issued the affidavit due to the failure of the person to wear an occupant
restraining device unless the physician or chiropractor, in issuing the
affidavit, acted in a manner that constituted willful, wanton, or reckless
misconduct.
      (7)   The Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 establishing a process for a person to be included in the
database under division (C)(5) of this section. The information provided and
included in the database under division (C)(5) of this section is not a public
record subject to inspection or copying under R.C. § 149.43.
   (D)   Officers not permitted to stop cars to determine violation.
Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law enforcement
officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on any street
or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of determining whether a
violation of division (B) of this section has been or is being committed or for
the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or summons for the violation or
for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for the
violation. No law enforcement officer shall view the interior or visually
inspect any automobile being operated on any street or highway for the sole
purpose of determining whether the violation has been or is being committed.
   (E)   Use of fines for educational program. All fines collected for
violations of division (B) of this section shall be forwarded to the State
Treasurer for deposit in the funds as set forth in R.C. § 4513.263(E).
   (F)   Limitations on evidence used for prosecution.
      (1)   Subject to division (F)(2) of this section, the failure of a person
to wear all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device in violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(3) of this section or
the failure of a person to ensure that each minor who is a passenger of an
automobile being operated by that person is wearing all of the available
elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device in violation of
division (B)(2) of this section shall not be considered or used by the trier of
fact in a tort action as evidence of negligence or contributory negligence.
But, the trier of fact may determine based on evidence admitted consistent with
the Ohio Rules of Evidence that the failure contributed to the harm alleged in
the tort action and may diminish a recovery of compensatory damages that
represents non-economic loss, as defined in R.C. § 2307.011, in a tort action
that could have been recovered but for the plaintiff’s failure to wear all of
the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
Evidence of that failure shall not be used as a basis for a criminal
prosecution of the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this
section; and shall not be admissible as evidence in a criminal action involving
the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
      (2)   If, at the time of an accident involving a passenger car equipped
with occupant restraining devices, any occupant of the passenger car who
sustained injury or death was not wearing an available occupant restraining
device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a device, or was
not wearing such a device as properly adjusted, then, consistent with the Rules
of Evidence, the fact that the occupant was not wearing the available occupant
restraining device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a
device, or was not wearing such a device as properly adjusted is admissible in
evidence in relation to any claim for relief in a tort action to the extent
that the claim for relief satisfies all of the following:
         (a)   It seeks to recover damages for injury or death to the occupant;
         (b)   The defendant in question is the manufacturer, designer,
distributor, or seller of the passenger car;
         (c)   The claim for relief against the defendant in question is that
the injury or death sustained by the occupant was enhanced or aggravated by
some design defect in the passenger car or that the passenger car was not
crashworthy.
   (G)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section shall be fined
$30.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) shall be subject to the penalty
set forth in §
70.99(B).
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section shall be fined
$20.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (B)(4) of this section, whoever violates division (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4513.263) (Prior Code, § 438.30)
§ 72.126 USE OF ENGINE BRAKES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The non-emergency use of engine brakes within the municipality is
prohibited.
   (B)   As used in this section, ENGINE BRAKES shall be defined to include but
is not limited to Jake Brakes, Jacobs Brakes, C Brakes, PacBrakes, TekBrakes,
and any other type of engine retarders commonly utilized within the trucking
industry.
   (C)   This section does not apply to emergency vehicles operated by fire,
police, or military units.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
§ 72.127 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE WHILE WEARING EARPHONES OR EARPLUGS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      EARPHONES. Any device that covers all or a portion of both ears and that
does either of the following:
         (a)   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         (b)   Provides hearing protection.
      EARPHONES does not include speakers or other listening devices that are
built into protective headgear.
      EARPLUGS. Any device that can be inserted into one or both ears and that
does either of the following:
         (a)   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         (b)   Provides hearing protection.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle while wearing earphones over,
or earplugs in, both ears.
   (C)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any person wearing a hearing aid;
      (2)   Law enforcement personnel while on duty;
      (3)   Fire Department personnel and emergency medical service personnel
while on duty;
      (4)   Any person engaged in the operation of equipment for use in the
maintenance or repair of any highway;
      (5)   Any person engaged in the operation of refuse collection equipment;
      (6)   Any person wearing earphones or earplugs for hearing protection
while operating a motorcycle.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.84) (Prior Code, § 432.41)
§ 72.128 CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINES AND LIVERY SERVICES.
   (A)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine shall accept passengers only
on the basis of prearranged contracts, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, and shall
not cruise in search of patronage unless the limousine is in compliance with
any statute or ordinance governing the operation of taxicabs or other similar
vehicles for hire.
   (B)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine may provide transportation to
passengers who arrange for the transportation through an intermediary,
including a digital dispatching service. Notwithstanding any law to the
contrary, when providing transportation arranged through an intermediary, the
operator of a chauffeured limousine may establish the fare and method of fare
calculation, so long as the method of fare calculation is provided to the
passenger upon request.
   (C)   No person shall advertise or hold himself or herself out as doing
business as a limousine service or livery service or other similar designation
unless each vehicle used by the person to provide the service is registered in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.24 and is in compliance with R.C. § 4509.80.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.85) (Prior Code, § 440.10)
Statutory reference:
   Chauffeured limousine, motor vehicle licensing, see R.C. § 4503.24
   Proof of financial responsibility, see R.C. § 4509.80
§ 72.129 OPERATING TRACTION ENGINE UPON IMPROVED HIGHWAY.
   (A)   No person shall drive over the improved highways of this municipality
a traction engine or tractor with tires or wheels equipped with ice picks,
spuds, spikes, chains or other projections of any kind extending beyond the
cleats, and no person shall tow or in any way pull another vehicle over the
improved highways of this municipality which towed or pulled vehicle has tires
or wheels equipped with ice picks, spuds, spikes, chains or other projections
of any kind. As used in this section, “traction engine” or “tractor” applies to
all self-propelling engines equipped with metal-tired wheels operated or
propelled by any form of engine, motor or mechanical power.
   (B)   This municipality shall not adopt, enforce, or maintain any ordinance,
rule or regulation contrary to or inconsistent with division (A), nor shall
this municipality require any license tax upon or registration fee for any
traction engine, tractor, or trailer, or any permit or license to operate.
Operators of traction engines or tractors shall have the same rights upon the
public streets and highways as the drivers of any other vehicles, unless some
other safe and convenient way is provided, and no public road open to traffic
shall be closed to traction engines or tractors.
(R.C. § 5589.08)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B)) (Prior Code, § 440.07)
§ 72.130 CRACKING EXHAUST NOISES; PEELING OUT.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe
operation, or in compliance with law, in such a manner that the vehicle is so
rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped position, or in the shifting of
gears while in motion, that the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking or
chattering noise unusual to its normal operation, or that the rubber tires of
such vehicle squeal or leave tire marks on the roadway, commonly known as
“peeling out”.
(Prior Code, § 432.35)
§ 72.131 SHORTCUTTING ACROSS PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No operator of a motor vehicle shall enter upon private property for
the sole purpose of driving across such property, between abutting streets or
other public ways thereof. The failure to stop on such property in connection
with or in furtherance of the enterprise or activities being conducted on the
property shall constitute prima facie evidence of the violation.
   (B)   No person shall operate any vehicle upon private property without the
permission of the owner thereof.
(Prior Code, § 432.36) (Ord. 385, passed 6-3-1974)
§ 72.132 TEXTING WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on any street, highway, or
property open to the public for vehicular traffic while using a handheld
electronic wireless communications device to write, send, or read a text-based
communication.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   A person using a handheld electronic wireless communications device
in that manner for emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a
law enforcement agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department, or
other similar emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person driving a public safety vehicle who uses a handheld
electronic wireless communications device in that manner in the course of the
person’s duties;
      (3)   A person using a handheld electronic wireless communications device
in that manner whose motor vehicle is in a stationary position and who is
outside a lane of travel;
      (4)   A person reading, selecting, or entering a name or telephone number
in a handheld electronic wireless communications device for the purpose of
making or receiving a telephone call;
      (5)   A person receiving wireless messages on a device regarding the
operation or navigation of a motor vehicle; safety-related information,
including emergency, traffic, or weather alerts; or data used primarily by the
motor vehicle;
      (6)   A person receiving wireless messages via radio waves;
      (7)   A person using a device for navigation purposes;
      (8)   A person conducting wireless interpersonal communication with a
device that does not require manually entering letters, numbers, or symbols or
reading text messages, except to activate, deactivate, or initiate the device
or a feature or function of the device;
      (9)   A person operating a commercial truck while using a mobile data
terminal that transmits and receives data;
      (10)   A person using a handheld electronic wireless communications
device in conjunction with a voice-operated or hands-free device feature or
function of the vehicle.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on
any street or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (A) of this section has been or is
being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of that nature or causing the arrest of or commencing a
prosecution of a person for a violation of that nature, and no law enforcement
officer shall view the interior or visually inspect any automobile being
operated on any street or highway for the sole purpose of determining whether a
violation of that nature has been or is being committed.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
   (E)   A prosecution for a violation of this section does not preclude a
prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 4511.204 based on the same conduct.
However, if an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this
section and is also convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of R.C. §
4511.204 based on the same conduct, the two offenses are allied offenses of
similar import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Includes any of the following:
         (a)   A wireless telephone;
         (b)   A text-messaging device;
         (c)   A personal digital assistant;
         (d)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
         (e)   Any other substantially similar wireless device that is designed
or used to communicate text.
      VOICE-OPERATED OR HANDS-FREE DEVICE. A device that allows the user to
vocally compose or send, or to listen to a text-based communication without the
use of either hand except to activate or deactivate a feature or function.
      WRITE, SEND, OR READ A TEXT-BASED COMMUNICATION. To manually write or
send, or read a text-based communication using an electronic wireless
communications device, including manually writing or sending, or reading
communications referred to as text messages, instant messages, or electronic
mail.
(R.C. § 4511.204) (Prior Code, § 432.42)
Statutory reference:
   No preemption for local regulations imposing greater penalties, see R.C. §
4511.204(E)
§ 72.133 USE OF ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES BY MINORS OR
PROBATIONARY DRIVERS WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit who has not attained the
age of 18 years and no holder of a probationary driver’s license shall drive a
motor vehicle on any street, highway, or property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking while using in any manner an
electronic wireless communications device.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to either of the
following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a law enforcement
agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department, or other similar
emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device whose
motor vehicle is in a stationary position and the motor vehicle is outside a
lane of travel;
      (3)   A person using a navigation device in a voice-operated or hands-
free manner who does not manipulate the device while driving.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A) of this section shall be fined $150. In addition, the
court shall impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license
or permit for a definite period of 60 days.
      (2)   If the person previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or
a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section, whoever violates
this section shall be fined $300. In addition, the court shall impose a class
seven suspension of the person’s driver’s license or permit for a definite
period of one year.
   (D)   The filing of a sworn complaint against a person for a violation of
this section does not preclude the filing of a sworn complaint for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct. However, if a person is adjudicated a
delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section
and is also adjudicated a delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a
violation of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct, the two offenses are allied
offenses of similar import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (E)   As used in this section, ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE
includes any of the following:
      (1)   A wireless telephone;
      (2)   A personal digital assistant;
      (3)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
      (4)   A text-messaging device;
      (5)   Any other substantially similar electronic wireless device that is
designed or used to communicate via voice, image, or written word.
(R.C. § 4511.205) (Prior Code, § 432.43)
§ 72.134 ZONES OF QUIET.
   The Mayor may designate zones of quiet upon any street or highway within 250
feet of any hospital or school, and when any such zone is so designated by
official traffic signs, no person shall blow a horn or a whistle or make or
cause any outcry or any avoidable noise or clamor likely to disturb any person
within such zone.
(Prior Code, § 412.02) (Ord. 260, passed 4-1-1957)
§ 72.135 PLAY STREETS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that any street or part
thereof is a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street
or portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or whose
residences are within the closed area and then the drivers shall exercise the
greatest care in driving upon any such street or portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 412.03)
§ 72.136 TOY VEHICLES ON ROADWAY.
   No person riding upon any coaster, roller skates, sled, toy vehicle or other
similar device shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a street on a
crosswalk, and when so crossing the person shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians. This
section shall not apply to any street set aside as a play street.
(Prior Code, § 412.04)
CHAPTER 73: MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs
   
73.02   Implied consent
   
73.03   Physical control of vehicle while under the influence
   
73.04   Driving commercial vehicle with impaired alertness or ability; use of
drugs
   
73.05   Reckless operation of vehicles
   
73.06   Reckless operation off streets and highways; competitive operation
   
73.07   Operator to be in reasonable control
   
73.08   Immobilizing or disabling device violation
   
73.09   Street racing defined; prohibited on public highways
   
73.10   Speed limits
   
73.11   Slow speed or stopping
   
73.12   Emergency vehicles excepted from speed limitation
   
73.13   Speed regulations on bridges
   
73.14   Use of fictitious name after citation
   
73.15   Prima-facie liability
   
73.16   Presenting false name or information to officer
   
73.17   Prohibition against resisting officer
   
73.18   Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or
utility vehicles
   
73.19   Vehicular homicide; vehicular manslaughter
Stopping After Accident
   
73.30   Failure to stop after accident
   
73.31   Stopping after accident on other than public roads or highways
   
73.32   Accident involving damage to realty
   
73.33   Failure to report accident
Statutory reference:
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any vehicle within this municipality,
if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse,
or a combination of them.
         (b)   The person has a concentration of 0.08% or more but less than
0.17% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (c)   The person has a concentration of 0.096% or more but less than
0.204% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
         (d)   The person has a concentration of 0.08 grams or more but less
than 0.17 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         (e)   The person has a concentration of 0.11 grams or more but less
than 0.238 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s
urine.
         (f)   The person has a concentration of 0.17% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (g)   The person has a concentration of 0.204% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or plasma.
         (h)   The person has a concentration of 0.17 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         (i)   The person has a concentration of 0.238 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
         (j)   Except as provided in division (K) of this section, the person
has a concentration of any of the following controlled substances or
metabolites of a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum
or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds any of the following:
            1.   The person has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s
urine of at least 500 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter
of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            2.   The person has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s
urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s urine
or has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            3.   The person has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s urine or has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms of
cocaine metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            4.   The person has a concentration of heroin in the person’s urine
of at least 2,000 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s urine or
has a concentration of heroin in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            5.   The person has a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-
monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s urine of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s urine or has
a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s whole blood
or blood serum or plasma.
            6.   The person has a concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s urine
of at least 25 nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s urine or a
concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of
at least ten nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma.
            7.   The person has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s
urine of at least ten nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least two nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            8.   Either of the following applies:
               a.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or a combination of them, and the person has a concentration of
marihuana metabolite in the person’s urine of at least 15 nanograms of
marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s urine or has a
concentration of marihuana metabolite in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least five nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
               b.   The person has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in
the person’s urine of at least 35 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s urine or has a concentration of marihuana metabolite
in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms
of marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma.
            9.   The person has a concentration of methamphetamine in the
person’s urine of at least 500 nanograms of methamphetamine per milliliter of
the person’s urine or has a concentration of methamphetamine in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of
methamphetamine per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            10.   The person has a concentration of phencyclidine in the
person’s urine of at least 25 nanograms of phencyclidine per milliliter of the
person’s urine or has a concentration of phencyclidine in the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of phencyclidine per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            11.   The State Board of Pharmacy has adopted a rule pursuant to
R.C. § 4729.041 that specifies the amount of salvia divinorum and the amount of
salvinorin A that constitute concentrations of salvia divinorum and salvinorin
A in a person’s urine, in a person’s whole blood, or in a person’s blood serum
or plasma at or above which the person is impaired for purposes of operating
any vehicle within this state, the rule is in effect, and the person has a
concentration of salvia divinorum or salvinorin A of at least that amount so
specified by rule in the person’s urine, in the person’s whole blood, or in the
person’s blood serum or plasma.
      (2)   No person who, within 20 years of the conduct described in division
(A)(2)(a) of this section, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of this division or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) or (B) of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or any other
equivalent offense shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Operate any vehicle within this municipality while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         (b)   Subsequent to being arrested for operating the vehicle as
described in division (A)(2)(a) of this section, being asked by a law
enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and being advised by the
officer in accordance with R.C. § 4511.192 or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance of the consequences of the person’s refusal or submission
to the test or tests, refuse to submit to the test or tests.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall operate any vehicle within this
municipality, if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02% but less than
0.08% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
      (2)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.03% but less than
0.096% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
      (3)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02 grams but less than
0.08 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
      (4)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.028 grams but less
than 0.11 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
   (C)   In any proceeding arising out of one incident, a person may be charged
with a violation of division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(2) and a violation of division
(B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section, but the person may not be convicted
of more than one violation of these divisions.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding
for a violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section or for an equivalent
offense that is vehicle-related, the result of any test of any blood or urine
withdrawn and analyzed at any health care provider, as defined in R.C. §
2317.02, may be admitted with expert testimony to be considered with any other
relevant and competent evidence in determining the guilt or innocence of the
defendant.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) or
(B) of this section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, the
court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of abuse,
controlled substances, metabolites of a controlled substance, or a combination
of them in the defendant’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine,
or other bodily substance at the time of the alleged violation as shown by
chemical analysis of the substance withdrawn within three hours of the time of
the alleged violation. The three-hour time limit specified in this division
regarding the admission of evidence does not extend or affect the two-hour time
limit specified in R.C. § 4511.192(A) as the maximum period of time during
which a person may consent to a chemical test or tests as described in that
section. The court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of
abuse, or a combination of them as described in this division when a person
submits to a blood test at the request of a law enforcement officer under R.C.
§ 4511.191 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a blood or
urine sample is obtained pursuant to a search warrant. Only a physician, a
registered nurse, an emergency medical technician-intermediate, an emergency
medical technician- paramedic, or a qualified technician, chemist, or
phlebotomist shall withdraw a blood sample for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the whole blood, blood serum, or blood plasma. This
limitation does not apply to the taking of breath or urine specimens. A person
authorized to withdraw blood under this division may refuse to withdraw blood
under this division, if in that person’s opinion, the physical welfare of the
person would be endangered by the withdrawing of blood. The bodily substance
withdrawn under this division (D)(1)(b) shall be analyzed in accordance with
methods approved by the Director of Health by an individual possessing a valid
permit issued by the Director pursuant to R.C. § 3701.143.
         (c)   As used in division (D)(1)(b) of this section, EMERGENCY MEDICAL
TECHNICIAN-INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4765.01.
      (2)   In a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) of this
section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, if there was at
the time the bodily substance was withdrawn a concentration of less than the
applicable concentration of alcohol specified in divisions (A)(1)(b), (A)(1)
(c), (A)(1)(d) and (A)(1)(e) of this section or less than the applicable
concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance specified for a violation of division (A)(1)(j) of this
section, that fact may be considered with other competent evidence in
determining the guilt or innocence of the defendant. This division does not
limit or affect a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (B) of this
section.
      (3)   Upon the request of the person who was tested, the results of the
chemical test shall be made available to the person or the person’s attorney,
immediately upon the completion of the chemical test analysis. If the chemical
test was obtained pursuant to division (D)(1)(b) of this section, the person
tested may have a physician, a registered nurse, or a qualified technician,
chemist, or phlebotomist of the person’s own choosing administer a chemical
test or tests, at the person’s expense, in addition to any administered at the
request of a law enforcement officer. If the person was under arrest as
described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the arresting officer shall advise the
person at the time of the arrest that the person may have an independent
chemical test taken at the person’s own expense. If the person was under arrest
other than described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the form to be read to the
person to be tested, as required under §
73.02, shall state that the person may have an independent test performed at
the person’s expense. The failure or inability to obtain an additional chemical
test by a person shall not preclude the admission of evidence relating to the
chemical test or tests taken at the request of a law enforcement officer.
      (4)   (a)   As used in division (D)(4)(b) and (D)(4)(c) of this section,
NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION means the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration established as an administration of the United
States Department of Transportation under 96 Stat. 2415 (1983), 49 U.S.C. §
105.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, of a municipal ordinance
relating to operating a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or alcohol and a drug of abuse, or of a municipal ordinance relating to
operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine, if a law enforcement officer has
administered a field sobriety test to the operator of the vehicle involved in
the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally accepted field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect that were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
            1.   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
            2.   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field
sobriety test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding.
            3.   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (D)(4)(b)1. or (D)(4)(b)2. of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
         (c)   Division (D)(4)(b) of this section does not limit or preclude a
court, in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (D)(4)(b) of this section.
   (E)   (1)   Subject to division (E)(3) of this section, in any criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a violation of division (A)(1)(b),
(A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), (A)(1)(e), (A)(1)(f), (A)(1)(g), (A)(1)(h), (A)(1)(i), or
(A)(1)(j) or (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section or for an
equivalent offense that is substantially equivalent to any of those divisions,
a laboratory report from any laboratory personnel issued a permit by the
Department of Health authorizing an analysis as described in this division that
contains an analysis of the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine,
or other bodily substance tested and that contains all of the information
specified in this division shall be admitted as prima facie evidence of the
information and statements that the report contains. The laboratory report
shall contain all of the following:
         (a)   The signature, under oath, of any person who performed the
analysis;
         (b)   Any findings as to the identity and quantity of alcohol, a drug
of abuse, a controlled substance, a metabolite of a controlled substance, or a
combination of them that was found;
         (c)   A copy of a notarized statement by the laboratory director of a
designee of the director that contains the name of each certified analyst or
test performer involved with the report, the analyst’s or test performer’s
employment relationship with the laboratory that issued the report, and a
notation that performing an analysis of the type involved is part of the
analyst’s or test performer’s regular duties;
         (d)   An outline of the analyst’s or test performer’s education,
training, and experience in performing the type of analysis involved and a
certification that the laboratory satisfies appropriate quality control
standards in general and, in this particular analysis, under rules of the
Department of Health.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law regarding the admission
of evidence, a report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
is not admissible against the defendant to whom it pertains in any proceeding,
other than a preliminary hearing or a grand jury proceeding, unless the
prosecutor has served a copy of the report on the defendant’s attorney or, if
the defendant has no attorney, on the defendant.
      (3)   A report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents, identity, or amount of any
substance if, within seven days after the defendant to whom the report pertains
or the defendant’s attorney receives a copy of the report, the defendant or the
defendant’s attorney demands the testimony of the person who signed the report.
The judge in the case may extend the seven-day time limit in the interest of
justice.
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, any physician,
registered nurse, emergency medical technician-intermediate, emergency medical
technician-paramedic, or qualified technician, chemist, or phlebotomist who
withdraws blood from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, and any hospital, first-aid station, or clinic at which
blood is withdrawn from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, is immune from criminal liability and civil liability
based upon a claim of assault and battery or any other claim that is not a
claim of malpractice, for any act performed in withdrawing blood from the
person. The immunity provided in this division also extends to an emergency
medical service organization that employs an emergency medical technician-
intermediate or emergency medical technician-paramedic who withdraws blood
under this section. The immunity provided in this division is not available to
a person who withdraws blood if the person engages in willful or wanton
misconduct.
      (2)   As used in division (F)(1), EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-
INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 4765.01.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates any provisions of divisions (A)(1)(a) through
(A)(1)(i) or (A)(2) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them. Whoever
violates division (A)(1)(j) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle
while under the influence of a listed controlled substance or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance. The court shall sentence the offender for
either offense under R.C. Chapter 2929, except as otherwise authorized or
required by divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(b), (G)(1)(c),
(G)(1)(d), or (G)(1)(e) of this section, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree, and the court shall sentence the offender to
all of the penalties and sanctions provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a)(i)
through (G)(1)(a)(iv).
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of division (A) or (B) of this
section or one other equivalent offense is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and
sanctions provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) through (G)(1)(b)(v).
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (A) or (B) of this
section or other equivalent offenses is guilty of a misdemeanor. The court
shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions provided in
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c)(i) through (G)(1)(c)(vi).
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division (A) or
(B) of this section or other equivalent offenses or an offender who, within 20
years of the offense, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
five or more violations of that nature is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
         (e)   An offender who previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) that was a felony, regardless of
when the violation and the conviction or guilty plea occurred, is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   An offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section and who subsequently seeks reinstatement of the
driver’s or occupational driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege suspended under this section or R.C. § 4511.19 as a result of the
conviction or guilty plea shall pay a reinstatement fee as provided in R.C. §
4511.191(F)(2).
      (3)   (a)   If an offender is sentenced to a jail term under R.C. §
4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) or (G)(1)(b)(ii) or (G)(1)(c)(i) or (G)(1)(c)(ii) and if,
within 60 days of sentencing of the offender, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the term, the offender will not be able
to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following the date of
sentencing, the court may impose an alternative sentence as specified in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3) that includes a term of house arrest with electronic monitoring,
with continuous alcohol monitoring, or with both electronic monitoring and
continuous alcohol monitoring.
         (b)   As an alternative to the mandatory jail terms as required by
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1), the court may sentence the offender as provided in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3).
      (4)   If an offender’s driver’s or occupational driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is suspended under division (G) of
this section or R.C. § 4511.19(G) and if R.C. § 4510.13 permits the court to
grant limited driving privileges, the court may grant the limited driving
privileges in accordance with that section. If division (A)(7) of that section
requires the court impose as a condition of the privileges that the offender
must display on the vehicle that is driven subject to the privileges restricted
license plates that are issued under R.C. § 4503.231, except as provided in
division (B) of that section, the court shall impose that condition as one of
the conditions of the limited driving privileges granted to the offender,
except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (5)   Fines imposed under this section for a violation of division (A) of
this section shall be distributed as provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(5).
      (6)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order of criminal
forfeiture under division (G)(1)(c), (G)(1)(d), or (G)(1)(e) of this section is
assigned or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in
addition to or independent of any other penalty established by law, the court
may fine the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of
the National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds of any fine so
imposed shall be distributed in accordance with division (C)(2) of that
section.
      (7)   In all cases in which an offender is sentenced under division (G)
of this section, the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, the court, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for
any economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and
proximate result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under division
(G) of this section.
      (8)   A court may order an offender to reimburse a law enforcement agency
for any costs incurred by the agency with respect to a chemical test or tests
administered to the offender if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section.
         (b)   The test or tests were of the offender’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, or urine.
         (c)   The test or tests indicated that the offender had a prohibited
concentration of a controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled
substance in the offender’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine at the
time of the offense.
      (9)   As used in division (G) of this section, ELECTRONIC MONITORING has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of operating a
motor vehicle after underage alcohol consumption and shall be punished as
follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (H)(2) of this section,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. In addition to
any other sanction imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class six
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6). The court may grant
limited driving privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021
and 4510.13. The court may grant unlimited driving privileges with an ignition
interlock device relative to the suspension and may reduce the period of
suspension as authorized under R.C. § 4510.022. If the court grants unlimited
driving privileges under R.C. § 4510.022, the court shall suspend any jail term
imposed under division (H)(1) of this section as required under that section.
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of division (A)
or (B) of this section or other equivalent offense or offenses, the offender is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition to any other sanction
imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class four suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4). The court may grant limited driving
privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021 and 4510.13.
      (3)   If the offender also is convicted of or also pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1414 and if the court
imposes a jail term for the violation of division (B) of this section, the
court shall impose upon the offender an additional definite jail term pursuant
to R.C. § 2929.24(E).
      (4)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the violation of division (B) of this section.
   (I)   (1)   No court shall sentence an offender to an alcohol treatment
program under this section unless the treatment program complies with the
minimum standards for alcohol treatment programs adopted under R.C. Chapter
5119 by the Director of Mental Health and Addiction Services.
      (2)   An offender who stays in a drivers’ intervention program or in an
alcohol treatment program under an order issued under this section shall pay
the cost of the stay in the program. However, if the court determines that an
offender who stays in an alcohol treatment program under an order issued under
this section is unable to pay the cost of the stay in the program, the court
may order that the cost be paid from the court’s Indigent Drivers’ Alcohol
Treatment Fund.
   (J)   If a person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege is suspended under this section or R.C. §
4511.19 files an appeal regarding any aspect of the person’s trial or sentence,
the appeal itself does not stay the operation of the suspension.
   (K)   Division (A)(1)(j) of this section does not apply to a person who
operates a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed controlled
substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s
whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds the amount
specified in that division, if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
   (L)   The prohibited concentrations of a controlled substance or a
metabolite of a controlled substance listed in division (A)(1)(j) of this
section also apply in a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2923.16(D) in the
same manner as if the offender is being prosecuted for a prohibited
concentration of alcohol.
   (M)   All terms defined in R.C. § 4510.01 apply to this section. If the
meaning of a term defined in R.C. § 4510.01 conflicts with the meaning of the
same term as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or 4511.01, the term as defined in R.C.
§ 4510.01 applies to this section.
(R.C. § 4511.19(A) - (M))
   (N)   As used in this section, §
73.02 and §
73.03:
      COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2929.01.
      CONTINUOUS ALCOHOL MONITORING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B);
         (b)   A violation of a municipal OVI ordinance;
         (c)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in a case in which the offender
was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that section;
         (d)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(1) or R.C. § 2903.08 or a
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to either of those
divisions;
         (e)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4), R.C. §
2903.08(A)(2), or former R.C. § 2903.07, or a municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to any of those divisions or that former section, in a
case in which a judge or jury as the trier of fact found that the offender was
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         (f)   A violation of R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B);
         (g)   A violation of a municipal ordinance prohibiting a person from
operating or being in physical control of any vessel underway or from
manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar device on the waters of this
state while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination
of them or prohibiting a person from operating or being in physical control of
any vessel underway or from manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar
device on the waters of this state with a prohibited concentration of alcohol,
a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine;
         (h)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B);
         (i)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B).
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE THAT IS VEHICLE-RELATED. Means an equivalent offense
that is any of the following:
         (a)   A violation described in division (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e) of
the definition for “equivalent offense” provided in this division (N);
         (b)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B);
         (c)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B).
      JAIL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Means the mandatory term in jail of 3, 6, 10, 20,
30, or 60 days that must be imposed under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a), (G)(1)(b),
or (G)(1)(c) upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of that
section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to R.C. §§ 2929.21
through 2929.28 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY TERM OF LOCAL INCARCERATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2929.01.
      MUNICIPAL OVI ORDINANCE and MUNICIPAL OVI OFFENSE. Mean any municipal
ordinance prohibiting a person from operating a vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or prohibiting
a person from operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
      PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
(R.C. § 4511.181)
(Prior Code, § 434.01)
§ 73.02 IMPLIED CONSENT.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section:
         ALCOHOL MONITORING DEVICE. Means any device that provides for
continuous alcohol monitoring, any ignition interlock device, any immobilizing
or disabling device other than an ignition interlock device that is constantly
available to monitor the concentration of alcohol in a person’s system, or any
other device that provides for the automatic testing and periodic reporting of
alcohol consumption by a person and that a court orders a person to use as a
sanction imposed as a result of the person’s conviction of or plea of guilty to
an offense.
         COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 5119.01.
         PHYSICAL CONTROL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.194.
      (2)   Any person who operates a vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for vehicular travel or parking within this
municipality or who is in physical control of a vehicle shall be deemed to have
given consent to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine to determine the alcohol, drug of abuse,
controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or combination
content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine if
arrested for a violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance.
      (3)   The chemical test or tests under division (A)(2) of this section
shall be administered at the request of a law enforcement officer having
reasonable grounds to believe the person was operating or in physical control
of a vehicle in violation of a division, section, or ordinance identified in
division (A)(2) of this section. The law enforcement agency by which the
officer is employed shall designate which of the tests shall be administered.
      (4)   Any person who is dead or unconscious, or who otherwise is in a
condition rendering the person incapable of refusal, shall be deemed to have
consented as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, and the test or tests
may be administered, subject to R.C. §§ 313.12 through 313.16.
      (5)   (a)   If a law enforcement officer arrests a person for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance and if the person if
convicted would be required to be sentenced under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c), (d),
or (e), the law enforcement officer shall request the person to submit, and the
person shall submit, to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood,
blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, or urine. A law enforcement officer who makes a request
pursuant to this division that a person submit to a chemical test or tests is
not required to advise the person of the consequences of submitting to, or
refusing to submit to, the test or tests and is not required to give the person
the form described in division (C) of this section, but the officer shall
advise the person at the time of the arrest that if the person refuses to take
a chemical test the officer may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. The officer shall also advise the person at the
time of the arrest that the person may have an independent chemical test taken
at the person’s own expense. Divisions (A)(3) and (A)(4) of this section apply
to the administration of a chemical test or tests pursuant to this division.
         (b)   If a person refuses to submit to a chemical test upon a request
made pursuant to division (A)(5)(a) of this section, the law enforcement
officer who made the request may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. A law enforcement officer who acts pursuant to
this division to ensure that a person submits to a chemical test of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma is immune from criminal and civil
liability based upon a claim for assault and battery or any other claim for the
acts, unless the officer so acted with malicious purpose, in bad faith, or in a
wanton or reckless manner.
(R.C. § 4511.191(A))
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, the arresting
law enforcement officer shall give advice in accordance with this section to
any person under arrest for a violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance. The officer shall
give that advice in a written form that contains the information described in
division (C) of this section and shall read the advice to the person. The form
shall contain a statement that the form was shown to the person under arrest
and read to the person by the arresting officer. One or more persons shall
witness the arresting officer’s reading of the form, and the witnesses shall
certify to this fact by signing the form. The person must submit to the
chemical test or tests, subsequent to the request of the arresting officer,
within two hours of the time of the alleged violation and, if the person does
not submit to the test or tests within that two-hour time limit, the failure to
submit automatically constitutes a refusal to submit to the test or tests.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, if a person is
under arrest as described in division (B) of this section, before the person
may be requested to submit to a chemical test or tests to determine the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, or urine, the arresting officer shall read the following form
to the person:
You now are under arrest for (specifically state the offense under state law or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for which the person was
arrested – operating a vehicle under the influence of alcohol, a drug, or a
combination of them; operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance;
operating a vehicle after underage alcohol consumption; or having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence).
If you refuse to take any chemical test required by law, your Ohio driving
privileges will be suspended immediately, and you will have to pay a fee to
have the privileges reinstated. If you have a prior conviction of OVI, OVUAC,
or operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed controlled
substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance under state or
municipal law within the preceding 20 years, you are now under arrest for state
OVI, and, if you refuse to take a chemical test, you will face increased
penalties if you subsequently are convicted of the state OVI.
(Read this part unless the person is under arrest for solely having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence.) If you take any chemical test
required by law and are found to be at or over the prohibited amount of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
your whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as set by law, your
Ohio driving privileges will be suspended immediately, and you will have to pay
a fee to have the privileges reinstated.
If you take a chemical test, you may have an independent chemical test taken at
your own expense.
   (D)   If the arresting law enforcement officer does not ask a person under
arrest as described in division (B) of this section or division (A)(5) of this
section to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this
section, the arresting officer shall seize the Ohio or out-of-state driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit of the person and immediately forward it
to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the charge. If the
arrested person is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is
not in the person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it
to the law enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after
the arrest, and, upon the surrender, the agency immediately shall forward the
license or permit to the court in which the person is to appear on the charge.
Upon receipt of the license or permit, the court shall retain it pending the
arrested person’s initial appearance and any action taken under R.C. §
4511.196.
   (E)   (1)   If a law enforcement officer asks a person under arrest as
described in division (A)(5) of this section to submit to a chemical test or
tests under that division and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, or if a law enforcement
officer asks a person under arrest as described in division (B) of this section
to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this section, if
the officer advises the person in accordance with this section of the
consequences of the person’s refusal or submission, and if either the person
refuses to submit to the test or tests or, unless the arrest was for a
violation of §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the
person submits to the test or tests and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, the arresting officer
shall do all of the following:
         (a)   On behalf of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, notify the person
that, independent of any penalties or sanctions imposed upon the person, the
person’s Ohio driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege is suspended immediately, that the suspension will last at
least until the person’s initial appearance on the charge, which will be held
within five days after the date of the person’s arrest or the issuance of a
citation to the person, and that the person may appeal the suspension at the
initial appearance or during the period of time ending 30 days after that
initial appearance;
         (b)   Seize the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit of
the person and immediately forward it to the Registrar. If the arrested person
is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is not in the
person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it to the law
enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after the person is
given notice of the suspension, and, upon the surrender, the officer’s
employing agency immediately shall forward the license or permit to the
Registrar;
         (c)   Verify the person’s current residence and, if it differs from
that on the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, notify
the Registrar of the change;
         (d)   Send to the Registrar, within 48 hours after the arrest of the
person, a sworn report that includes all of the following statements:
            1.   That the officer had reasonable grounds to believe that, at
the time of the arrest, the arrested person was operating a vehicle in
violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or a municipal OVI ordinance or for being
in physical control of a stationary vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   That the person was arrested and charged with a violation of
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance;
            3.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that the
officer asked the person to take the designated chemical test or tests, advised
the person in accordance with this section of the consequences of submitting
to, or refusing to take, the test or tests, and gave the person the form
described in division (C) of this section;
            4.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that
either the person refused to submit to the chemical test or tests or, unless
the arrest was for a violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the person submitted to the chemical test or tests and the
test results indicate a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time of the alleged
offense.
            5.   If the person was under arrest as described in division (A)(5)
of this section and the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance
with that division, that the person was under arrest as described in that
division, that the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance with
that division, and that test results indicated a prohibited concentration of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time
of the alleged offense.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
arrested for a violation of §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, who
is asked by a law enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests
under this section, and who submits to the test or tests, regardless of the
amount of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled
substance that the test results indicate is present in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
   (F)   The arresting officer shall give the officer’s sworn report that is
completed under this section to the arrested person at the time of the arrest,
or the Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall send the report to the person by
regular first class mail as soon as possible after receipt of the report, but
not later than 14 days after receipt of it. An arresting officer may give an
unsworn report to the arrested person at the time of the arrest provided the
report is complete when given to the arrested person and subsequently is sworn
to by the arresting officer. As soon as possible, but not later than 48 hours
after the arrest of the person, the arresting officer shall send a copy of the
sworn report to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the
charge for which the person was arrested.
   (G)   The sworn report of an arresting officer completed under this section
is prima facie proof of the information and statements that it contains. It
shall be admitted and considered as prima facie proof of the information and
statements that it contains in any appeal under R.C. § 4511.197 relative to any
suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege that results from the arrest covered by the
report.
(R.C. § 4511.192)
   (H)   (1)   A suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit or nonresident operating privilege under this section for the
time described in R.C. § 4511.191(B) or (C) is effective immediately from the
time at which the arresting officer serves the notice of suspension upon the
arrested person. Any subsequent finding that the person is not guilty of the
charge that resulted in the person’s being requested to take the chemical test
or tests under division (A) of this section does not affect the suspension.
      (2)   If a person arrested for operating a vehicle in violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), or any other municipal OVI
ordinance, or for being in physical control of a vehicle in violation of §
73.03 or R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
regardless of whether the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is or is not suspended under R.C. §
4511.191(B) or (C) or R.C. Chapter 4510, the person’s initial appearance on the
charge resulting from the arrest shall be held within five days of the persons’
arrest or the issuance of the citation to him or her, subject to any
continuance granted by the court pursuant to R.C. § 4511.197 regarding the
issues specified in that section.
(R.C. § 4511.191(D))
(Prior Code, § 434.01)
Statutory reference:
   Continuous alcohol monitoring, see R.C. § 4511.198
   Disposition of fines, immobilization of vehicle and impoundment of license
plates, criminal forfeiture for municipal ordinance conviction, see R.C. §
4511.193
   Effect of refusal to submit to test, seizure of license, suspension periods,
appeal procedures, occupational driving privileges, and Indigent Drivers
Alcohol Treatment Funds, see R.C. § 4511.191
   Judicial pretrial suspension, initial appearance, see R.C. § 4511.196
   Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see R.C. § 4510.13
   Seizure of vehicles upon arrest, see R.C. § 4511.195
§ 73.03 PHYSICAL CONTROL OF VEHICLE WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, PHYSICAL CONTROL means being in the driver’s
position of the front seat of a vehicle and having possession of the vehicle’s
ignition key or other ignition device.
   (B)   No person shall be in physical control of a vehicle if, at the time of
the physical control, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them.
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains at least the concentration of alcohol specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(b), (A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), or (A)(1)(e).
      (3)   Except as provided in division (E) of this section, the person has
a concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or
urine that equals or exceeds the concentration specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(j).
   (C)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of this section, if a law enforcement officer has administered a
field sobriety test to the person in physical control of the vehicle involved
in the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally acceptable field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect what were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
         (a)   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
         (b)   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field sobriety
test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal prosecution
or juvenile court proceeding.
         (c)   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence, and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not limit or preclude a court,
in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (C)(1) of this section.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having physical control of
a vehicle while under the influence, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In
addition to other sanctions imposed, the court may impose on the offender a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
   (E)   Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person who is in
physical control of a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the
person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds
the amount specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(j) if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
(R.C. § 4511.194) (Prior Code, § 434.01)
§ 73.04 DRIVING COMMERCIAL VEHICLE WITH IMPAIRED ALERTNESS OR ABILITY; USE OF
DRUGS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4506.01, or a commercial car or commercial tractor, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, while the person’s ability or alertness is so impaired by fatigue,
illness, or other causes that it is unsafe for the person to drive such
vehicle. No driver shall use any drug which would adversely affect the driver’s
ability or alertness.
   (B)   No owner, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, of a commercial motor vehicle,
commercial car or commercial tractor, or a person employing or otherwise
directing the driver of such vehicle, shall require or knowingly permit a
driver in any such condition described in division (A) of this section to drive
such vehicle upon any street or highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.79, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, or
4511.77 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.79) (Prior Code, § 442.09)
§ 73.05 RECKLESS OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any street or highway in willful
or wanton disregard of the safety of persons or property.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.20) (Prior Code, § 434.02)
§ 73.06 RECKLESS OPERATION OFF STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; COMPETITIVE OPERATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any public or private
property other than streets or highways in willful or wanton disregard of the
safety of persons or property.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the competitive operation of
vehicles on public or private property when the owner of such property
knowingly permits such operation thereon.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.201) (Prior Code, § 434.02)
§ 73.07 OPERATOR TO BE IN REASONABLE CONTROL.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, agricultural tractor, or
agricultural tractor that is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing a unit of
farm machinery on any street, highway, or property open to the public for
vehicular traffic without being in reasonable control of the vehicle,
agricultural tractor, or unit of farm machinery.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or agricultural tractor without being in control of it, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.202) (Prior Code, § 434.025)
§ 73.08 IMMOBILIZING OR DISABLING DEVICE VIOLATION.
   (A)   (1)   No offender who has been granted limited or unlimited driving
privileges, during any period that the offender is required to operate only a
motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, shall request
or permit any other person to breathe into the device if it is an ignition
interlock device or another type of device that monitors the concentration of
alcohol in a person’s breath or to otherwise start the motor vehicle equipped
with the device, for the purpose of providing the offender with an operable
motor vehicle.
      (2)   No person shall breathe into an immobilizing or disabling device
that is an ignition interlock device or another type of device that monitors
the concentration of alcohol in a person’s breath or otherwise start a motor
vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, for the purpose of
providing an operable motor vehicle to another person who has been granted
limited or unlimited driving privileges under the condition that the person
operate only a motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device.
      (3)   No unauthorized person shall tamper with or circumvent the
operation of an immobilizing or disabling device.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an immobilizing or
disabling device violation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4510.44) (Prior Code, § 434.011)
§ 73.09 STREET RACING DEFINED; PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   As used in this section, STREET RACING means the operation of two or
more vehicles from a point side by side at accelerating speeds in a competitive
attempt to outdistance each other, or the operation of one or more vehicles
over a common selected course, from the same point to the same point, wherein
timing is made of the participating vehicles involving competitive
accelerations or speeds. Persons rendering assistance in any manner to such
competitive use of vehicles shall be equally charged as the participants. The
operation of two or more vehicles side by side either at speeds in excess of
prima facie lawful speeds established by R.C. § 4511.21(B)(1)(a) through (B)(9)
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or rapidly accelerating from
a common starting point to a speed in excess of such prima facie lawful speeds
shall be prima facie evidence of street racing.
   (B)   No person shall participate in street racing upon any public road,
street, or highway in this municipality.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of street racing, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to any other sanctions, the court
shall suspend the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privileges for not less than 30 days or more than three years. No judge shall
suspend the first 30 days of any suspension of an offender’s license, permit,
or privilege imposed under this division.
(R.C. § 4511.251) (Prior Code, § 434.07)
§ 73.10 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater or less
than is reasonable or proper, having due regard for the traffic, surface, and
width of the street or highway and any other conditions, and no person shall
drive any motor vehicle in and upon any street or highway at a greater speed
than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
   (B)   It is prima facie lawful, in the absence of a lower limit declared or
established pursuant to this section by the Director of Transportation or local
authorities, for the operator of a motor vehicle to operate the same at a speed
not exceeding the following:
      (1)   (a)   Twenty miles per hour in school zones during school recess
and while children are going to or leaving school during the opening or closing
hours, and when 20 miles per hour school speed limit signs are erected, except
that on controlled-access highways and expressways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by division (B)(4) of this section, and on freeways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by divisions (B)(10) and (B)(11) of this section. The end of every school zone
may be marked by a sign indicating the end of the zone. Nothing in this section
or in the Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control
Devices shall be construed to require school zones to be indicated by signs
equipped with flashing or other lights, or giving other special notice of the
hours in which the school zone speed limit is in effect.
         (b)   As used in this section, SCHOOL means all of the following:
            1.   Any school chartered under R.C. § 3301.16;
            2.   Any nonchartered school that during the preceding year filed
with the Department of Education in compliance with O.A.C. § 3301-35-08, a copy
of the school’s report for the parents of the school’s pupils certifying that
the school meets state minimum standards for nonchartered, nontax- supported
schools and presents evidence of this filing to the jurisdiction from which it
is requesting the establishment of a school zone;
            3.   Any special elementary school that in writing requests the
County Engineer to create a school zone at the location of the school. Upon
receipt of such written request, the County Engineer shall create a school zone
at that location by erecting appropriate signs;
            4.   Any preschool education program operated by an educational
service center that is located on a street or highway with a speed limit of 45
miles per hour or more, when the educational service center in writing requests
that the County Engineer create a school zone at the location of that program.
Upon receipt of such a written request, the County Engineer shall create a
school zone at that location by erecting the appropriate signs.
         (c)   As used in this section, SCHOOL ZONE means that portion of a
street or highway passing a school fronting upon the street or highway that is
encompassed by projecting the school property lines to the fronting street or
highway, and also includes that portion of a state highway. Upon request from
local authorities for streets and highways under their jurisdiction and that
portion of a state highway under the jurisdiction of the Director of
Transportation or a request from a County Engineer in the case of a school zone
for a special elementary school, the Director may extend the traditional school
zone boundaries. The distances in divisions (B)(1)(c)1. through (B)(1)(c)3.
below shall not exceed 300 feet per approach per direction, and are bounded by
whichever of the following distances or combination thereof the Director
approves as most appropriate:
            1.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school building
lines normal to the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            2.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school property
lines intersecting the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            3.   The distance encompassed by the special marking of the
pavement for a principal school pupil crosswalk plus a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction of the highway.
         (d)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the
Director’s initial action on August 9, 1976, establishing all school zones at
the traditional school zone boundaries defined by projecting school property
lines, except when those boundaries are extended as provided in divisions (B)
(1)(a) and (B)(1)(c) of this section.
         (e)   As used in this division, CROSSWALK has the meaning given that
term in R.C. § 4511.01(LL)(2).
         (f)   The Director may, upon request by resolution of the Legislative
Authority and upon submission by the municipality of such engineering, traffic,
and other information as the Director considers necessary, designate a school
zone on any portion of a state route lying within the municipality that
includes a crosswalk customarily used by children going to or leaving a school
during recess and opening and closing hours, whenever the distance, as measured
in a straight line, from the school property line nearest the crosswalk to the
nearest point of a crosswalk is no more than 1,320 feet. Such a school zone
shall include the distance encompassed by the crosswalk and extending 300 feet
in each appropriate direction of the state route.
         (g)   As used in this section, SPECIAL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL means a
school that meets all of the following:
            1.   It is not chartered and does not receive tax revenue from any
source.
            2.   It does not educate children beyond the eighth grade.
            3.   It is located outside the limits of a municipal corporation.
            4.   A majority of the total number of students enrolled at the
school are not related by blood.
            5.   The principal or other person in charge of the special
elementary school annually sends a report to the superintendent of the school
district in which the special elementary school is located indicating the total
number of students enrolled at the school, but otherwise the principal or other
person in charge does not report any other information or data to the
superintendent.
      (2)   Twenty-five miles per hour in all other portions of the
municipality, except on state routes outside business districts, through
highways outside business districts, and alleys;
      (3)   Thirty-five miles per hour on all state routes or through highways
within the municipality outside business districts, except as provided in
divisions (B)(4) and (B)(6) of this section;
      (4)   Fifty miles per hour on controlled-access highways and expressways
within the municipality, except as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)
(14), (B)(15), and (B)(16) of this section;
      (5)   Fifty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality,
other than highways within island jurisdictions as provided in division (B)(8)
of this section, highways as provided in divisions (B)(9) and (B)(10) of this
section, and highways, expressways and freeways as provided in divisions (B)
(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), and (B)(16) of this section;
      (6)   Fifty miles per hour on state routes within the municipality
outside urban districts unless a lower prima facie speed is established as
further provided in this section;
      (7)   Fifteen miles per hour on all alleys within the municipality;
      (8)   Thirty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality
that are within an island jurisdiction;
      (9)   Thirty-five miles per hour on through highways, except state
routes, that are outside municipal corporations and that are within a national
park with boundaries extending through two or more counties;
      (10)   Sixty miles per hour on two-lane state routes outside municipal
corporations as established by the Director under R.C. § 4511.21(H)(2);
      (11)   Fifty-five miles per hour on freeways with paved shoulders inside
the municipality, other than freeways as provided in divisions (B)(14) and (B)
(16) of this section;
      (12)   Sixty miles per hour on rural expressways with traffic control
signals and on all portions of rural divided highways, except as provided in
divisions (B)(13) and (B)(14) of this section;
      (13)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all rural expressways without traffic
control signals;
      (14)   Seventy miles per hour on all rural freeways;
      (15)   Fifty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways in congested areas as determined by the Director and that are
located within a municipal corporation or within an interstate freeway
outerbelt, except as provided in division (B)(16) of this section;
      (16)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways without traffic control signals in urbanized areas.
   (C)   It is prima facie unlawful for any person to exceed any of the speed
limitations in divisions (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)
(8) and (B)(9) of this section or any declared or established pursuant to this
section by the Director or local authorities and it is unlawful for any person
to exceed any of the speed limitations in division (D) of this section. No
person shall be convicted of more than one violation of this section for the
same conduct, although violations of more than one provision of this section
may be charged in the alternative in a single affidavit.
   (D)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon a street or highway as
follows:
      (1)   At a speed exceeding 55 miles per hour, except upon a two-lane
state route as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway,
expressway or freeway as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), and
(B)(16) of this section;
      (2)   At a speed exceeding 60 miles per hour upon a two-lane state route
as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway as provided
in division (B)(12) of this section;
      (3)   At a speed exceeding 65 miles per hour upon an expressway as
provided in division (B)(13) of this section or upon a freeway as provided in
division (B)(16) of this section, except upon a freeway as provided in division
(B)(14) of this section;
      (4)   At a speed exceeding 70 miles per hour upon a freeway as provided
in division (B)(14) of this section;
      (5)   At a speed exceeding the posted speed limit upon a highway,
expressway or freeway for which the Director has determined and declared a
speed limit pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(I)(2) or (L)(2).
   (E)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(E), in every charge of violating this
section, the affidavit and warrant shall specify the time, place and speed at
which the defendant is alleged to have driven, and in charges made in reliance
upon division (C) of this section also the speed which division (B)(1)(a), (B)
(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared
or established pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21 declares is prima
facie lawful at the time and place of such alleged violation, except that in
affidavits where a person is alleged to have driven at a greater speed than
will permit the person to bring the vehicle to stop within the assured clear
distance ahead, the affidavit and warrant need not specify the speed at which
the defendant is alleged to have driven.
   (F)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(F), when a speed in excess of both a prima
facie limitation and a limitation in division (D) of this section is alleged,
the defendant shall be charged in a single affidavit, alleging a single act,
with a violation indicated of both division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4),
(B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of this section, or of a limit declared or
established pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.21 by the Director or local
authorities, and of the limitation in division (D) of this section. If the
court finds a violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6),
(B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared or established pursuant to,
this section or R.C. § 4511.21 has occurred, it shall enter a judgment of
conviction under such division and dismiss the charge under division (D) of
this section. If it finds no violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3),
(B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared or established
pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21, it shall then consider whether the
evidence supports a conviction under division (D) of this section.
   (G)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(G), points shall be assessed for a
violation of a limitation under division (D) of this section in accordance with
R.C. § 4510.036.
(R.C. § 4511.21(A) - (G))
   (H)   Whenever, in accordance with R.C. § 4511.21(H) through (N), the
maximum prima facie speed limitations as established herein have been altered,
either higher or lower, and the appropriate signs giving notice have been
erected as required, operators of motor vehicles shall be governed by the speed
limitations set forth on such signs. It is prima facie unlawful for any person
to exceed the speed limits posted upon such signs.
   (I)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL BUS. Means a motor vehicle designed for carrying more than
nine passengers and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
      DIVIDED. Means a roadway having two or more travel lanes for vehicles
moving in opposite directions and that is separated by a median of more than
four feet, excluding turn lanes.
      INTERSTATE SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
      NONCOMMERCIAL BUS. Includes but is not limited to a school bus, or a
motor vehicle operated solely for the transportation of persons associated with
a charitable or nonprofit organization.
      OUTERBELT. A portion of a freeway that is part of the interstate system
and is located in the outer vicinity of a major municipal corporation or group
of municipal corporations, as designated by the Director.
      RURAL. Means an area outside urbanized areas and outside of a business or
urban district, and areas that extend within urbanized areas where the roadway
characteristics remain mostly unchanged from those outside the urbanized areas.
      URBANIZED AREA. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
(R.C. § 4511.21(O))
   (J)   Speed limits for private roads and driveways.
      (1)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may establish a speed
limit on the road or driveway by complying with all of the following
requirements:
         (a)   The speed limit is not less than 25 miles per hour and is
indicated by a sign that is in a proper position, is sufficiently legible to be
seen by an ordinarily observant person, and meets the specifications for the
basic speed limit sign included in the manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation pursuant to R.C. § 4511.09;
         (b)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road
or driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road
or driveway that they are entering private property, a speed limit has been
established for the road or driveway, and the speed limit is enforceable by law
enforcement officers under state law.
      (2)   No person shall operate a vehicle upon a private road or driveway
as provided in division (J)(1) of this section at a speed exceeding any speed
limit established and posted pursuant to division (J)(1).
      (3)   When a speed limit is established and posted in accordance with
division (J)(1) of this section, a law enforcement officer may apprehend a
person violating the speed limit of the residential area by utilizing any of
the means described in R.C. § 4511.091 or by any other accepted method of
determining the speed of a motor vehicle and may stop and charge the person
with exceeding the speed limit.
      (4)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.211(D), points shall be assessed for
violation of a speed limit established and posted in accordance with division
(J)(1) of this section in accordance with R.C. § 4510.036.
      (5)   As used in this division (J):
         OWNER. Includes but is not limited to a person who holds title to the
real property in fee simple, a condominium owners’ association, a property
owners’ association, a board of directors or trustees of a private community,
and a nonprofit corporation governing a private community.
         PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS. Does
not include a Chautauqua assembly as defined in R.C. § 4511.90.
(R.C. § 4511.211(A) - (E)) (Prior Code, § 434.035)
   (K)   Penalties.
      (1)   Divisions (A) through (I).
         (a)   A violation of any provision of divisions (A) through (I) of
this section is one of the following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(1)(a)2., (K)(1)
(a)3., (K)(1)(b), and (K)(1)(c) of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of any provision of
divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any provision of
any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any provision
of that section, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of any
provision of divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any
provision of any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to
any provision of that section, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (b)   If the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of any provision of division (A) through (I) of this
section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any other municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any provision of that section, and operated a motor vehicle
faster than 35 miles an hour in a business district of the municipality, faster
than 50 miles an hour in other portions of the municipality, or faster than 35
miles an hour in a school zone during recess or while children are going to or
leaving school during the school’s opening or closing hours, a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
         (c)   Notwithstanding division (K)(1)(a) of this section, if the
offender operated a motor vehicle in a construction zone where a sign was then
posted in accordance with R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other
penalties provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times
the usual amount imposed for the violation. No court shall impose a fine of two
times the usual amount imposed for the violation upon an offender if the
offender alleges, in an affidavit filed with the court prior to the offender’s
sentencing, that the offender is indigent and is unable to pay the fine imposed
pursuant to this division and if the court determines that the offender is an
indigent person and unable to pay the fine.
         (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.21(P)) (Prior Code, § 434.03)
      (2)   Division (J).
         (a)   A violation of division (J)(2) of this section is one of the
following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(2)(a)2. and (K)
(2)(a)3. of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (J)(2) of
this section, R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division
(J)(2) of this section, R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance
that is substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.211(F)) (Prior Code, § 434.035)
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of speed limits with approval of Director, see R.C. § 4511.21(H)
through (N)
   Arrest pending warrant when radar, electrical or mechanical timing device
used to determine violation, see R.C. § 4511.091
§ 73.11 SLOW SPEED OR STOPPING.
   (A)   No person shall stop or operate a vehicle at such an unreasonably slow
speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic,
except when stopping or reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or to
comply with law.
   (B)   Whenever the Director of Transportation or local authorities determine
on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that slow speeds on
any part of a controlled-access highway, expressway, or freeway consistently
impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, the Director or such
local authority may declare a minimum speed limit below which no person shall
operate a motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe operation or in
compliance with the law. No minimum speed limit established hereunder shall be
less than 30 miles per hour, greater than 50 miles per hour, nor effective
until the provisions of R.C. § 4511.21 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, relating to appropriate signs, have been fulfilled and local
authorities have obtained the approval of the Director.
   (C)   In a case involving a violation of this section, the trier of fact, in
determining whether the vehicle was being operated at an unreasonably slow
speed, shall consider the capabilities of the vehicle and its operator.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.22) (Prior Code, § 434.04)
§ 73.12 EMERGENCY VEHICLES EXCEPTED FROM SPEED LIMITATION.
   The prima facie speed limitations set forth in R.C. § 4511.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance do not apply to emergency vehicles
or public safety vehicles when they are responding to emergency calls and are
equipped with and displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating
light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet
to the front of the vehicle, and when the drivers thereof sound audible signals
by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle. This section does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons using the street or highway.
(R.C. § 4511.24) (Prior Code, § 434.06)
§ 73.13 SPEED REGULATIONS ON BRIDGES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle over any bridge or other
elevated structure constituting a part of a highway at a speed which is greater
than the maximum speed that can be maintained with safety to such bridge or
structure, when such structure is posted with signs as provided in this
section.
      (2)   The Department of Transportation upon request from any local
authority shall, or upon its own initiative may, conduct an investigation of
any bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part of a highway, and if
it finds that such structure cannot with safety withstand traffic traveling at
the speed otherwise permissible under this Traffic Code, the Department shall
determine and declare the maximum speed of traffic which such structure can
withstand, and shall cause or permit suitable signs stating such maximum speed
to be erected and maintained at a distance of a least 100 feet before each end
of the structure.
      (3)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of this
section, proof of such determination of the maximum speed by the Department and
the existence of such signs shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.23) (Prior Code, § 434.05)
§ 73.14 USE OF FICTITIOUS NAME AFTER CITATION.
   (A)   No person charged with violating any of the provisions of this Traffic
Code shall present a citation tag or file a written plea of guilty with the
Clerk of the Mayor’s Court or the Mayor under a name other than the person’s
correct and true name.
(Prior Code, § 404.08) (Ord. 260, passed 4-1-1957)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4513.361)
§ 73.15 PRIMA-FACIE LIABILITY.
   (A)   No person shall resist, hinder, obstruct, or abuse any sheriff,
constable, or other official while that official is attempting to arrest
offenders under any provision of this Title VII. No person shall interfere with
any person charged under any provision of this Title VII with the enforcement
of the law relative to public highways.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.36)
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
   (D)   The violation of any section or provision of this Traffic Code by
means of a motor vehicle shall be prima facie evidence that such violation was
committed by or with the authority or permission of the owner of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 404.09) (Ord. 260, passed 4-1-1957)
§ 73.16 PRESENTING FALSE NAME OR INFORMATION TO OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly present, display, or orally communicate a
false name, social security number, or date of birth to a law enforcement
officer who is in the process of issuing to the person a traffic ticket or
complaint.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4513.361) (Prior Code, § 404.10)
§ 73.17 PROHIBITION AGAINST RESISTING OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall resist, hinder, obstruct, or abuse any sheriff,
constable, or other official while that official is attempting to arrest
offenders under any provision of this Title VII. No person shall interfere with
any person charged under any provision of this Title VII with the enforcement
of the law relative to public highways.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.36)
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
(Prior Code, § 404.02)
§ 73.18 OPERATION RESTRICTED FOR MINI-TRUCKS AND LOW-SPEED, UNDER-SPEED, OR
UTILITY VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a low-speed vehicle upon any street or
highway having an established speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour.
      (2)   No person shall operate an under-speed or utility vehicle or a
mini-truck upon any street or highway except as follows:
         (a)   Upon a street or highway having an established speed limit not
greater than 35 miles per hour and only upon such streets or highways where the
municipality has granted permission for such operation in accordance with
division (E) of this section;
         (b)   A state park or political subdivision employee or volunteer
operating a utility vehicle exclusively within the boundaries of state parks or
political subdivision parks for the operation or maintenance of state or
political subdivision park facilities.
      (3)   No person shall operate a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter upon
any street or highway having an established speed limit greater than 45 miles
per hour.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   A person operating a low-speed, under-speed, or utility vehicle or
a mini-truck from proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway
having a speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   A person operating a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter from
proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway having a speed limit
greater than 45 miles per hour.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the municipality from adopting
more stringent local ordinances, resolutions, or regulations governing the
operation of a low-speed vehicle or a mini-truck, or a motor-driven cycle or
motor scooter.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.214)
   (E)   By ordinance or resolution, the municipality may authorize the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on a public street
or highway under its jurisdiction. The municipality shall do all of the
following:
      (1)   Limit the operation of those vehicles to streets and highways
having an established speed limit not greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   Require the vehicle owner who wishes to operate an under-speed or
utility vehicle or a mini-truck on the public streets or highways to submit the
vehicle to an inspection conducted by a local law enforcement agency that
complies with inspection requirements established by the Department of Public
Safety under R.C. § 4513.02;
      (3)   Permit the operation on public streets or highways of only those
vehicles that successfully pass the required vehicle inspection, are registered
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4503, and are titled in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 4505;
      (4)   Notify the Director of Public Safety, in a manner the Director
determines, of the authorization for the operation of under-speed or utility
vehicles or mini-trucks.
   (F)   The municipality may establish additional requirements for the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on its streets and
highways.
(R.C. § 4511.215)
   (G)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (F) of this section, a person
may operate a utility vehicle on any public roads or right-of-way, other than a
freeway, when traveling from one farm field to another for agricultural
purposes if the vehicle is displaying a triangular slow-moving vehicle emblem
as described in R.C. § 4513.112.
(R.C. § 4511.216)
   (H)   (1)   Except as provided in this division (H) and divisions (E) and
(F) of this section, no person shall operate a mini-truck within this
municipality.
      (2)   A person may operate a mini-truck on a farm for agricultural
purposes only when the owner of the farm qualifies for the current agricultural
use valuation tax credit. A mini-truck may be operated by or on behalf of such
a farm owner on public roads and rights-of-way only when traveling from one
farm field to another.
      (3)   A person may operate a mini-truck on property owned or leased by a
dealer who sells mini-trucks at retail.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (H) shall be penalized as provided
in division (D) of this section.
(R.C. § 4519.401)
(Prior Code, § 434.09)
§ 73.19 VEHICULAR HOMICIDE; VEHICULAR MANSLAUGHTER.
   (A)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle, motorcycle, snowmobile, locomotive, watercraft or aircraft,
shall cause the death of another or the unlawful termination of another’s
pregnancy in any of the following ways:
      (1)   (a)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4511.19(A) or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
1547.11(A) or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         (c)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4561.15(A)(3) or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Recklessly;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a reckless operation offense, provided that this division
applies only if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is
unlawfully terminated is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s
commission of the reckless operation offense in the construction zone and does
not apply as described in division (D) of this section.
      (3)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Negligently;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this division applies only
if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is unlawfully terminated
is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s commission of the
speeding offense in the construction zone and does not apply as described in
division (D) of this section.
      (4)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of any provision
of any section contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor or of a
municipal ordinance that, regardless of the penalty set by ordinance for the
violation, is substantially equivalent to any provision of any section
contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of aggravated vehicular homicide, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) of this section is guilty of
vehicular homicide. Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
homicide is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular homicide committed in
violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving
under a suspension or cancellation imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other
provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was operating a motor vehicle or
motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege, and was not eligible for renewal of the offender’s driver’s license
or commercial driver’s license without examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of this section or any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault
offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class four suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of
vehicular manslaughter. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
vehicular manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the second degree. Vehicular
manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the first degree if, at the time of the
offense, the offender was driving under a suspension or cancellation imposed
under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Revised Code or was
operating a motor vehicle or motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license
or nonresident operating privilege, and was not eligible for renewal of the
offender’s driver’s license or commercial driver’s license without examination
under R.C. § 4507.10 or if the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or any traffic-related homicide,
manslaughter or assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class six suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6); or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this
section, any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter or assault offense, or a
traffic-related murder, felonious assault or attempted murder offense, a class
four suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
   (C)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least 15 days on an
offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation of
division (A)(3)(b) of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
   (D)   Divisions (A)(2)(b) and (A)(3)(b) of this section do not apply in a
particular construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. §
2903.081 are erected in that construction zone in accordance with the
guidelines and design specifications established by the Director of
Transportation under R.C. § 5501.27. The failure to erect signs of the type
described in R.C. § 2903.081 in a particular construction zone in accordance
with those guidelines and design specifications does not limit or affect the
application of division (A)(1), (A)(2)(a), (A)(3)(a) or (A)(4) of this section
in that construction zone or the prosecution of any person who violates any of
those divisions in that construction zone.
   (E)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         (a)   CONSTRUCTION ZONE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         (b)   MANDATORY PRISON TERM and MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         (c)   MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
         (d)   RECKLESS OPERATION OFFENSE. A violation of R.C. § 4511.20 or a
municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to R.C. § 4511.20.
         (e)   SPEEDING OFFENSE. A violation of R.C. § 4511.21 or a municipal
ordinance pertaining to speed.
         (f)   TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER OR ASSAULT OFFENSE. A
violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in circumstances in which division (D) of that
section applies, a violation of R.C. § 2903.06 or 2903.08, or a violation of
R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.07 or 2903.08 as they existed prior to March 23, 2000.
         (g)   TRAFFIC-RELATED MURDER, FELONIOUS ASSAULT OR ATTEMPTED MURDER
OFFENSE. A violation of R.C. § 2903.01 or 2903.02 in circumstances in which the
offender used a motor vehicle as the means to commit the violation, a violation
of R.C. § 2903.11(A)(2) in circumstances in which the deadly weapon used in the
commission of the violation is a motor vehicle, or an attempt to commit
aggravated murder or murder in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 in circumstances in
which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to attempt to commit the
aggravated murder or murder.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, when a penalty or suspension is
enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a prior
or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the specified
law or the specified offense includes any violation of any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or current or former
law of this or another state or the United States.
(R.C. § 2903.06)
   (F)   Vehicular assault.
      (1)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle or motorcycle, shall cause serious physical harm to another
person or another’s unborn as the proximate result of committing, while
operating or participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in
a construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this division applies
only if the person to whom the serious physical harm is caused or to whose
unborn the serious physical harm is caused is in the construction zone at the
time of the offender’s commission of the speeding offense in the construction
zone and does not apply as described in division (F)(4) of this section.
      (2)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
assault committed in violation of division (F)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular assault committed in violation of
division (F)(1) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving under a
suspension imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio
Revised Code or if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (F)(1) of this section, R.C. § 2903.08, or
any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed, the court shall
impose upon the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least seven days
on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation
of division (F)(1) of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
      (4)   Division (F)(1) of this section does not apply in a particular
construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. § 2903.081 are
erected in that construction zone in accordance with the guidelines and design
specifications established by the Director of Transportation under R.C. §
5501.27.
      (5)   As used in this division (F):
         (a)   CONSTRUCTION ZONE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         (b)   MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         (c)   SPEEDING OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
         (d)   TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER, OR ASSAULT OFFENSE. Has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
      (6)   For the purposes of this division (F), when a penalty or suspension
is enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a
prior or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the
specified law or the specified offense includes any violation of any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or
current or former law of another state or the United States.
(R.C. 2903.08(A)(3), (C)(3), (D)(3), (E) - (G))
(Prior Code, § 434.08)
Statutory reference:
   Trial court to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. §§ 4510.05, 4510.10
   Vehicular assault and aggravated vehicular assault, felony offenses, see
R.C. § 2903.08
STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT
§ 73.30 FAILURE TO STOP AFTER ACCIDENT.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision with
persons or property on a public road or highway, the operator of the motor
vehicle, having knowledge of the accident or collision, immediately shall stop
the operator’s motor vehicle at the scene of the accident or collision. The
operator shall remain at the scene of the accident or collision until the
operator has given the operator’s name and address and, if the operator is not
the owner, the name and address of the owner of that motor vehicle, together
with the registered number of that motor vehicle, to all of the following:
         (a)   Any person injured in the accident or collision;
         (b)   The operator, occupant, owner, or attendant of any motor vehicle
damaged in the accident or collision;
         (c)   The police officer at the scene of the accident or collision.
      (2)   In the event an injured person is unable to comprehend and record
the information required to be given under division (A)(1) of this section, the
other operator involved in the accident or collision shall notify the nearest
police authority concerning the location of the accident or collision, and the
operator’s name, address, and the registered number of the motor vehicle the
operator was operating. The operator shall remain at the scene of the accident
or collision until a police officer arrives, unless removed from the scene by
an emergency vehicle operated by a political subdivision or an ambulance.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required to be given in this section, in writing, to a
conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident. Except as otherwise provided in division (B)
(2) or (B)(3) of this section, failure to stop after an accident is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.02) (Prior Code, § 436.11)
§ 73.31 STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT ON OTHER THAN PUBLIC ROADS OR HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision resulting
in injury or damage to persons or property on any public or private property
other than a public road or highway, the operator of the motor vehicle, having
knowledge of the accident or collision, shall stop at the scene of the accident
or collision. Upon request of any person who is injured or damaged, or any
other person, the operator shall give that person the operator’s name and
address, and, if the operator is not the owner, the name and address of the
owner of that motor vehicle, together with the registered number of that motor
vehicle, and, if available, exhibit the operator’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license.
      (2)   If the operator of the motor vehicle involved in the accident or
collision does not provide the information specified in division (A)(1) of this
section, the operator shall give that information, within 24 hours after the
accident or collision, to the police department of the city or village in which
the accident or collision occurred, or if it occurred outside the corporate
limits of a city or village, to the sheriff of the county in which the accident
or collision occurred.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required under division (A)(1) of this section, in
writing, to a conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor
vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident. Except as otherwise provided
in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section, failure to stop after a nonpublic
road accident is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.021) (Prior Code, § 436.12)
§ 73.32 ACCIDENT INVOLVING DAMAGE TO REALTY.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
damage to real property, or personal property attached to real property,
legally upon or adjacent to a public road or highway immediately shall stop and
take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of the
property of that fact, of the driver’s name and address, and of the
registration number of vehicle the driver is driving and, upon request and if
available, shall exhibit the driver’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (2)   If the owner or person in charge of the property cannot be located
after reasonable search, the driver of the vehicle involved in the accident
resulting in damage to the property, within 24 hours after accident, shall
forward to the police department of the municipality the same information
required to be given to the owner or person in control of the property and give
the location of the accident and a description of the damage insofar as it is
known.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident involving the property of others, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to § 130.99
(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.03) (Prior Code, § 436.13)
§ 73.33 FAILURE TO REPORT ACCIDENT.
   (A)   No person shall fail to report a motor vehicle accident as required
under state or local law.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4509.74)
CHAPTER 74: EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
Section
Equipment
   
74.01   Unsafe vehicles, prohibition against operation
   
74.02   Bumpers on motor vehicles
   
74.03   Lighted lights required
   
74.04   Headlights
   
74.05   Tail lights and illumination of rear license plate
   
74.06   Red reflectors required
   
74.07   Safety lighting of commercial vehicles
   
74.08   Stoplight regulations
   
74.09   Obscured lights on vehicles
   
74.10   Red light or flag required
   
74.11   Lights on parked vehicles
   
74.12   Lights and emblem on slow-moving vehicles; lights and reflectors on
multi-wheel agricultural tractors or farm machinery
   
74.13   Spotlight and auxiliary driving lights
   
74.14   Cowl, fender, and back-up lights
   
74.15   Two lights displayed
   
74.16   Headlights required
   
74.17   Lights of less intensity
   
74.18   Number of lights permitted; red and flashing lights
   
74.19   Standards for lights on snow removal equipment and oversize vehicles
   
74.20   Flashing lights permitted for certain types of vehicles
   
74.21   Lights and sign on transportation for preschool children
   
74.22   Focus and aim of headlights
   
74.23   Brake equipment; specifications
   
74.24   Brake fluid
   
74.25   Minimum standards for brakes and components
   
74.26   Horns, sirens, and warning devices
   
74.27   Mufflers; excessive smoke or gas
   
74.28   Rearview mirrors
   
74.29   Windshields and wipers
   
74.30   Solid tire requirements
   
74.31   Requirements for safety glass in motor vehicles; use of tinted glass or
reflectorized material
   
74.32   Directional signals
   
74.33   Installation and sale of seat safety belts required; definition
   
74.34   Requirements for extra signal equipment
   
74.35   Display of warning devices on disabled vehicles
   
74.36   Requirements for vehicles transporting explosives
   
74.37   Studded tires; seasonal use permitted
   
74.38   Safety inspection decals for buses
   
74.39   Air bags
   
74.40   Air cleaner required
Loads
   
74.50   Permit required to exceed load limits
   
74.51   Limitation of load extension on left side of vehicle
   
74.52   All loads shall be properly secured
   
74.53   Towing requirements; exception to size and weight restrictions
   
74.54   Weighing of vehicle; removal of excess load
   
74.55   Operation of vehicle exceeding weight limits prohibited
   
74.56   Load limits
   
74.57   Maximum width, height, and length
   
74.58   Statement of gross vehicle weight
   
74.59   Wheel protectors required on heavy commercial vehicles
   
74.60   Liability for damages; prosecution; application of moneys
   
74.61   Weight exceptions for certain vehicles
   
74.62   Trucks prohibited on certain streets
   
74.63   Route and load information
   
74.64   Shifting load; loose loads
Statutory reference:
   Exemption of certain vehicles from emission, noise control and fuel
standards, see R.C. § 4513.41
   Exemption of collector’s or historical vehicles from equipment standards,
see R.C. § 4513.38
   Motorcycles, protective eye devices required for operators and passengers;
helmets required for persons under 18 years of age, see O.A.C. § 4501-17-01
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Snowmobiles and all-purpose vehicles, equipment, see O.A.C. § 4501-29-01
   Vehicle lighting, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-15
EQUIPMENT
§ 74.01 UNSAFE VEHICLES, PROHIBITION AGAINST OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move, or cause or knowingly permit to be
driven or moved, on any highway any vehicle or combination of vehicles which is
in such unsafe condition as to endanger any person.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.02(A), (H)) (Prior Code, § 438.01)
§ 74.02 BUMPERS ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING. Means the manufacturer’s gross vehicle
weight rating established for that vehicle.
      MANUFACTURER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      MULTIPURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE. Means a motor vehicle with motive power,
except a motorcycle, designed to carry ten persons or less, that is constructed
either on a truck chassis or with special features for occasional off-road
operation.
      PASSENGER CAR. Means any motor vehicle with motive power, designed for
carrying ten persons or less, except a multipurpose passenger vehicle or
motorcycle.
      TRUCK. Means every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers,
designed and used to carry property and having a gross vehicle weight rating of
10,000 pounds or less.
   (B)   Rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety, in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 119, shall govern the maximum bumper height or, in the absence of
bumpers and in cases where bumper height have been lowered or modified, the
maximum height to the bottom of the frame rail of any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck.
   (C)   No person shall operate upon a street or highway any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck registered in this state that does not
conform to the requirements of this section or any applicable rule adopted
pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021.
   (D)   No person shall modify any motor vehicle registered in this state in
such a manner as to cause the vehicle body or chassis to come in contact with
the ground, expose the fuel tank to damage from collision, or cause the wheels
to come in contact with the body under normal operation, and no person shall
disconnect any part of the original suspension system of the vehicle to defeat
the safe operation of that system.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this section or in the rules adopted pursuant to
R.C. § 4513.021 shall be construed to prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   The installation upon a passenger car, multipurpose passenger
vehicle or truck registered in this state of heavy duty equipment, including
shock absorbers and overload springs:
      (2)   The operation on a street or highway of a passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle, or truck registered in this state with normal
wear to the suspension system if the normal wear does not adversely affect the
control of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section and the rules adopted pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021 do not
apply to any specially designed or modified passenger car, multipurpose
passenger vehicle, or truck when operated off a street or highway in races and
similar events.
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.021) (Prior Code, § 438.26)
Statutory reference:
   Maximum height on bumpers, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-43
§ 74.03 LIGHTED LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every vehicle, other than a motorized bicycle, operated upon a street
or highway within this state shall display lighted lights and illuminating
devices as required by R.C. §§ 4513.04 to 4513.37 during all of the following
times:
      (1)   The time from sunset to sunrise;
      (2)   At any other time when, due to insufficient natural light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons, vehicles, and substantial objects
on the highway are not discernible at a distance of 1,000 feet ahead;
      (3)   At any time when the windshield wipers of the vehicle are in use
because of precipitation on the windshield.
   (B)   Every motorized bicycle shall display at such times lighted lights
meeting the rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4511.521. No motor vehicle, during any time specified in this section, shall be
operated upon a street or highway within this state using only parking lights
as illumination.
   (C)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the distance
from which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible, or within
which such lamps or devices shall be visible, such distance shall be measured
upon a straight level unlighted highway under normal atmospheric conditions
unless a different condition is expressly stated.
   (D)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the mounted
height of lights or devices, it shall mean from the center of such light or
device to the level ground upon which the vehicle stands.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a vehicle being operated upon a
street or highway within this state to stop the vehicle solely because the
officer observes that a violation of division (A)(3) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of that division, or causing the arrest of or
commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of that division.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.03) (Prior Code, § 438.02)
§ 74.04 HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, shall be equipped
with at least two headlights with at least one near each side of the front of
the motor vehicle.
      (2)   Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one and not more
than two headlights.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.04) (Prior Code, § 438.03)
§ 74.05 TAIL LIGHTS AND ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLATE.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, pole trailer or
vehicle which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles shall be
equipped with at least one tail light mounted on the rear which, when lighted,
shall emit a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear,
provided that in the case of a train of vehicles only the tail light on the
rearmost vehicle need be visible from the distance specified.
      (2)   Either a tail light or a separate light shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate, when
such registration plate is required, and render it legible from a distance of
50 feet to the rear. Any tail light, together with any separate light for
illuminating the rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the headlights or auxiliary driving lights are lighted, except where
separate lighting systems are provided for trailers for the purpose of
illuminating such registration plate.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.05) (Prior Code, § 438.04)
§ 74.06 RED REFLECTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Every new motor vehicle sold after September 6, 1941, and
operated on a highway, other than a commercial tractor to which a trailer or
semitrailer is attached, shall carry at the rear, either as a part of the tail
lamps or separately, two red reflectors meeting the requirements of this
section, except that vehicles of the type mentioned in R.C. § 4513.07 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be equipped with reflectors
as required by the regulations provided for in that section.
      (2)   Every such reflector shall be of such size and characteristics and
so maintained as to be visible at night from all distances within 300 feet to
50 feet from such vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.06) (Prior Code, § 438.05)
§ 74.07 SAFETY LIGHTING OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   When the Director of Public Safety prescribes and promulgates
regulations relating to clearance lights, marker lights, reflectors and stop
lights on buses, trucks, commercial tractors, trailers, semitrailers and pole
trailers, when operated upon any highway, these vehicles shall be equipped as
required by such regulations, and such equipment shall be lighted at all times
mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
except that clearance lights and side marker lights need not be lighted on any
such vehicle when it is operated within the municipality where there is
sufficient light to reveal any person or substantial object on the highway at a
distance of 500 feet.
      (2)   Such equipment shall be in addition to all other lights
specifically required by R.C. §§ 4513.03 through 4513.16, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinances.
      (3)   Vehicles operated under the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities
Commission are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.07) (Prior Code, § 438.06)
§ 74.08 STOPLIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, and pole trailer when
operated upon a highway shall be equipped with two or more stop lights, except
that passenger cars manufactured or assembled prior to January 1, 1967,
motorcycles, and motor-driven cycles shall be equipped with at least one stop
light. Stop lights shall be mounted on the rear of the vehicle, actuated upon
application of the service brake, and may be incorporated with other rear
lights. Such stop lights when actuated shall emit a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear; provided that in the case of a train of
vehicles only the stop lights on the rearmost vehicle need be visible from the
distance specified.
      (2)   Such stop lights when actuated shall give a steady warning light to
the rear of a vehicle or train of vehicles to indicate the intention of the
operator to diminish the speed of or stop a vehicle or train of vehicles.
      (3)   When stop lights are used as required by this section, they shall
be constructed or installed so as to provide adequate and reliable illumination
and shall conform to the appropriate rules and regulations established under
R.C. § 4513.19.
      (4)   Historical motor vehicles as defined in R.C. § 4503.181, not
originally manufactured with stop lights, are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.071) (Prior Code, § 438.25)
§ 74.09 OBSCURED LIGHTS ON VEHICLES.
   Whenever motor and other vehicles are operated in combination during the
time that lights are required, any light, except tail lights, which by reason
of its location on a vehicle of the combination would be obscured by another
vehicle of the combination, need not be lighted, but this section does not
affect the requirement that lighted clearance lights be displayed on the front
of the foremost vehicle required to have clearance lights or that all lights
required on the rear of the rearmost vehicle of any combination shall be
lighted.
(R.C. § 4513.08) (Prior Code, § 438.07)
§ 74.10 RED LIGHT OR FLAG REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or
more beyond the bed or body of this vehicle, there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of the load, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, a red light or lantern plainly
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the sides and rear. The red
light or lantern required by this section is in addition to the red rear light
required upon every vehicle. At any other time there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of such load a red flag or cloth not less than 16 inches
square.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.09) (Prior Code, § 438.08)
§ 74.11 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Except in case of an emergency, whenever a vehicle is parked or
stopped upon a roadway open to traffic or a shoulder adjacent thereto, whether
attended or unattended, during the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, such vehicle shall be equipped
with one or more lights which shall exhibit a white or amber light on the
roadway side visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle,
and a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear. No lights need
be displayed upon any such vehicle when it is stopped or parked within the
municipality where there is sufficient light to reveal any person or
substantial object within a distance of 500 feet upon such highway. Any lighted
headlights upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or dimmed.
(R.C. § 4513.10)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
(Prior Code, § 438.09)
§ 74.12 LIGHTS AND EMBLEM ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES; LIGHTS AND REFLECTORS ON
MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTORS OR FARM MACHINERY.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      BOAT TRAILER. Any vehicle designed and used exclusively to transport a
boat between a place of storage and a marina, or in and around a marina, when
drawn or towed on a street or highway for a distance of no more than ten miles
and at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
      SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE and SMV. Mean a boat trailer, unit of farm machinery,
road construction machinery, or other machinery designed by the manufacturer to
operate at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less. The term does not include a
bicycle, motorized bicycle, electric bicycle, or animal-drawn vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.11)
   (B)   Generally.
      (1)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall operate
either of the following vehicles unless it is equipped with and displays the
lamps described in division (B)(2) of this section:
         (a)   A vehicle not specifically required to be equipped with lamps or
other lighting devices by R.C. §§ 4513.03 to 4513.10;
         (b)   A vehicle referred to in R.C. § 4513.02(G).
      (2)   Vehicles described in division (B)(1) of this section shall be
equipped with both of the following:
         (a)   At least one lamp displaying a white light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the vehicle;
         (b)   Two lamps displaying red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the vehicle, or as an alternative, one lamp
displaying a red light visible from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to
the rear and two red reflectors visible from all distances of 600 feet to 100
feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower
beams of headlamps.
      (3)   (a)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall
operate a multi-wheel agricultural tractor model year 2001 or earlier on a
street or highway unless it is equipped with and displays reflectors and
illuminated amber lamps so that the extreme left and right projections of the
tractor are indicated by all of the following:
            1.   Flashing lamps displaying amber light, visible to the front
and the rear. The lamps need not flash simultaneously and need not flash in
conjunction with any directional signals of the tractor;
            2.   Amber reflectors, all visible to the front;
            3.   Red reflectors, all visible to the rear.
         (b)   Rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4513.111 governing the lamps and reflectors described in division (B)(3)(a) of
this section and their placement correlate with and, as far as possible,
conform with paragraphs 4.1.4.1, 4.1.7.1, and 4.1.7.2 respectively of the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.10 OCT 98,
Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways.
      (4)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall operate a
unit of farm machinery model year 2002 or later on a street or highway unless
it is equipped with and displays markings and illuminated lamps that meet or
exceed the lighting, illumination, and marking standards and specifications
that are applicable to that type of farm machinery for the unit’s model year
specified in the American society of agricultural engineers standard ANSI/ASAE
S279.10 OCT 98, lighting and marking of agricultural equipment on highways.
      (5)   Any unit of farm machinery designed by its manufacturer to operate
at a speed of 25 miles per hour or greater or any SMV may be equipped with and
display a red flashing light that is visible from a distance of not less than
1,000 feet to the rear at all times specified in R.C. § 4513.03. When a double-
faced light is used, it shall display amber light to the front and red light to
the rear.
      (6)   Lights and reflectors required under divisions (B)(3) and (B)(4) of
this section and authorized under division (B)(5) of this section are in
addition to other lights required or permitted by this division (B) or R.C. §
4513.17.
      (7)   The Ohio Director of Public Safety shall adopt rules in accordance
R.C. Chapter 119 Code that establish standards and specifications for lamps and
reflectors required or authorized by this section. Lamps and reflectors
required or authorized by this section shall meet those standards and
specifications.
      (8)   This division (B) does not apply to a bicycle, motorized bicycle,
electric bicycle, or animal-drawn vehicle.
      (9)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.111)
   (C)   Slow-moving vehicles.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person shall
operate an SMV on a street or highway as follows:
         (a)   At a speed exceeding 25 miles per hour;
         (b)   Without displaying the triangular SMV emblem mounted in
accordance with division (C)(2) of this section.
      (2)   The SMV emblem shall be mounted so as to be visible from a distance
of not less than 500 feet to the rear. In accordance with R.C. Chapter 119, the
Ohio Director of Public Safety shall adopt standards and specifications for the
design and position of mounting the SMV emblem. The standards and
specifications for the SMV emblem correlate with and, so far as possible,
conform with those approved by the American Society of Agricultural Engineers.
      (3)   A person may operate an SMV on a street or highway without
displaying the triangular SMV emblem when any of the following apply:
         (a)   The SMV is being used in actual construction and maintenance
work in an area guarded by a flagperson, or where flares are used.
         (b)   The SMV is operating or traveling within the limits of a
construction area designated by the Ohio Director of Transportation, a city
engineer, or the county engineer of the several counties, when such
construction area is marked in accordance with requirements of the Ohio
Director of Transportation and the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices,
as set forth in R.C. § 4511.09.
      (4)   No person shall display an SMV emblem on any of the following:
         (a)   Any vehicle not required to use the SMV emblem by this division
(C) or R.C. §§ 4513.113 or 4513.114;
         (b)   An SMV being transported upon any other vehicle;
         (c)   Any stationary object on the highway.
      (5)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate an SMV, except a unit
designed to be completely mounted on a primary power unit that is manufactured
or assembled on or after April 1, 1966, unless it is equipped with an SMV
emblem mounting device.
      (6)   Whoever violates this division (C) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.112)
   (D)   Farm machinery and agricultural tractors.
      (1)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate on a street or
highway any unit of farm machinery that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the unit displays both
of the following:
         (a)   The SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. § 4513.112(B);
         (b)   A speed identification symbol that does both of the following:
            1.   Meets the specifications contained in the American Society of
Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005, Agricultural Equipment:
Speed Identification Symbol (SIS);
            2.   Indicates the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the
unit of farm machinery is designed by its manufacturer to operate.
      (2)   No person operating a tractor on a street or highway that is
designed by its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per
hour and that is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing a unit of farm machinery
while operating at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour shall fail to display
both of the following on the unit of farm machinery:
         (a)   The SMV emblem;
         (b)   The speed identification symbol that matches the speed
identification symbol required to be displayed on the agricultural tractor.
      (3)   No person shall operate an agricultural tractor that is designed by
its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless
the person possesses documentation published or provided by the manufacturer
indicating the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the manufacturer
designed the agricultural tractor to operate.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.113)
   (E)   Animal-drawn vehicles.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(4) of this section, no
person shall operate an animaldrawn vehicle on a street or highway unless it is
equipped with and displays, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, both of
the following:
         (a)   At least one lamp displaying a white light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the animal-drawn vehicle;
         (b)   Two lamps displaying red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the animal-drawn vehicle, or as an
alternative, one lamp displaying a red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear and two red reflectors visible from all
distances of 600 feet to 100 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful
lower beams of headlamps.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(4) of this section, no
person shall operate an animal-drawn vehicle on a street or highway unless it
is equipped with and displays, at all times, all of the following:
         (a)   One yellow flashing lamp displaying yellow light that is visible
from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet and that is mounted in either of
the following positions:
            1.   On the top most portion of the rear of the animal-drawn
vehicle;
            2.   On the top of the animal-drawn vehicle.
         (b)   At least one of the following:
            1.   An SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. § 4513.112(B);
            2.   Micro-prism reflective tape that is visible from a distance of
not less than 500 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams
of headlamps;
            3.   Both an SMV emblem and microprism reflective tape, as
specified in this division.
         (c)   Lamps and micro-prism reflective tape required by this section
shall meet standards and specifications adopted by the Ohio Director of Public
Safety under R.C. § 4513.114.
      (3)   The Ohio Director of Public Safety, in accordance with R.C. Chapter
119, shall adopt rules establishing standards and specifications for the
position and mounting of the lamps and micro-prism reflective tape required by
R.C. § 4513.114. The rules permit the microprism reflective tape to be red,
amber, white, or silver in color.
      (4)   (a)   Divisions (E)(1) and (E)(2) of this section do not apply to
the operator of animal-drawn agricultural equipment who is not transporting any
livestock or a person other than the operator.
         (b)   No operator described in division (E)(4)(a) of this section
shall operate animal-drawn agricultural equipment unless it is equipped with
and displays, at all times, the SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. §
4513.112(B).
         (c)   As used in division (E)(4) of this section, “animal-drawn
agricultural equipment” means equipment drawn by the muscular power of an
animal that is used solely for agricultural purposes. “Animal-drawn
agricultural equipment” includes any of the following:
            1.   A plow;
            2.   A manure spreader;
            3.   A thresher.
      (5)   Whoever violates this division (E) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.114)
   (F)   Strict liability offenses. The offenses established under this section
are strict liability offenses, and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The
designation of these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be
construed to imply that any other offense, for which there is no specified
degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4513.115)
(Prior Code, § 438.10)
§ 74.13 SPOTLIGHT AND AUXILIARY DRIVING LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one
spotlight and every lighted spotlight shall be so aimed and used upon
approaching another vehicle that no part of the high-intensity portion of the
beam will be directed to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side
of the vehicle, nor more than 100 feet ahead of the vehicle.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than three
auxiliary driving lights mounted on the front of the vehicle. Any such lights
which do not conform to the specifications for auxiliary driving lights and the
regulations for their use prescribed by the Director of Public Safety shall not
be used.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.12) (Prior Code, § 438.11)
§ 74.14 COWL, FENDER, AND BACK-UP LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with side cowl or fender
lights which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with lights on each side thereof
which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (3)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with back-up lights, either
separately or in combination with another light. No back-up lights shall be
continuously lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.13) (Prior Code, § 438.12)
§ 74.15 TWO LIGHTS DISPLAYED.
   (A)   At all times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, at least two lighted lights shall be displayed, one near
each side of the front of every motor vehicle, except when such vehicle is
parked subject to the regulations governing lights on parked vehicles.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.14) (Prior Code, § 438.13)
§ 74.16 HEADLIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto during the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the driver shall use a
distribution of light, or composite beam, directed high enough and of
sufficient intensity to reveal persons, vehicles and substantial objects at a
safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle,
such driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam, so aimed that
the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming driver.
      (2)   Every new motor vehicle registered in this state which has
multiple-beam road lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator,
which shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the
headlights is in use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. This indicator shall
be so designed and located that, when lighted, it will be readily visible
without glare to the driver of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.15) (Prior Code, § 438.14)
§ 74.17 LIGHTS OF LESS INTENSITY.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in
R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance when it is
equipped with two lighted lights upon the front thereof capable of revealing
persons and substantial objects 75 feet ahead, in lieu of lights required in
R.C. § 4513.14 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, provided that
such vehicle shall not be operated at a speed in excess of 20 miles per hour.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.16) (Prior Code, § 438.15)
§ 74.18 NUMBER OF LIGHTS PERMITTED; RED AND FLASHING LIGHTS.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with headlights is also equipped
with any auxiliary lights or spotlight or any other light on the front thereof
projecting a beam of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower, not more than a
total of five of any such lights on the front of a vehicle shall be lighted at
any one time when the vehicle is upon a highway.
   (B)   Any lighted light or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle, other
than headlights, spotlights, signal lights, or auxiliary driving lights, that
projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower shall be
so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level of the roadway on
which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet from the vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   Flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles, except as a
means for indicating a right or a left turn, or in the presence of a vehicular
traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching, or overtaking or passing.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (C)(1) of this section does not apply
to any of the following:
         (a)   Emergency vehicles, road service vehicles servicing or towing a
disabled vehicle, stationary waste collection vehicles actively collecting
garbage, refuse, trash, or recyclable materials on the roadside, rural mail
delivery vehicles, vehicles as provided in R.C. § 4513.182, highway maintenance
vehicles, and similar equipment operated by state or local authorities,
provided such vehicles are equipped with and display, when used on a street or
highway for the special purpose necessitating such lights, a flashing,
oscillating, or rotating amber light;
         (b)   Vehicles or machinery permitted by R.C. § 4513.111 to have a
flashing red light;
         (c)   Farm machinery and vehicles escorting farm machinery, provided
such machinery and vehicles are equipped with and display, when used on a
street or highway, a flashing, oscillating, or rotating amber light. Farm
machinery also may display the lights described in R.C. § 4513.111;
         (d)   A funeral hearse or funeral escort vehicle, provided that the
funeral hearse or funeral escort vehicle is equipped with and displays, when
used on a street or highway for the special purpose necessitating such lights,
a flashing, oscillating, or rotating purple or amber light.
      (3)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to animal-drawn
vehicles subject to R.C. § 4513.114.
   (D)   (1)   Except a person operating a public safety vehicle, as defined in
R.C. § 4511.01(E), or a school bus, no person shall operate, move, or park
upon, or permit to stand within the right-of-way of any public street or
highway any vehicle or equipment that is equipped with and displaying a
flashing red or a flashing combination red and white light, or an oscillating
or rotating red light, or a combination red and white oscillating or rotating
light.
      (2)   Except a public law enforcement officer, or other person sworn to
enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state, operating a public safety
vehicle when on duty, no person shall operate, move, or park upon, or permit to
stand within the right-of-way of any street or highway any vehicle or equipment
that is equipped with, or upon which is mounted, and displaying a flashing blue
or a flashing combination blue and white light, or an oscillating or rotating
blue light, or a combination blue and white oscillating or rotating light.
   (E)   This section does not prohibit the use of warning lights required by
law or the simultaneous flashing of turn signals on disabled vehicles or on
vehicles being operated in unfavorable atmospheric conditions in order to
enhance their visibility. This section also does not prohibit the simultaneous
flashing of turn signals or warning lights whether on farm machinery or
vehicles escorting farm machinery when used on a street or highway.
(R.C. § 4513.17) (Prior Code, § 438.16)
   (F)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a motor vehicle
operated by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator may be equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and siren, whistle
or bell capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a
distance of not less than 500 feet. Such a vehicle may display the flashing,
oscillating or rotating red or blue light and may give the audible signal of
the siren, whistle or bell only when responding to a fatality or a fatal motor
vehicle accident on a street or highway and only at those locations where the
stoppage of traffic impedes the ability of the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator to arrive at the site of the fatality.
      (2)   This division (F) does not relieve the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.171)
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4513.17(F), 4513.171(B))
(Prior Code, § 438.165)
§ 74.19 STANDARDS FOR LIGHTS ON SNOW REMOVAL EQUIPMENT AND OVERSIZE VEHICLES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to operate snow removal equipment on a highway unless
the lights thereon comply with and are lighted when and as required by the
standards and specifications adopted by the Director of Transportation pursuant
to R.C. § 4513.18.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.18)
§ 74.20 FLASHING LIGHTS PERMITTED FOR CERTAIN TYPES OF VEHICLES.
   Rural mail delivery vehicles, state highway survey vehicles, and funeral
escort vehicles are permitted to use flashing lights.
(R.C. § 4513.181)
§ 74.21 LIGHTS AND SIGN ON TRANSPORTATION FOR PRESCHOOL CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle owned, leased, or hired by a
nursery school, kindergarten, or day-care center, while transporting preschool
children to or from such an institution unless the motor vehicle is equipped
with and displaying two amber flashing lights mounted on a bar attached to the
top of the vehicle, and a sign bearing the designation “caution – children”,
which shall be attached to the bar carrying the amber flashing lights in such a
manner as to be legible to persons both in front of and behind the vehicle. The
lights and sign shall meet standards and specifications adopted by the Director
of Public Safety.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle displaying the lights and sign
required by this section for any purpose other than the transportation of
preschool children as provided in this section.
(R.C. § 4513.182)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
(Prior Code, § 438.17)
§ 74.22 FOCUS AND AIM OF HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   No person shall use any lights mentioned in R.C. §§ 4513.03 through
4513.18, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, upon any motor
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer unless these lights are equipped, mounted and
adjusted as to focus and aim in accordance with regulations which are
prescribed by the Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   The headlights on any motor vehicle shall comply with the headlamp
color requirements contained in Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number
108, 49 C.F.R. § 571.108. No person shall operate a motor vehicle in violation
of this division.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.19) (Prior Code, § 438.18)
§ 74.23 BRAKE EQUIPMENT; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The following requirements govern as to brake equipment on vehicles:
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, when operated upon a
highway shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and
to stop and hold the motor vehicle, including two separate means of applying
the brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply the brakes to at
least two wheels. If these two separate means of applying the brakes are
connected in any way, then on such motor vehicles, manufactured or assembled
after January 1, 1942, they shall be so constructed that failure of any one
part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle without
brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, when operated upon a highway shall be equipped
with at least one adequate brake, which may be operated by hand or by foot.
      (3)   Every motorized bicycle shall be equipped with brakes meeting the
rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4511.521.
      (4)   When operated upon the highways, the following vehicles shall be
equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to
hold the vehicle, designed to be applied by the driver of the towing motor
vehicle from its cab, and also designed and connected so that, in case of a
breakaway of the towed vehicle, the brakes shall be automatically applied:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every trailer or
semitrailer, except a pole trailer, with an empty weight of 2,000 pounds or
more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1942;
         (b)   Every manufactured home or travel trailer with an empty weight
of 2,000 pounds or more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 2001.
      (5)   Every watercraft trailer with a gross weight or manufacturer’s
gross vehicle weight rating of 3,000 pounds or more that is manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 2008, shall have separate brakes equipped with
hydraulic surge or electrically operated brakes on two wheels.
      (6)   In any combination of motor-drawn trailers or semitrailers equipped
with brakes, means shall be provided for applying the rearmost brakes in
approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle, and developing
the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest rate; or
means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the rearmost
brakes; or both of the above means, capable of being used alternatively, may be
employed.
      (7)   Every vehicle and combination of vehicles, except motorcycles and
motorized bicycles, and except trailers and semitrailers of a gross weight of
less than 2,000 pounds, and pole trailers, shall be equipped with parking
brakes adequate to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under
all conditions of loading, on a surface free from snow, ice, or loose material.
The parking brakes shall be capable of being applied in conformance with the
foregoing requirements by the driver’s muscular effort or by spring action or
by equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or
other source of power provided that failure of the service brake actuation
system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes
from being applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements. The parking
brakes shall be so designed that when once applied they shall remain applied
with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of any source of energy or
leakage of any kind.
      (8)   The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies, brake shoe
anchors, and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally associated with
the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service brakes and the
parking brakes. If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (9)   Every motor vehicle or combination of motor-drawn vehicles shall,
at all times and under all conditions of loading, be capable of being stopped
on a dry, smooth, level road free from loose material, upon application of the
service or foot brake, within the following specified distances, or shall be
capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate corresponding to these
distances:
         (a)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles having brakes on all wheels
shall come to a stop in 30 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per hour.
         (b)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles not having brakes on all
wheels shall come to a stop in 40 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per
hour.
      (10)   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be
so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels
on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.20)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
(Prior Code, § 438.19)
§ 74.24 BRAKE FLUID.
   (A)   No hydraulic brake fluid for use in motor vehicles shall be sold in
this municipality if the brake fluid is below the minimum standard of
specifications for heavy duty type brake fluid established by the society of
automotive engineers and the standard of specifications established by 49
C.F.R. § 571.116, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers, packers, or distributors of brake fluid selling
such fluid in this municipality shall state on the containers that the brake
fluid meets or exceeds the applicable minimum SAE standard of specifications,
and the standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. § 571.116, as
amended.
(R.C. § 4513.201)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.25 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BRAKES AND COMPONENTS.
   (A)   No brake lining, brake lining material, or brake lining assemblies for
use as repair and replacement parts in motor vehicles shall be sold in this
municipality if these items do not meet or exceed the minimum standard of
specifications established by the Society of Automotive Engineers and the
standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. § 571.105, as amended, and
49 C.F.R. § 571.135, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers or distributors of brake lining, brake lining
material, or brake lining assemblies selling these items for use as repair and
replacement parts in motor vehicles shall state that the items meet or exceed
the applicable minimum standard of specifications.
   (C)   As used in this section, MINIMUM STANDARD OF SPECIFICATIONS means a
minimum standard for brake system or brake component performance that meets the
need for motor vehicle safety and complies with the applicable SAE standards
and recommended practices, and the federal motor vehicle safety standards that
cover the same aspect of performance for any brake lining, brake lining
material, or brake lining assemblies.
(R.C. § 4513.202)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.26 HORNS, SIRENS, AND WARNING DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a highway shall be
equipped with a horn which is in good working order and capable of emitting
sound audible, under normal conditions, from a distance of not less than 200
feet.
      (2)   No motor vehicle shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use
upon a vehicle, any siren, whistle, or bell. Any vehicle may be equipped with a
theft alarm signal device which shall be so arranged that it cannot be used as
an ordinary warning signal. Every emergency vehicle shall be equipped with a
siren, whistle or bell, capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than 500 feet and of a type approved by
the Director of Public Safety. Such equipment shall not be used except when
such vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or is in the
immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, in which case
the driver of the emergency vehicle shall sound such equipment when it is
necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.21) (Prior Code, § 438.20)
§ 74.27 MUFFLERS; EXCESSIVE SMOKE OR GAS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle with an internal combustion
engine shall at all times be equipped with a muffler which is in good working
order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise, and no
person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a highway. Every motorcycle muffler shall be equipped with baffle
plates.
      (2)   No person shall own, operate or have in the person’s possession any
motor vehicle or motorcycle equipped with a device for producing excessive
smoke or gas, or so equipped as to permit oil or any other chemical to flow
into or upon the exhaust pipe or muffler of such vehicle, or equipped in any
way to produce or emit smoke or dangerous or annoying gases from any portion of
such vehicle, other than the ordinary gases emitted by the exhaust of an
internal combustion engine under normal operation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.22) (Prior Code, § 438.21)
§ 74.28 REARVIEW MIRRORS.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle shall be equipped with a mirror so
located as to reflect to the operator a view of the highway to the rear of such
vehicle or motorcycle. Operators of vehicles and motorcycles shall have a clear
and unobstructed view to the front and to both sides of their vehicles and
motorcycles and shall have a clear view to the rear of their vehicles and
motorcycles by mirror.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.23) (Prior Code, § 438.22)
§ 74.29 WINDSHIELDS AND WIPERS.
   (A)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle on a street or highway in this
municipality, other than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle, that is not
equipped with a windshield.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle, other than a bus, with
any sign, poster, or other nontransparent material upon the front windshield,
sidewings, side, or rear windows of such vehicle other than a certificate or
other paper required to be displayed by law, except that there may be in the
lower left-hand or right-hand corner of the windshield a sign, poster, or decal
not to exceed four inches in height by six inches in width. No sign, poster, or
decal shall be displayed in the front windshield in such a manner as to conceal
the vehicle identification number for the motor vehicle when, in accordance
with federal law, that number is located inside the vehicle passenger
compartment and so placed as to be readable through the vehicle glazing without
moving any part of the vehicle.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a passenger car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if the
device meets both of the following:
         (a)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals.
         (b)   It does not conceal the vehicle identification number.
      (3)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a commercial car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if the
device meets both of the following:
         (a)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals.
         (b)   It is mounted not more than six inches below the upper edge of
the windshield and is outside the area swept by the vehicle’s windshield
wipers.
   (C)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield. The device
shall be maintained in good working order and so constructed as to be
controlled or operated by the operator of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.24) (Prior Code, § 438.23)
§ 74.30 SOLID TIRE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every solid tire, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, on a vehicle shall
have rubber or other resilient material on its entire traction surface at least
one inch thick above the edge of the flange of the entire periphery.
(R.C. § 4513.25)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.31 REQUIREMENTS FOR SAFETY GLASS IN MOTOR VEHICLES; USE OF TINTED GLASS OR
REFLECTORIZED MATERIAL.
   (A)   Safety glass.
      (1)   No person shall sell any new motor vehicle nor shall any new motor
vehicle be registered, and no person shall operate any motor vehicle, which is
registered in this state and which has been manufactured or assembled on or
after January 1, 1936, unless the motor vehicle is equipped with safety glass,
wherever glass is used in the windshields, doors, partitions, rear windows, and
windows on each side immediately adjacent to the rear window.
      (2)   As used in this section, SAFETY GLASS means any product composed of
glass so manufactured, fabricated, or treated as substantially to prevent
shattering and flying of the glass when it is struck or broken, or such other
or similar product as may be approved by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
      (3)   Glass other than safety glass shall not be offered for sale, or
sold for use in, or installed in any door, window, partition, or windshield
that is required by this section to be equipped with safety glass.
(R.C. § 4513.26)
   (B)   Tinted or reflectorized material.
      (1)   No person shall operate, on any highway or other public or private
property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking, lease, or rent any
motor vehicle that is registered in this state unless the motor vehicle
conforms to the requirements concerning tinted glass and reflectorized material
of R.C. § 4513.241 and of any applicable rule adopted under that section.
      (2)   No person shall install in or on any motor vehicle, any glass or
other material that fails to conform to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or
of any rule adopted under that section.
      (3)   (a)   No used motor vehicle dealer or new motor vehicle dealer, as
defined in R.C. § 4517.01, shall sell any motor vehicle that fails to conform
to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that
section.
         (b)   No manufacturer, remanufacturer, or distributor, as defined in
R.C. § 4517.01, shall provide to a motor vehicle dealer licensed under R.C.
Chapter 4517 or to any other person, a motor vehicle that fails to conform to
the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that section.
      (4)   No reflectorized materials shall be permitted upon or in any front
windshield, side windows, sidewings, or rear window.
      (5)   This division (B) does not apply to the manufacturer’s tinting or
glazing of motor vehicle windows or windshields that is otherwise in compliance
with or permitted by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard #205.
      (6)   With regard to any side window behind a driver’s seat or any rear
window other than any window on an emergency door, this division (B) does not
apply to any school bus used to transport a child with disabilities pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 3323, whom it is impossible or impractical to transport by regular
school bus in the course of regular route transportation provided by a school
district. As used in this division, CHILD WITH DISABILITIES has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 3323.01.
      (7)   This division (B) does not apply to any school bus that is to be
sold and operated outside the municipality.
      (8)   (a)   This division (B) does not apply to a motor vehicle used by a
law enforcement agency under either of the following circumstances:
            1.   The vehicle does not have distinctive markings of a law
enforcement vehicle but is operated by or on behalf of the law enforcement
agency in an authorized investigation or other activity requiring that the
presence and identity of the vehicle occupants be undisclosed.
            2.   The vehicle primarily is used by the law enforcement canine
unit for transporting a police dog.
         (b)   As used in this division, LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY means a police
department, the office of a sheriff, the State Highway Patrol, a county
prosecuting attorney, or a federal, state, or local governmental body that
enforces criminal laws and that has employees who have a statutory power of
arrest.
(R.C. § 4513.241(C) - (J))
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1),(B)(3)(b) or (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3)(a) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor if the dealer or the dealer’s agent knew of the nonconformity
at the time of sale.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, except that an organization may not be
convicted unless the act of installation was authorized by the board of
directors, trustees, partners, or by a high managerial officer acting on behalf
of the organization, and installation was performed by an employee of the
organization acting within the scope of the person’s employment.
         (b)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section,
whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is liable in a civil action to
the owner of a motor vehicle on which was installed the nonconforming glass or
material for any damages incurred by that person as a result of the
installation of the nonconforming glass or material, costs of maintaining the
civil action, and attorney fees.
         (c)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section, if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of division (B)(2) of this section and the offender is a motor vehicle repair
operator registered under R.C. Chapter 4775 or a motor vehicle dealer licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4517, whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is
subject to a registration or license suspension, as applicable, for a period of
not more than 180 days.
(R.C. § 4513.241(K))
(Prior Code, § 438.235)
Statutory reference:
   Recording and reporting violations, certain court requirements, see R.C. §
4513.241(L)
   Regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-41
§ 74.32 DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 1954, unless the vehicle is equipped with
electrical or mechanical directional signals.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motorcycle or motor-driven cycle
manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1968, unless the vehicle is
equipped with electrical or mechanical directional signals.
   (B)   As used in this section, DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS means an electrical or
mechanical signal device capable of clearly indicating an intention to turn
either to the right or to the left and which shall be visible from both the
front and rear.
   (C)   All mechanical signal devices shall be self-illuminating devices when
in use at the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.261)
§ 74.33 INSTALLATION AND SALE OF SEAT SAFETY BELTS REQUIRED; DEFINITION.
   (A)   As used in this section and in R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the component parts of a seat safety belt
include a belt, anchor attachment assembly, and a buckle or closing device.
   (B)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate any passenger car, as
defined in R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this
state and that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1962, unless
the passenger car is equipped with sufficient anchorage units at the attachment
points for attaching at least two sets of seat safety belts to its front seat.
Such anchorage units at the attachment points shall be of such construction,
design, and strength to support a loop load pull of not less than 4,000 pounds
for each belt.
   (C)   No person shall sell, lease, or rent any passenger car, as defined in
R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this state and
that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1966, unless the
passenger car has installed in its front seat at least two seat safety belt
assemblies.
   (D)   After January 1, 1966, neither any seat safety belt for use in a motor
vehicle nor any component part of any such seat safety belt shall be sold in
this municipality unless the seat safety belt or the component part satisfies
the minimum standard of specifications established by the society of automotive
engineers for automotive seat belts and unless the seat safety belt or
component part is labeled so as to indicate that it meets those minimum
standard specifications.
   (E)   Each sale, lease, or rental in violation of this section constitutes a
separate offense.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.262)
Statutory reference:
   Child restraint systems, regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-37
§ 74.34 REQUIREMENTS FOR EXTRA SIGNAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor truck, bus, or commercial tractor
upon any highway at any time from sunset to sunrise unless there is carried in
such vehicle, except as provided in division (B) of this section, the following
equipment which shall be of the types approved by the Director of
Transportation.
      (1)   At least three flares or three red reflectors or three red electric
lanterns, each of which is capable of being seen and distinguished at a
distance of 500 feet under normal atmospheric conditions at nighttime;
      (2)   At least three red-burning fusees, unless red reflectors or red
electric lanterns are carried;
      (3)   At least two red cloth flags, not less than two inches square, with
standards to support them;
      (4)   The type of red reflectors shall comply with such standards and
specifications in effect on September 16, 1963, or later established by the
Interstate Commerce Commission and must be certified as meeting such standards
by Underwriters Laboratories.
   (B)   No person shall operate at the time and under the conditions stated in
this section any motor vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, unless there is carried in such
vehicle three red electric lanterns or three red reflectors meeting the
requirements stated in division (A) of this section. There shall not be carried
in any such vehicle any flare, fusee, or signal produced by a flame.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any person who operates any motor
vehicle in a work area designated by protection equipment devices that are
displayed and used in accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation under R.C. § 4511.09.
(R.C. § 4513.27)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.35 DISPLAY OF WARNING DEVICES ON DISABLED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any motor truck, bus, commercial tractor, trailer,
semitrailer, or pole trailer is disabled upon any freeway, expressway, thruway
and connecting, entering, or exiting ramps within the municipality, at any time
when lighted lamps are required on vehicles, the operator of such vehicle shall
display the following warning devices upon the highway during the time the
vehicle is so disabled on the highway except as provided in division (B) of
this section:
      (1)   A lighted fusee shall be immediately placed on the roadway at the
traffic side of such vehicle, unless red electric lanterns or red reflectors
are displayed.
      (2)   Within the burning period of the fusee and as promptly as possible,
three lighted flares or pot torches, or three red reflectors or three red
electric lanterns shall be placed on the roadway as follows:
         (a)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet in
advance of the vehicle;
         (b)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet to the
rear of the vehicle, except as provided in this section, each in the center of
the lane of traffic occupied by the disabled vehicle;
         (c)   One at the traffic side of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, is disabled upon a highway at
any time or place mentioned in division (A) of this section, the driver of such
vehicle shall display upon the roadway the following warning devices:
      (1)   One red electric lantern or one red reflector shall be immediately
placed on the roadway at the traffic side of the vehicle;
      (2)   Two other red electric lanterns or two other red reflectors shall
be placed to the front and rear of the vehicle in the same manner prescribed
for flares in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   When a vehicle of a type specified in division (B) of this section is
disabled, the use of flares, fusees, or any signal produced by flame as warning
signals is prohibited.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle of a type referred to in this section is disabled
upon any freeway, expressway, thruway, and connecting, entering, or exiting
ramps within the municipality, at any time when the display of fusees, flares,
red reflectors, or electric lanterns is not required, the operator of such
vehicle shall display two red flags upon the roadway in the lane of traffic
occupied by the disabled vehicle, one at a distance of 40 paces or
approximately 100 feet in advance of the vehicle, and one at a distance of 40
paces or approximately 100 feet to the rear of the vehicle, except as provided
in this section.
   (E)   The flares, fusees, lanterns, red reflectors, and flags to be
displayed as required in this section shall conform with the applicable
requirements of R.C. § 4513.27 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (F)   In the event the vehicle is disabled near a curve, crest of a hill, or
other obstruction of view, the flare, flag, reflector, or lantern in that
direction shall be placed as to afford ample warning to other users of the
highway, but in no case shall it be placed less than 40 paces or approximately
100 feet nor more than 120 paces or approximately 300 feet from the disabled
vehicle.
   (G)   This section does not apply to the operator of any vehicle in a work
area designated by protection equipment devices that are displayed and used in
accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation under
R.C. § 4511.09.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.28)
§ 74.36 REQUIREMENTS FOR VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Any person operating any vehicle transporting explosives upon a
highway shall at all times comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   The vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and on the
rear with the word “EXPLOSIVES” in letters not less than eight inches high, or
there shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than
24 inches square marked with the word “DANGER” in white letters six inches
high, or shall be marked or placarded in accordance with § 177.823 of the
United States Department of Transportation regulations.
      (2)   The vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use, and placed at convenient
points on such vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.29)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
(Prior Code, § 440.04)
§ 74.37 STUDDED TIRES; SEASONAL USE PERMITTED.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, STUDDED TIRE means any tire designed
for use on a vehicle and equipped with metal studs or studs of wear-resisting
material that project beyond the tread of the traction surface of the tire.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, no person
shall operate any motor vehicle other than a public safety vehicle or school
bus that is equipped with studded tires on any street or highway in this
municipality, except during the period extending from the first day of November
of each year through the fifteenth day of April of the succeeding year.
      (2)   A person may operate a motor vehicle that is equipped with
retractable studded tires with the studs retracted at any time of the year, but
shall operate the motor vehicle with the studs extended only as provided in
division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the use of tire chains when there is
snow or ice on the streets or highways where such chains are being used, or the
immediate vicinity thereof.
(R.C. § 5589.081)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
(Prior Code, § 440.07)
§ 74.38 SAFETY INSPECTION DECALS FOR BUSES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      BUS.
         (a)   Means any vehicle used for the transportation of passengers that
meets at least one of the following:
            1.   Was originally designed by the manufacturer to transport more
than 15 passengers, including the driver;
            2.   Either the gross vehicle weight rating or the gross vehicle
weight exceeds 10,000 pounds.
         (b)   The term does not include a church bus as defined in R.C. §
4503.07 or a school bus unless the church bus or school bus is used in the
transportation of passengers by a motor carrier.
         (c)   The term also does not include any of the following:
            1.   Any vehicle operated exclusively on a rail or rails;
            2.   A trolley bus operated by electric power derived from a fixed
overhead wire furnishing local passenger transportation similar to street-
railway service;
            3.   Vehicles owned or leased by government agencies or political
subdivisions.
      MOTOR CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01
(R.C. § 4513.50)
   (B)   Safety inspection decals.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, on and after
July 1, 2001, no person shall operate a bus, nor shall any person being the
owner of a bus or having supervisory responsibility for a bus, permit the
operation of any bus unless the bus displays a valid, current safety inspection
decal issued by the State Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4513.52.
      (2)   For the purpose of complying with the requirements of this section
and R.C. § 4513.52, the owner or other operator of a bus may drive the bus
directly to an inspection site conducted by the State Highway Patrol and
directly back to the person’s place of business without a valid registration
and without displaying a safety inspection decal, provided that no passengers
may occupy the bus during such operation.
(R.C. § 4513.51(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4513.51(D))
§ 74.39 AIR BAGS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AIR BAG. Has the same meaning as in 49 C.F.R. § 579.4, as amended.
      COUNTERFEIT AIR BAG. An air bag displaying a mark identical or similar to
the genuine mark of a motor vehicle manufacturer, without the authorization of
the motor vehicle manufacturer.
      NONFUNCTIONAL AIR BAG. Any of the following:
         (a)   A replacement air bag that has been previously deployed or
damaged;
         (b)   A replacement air bag that has an electrical fault that is
detected by the air bag diagnostic system of a vehicle after the air bag is
installed;
         (c)   A counterfeit air bag, air bag cover, or some other object that
is installed in a vehicle to deceive an owner or operator of the vehicle into
believing that a functional air bag has been installed.
   (B)   No person shall install or reinstall in any motor vehicle a
counterfeit or nonfunctional air bag or any object intended to fulfill the
function of an air bag other than an air bag that was designed in conformance
with or that is regulated by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208
for the make, model, and model year of the vehicle, knowing that the object is
not in accordance with that standard.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly manufacture, import, sell, or offer for sale
any of the following:
      (1)   A counterfeit air bag;
      (2)   A nonfunctional air bag;
      (3)   Any other object that is intended to be installed in a motor
vehicle to fulfill the function of an air bag and that is not in conformance
with Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208 for the make, model, and
model year of the vehicle in which the object is intended to be installed.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly sell, install, or reinstall a device in a
motor vehicle that causes the diagnostic system of a vehicle to inaccurately
indicate that the vehicle is equipped with a functional air bag.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (D) of this section is guilty
of improper replacement of a motor vehicle air bag, a misdemeanor of the first
degree on a first offense. On each subsequent offense, or if the violation
results in serious physical harm to an individual, the person is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Each manufacture, importation, installation, reinstallation, sale,
or offer for sale in violation of this section shall constitute a separate and
distinct violation.
(R.C. § 4549.20)
(Prior Code, § 438.31)
§ 74.40 AIR CLEANER REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate upon any street, alley or other public place any
motor vehicle which is not equipped with a functioning air cleaner, except for
motor vehicles equipped with electronic fuel-injection engines.
(Prior Code, § 438.27)
LOADS
§ 74.50 PERMIT REQUIRED TO EXCEED LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   State regulations.
      (1)   (a)   The municipality, with respect to highways under their
jurisdiction, upon application in writing, shall issue a special regional heavy
hauling permit authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or
combination of vehicles as follows:
            1.   At a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum
specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with
R.C. §§ 4513.01 to 4513.37.
            2.   Upon any highway under the jurisdiction of municipality except
those highways with a condition insufficient to bear the weight of the vehicle
or combination of vehicles as stated in the application.
            3.   Issuance of a special regional heavy hauling permit is subject
to the payment of a fee established by the municipality in accordance with this
section.
         (b)   In circumstances where a person is not eligible to receive a
permit under division (A)(1) of this section, the municipality, with respect to
highways under its jurisdiction, upon application in writing and for good cause
shown, may issue a special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to
operate or move a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight of
vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with R.C. §§ 4513.01 through 4513.37,
upon any highway under its jurisdiction.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 715.22 and 723.01, the holder of a permit
issued by the Director of Transportation under R.C. § 4513.34 may move the
vehicle or combination of vehicles described in the permit on any highway that
is a part of the state highway system when the movement is partly within and
partly without the corporate limits of the municipality. No local authority
shall require any other permit or license or charge any license fee or other
charge against the holder of a permit for the movement of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles on any highway which is a part of the state highway
system. The Ohio Director of Transportation shall not require the holder of a
permit issued by the municipality to obtain a special permit for the movement
of vehicles or combination of vehicles on highways within the jurisdiction of
the municipality. Permits may be issued for any period of time not to exceed
one year, as the local authority in its discretion determines advisable or for
the duration of any public construction project.
      (3)   (a)   The application for a permit issued under this section shall
be in the form that the municipality prescribes. The municipality may prescribe
a permit fee to be imposed and collected when any permit described in this
section is issued. The permit fee may be in an amount sufficient to reimburse
the municipality for the administrative costs incurred in issuing the permit,
and also to cover the cost of normal and expected damage caused to the roadway
or a street or highway structure as the result of the operation of the
nonconforming vehicle or combination of vehicles.
         (b)   For the purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the
Director under R.C. § 4513.34, milk transported in bulk by vehicle is deemed a
nondivisible load.
         (c)   For purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the
Director under R.C. § 4513.34, three or fewer aluminum coils, transported by a
vehicle, are deemed a nondivisible load. The Director shall adopt rules
establishing requirements for an aluminum coil permit that are substantially
similar to the requirements for a steel coil permit under O.A.C. Chapter 5501:
2-1.
      (4)   The municipality shall issue a special regional heavy hauling
permit under division (A)(1) of this section upon application and payment of
the applicable fee. However, the municipality may issue or withhold a special
permit specified in division (A)(2) of this section. If a permit is to be
issued, the municipality may limit or prescribe conditions of operation for the
vehicle and may require the posting of a bond or other security conditioned
upon the sufficiency of the permit fee to compensate for damage caused to the
roadway or a street or highway structure. In addition, the municipality, as a
condition of issuance of an overweight permit, may require the applicant to
develop and enter into a mutual agreement with the municipality to compensate
for or to repair excess damage caused to the roadway by travel under the
permit.
      (5)   Every permit issued under this section shall be carried in the
vehicle or combination of vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to
inspection by any police officer or authorized agent of any authority granting
the permit. No person shall violate any of the terms of a permit.
      (6)   The Director of Transportation may debar an applicant from applying
for a special permit under this section upon a finding based on a reasonable
belief that the applicant has done any of the actions specified in R.C. §
4513.34(F).
      (7)   Notice and procedures for debarment shall be as provided in R.C. §
4513.34(G).
      (8)   (a)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under
this section that relate to gross load limits.
         (b)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to axle load by more than 2,000 pounds per axle or group of
axles.
         (c)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to an approved route except upon order of a law enforcement
officer or authorized agent of the issuing authority.
      (9)   A permit issued by the municipality under this section for the
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles is valid for the purposes of
the vehicle operation in accordance with the conditions and limitations
specified on the permit. Such a permit is voidable by law enforcement only for
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles in violation of the weight,
dimension, or route provisions of the permit. However, a permit is not voidable
for operation in violation of a route provision of a permit if the operation is
upon the order of a law enforcement officer.
(R.C. § 4513.34)
   (B)   Penalty. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
   (C)   Local streets. No person shall operate a vehicle exceeding a size as
specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity
with R.C. §§ 4513.01 through 4513.37, or exceeding a gross weight of five tons,
upon any street in the municipality other than state routes and county roads,
except those local streets designated as a truck route and marked as such by
appropriate traffic signs, and except when such operation is necessary to load
or unload property, to go to or from the usual place of storage of such vehicle
or to perform any other legitimate business or act other than passage through
the municipality. Operators of vehicles so deviating from either a state route
or a designated truck route within the municipality shall confine such
deviation to that required in order to accomplish the purpose of the departure.
On county roads, Council or other duly designated local authority shall
establish reasonable weight limits commensurate with the construction and
material specifications for such roads and the load resistance of such roads as
determined by the County Engineer. County roads shall be posted with signs
indicating such weight limits.
   (D)   Local permit and conditions. Upon application and for good cause, the
Police Chief may issue a local permit authorizing an applicant to move an
oversize or overweight vehicle or combination of vehicles upon local streets
and highways.
      (1)   No permittee shall be required to obtain a special permit from the
Ohio Director of Transportation for the movement of the vehicle or combination
of vehicles on streets or highways under local jurisdiction. However, the
approval of the Ohio Director of Transportation shall be required for movement
upon state routes as provided in division (A) of this section.
      (2)   The Police Chief may grant a permit for a single or round trip, or
for such period of time, not to exceed one year, as the Police Chief in his or
her discretion deems advisable, or for the duration of any construction
project. The Police Chief may limit or prescribe terms or conditions of
operation for such vehicle or combination of vehicles by designating the route,
hours, speed or such other restrictions as may be necessary for the
preservation of the public peace, property, health and safety. The Police Chief
may require the posting of bond or other security necessary to compensate for
any damage to a roadway or road structure.
      (3)   For each such permit, the Police Chief shall charge $25, and for
each hour of time or any part thereof spent by the Police Department in
supervising the movement of such vehicle, the applicant shall pay the sum of
$50.
      (4)   Except as provided in divisions (A) and (B) of this section,
streets and highways shall be posted with signs indicating “no thru trucks -
gross weight 5 tons” or words of similar import to inform drivers of the
limitations imposed by this section. No driver shall disobey the instructions
indicated on any such sign.
      (5)   Violation of any of the limitations, terms or conditions of the
permit granted by the Police Chief shall be cause for immediate revocation or
suspension of such permit and denial of request for any future permit. Such
violation shall also subject the violator to the penalties prescribed by §
70.99.
   (E)   Authority of Mayor. Whenever, in the judgment of the Mayor, any street
or highway or part thereof would be injured or damaged by general use of
vehicles having solid tires or vehicles exceeding in gross weight or in weight
per inch of tire width the limits established in divisions (A), (C) and (D) of
this section, he or she shall erect appropriate traffic signs prohibiting the
operation of vehicles having solid tires, or indicating and designating such
weight limits, and no person shall operate over any such street or highway or
part thereof any vehicle having solid tires or exceeding such weight limits.
(Prior Code, § 440.01) (Ord. 260, passed 4-1-1957)
Statutory reference:
   Overweight or oversized vehicles, state permit regulations, see O.A.C.
Chapter 5501:2-1
§ 74.51 LIMITATION OF LOAD EXTENSION ON LEFT SIDE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on a highway with any load
carried on the vehicle which extends more than six inches beyond the line of
the fenders on the vehicle’s left side.
(R.C. § 4513.30)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
(Prior Code, § 438.24)
§ 74.52 ALL LOADS SHALL BE PROPERLY SECURED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the vehicle
is so constructed, loaded, or covered as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand
or other substances may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or
water or other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or
maintaining the roadway.
   (B)   Except for a farm vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials or a rubbish vehicle in the process of
acquiring its load, no vehicle loaded with garbage, swill, cans, bottles, waste
paper, ashes, refuse, trash, rubbish, waste, wire, paper, cartons, boxes,
glass, solid waste, or any other material of an unsanitary nature that is
susceptible to blowing or bouncing from a moving vehicle shall be driven or
moved on any highway unless the load is covered with a sufficient cover to
prevent the load or any part of the load from spilling onto the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.31)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
(Prior Code, § 440.06)
§ 74.53 TOWING REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTION TO SIZE AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   When one vehicle is towing another vehicle, the drawbar or other
connection shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed
thereby, and the drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one
vehicle to the other, except the connection between any two vehicles
transporting poles, pipe, machinery, or other objects of structural nature
which cannot readily be dismembered.
      (2)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists only
of a chain, rope, or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a
white flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.
      (3)   In addition to such drawbar or other connection, each trailer and
each semitrailer which is not connected to a commercial tractor by means of a
fifth wheel shall be coupled with stay chains or cables to the vehicle by which
it is being drawn. These chains or cables shall be of sufficient size and
strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle in
case the drawbar or other connection should break or become disengaged. In case
of a loaded pole trailer, the connecting pole to the drawing vehicle shall be
coupled to the drawing vehicle with stay chains or cables of sufficient size
and strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle.
      (4)   Every trailer or semitrailer, except pole and cable trailers and
pole and cable dollies operated by a public utility as defined in R.C. §
5727.01, shall be equipped with a coupling device which shall be so designed
and constructed that the trailer will follow substantially in the path of the
vehicle drawing it, without whipping or swerving from side to side. Vehicles
used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production materials
between a local place of storage and supply and the farm, when drawn or towed
on a street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less, and vehicles
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per
hour or less, shall have a drawbar or other connection, including the hitch
mounted on the towing vehicle, which shall be of sufficient strength to pull
all the weight towed thereby. Only one such vehicle used to transport
agricultural produce or agricultural production materials as provided in this
section may be towed or drawn at one time except as follows:
         (a)   An agricultural tractor may tow or draw more than one such
vehicle;
         (b)   A pickup truck or straight truck designed by the manufacturer to
carry a load of not less than one-half ton and not more than two tons may tow
or draw not more than two such vehicles that are being used to transport
agricultural produce from the farm to a local place of storage. No vehicle
being so towed by such a pickup truck or straight truck shall be considered to
be a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.32)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
   (C)   Exception to size and weight restrictions.
      (1)   The size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter
5577 do not apply to a any of the following:
         (a)   A person who is engaged in the initial towing or removal of a
wrecked or disabled motor vehicle from the site of an emergency on a public
highway where the vehicle became wrecked or disabled to the nearest site where
the vehicle can be brought into conformance with the requirements of this
chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577, to the nearest storage facility, or to the
nearest qualified repair facility;
         (b)   A person who is en route to the site of an emergency on a public
highway to remove a wrecked or disabled motor vehicle;
         (c)   A person who is returning from delivering a wrecked or disabled
motor vehicle to a site, storage facility, or repair facility as specified in
division (C)(1)(a) of this section.
      (2)   Any subsequent towing of a wrecked or disabled vehicle shall comply
with the size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577.
      (3)   No court shall impose any penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99 or
the civil liability established in R.C. § 5577.12 upon a person who is
operating a vehicle in the manner described in division (C)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 5577.15)
(Prior Code, § 440.05)
§ 74.54 WEIGHING OF VEHICLE; REMOVAL OF EXCESS LOAD.
   (A)   Any police officer having reason to believe that the weight of a
vehicle and its load is unlawful may require the driver of the vehicle to stop
and submit to a weighing of it by means of a compact, self-contained, portable,
sealed scale specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways; a sealed scale permanently installed in a fixed location, having a
load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of
highway vehicles; a sealed scale, permanently installed in a fixed location,
having a load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the combined
load of all wheels on a single axle or on successive axles of a highway
vehicle; or a sealed scale adapted to weighing highway vehicles, loaded or
unloaded.
   (B)   The driver of the vehicle shall, if necessary, be directed to proceed
to the nearest available sealed scales to accomplish the weighing, provided the
scales are within three miles of the point where the vehicle is stopped.
   (C)   Any vehicle stopped in accordance with this section may be held by the
police officer for a reasonable time only to accomplish the weighing as
prescribed by this section.
   (D)   All scales used in determining the lawful weight of a vehicle and its
load shall be annually compared by a municipal, county or state sealer with the
state standards or standards approved by the state, and the scales shall not be
sealed if they do not conform to the state standards or standards approved by
the state.
   (E)   At each end of a permanently installed scale, there shall be a
straight approach in the same plane as the platform, of sufficient length and
width to insure the level positioning of vehicles during weight determinations.
During determination of weight by compact, self-contained, portable, sealed
scales, specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways, they shall always be used on a level terrain of sufficient length and
width to accommodate the entire vehicle being weighed. Such terrain shall be
level, or if not level, it shall be of such elevation that the difference in
elevation between the wheels on any one axle does not exceed two inches and the
difference in elevation between axles being weighed does not exceed one-quarter
inch per foot of the distance between such axles.
   (F)   In all determinations of all weights, except gross weight, by compact,
self-contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to determining the
wheel loads of vehicles on highways, all successive axles, 12 feet or less
apart, shall be weighed simultaneously by placing one such scale under the
outside wheel of each such axle. In determinations of gross weight by the use
of compact, self-contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to
determining the wheel loads of vehicles on highways, all axles shall be weighed
simultaneously by placing one such scale under the outside wheel of each axle.
   (G)   Whenever an officer, upon weighing a vehicle and load, determines that
the weight is unlawful, he or she may require the driver to stop the vehicle in
a suitable place and remain standing until such portion of the load is removed
as is necessary to reduce the weight of the vehicle to the limit permitted
under R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.14 and this chapter.
(R.C. § 4513.33)
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of weight limits, approval of Director required, see R.C. §
4513.33
§ 74.55 OPERATION OF VEHICLE EXCEEDING WEIGHT LIMITS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move a traction engine, steam roller, or
other vehicle, load, object or structure, whether propelled by muscular or
motor power, over or upon the improved public streets, highways, bridges, or
culverts in this municipality, that weighs in excess of the weights prescribed
in this subchapter or R.C. §§ 5577.01 et seq., unless the person has been
issued a permit under R.C. § 4513.34, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. The prohibition in this section applies regardless of whether the
weight is moved upon wheels, rollers, or otherwise. Any weight determination
shall include the weight of the vehicle, object, structure, contrivance, and
load.
(R.C. § 5577.02)
   (B)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of this section shall be fined
$80 for the first 2,000 pounds, or fraction thereof, of overload; for overloads
in excess of 2,000 pounds, but not in excess of 5,000 pounds, such person shall
be fined $100, and in addition thereto $1 per 100 pounds of overload; for
overloads in excess of 5,000 pounds but not in excess of 10,000 pounds, such
person shall be fined $130, and in addition thereto $2 per 100 pounds of
overload, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. For all overloads in
excess of 10,000 pounds, such person shall be fined $160, and in addition
thereto $3 per 100 pounds of overload, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or
both. Whoever violates the weight provisions of vehicle and load relating to
gross load limits shall be fined not less than $100. No penalty prescribed in
this division (B)(2) shall be imposed on any vehicle combination if the
overload on any one axle does not exceed 1,000 pounds, and if the immediately
preceding or following axle, excepting the front axle of the vehicle
combination, is underloaded by the same or greater amount. For purposes of this
division (B)(2), two axles on one vehicle less than eight feet apart shall be
considered as one axle.
(R.C. § 5577.99(A))
§ 74.56 LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   Weight of load; width of tire. No person, firm or corporation shall
transport over the improved public streets, alleys, intercounty highways, state
highways, bridges or culverts in this municipality, in any vehicle propelled by
muscular, motor or other power, any burden, including weight of vehicle and
load, greater than the following:
      (1)   (a)   In vehicles having metal tires three inches or less in width,
a load of 500 pounds for each inch of the total width of the tire on all
wheels;
         (b)   When the tires on such vehicles exceed three inches in width, an
additional load of 800 pounds shall be permitted for each inch by which the
total width of the tires on all wheels exceeds 12 inches.
      (2)   In vehicles having tires of rubber or other similar substance, for
each inch of the total width of tires on all wheels, as follows:
 
Tire Width (in inches) Load Limit (in pounds)
3.5                    450
6 and over             650
 
      (3)   The total width of tires on all wheels shall be, in the case of
solid tires of rubber or other similar substance, the actual width in inches of
all such tires between the flanges at the base of the tires, but in no event
shall that portion of tire coming in contact with the road surface be less than
two-thirds the width so measured between the flanges.
      (4)   In the case of pneumatic tires, of rubber or other similar
substance, the total width of tires on all wheels shall be the actual width of
all such tires, measured at the widest portion thereof when inflated and not
bearing a load.
      (5)   In no event shall the load, including the proportionate weight of
vehicle that can be concentrated on any wheel, exceed 650 pounds to each inch
in width of the tread as defined in this division (A) for solid tires, or each
inch in the actual diameter of pneumatic tires measured when inflated and not
bearing a load.
(R.C. § 5577.03)
   (B)   Vehicles with pneumatic tires, load limits.
      (1)   The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of any vehicle, load,
object or structure operated or moved upon improved public highways, streets,
bridges or culverts shall not exceed 650 pounds per inch width of pneumatic
tire, measured as prescribed by division (A) of this section.
      (2)   The weight of the vehicle and load imposed upon a road surface that
is part of the interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not
exceed any of the following weight limitations:
         (a)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds;
         (b)   On any tandem axle, 34,000 pounds;
         (c)   On any two or more consecutive axles, the maximum weight as
determined by application of the formula provided in division (B)(3) of this
section.
      (3)   (a)   For purposes of division (B)(2)(c) of this section, the
maximum gross weight on any two or more consecutive axles shall be determined
by application of the following formula: W = 500[(LN/–1) + 12N + 36]
         (b)   In this formula, W equals the overall gross weight on any group
of two or more consecutive axles to the nearest 500 pounds, L equals the
distance in rounded whole feet between the extreme of any group of two or more
consecutive axles, and N equals the number of axles in the group under
consideration. However, two consecutive sets of tandem axles may carry a gross
load of 34,000 pounds each, provided the overall distance between the first and
last axles of such consecutive sets of tandem axles is 36 feet or more.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (B)(9) of this section, the weight
of vehicle and load imposed upon a road surface that is not part of the
interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not exceed any of the
following weight limitations:
         (a)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds.
         (b)   On any two successive axles:
            1.   Spaced four feet or less apart, and weighed simultaneously,
24,000 pounds;
            2.   Spaced more than four feet apart, and weighed simultaneously,
34,000 pounds, plus 1,000 pounds per foot or fraction thereof, over four feet,
not to exceed 40,000 pounds.
         (c)   On any three successive load-bearing axles designed to equalize
the load between such axles and spaced so that each such axle of the three-axle
group is more than four feet from the next axle in the three-axle group and so
that the spacing between the first axle and the third axle in the three-axle
group is no more than nine feet, and with such load-bearing three-axle group
weighed simultaneously as a unit:
            1.   A weight of 48,000 pounds, with the total weight of the
vehicle and load not exceeding 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900 pounds for
each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the
vehicle;
            2.   As an alternative to division (B)(4)(c)1. of this section,
42,500 pounds, if part of a six-axle vehicle combination with at least 20 feet
of spacing between the front axle and rearmost axle, with the total weight of
the vehicle and load not exceeding 54,000 pounds plus an additional 600 pounds
per each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the
vehicle.
         (d)   The total weight of the vehicle and load utilizing any
combination of axles, other than as provided for three-axle groups in division
(B)(4) of this section, shall not exceed 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900
pounds for each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of
the vehicle.
      (5)   Notwithstanding divisions (B)(2) and (B)(4) of this section, the
maximum overall gross weight of a vehicle and load imposed upon the road
surface shall not exceed 80,000 pounds.
      (6)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a vehicle is
towing another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection shall be of a length
such as will limit the spacing between nearest axles of the respective vehicles
to a distance not in excess of 12.5 feet.
      (7)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section, TANDEM AXLE means two
or more consecutive axles whose centers may be included between parallel
transverse vertical planes spaced more than 40 inches but not more than 96
inches apart, extending across the full width of the vehicle.
      (8)   This division (B) does not apply to passenger bus type vehicles
operated by a regional transit authority pursuant to R.C. §§ 306.30 through
306.54.
      (9)   Either division (B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section applies to the
weight of a vehicle and its load imposed upon any road surface that is not a
part of the interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires. As between
divisions (B)(2) and (B)(4) of this section, only the division that yields the
highest total gross vehicle weight limit shall be applied to any such vehicle.
Once that division has been determined, only the limits contained in the
subdivisions of that division shall apply to that vehicle.
(R.C. § 5577.04)
   (C)   Axle and wheel load, gross weights and towing connection length for
solid rubber tires.
      (1)   No vehicle, load, object or structure having a maximum axle load
greater than 16,000 pounds when such vehicle is equipped with solid rubber
tires shall be operated or moved upon the improved public highways, streets,
bridges or culverts. The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of such vehicle
shall not exceed 650 pounds per inch width of tire, measured as prescribed by
division (A) of this section, nor shall any solid tire or rubber or other
resilient material, on any wheel of any such vehicle, be less than one inch
thick when measure from the top of the flanges of the tire channel.
      (2)   The weight of vehicle and load imposed upon the road surface by any
two successive axles, spaces four feet or less apart, shall not exceed 19,000
pounds for solid tires; or by any two successive axles spaced more than four
feet but less than eight feet apart, shall not exceed 24,000 pounds for solid
tires; or by any two successive axles, spaced eight feet or more apart, shall
not exceed 28,000 pounds for solid tires; nor shall the total weight of vehicle
and load exceed, for solid rubber tires, 28,000 pounds plus an additional 600
pounds for each foot or fraction thereof of spacing between the front axle and
the rear-most axle of the vehicle; nor shall the weight of the vehicle and load
imposed upon the road surface by any vehicle equipped with solid rubber tires
exceed 80% of the permissible weight of vehicle and load as provided for
pneumatic tires.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a vehicle is
towing another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection shall be of a length
such as will limit the spacing between the nearest axles of the respective
vehicles to a distance not in excess of 12.5 feet. If the provisions of this
division (C) are held to exceed the weight limitations or other provisions set
forth in the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1958, 72 Stat. 902, 23 U.S.C. § 127,
this division (C) shall become null and void to the extent of such
inconsistency.
(R.C. § 5577.041)
   (D)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C))
      (2)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of this section shall be
punished as set forth in §
74.55(B).
   (E)   Modification of load limits. The load limits established in this
section may be modified or waived upon special permission granted as provided
in R.C. § 4513.34 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
§ 74.57 MAXIMUM WIDTH, HEIGHT, AND LENGTH.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be operated upon the public highways, streets,
bridges, and culverts within this municipality whose dimensions exceed those
specified in this section.
   (B)   No such vehicle shall have a width:
      (1)   In excess of 104 inches for passenger bus type vehicles operated
exclusively within the municipality.
      (2)   In excess of 102 inches, excluding such safety devices as are
required by law, for passenger bus type vehicles operated over freeways, and
such other state roads with minimum pavement widths of 22 feet, except those
roads or portions of roads over which operation of 102-inch buses is prohibited
by order of the Director of Transportation.
      (3)   In excess of 132 inches for traction engines.
      (4)   In excess of 102 inches for recreational vehicles, excluding safety
devices and retracted awnings and other appurtenances of six inches or less in
width and except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch
recreational vehicles on designated state highways or portions of highways.
      (5)   In excess of 102 inches, including load, for all other vehicles,
except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch vehicles on
such state highways or portions of state highways as the Director designates.
   (C)   No such vehicle shall have a length:
      (1)   In excess of 66 feet for passenger bus type vehicles and
articulated passenger bus type vehicles operated by a regional transit
authority pursuant to R.C. §§ 306.30 through 306.54.
      (2)   In excess of 45 feet for all other passenger bus type vehicles.
      (3)   In excess of 53 feet for any semitrailer when operated in a
commercial tractor-semitrailer combination, with or without load, except that
the Director may prohibit the operation of any such commercial tractor-
semitrailer combination on such state highways or portions of state highways as
the Director designates.
      (4)   In excess of 28.5 feet for any semitrailer or trailer when operated
in a commercial tractor- semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-semitrailer-
semitrailer combination, except that the Director may prohibit the operation of
any such commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-
semitrailer-semitrailer combination on such state highways or portions of state
highways as the Director designates.
      (5)   (a)   In excess of 97 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle
transporter combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle
transporter combinations when operated on any interstate, United States route,
or state route, including reasonable access travel on all other roadways for a
distance not to exceed one road mile from any interstate, United States route,
or state route, not to exceed three saddlemounted vehicles, but which may
include one fullmount;
         (b)   In excess of 75 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle
transporter combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle
transporter combinations when operated on any roadway not designated as an
interstate, United States route, or state route, not to exceed three
saddlemounted vehicles, but which may include one fullmount.
      (6)   In excess of 65 feet for any other combination of vehicles coupled
together, with or without load, except as provided in division (C)(3) and (C)
(4), and in division (E) below.
      (7)   In excess of 45 feet for recreational vehicles.
      (8)   In excess of 50 feet for all other vehicles, except trailers and
semitrailers, with or without load.
   (D)   No such vehicle shall have a height in excess of 13.5 feet, with or
without load.
   (E)   An automobile transporter or boat transporter shall be allowed a
length of 65 feet, and a stinger- steered automobile transporter or stinger-
steered boat transporter shall be allowed a length of 75 feet, except that the
load thereon may extend no more than four feet beyond the rear of such vehicles
and may extend no more than three feet beyond the front of such vehicles, and
except further that the Director may prohibit the operation of a stinger-
steered automobile transporter, stinger-steered boat transporter, or a B-train
assembly on any state highway or portion of any state highway that the Director
designates.
   (F)   (1)   The widths prescribed in division (B) of this section shall not
include side mirrors, turn signal lamps, marker lamps, handholds for cab entry
and egress, flexible fender extensions, mud flaps, splash and spray suppressant
devices, and load-induced tire bulge.
      (2)   The widths prescribed in division (B)(5) of this section shall not
include automatic covering devices, tarp and tarp hardware, and tiedown
assemblies, provided these safety devices do not extend more than three inches
from either side of the vehicle.
      (3)   The lengths prescribed in divisions (C)(2) through (C)(7) shall not
include safety devices, bumpers attached to the front or rear of such bus or
combination, non-property carrying devices or components that do not extend
more than 24 inches beyond the rear of the vehicle and are needed for loading
or unloading, B-train assembly used between the first and second semitrailer of
a commercial tractor-semitrailer-semitrailer combination, energy conservation
devices as provided in any regulations adopted by the Secretary of the United
States Department of Transportation, or any noncargo-carrying refrigerator
equipment attached to the front of trailers and semitrailers. In special cases,
vehicles that dimensions exceed those prescribed by this section may operate in
accordance with rules adopted by the Director.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to fire engines, fire trucks, or
other vehicles or apparatus belonging to the municipality or to the volunteer
fire department thereof or used by such department in the discharge of its
functions. This section does not apply to vehicles and pole trailers used in
the transportation of wooden and metal poles, nor to the transportation of
pipes or well-drilling equipment, nor to farm machinery and equipment.
      (2)   The owner or operator of any vehicle, machinery, or equipment not
specifically enumerated in this section but the dimensions of which exceed the
dimensions provided by this section, when operating the same on the highways
and streets of the municipality, shall comply with the rules of the Director
governing such movement. Any person adversely affected shall have the same
right of appeal as provided in R.C. Chapter 119.
      (3)   This section does not require the municipality or any railroad or
other private corporation to provide sufficient vertical clearance to permit
the operation of such vehicle, or to make any changes in or about existing
structures now crossing streets, roads, and other public thoroughfares.
   (H)   As used in this section, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 5577.05)
   (I)   No person shall violate any rule or regulation promulgated by the
Director of Transportation in accordance with R.C. § 5577.05.
(R.C. § 5577.06)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C))
(Prior Code, § 440.02)
§ 74.58 STATEMENT OF GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT.
   (A)   No person shall issue or aid in issuing any bill of lading or other
document of like nature in lieu thereof, which bill or document is to accompany
a shipment of goods or property by truck, trailer, semitrailer, commercial
tractor, or any other commercial vehicle used for the transportation of
property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons, with intent
to defraud by misrepresentation thereon the weight of such goods of property to
be so transported.
   (B)   Any driver or operator of a commercial car, trailer or semitrailer may
obtain from any person, firm, partnership, corporation or association,
including the owner, lessee, or operator of such commercial car, trailer or
semitrailer, owning and operating sealed scales in this state, a written
“statement of gross vehicle weight” showing the gross weight of the vehicle
including the cargo on the vehicle, the name and address of the person issuing
the statement, and the date and place where the vehicle and its cargo were
weighed. The driver or operator of the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer
shall retain such statement of gross vehicle weight on his or her person, and
any law enforcement officer may request that such driver or operator exhibit it
to him or her. If, upon examining the statement of gross vehicle weight, the
law enforcement officer has reason to believe that the information contained
therein is correct in every respect, he or she shall indorse it with his or her
name and the date and place where it was exhibited to him or her. The law
enforcement officer may then permit such driver or operator to proceed without
weighing by a law enforcement officer. No person shall willfully issue a
written statement of gross vehicle weight and knowingly give any false
information in such statement.
(R.C. § 5577.10)
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be fined not more
than $5,000 or imprisoned for not less than 30 days nor more than six months,
or both.
(R.C. § 5577.99(D))
§ 74.59 WHEEL PROTECTORS REQUIRED ON HEAVY COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall drive or operate, or cause to be driven or operated,
any commercial car, trailer, or semitrailer, used for the transportation of
goods or property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons,
upon the public highways, streets, bridges, and culverts within the
municipality, unless such vehicle is equipped with suitable metal protectors or
substantial flexible flaps on the rearmost wheels of such vehicle or
combination of vehicles to prevent, as far as practicable, the wheels from
throwing dirt, water, or other materials on the windshields of following
vehicles. Such protectors or flaps shall have a ground clearance of not more
than one-third of the distance from the center of the rearmost axle to the
center of the flaps under any conditions of loading of the vehicle, and they
shall be at least as wide as the tires they are protecting. If the vehicle is
so designed and constructed that such requirements are accomplished by means of
fenders, body construction, or other means of enclosure, then no such
protectors or flaps are required. Rear wheels not covered at the top by
fenders, bodies, or other parts of the vehicle shall be covered at the top by
protective means extending at least to the center line of the rearmost axle.
(R.C. § 5577.11)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $25.
(R.C. § 5577.99(E))
(Prior Code, § 440.03)
§ 74.60 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES; PROSECUTION; APPLICATION OF MONEYS.
   Any person violating any law relating to or regulating the use of the
improved public roads shall be liable for all damage resulting to any such
street, highway, bridge or culvert by reason of such violation. In case of any
injury to such street, highway, bridge or culvert, such damages shall be
collected by civil action for recovery of such damages brought by the proper
authorities of the municipality. All damages collected under this section shall
be paid into the treasury of the municipality and credited to any fund for the
repairs of streets, highways, roads, bridges or culverts.
(R.C. § 5577.12)
§ 74.61 WEIGHT EXCEPTIONS FOR CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      COAL TRUCK. Means a truck transporting coal from the site where it is
mined when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      FARM COMMODITIES. Includes livestock, bulk milk, corn, soybeans, tobacco
and wheat.
      FARM MACHINERY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      FARM TRUCK. Means a truck used in the transportation from a farm of farm
commodities when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      LOG TRUCK. Means a truck used in the transportation of timber from the
site of its cutting when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      SOLID WASTE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3743.01.
      SOLID WASTE HAUL VEHICLE. Means a vehicle hauling solid waste for which a
bill of lading has not been issued.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the following vehicles under the
described conditions may exceed by no more than 7.5% the weight provisions of
R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, and no penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be imposed:
         (a)   A coal truck transporting coal, from the place of production to
the first point of delivery where title to the coal is transferred;
         (b)   A farm truck or farm machinery transporting farm commodities,
from the place of production to the first point of delivery where the
commodities are weighed and title to the commodities is transferred;
         (c)   A log truck transporting timber, from the site of its cutting to
the first point of delivery where the timber is transferred;
         (d)   A solid waste haul vehicle hauling solid waste, from the place
of production to the first point of delivery where the solid waste is disposed
of or title to the solid waste is transferred.
      (2)   In addition, if any of the vehicles listed in division (B)(1) of
this section and operated under the conditions described in that division does
not exceed by more than 7.5% the gross vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§
5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
does not exceed the wheel or axle-load limits of those sections by more than
7.5%, no penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, for a wheel or axle overload shall be imposed.
   (C)   If any of the vehicles listed in division (B)(1) of this section and
operated under the conditions described in that division exceeds the weight
provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, by more than the percentage allowance of either divisions
(B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section, both of the following apply without regard to
the allowance provided by this division (B) of this section:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   (1)   Division (B) of this section does not apply to the operation of
a farm truck, log truck, or farm machinery transporting farm commodities during
the months of February and March.
      (2)   Regardless of when the operation occurs, division (B) of this
section does not apply to the operation of a vehicle on either of the
following:
         (a)   A highway that is part of the interstate system;
         (b)   A highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.042)
   (E)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the following vehicles under the described
conditions may exceed by no more than 7.5% the weight provisions of R.C. §§
5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and no
penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall be imposed:
      (1)   A surface mining truck transporting minerals from the place where
the minerals are loaded to any of the following:
         (a)   The construction site where the minerals are discharged;
         (b)   The place where title to the minerals is transferred;
         (c)   The place of processing.
      (2)   A vehicle transporting hot mix asphalt material from the place
where the material is first mixed to the paving site where the material is
discharged;
      (3)   A vehicle transporting concrete from the place where the material
is first mixed to the site where the material is discharged;
      (4)   A vehicle transporting manure, turf, sod, or silage from the site
where the material is first produced to the first place of delivery;
      (5)   A vehicle transporting chips, sawdust, mulch, bark, pulpwood,
biomass, or firewood from the site where the product is first produced or
harvested to first point where the product is transferred.
   (F)   In addition, if any of the vehicles listed in division (E) of this
section and operated under the conditions described in that division do not
exceed by more than 7.5% the gross vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01
to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and do not
exceed the wheel or axle-load limits of those sections by more than 7.5%, no
penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, for a wheel or axle overload shall be imposed.
   (G)   If any of the vehicles listed in division (E) of this section and
operated under the conditions described in that division exceed the weight
provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, by more than the percentage allowance of either divisions
(E) or (F) of this section, both of the following apply without regard to the
allowance provided by division (E) or (F) of this section:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (H)   Divisions (E) and (F) of this section do not apply to the operation of
a vehicle listed in division (E) of this section on either of the following:
      (1)   A highway that is part of the interstate system;
      (2)   A highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.043)
   (I)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a vehicle fueled solely by compressed natural
gas or liquid natural gas may exceed by not more than 2,000 pounds the gross
vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or the axle load limits of those sections.
   (J)   If a vehicle described in division (I) of this section exceeds the
weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, by more than the allowance provided for in
division (I) of this section, both of the following apply:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (K)   Division (I) of this section does not apply to the operation of a
vehicle on a highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.044)
   (L)   Fire engine weight exemptions. 
      (1)   As used in this division (L), FIRE ENGINE means a fire engine, fire
truck, or other vehicle or apparatus belonging to or used by any municipal,
township, or volunteer fire department, while in the discharge of its
functions.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a person may do both of the following without a
written permit issued under R.C. § 4513.34, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance:
         (a)   Operate a two-axle fire engine, with a front axle maximum weight
of 24,000 pounds and a rear axle maximum weight of 33,500 pounds and a minimum
wheelbase of 15 feet, on all roadways in the state;
         (b)   Operate a fire engine with a maximum gross vehicle weight of
86,000 pounds on the interstate highway system and within one road mile of an
interstate highway system entrance or exit ramp.
      (3)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4513.34, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, for any fire engine that requires a permit, the Ohio
Director of Transportation or local authority shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Issue the permit at no cost to the municipal, township, or
volunteer fire department;
         (b)   Issue a permit that expires five years after the date of
issuance.
(R.C. § 5577.045)
§ 74.62 TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   It is hereby determined that the following streets are unsuitable for
truck travel in the village, due to their width, access, neighborhood and
safety needs.
      (1)   Western Drive.
      (2)   Court Street.
      (3)   West Oak Street.
   (B)   The Village Administrator and the Village Police Chief are hereby
authorized to erect signs prohibiting trucks over five tons in weight from
traveling on or parking on these streets.
   (C)   No person shall operate or park a truck over five tons in weight on
Western Drive, Court Street or West Oak Street in the village.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 440.11) (Ord. 619, passed 10-21-1996)
§ 74.63 ROUTE AND LOAD INFORMATION.
   Drivers of vehicles described in this chapter are required, upon request by
a police officer, to give full and true information as to the route they are
following and the name of the consignor and consignee and place of delivery or
removal and the location of any consignment being hauled or goods being
removed, and upon a designation by such police officer of a route to be
followed, shall immediately adopt and pursue the route.
(Prior Code, § 440.08)
§ 74.64 SHIFTING LOAD; LOOSE LOADS.
   (A)   In addition to any other lawful requirements of load distribution, no
person shall operate any vehicle upon a street or highway unless the vehicle is
so laden as to prevent its contents from shifting or otherwise unbalancing the
vehicle to such an extent as to interfere with the safe operation of the same.
   (B)   No motor vehicle or trailer shall be driven unless the tailboard or
tailgate, tarpaulins, chains (except ground or contact chains), ropes, stakes,
poles and the like, or any part of the load, are securely fastened to prevent
dangling, flapping, swinging or falling from the side, end or top of the load
or body. All projecting cargo shall be properly guarded by a red flag or cloth
or a red light or lantern as required by R.C. § 4513.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 440.09)
CHAPTER 75: BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
75.01   Bicycles; application of Title VII
   
75.02   Operation of motorized bicycle
   
75.03   Electric bicycles
   
75.04   Rules for bicycles, motorcycles, and snowmobiles
   
75.05   Prohibition against attaching bicycles and sleds to vehicles
   
75.06   Riding bicycles; motorcycles abreast
   
75.07   Equipment of bicycles
   
75.08   Riding bicycles upon sidewalks
   
75.09   Safe riding regulations for bicycles
   
75.10   Parking; locks
   
75.11   Parent’s responsibility
   
75.12   Suspension of riding privileges; impounding of bicycles
Snowmobiles, Off-Highway Motorcycles, and All-Purpose Vehicles
   
75.25   Definitions
   
75.26   Equipment
   
75.27   Code application; prohibited operation
   
75.28   Permitted operation
   
75.29   Licensing requirements of operator
   
75.30   Maintenance of vehicles for hire
   
75.31   Accident reports
   
75.32   Impounding of vehicle
   
75.33   Local control within police power
   
75.34   Registration of vehicles
   
75.35   Certificate of title; prohibitions
Golf Carts
   
75.50   Definition
   
75.51   Equipment
   
75.52   Driver restriction
   
75.53   Insurance
   
75.54   Cart inspection
   
75.55   Title and license plates
 
   
75.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Bicycle regulations to be consistent with state law, see R.C. § 4511.07(A)
(8)
   Protective eye devices required for motorcycle operators and passengers;
helmets required for
    persons under 18 years of age, see O.A.C. § 4501-17-01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 75.01 BICYCLES; APPLICATION OF TITLE VII.
   (A)   The provisions of this title that are applicable to bicycles and
electric bicycles apply whenever a bicycle or electric bicycle is operated upon
any highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, a bicycle operator
or electric bicycle operator who violates any provisions of this title
described in division (A) of this section that is applicable to bicycles or
electric bicycles may be issued a ticket, citation, or summons by a law
enforcement officer for the violation in the same manner as the operator of a
motor vehicle would be cited for the same violation. A person who commits any
such violation while operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not have any
points assessed against the person’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or probationary license under R.C. §
4510.036.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, in the case of a
violation of any provision of this title described in division (A) of this
section by a bicycle operator, electric bicycle operator, or motor vehicle
operator when the trier of fact finds that the violation by the motor vehicle
operator endangered the lives of bicycle riders or electric bicycle riders at
the time of the violation, the court, notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio
Revised Code to the contrary, may require the bicycle operator, electric
bicycle operator, or motor vehicle operator to take and successfully complete a
bicycling skills course approved by the court in addition to or in lieu of any
penalty otherwise prescribed by this Traffic Code or the Ohio Revised Code for
that violation.
   (D)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to violations of
R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4511.52)
(Prior Code, § 474.01)
§ 75.02 OPERATION OF MOTORIZED BICYCLE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking, unless all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person is 14 or 15 years of age and holds a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license issued after the person has passed the test provided
for in this section, or the person is 16 years of age or older and holds either
a valid commercial driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or a
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid motorized bicycle
license issued after the person has passed the test provided for in this
section, except that if a person is 16 years of age, has a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license and desires a motorized bicycle license, the person
is not required to comply with the testing requirements provided for in this
section.
      (2)   The motorized bicycle is equipped in accordance with the rules
adopted under division (B) of this section and is in proper working order.
      (3)   The person, if under 18 years of age, is wearing a protective
helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened and the
motorized bicycle is equipped with a rearview mirror.
      (4)   The person operates the motorized bicycle when practicable within
three feet of the right edge of the roadway obeying all traffic rules
applicable to vehicles.
   (B)   The Director of Public Safety, subject to R.C. Chapter 119, shall
adopt and promulgate rules concerning protective helmets, the equipment of
motorized bicycles, and the testing and qualifications of persons who do not
hold a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license. The test shall be as near
as practicable to the examination required for a motorcycle operator’s
endorsement under R.C. § 4507.11. The test shall also require the operator to
give an actual demonstration of the operator’s ability to operate and control a
motorized bicycle by driving one under the supervision of an examining officer.
   (C)   Every motorized bicycle license expires on the birthday of the
applicant in the fourth or eighth year after the date it is issued, based on
the period of renewal requested by the applicant. No motorized bicycle license
shall be issued for a period longer than eight years. A person who is 65 years
of age or older may only apply for a motorized bicycle license that expires on
the birthday of the applicant in the fourth year after the date it is issued.
   (D)   No person operating a motorized bicycle shall carry another person
upon the motorized bicycle.
   (E)   The protective helmet and rearview mirror required by division (A)(3)
of this section shall, on and after January 1, 1985, conform with rules adopted
by the Director under division (B) of this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A), (D), or (E) of this section is guilty
of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.521) (Prior Code, § 474.11)
Statutory reference:
   Suspension of probationary motorized bicycle license by the state, see R.C.
§ 4510.34
§ 75.03 ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   On and after January 1, 2020, manufacturers and distributors of
electric bicycles shall permanently affix a label, in a prominent location, to
each electric bicycle. The label shall specify whether the electric bicycle is
a class 1, class 2, or class 3 electric bicycle, the top assisted speed that
the electric bicycle is capable of reaching, and the motor wattage of the
electric bicycle.
      (2)   No person shall modify an electric bicycle in a manner that changes
the top assisted speed that the electric bicycle is capable of reaching unless
the person also modifies the label required under division (A)(1) of this
section to reflect the modification.
   (B)   (1)   The manufacturer of an electric bicycle shall ensure that the
electric bicycle complies with the equipment and manufacturing requirements for
bicycles established by the consumer product safety commission under 16 C.F.R.
§§ 1512 et seq.
      (2)   The manufacturer shall manufacture all class 1 electric bicycles
and class 3 electric bicycles so that when the rider ceases pedaling the
electric motor ceases to provide assistance. The manufacturer shall manufacture
all class 2 electric bicycles so that when the rider applies the brakes or
releases or activates a switch or similar mechanism the electric motor ceases
to provide assistance.
      (3)   All class 3 electric bicycles shall be equipped with a speedometer
that displays the speed of the electric bicycle in miles per hour.
   (C)   (1)   The operation of a class 1 electric bicycle and a class 2
electric bicycle is permitted on a path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles or on a shared-use path, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule prohibits the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle or class 2 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (2)   No person shall operate a class 3 electric bicycle on a path set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles or a shared-use path unless that path
is within or adjacent to a highway or the county, township, municipal
corporation, or local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60 with
control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use of a
class 3 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (3)   No person shall operate a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2
electric bicycle, or a class 3 electric bicycle on a path that is intended to
be used primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar
uses, or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically
been reserved for non-motorized use, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2 electric bicycle, or a class 3
electric bicycle on such a path.
      (4)   Divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) of this section do not apply to a law
enforcement officer, or other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic
laws of the state, using an electric bicycle while in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
   (D)   (1)   No person under 16 years of age shall operate a class 3 electric
bicycle; however, a person under 16 years of age may ride as a passenger on a
class 3 electric bicycle that is designed to accommodate passengers.
      (2)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on a class 3 electric
bicycle unless the person is wearing a protective helmet that meets the
standards established by the Consumer Product Safety Commission or the American
Society for Testing and Materials.
   (E)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever operates
an electric bicycle in a manner that is prohibited under division (C) of this
section and whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under division (E)(1) of this section are
strict liability offenses and strict liability is a culpable mental state for
purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of these offenses as strict
liability offenses shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4511.522)
§ 75.04 RULES FOR BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   As used in this section, SNOWMOBILE has the same meaning as given that
term in R.C. § 4519.01.
   (B)   (1)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall ride
other than upon or astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto or
carry any other person upon such bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon a
firmly attached and regular seat thereon, and no person shall ride upon a
bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon such a firmly attached and regular
seat.
      (2)   No person operating a motorcycle shall ride other than upon or
astride the permanent and regular seat or saddle attached thereto, or carry any
other person upon such motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular
seat or saddle thereon, and no person shall ride upon a motorcycle other than
upon such a firmly attached and regular seat or saddle.
      (3)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a
saddle other than while sitting astride the saddle, facing forward, with one
leg on each side of the motorcycle.
      (4)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a seat
other than while sitting upon the seat.
      (5)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle, or article that prevents the driver from keeping at least one
hand upon the handlebars.
      (6)   No bicycle, electric bicycle, or motorcycle shall be used to carry
more persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
No motorcycle shall be operated on a highway when the handlebars rise higher
than the shoulders of the operator when the operator is seated in the
operator’s seat or saddle.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no person
shall operate or be a passenger on a snowmobile or motorcycle without using
safety glasses or other protective eye device. Except as provided in division
(C)(3) of this section, no person who is under the age of 18 years, or who
holds a motorcycle operator’s endorsement or license bearing a “novice”
designation that is currently in effect as provided in R.C. § 4507.13, shall
operate a motorcycle on a highway, or be a passenger on a motorcycle, unless
wearing a protective helmet on the person’s head, and no other person shall be
a passenger on a motorcycle operated by such a person unless similarly wearing
a protective helmet. The helmet, safety glasses, or other protective eye device
shall conform with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety. The
provisions of this paragraph or a violation thereof shall not be used in the
trial of any civil action.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no
person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary instruction permit and
temporary instruction permit identification card issued by the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 unless the person, at the time of
such operation, is wearing on the person’s head a protective helmet that
conforms with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
         (b)   No person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary
instruction permit and temporary instruction permit identification card issued
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 in any of the
following circumstances:
            1.   At any time when lighted lights are required by R.C. § 4513.03
(A)(1);
            2.   While carrying a passenger;
            3.   On any limited access highway or heavily congested roadway.
      (3)   Divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2)(a) of this section do not apply to a
person who operates or is a passenger in an autocycle or cab-enclosed
motorcycle when the occupant compartment top is in place enclosing the
occupants.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the carrying
of a child in a seat or trailer that is designed for carrying children and is
firmly attached to the bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or
(C)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.53) (Prior Code, § 474.02)
§ 75.05 PROHIBITION AGAINST ATTACHING BICYCLES AND SLEDS TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person riding upon any bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster,
roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or self
to any vehicle upon a roadway.
      (2)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person riding upon any
bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy
vehicle to attach the same or self to any vehicle while it is moving upon a
roadway.
      (3)   This section does not apply to towing a disabled vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.54) (Prior Code, § 474.03)
§ 75.06 RIDING BICYCLES; MOTORCYCLES ABREAST.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle upon a roadway
shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable obeying all
traffic rules applicable to vehicles and exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles, electric bicycles, or motorcycles upon a
roadway shall ride not more than two abreast in a single lane, except on paths
or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, electric
bicycles, or motorcycles.
   (C)   This section does not require a person operating a bicycle or electric
bicycle to ride at the edge of the roadway when it is unreasonable or unsafe to
do so. Conditions that may require riding away from the edge of the roadway
include when necessary to avoid fixed or moving objects, parked or moving
vehicles, surface hazards, or if it otherwise is unsafe or impracticable to do
so, including if the lane is too narrow for the bicycle or electric bicycle and
an overtaking vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.55) (Prior Code, § 474.04)
§ 75.07 EQUIPMENT OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle or electric bicycle when in use at the times specified
in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be
equipped with the following:
      (1)   A lamp mounted on the front of either the bicycle or electric
bicycle or the operator that shall emit a white light visible from a distance
of at least 500 feet to the front and 300 feet to the sides. A generator-
powered lamp that emits light only when the bicycle or electric bicycle is
moving may be used to meet this requirement.
      (2)   A red reflector on the rear that shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (3)   A lamp emitting either flashing or steady red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear shall be used in addition to the red
reflector. If the red lamp performs as a reflector in that it is visible as
specified in division (A)(2) of this section, the red lamp may serve as the
reflector and a separate reflector is not required.
   (B)   Additional lamps and reflectors may be used in addition to those
required under division (A) of this section, except that red lamps and red
reflectors shall not be used on the front of the bicycle or electric bicycle
and white lamps and white reflectors shall not be used on the rear of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (C)   A bicycle or electric bicycle may be equipped with a device capable of
giving an audible signal, except that a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not
be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle or electric bicycle
any siren or whistle.
   (D)   Every bicycle and electric bicycle shall be equipped with an adequate
brake when used on a street or highway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.56) (Prior Code, § 474.05)
§ 75.08 RIDING BICYCLES UPON SIDEWALKS.
   A person operating a bicycle shall ride upon the sidewalk rather than the
roadway when sidewalks are available, except that no person shall ride a
bicycle upon a sidewalk upon or along which signs have been erected by
authority of Council or other duly designated local authority prohibiting such
bicycle riding, or within a business district. At no time shall a person under
the age of 11 years operate a bicycle on a street.
(Prior Code, § 474.06)
§ 75.09 SAFE RIDING REGULATIONS FOR BICYCLES.
   (A)   Whenever a designated usable path for bicycles has been provided
adjacent to a street, bicycle riders shall use such path and shall not use the
street.
   (B)   Whenever a person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk or street, the
person shall yield the right- of-way to any pedestrian and shall give an
audible signal before attempting to overtake and pass a pedestrian or another
bicycle. This audible signal must be given only by bell or other warning device
capable of giving an audible signal and shall be given at such a distance and
in such a manner as not to startle the person being overtaken and passed.
   (C)   No person shall ride a bicycle across or through any intersection
involving a through street. These intersections are to be crossed by walking
the bicycle across or through the intersection.
   (D)   Whenever a person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, the person,
before overtaking and passing a blind person carrying a white or metallic cane,
shall dismount and overtake or pass on foot.
   (E)   When a bicycle is operated on the street, the operator shall give hand
signals before turning, changing lanes or stopping. The signals shall conform
with R.C. § 4511.40, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (F)   Every rider of a bicycle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding
with any pedestrian or any vehicle upon any roadway, sidewalk or bicycle path,
or endangering the life, limb or property of any person while in the lawful use
of the streets, sidewalks or any other private or public property.
   (G)   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is
reasonable and proper under the conditions then existing.
   (H)   The operator of a bicycle emerging from or turning into an alley,
driveway or building shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area
extending across any alley, driveway or building, yield the right-of-way to all
pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk area. Upon entering the street, the
operator shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
street.
   (I)   No person shall engage in trick riding or operate a bicycle without
both hands upon the handle grips except when necessary to give the hand signals
required herein.
(Prior Code, § 474.07)
§ 75.10 PARKING; LOCKS.
   (A)   No person shall park a bicycle upon a sidewalk in such a manner as to
interfere with pedestrian traffic or damage the property of another.
   (B)   No person shall park a bicycle upon a roadway in such a manner as to
interfere with vehicular traffic.
   (C)   No bicycle shall remain unlocked when parked upon any public way or
place.
(Prior Code, § 474.08)
§ 75.11 PARENT’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   No parent of any child or guardian of any ward shall authorize or knowingly
permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 474.09)
§ 75.12 SUSPENSION OF RIDING PRIVILEGES; IMPOUNDING OF BICYCLES.
   In addition to the penalties provided in §
70.99, a court may prohibit any person who violates or fails to comply with any
of the provisions of this chapter relating to bicycles from riding a bicycle
for a period not to exceed three months. In addition, any person violating or
failing to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter relating to
bicycles may be punished by having his or her bicycle impounded for a period
not exceeding 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 474.10)
SNOWMOBILES, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLES, AND ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLES
§ 75.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for
cross-country travel on land and water, or on more than one type of terrain,
and steered by wheels or caterpillar treads, or any combination thereof,
including vehicles that operate on a cushion of air, vehicles commonly known as
all-terrain vehicles, all season vehicles, mini-bikes and trail bikes. The term
does not include a utility vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or any vehicle
principally used in playing golf, any motor vehicle or aircraft required to be
registered under R.C. Chapter 4503 or R.C. Chapter 4561, and any vehicle
excepted from definition as a motor vehicle by R.C. § 4501.01(B).
   DEALER. Any person or firm engaged in the business of manufacturing or
selling snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles at
wholesale or retail, or who rents, leases or otherwise furnishes snowmobiles,
off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles for hire.
   ELECTRONIC. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   ELECTRONIC DEALER. A dealer whom the Registrar of Motor Vehicles designates
under R.C. § 4519.511.
   ELECTRONIC RECORD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   HIGHWAY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   INTERSTATE HIGHWAY. Any part of the interstate system of highways as defined
in subsection (e), 90 Stat. 431 (1976), 23 U.S.C. § 103, as amended.
   LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY OR FREEWAY. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
5511.02.
   MINI-TRUCK. A vehicle that has four wheels, is propelled by an electric
motor with a rated power of 7,500 watts or less or an internal combustion
engine with a piston displacement capacity of 660 cubic centimeters or less,
has a total dry weight of 900 to 2,200 pounds, contains an enclosed cabin and a
seat for the vehicle operator, resembles a pickup truck or van with a cargo
area or bed located at the rear of the vehicle, and was not originally
manufactured to meet federal motor vehicle safety standards.
   OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE. Every motorcycle, as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that
is designed to be operated primarily on lands other than a street or highway.
   OPERATOR. Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle.
   OWNER. Any person or firm, other than a lienholder or dealer, having title
to a snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle, or other
right to the possession thereof.
   PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4509.01.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for use on snow or
ice, and steered by skis, runners or caterpillar treads.
   STATE HIGHWAY and STATE ROUTE. Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4519.01) (Prior Code, § 476.01)
§ 75.26 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   In addition to any rules or regulations promulgated by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety pursuant to R.C. § 4519.20 and R.C. Chapter 119,
equipment of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles
shall include but not necessarily be limited to requirements for the following
items of equipment:
      (1)   At least one headlight having a minimum candlepower of sufficient
intensity to reveal persons and objects at a distance of at least 100 feet
ahead under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (2)   At least one red tail light having a minimum candlepower of
sufficient intensity to be plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
rear under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (3)   Every snowmobile, while traveling on packed snow, shall be capable
of carrying a driver who weighs 175 pounds or more, and, while carrying such
driver, be capable of stopping in no more than 40 feet from an initial steady
speed of 20 miles per hour, or locking its traction belt; and
      (4)   A muffler system capable of precluding the emission of excessive
smoke or exhaust fumes, and of limiting the engine noise of vehicles. On
snowmobiles manufactured after January 1, 1973, such requirement shall include
sound dampening equipment such that noise does not exceed 82 decibels on the
“A” scale at 50 feet as measured according to SAE J192 (September 1970).
   (B)   No person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle in violation of this section, except that equipment
specified in division (A)(1) and (A)(2) of this section shall not be required
on snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles operated
during the daylight hours.
(R.C. § 4519.20(A), (B))
   (C)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, lease, rent or otherwise furnish
for hire in this municipality any new snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle that fails to comply with any rule adopted by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4519.20 after the effective date of the
rule.
(R.C. § 4519.22(A))
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B) of this section shall be fined not more than $50. If the offender
within the preceding year previously has committed a violation of division (B)
of this section or of R.C. § 4519.20(B), whoever violates division (B) of this
section shall be fined not less than $15 nor more than $100, imprisoned not
more than three days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.20(C))
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (C) of this section shall be fined not more than $50. If the offender
within the preceding year previously has committed a violation of division (C)
of this section or of R.C. § 4519.22(A), whoever violates this section shall be
fined not less than $15 nor more than $100, imprisoned not more than three
days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.22(B))
(Prior Code, § 476.02)
§ 75.27 CODE APPLICATION; PROHIBITED OPERATION.
   (A)   The applicable provisions of this traffic code apply to the operation
of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles, except that
no person shall operate a snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle as follows:
      (1)   On any state highway, including a limited access highway or freeway
or the right-of-way thereof, except for emergency travel during such time and
in such manner as the Ohio Director of Public Safety designates or except as
authorized by R.C. § 4519.41(F);
      (2)   On any private property, or in any nursery or planting area,
without the permission of the owner or other person having the right to
possession of the property;
      (3)   On any land or waters controlled by the state, except at those
locations where a sign has been posted permitting such operation;
      (4)   On the tracks or right-of-way of any operating railroad;
      (5)   While transporting any firearm, bow or other implement for hunting
that is not unloaded and securely encased;
      (6)   For the purpose of chasing, pursuing, capturing or killing any
animal or wild fowl; or
      (7)   During the time from sunset to sunrise, unless displaying lighted
lights as required by R.C. § 4519.20 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not less than 3 nor more than 30 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.40) (Prior Code, § 476.03)
§ 75.28 PERMITTED OPERATION.
   Snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles may be
operated as follows:
   (A)   To make a crossing of a highway, other than a highway as designated in
R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
whenever the crossing can be made in safety and will not interfere with the
movement of vehicular traffic approaching from any direction on the highway,
and provided that the operator yields the right-of-way to any approaching
traffic that presents an immediate hazard;
   (B)   On highways in the county or township road systems whenever the local
authority having jurisdiction over such highways so permits;
   (C)   Off and alongside street or highway for limited distances from the
point of unloading from a conveyance to the point at which the snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle is intended and authorized to be
operated;
   (D)   On the berm or shoulder of a highway, other than a highway as
designated in R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, when the terrain permits such operation to be undertaken safely and
without the necessity of entering any traffic lane;
   (E)   On the berm or shoulder or a county or township road, while traveling
from one area of operation of the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle to another such area.
   (F)   For snowmobiles without metal studded tracks and all-purpose vehicles,
on state highways located on an island in Lake Erie, including limited access
highways and freeways, between the first day of November and the thirtieth day
of April, provided that all of the following conditions apply:
      (1)   The operator has a valid driver’s license as required under R.C. §
4519.44.
      (2)   The snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle is in compliance with rules
governing safety equipment adopted under R.C. § 4519.20.
      (3)   The owner of the snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle maintains proof
of financial responsibility for both on-road and off-road use of the snowmobile
or all-purpose vehicle.
      (4)   The operator obeys all traffic rules and regulations.
(R.C. § 4519.41) (Prior Code, § 476.04)
§ 75.29 LICENSING REQUIREMENTS OF OPERATOR.
   (A)   No person who does not hold a valid, current motor vehicle driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, motorcycle operator’s endorsement or probationary
license, issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid,
current driver’s license issued by another jurisdiction, shall operate a
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle on any street or
highway in this municipality, on any portion of the right-of-way thereof, or on
any public land or waters.
   (B)   No person who is less than 16 years of age shall operate a snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle on any land or waters other than
private property or waters owned by or leased to the person’s parent or
guardian, unless accompanied by another person who is 18 years of age or older,
and who holds a license as provided in division (A) of this section, except
that the Ohio Department of Natural Resources may permit such operation on
state controlled land under its jurisdiction when such person is less than 16
years of age and is accompanied by a parent or guardian who is a licensed
driver 18 years of age or older.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not less than three nor more than 30 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.44) (Prior Code, § 476.05)
§ 75.30 MAINTENANCE OF VEHICLES FOR HIRE.
   (A)   Any dealer who rents, leases or otherwise furnishes a snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle for hire shall maintain the vehicle
in safe operating condition. No dealer, or agent or employee of a dealer, shall
rent, lease or otherwise furnish a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle for hire to any person who does not hold a license as required
by R.C. § 4519.44(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or to
any person whom the dealer or an agent or employee of the dealer has reasonable
cause to believe is incompetent to operate the vehicle in a safe and lawful
manner.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500.
(R.C. § 4519.45)
§ 75.31 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (A)   The operator of a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle involved in any accident resulting in bodily injury to or death of any
person or damage to the property of any person in excess of $100 shall report
the accident within 48 hours to the Chief of Police, and within 30 days shall
forward a written report of the accident to the Ohio Registrar of Motor
Vehicles on a form prescribed by the Registrar. If the operator is physically
incapable of making the reports and there is another participant in the
accident not so incapacitated, the participant shall make the reports. In the
event there is no other participant, and the operator is other than the owner,
the owner, within the prescribed periods of time, shall make the reports.
   (B)   Any law enforcement officer or other person authorized by R.C. §§
4519.42 and 4519.43 who investigates or receives information of an accident
involving a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle shall
forward to the Registrar a written report of the accident within 48 hours.
(R.C. § 4519.46)
(Prior Code, § 476.06)
§ 75.32 IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever a person is found guilty of operating a snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all- purpose vehicle in violation of any rule authorized
to be adopted under R.C. § 4519.21 or 4519.42, the trial judge of any court of
record, in addition to or independent of any other penalties provided by law,
may impound for not less than 60 days the certificate of registration and
license plate, if applicable, of that snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle. The court shall send the impounded certificate of
registration and license plate, if applicable, to the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles, who shall retain the certificate of registration and license plate,
if applicable, until the expiration of the period of impoundment.
   (B)   If a court impounds the certificate of registration and license plate
of an all-purpose vehicle pursuant to R.C. § 2911.21, the court shall send the
impounded certificate of registration and license plate to the Registrar, who
shall retain them until the expiration of the period of impoundment.
(R.C. § 4519.47)
§ 75.33 LOCAL CONTROL WITHIN POLICE POWER.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall prevent the municipality from
regulating the operation of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycle, and all-
purpose vehicles on streets and highways and other public property under
municipal jurisdiction, and within the reasonable exercise of the police power,
except that no registration or licensing of any snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle required to be registered or titled under
R.C. Chapter 4519 shall be required.
(R.C. § 4519.48) (Prior Code, § 476.07)
§ 75.34 REGISTRATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B), (C) and (D) of this section,
no person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle within this municipality unless the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle is registered and numbered in accordance with R.C. §§
4519.03 and 4519.04.
      (2)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.215 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, no registration is required for a mini-truck that is
operated within this state. A mini-truck may be operated only in accordance
with R.C. § 4511.215 and R.C. § 4519.401, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (B)   (1)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle that is operated exclusively upon lands owned by the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle, or on lands to which the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle has a contractual right.
      (2)   No registration is required for an all-purpose vehicle that is used
primarily for agricultural purposes when the owner qualifies for the current
agricultural use valuation tax credit, unless it is to be used on any public
land, trail, or right-of-way.
      (3)   Any all-purpose vehicle exempted from registration under division
(B)(2) of this section and operated for agricultural purposes may use public
roads and rights-of-way when traveling from one farm field to another, when
such use does not violate R.C. § 4519.41.
      (4)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle
that is operated on a state highway as authorized by R.C. § 4519.41(F).
   (C)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a resident of another
state whenever that state has in effect a registration law similar to R.C.
Chapter 4519 and the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle
is properly registered under that state’s law. Any snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a resident
of a state not having a registration law similar to R.C. Chapter 4519 shall
comply with R.C. § 4519.09.
   (D)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this municipality by the United
States, another state or a political subdivision thereof, but the snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle shall display the name of the
owner thereon.
   (E)   The owner or operator of any all-purpose vehicle operated or used upon
the waters in this municipality shall comply with R.C. Chapter 1547 and R.C.
Chapter 1548 relative to the operation of watercraft.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $100.
(R.C. § 4519.02) (Prior Code, § 476.08)
Statutory reference:
   Destruction or disposal of vehicle; transfer of ownership; change of
address; loss of certificate, see R.C. § 4519.05
   Registration of emergency vehicles, see R.C. § 4519.08
   Registration procedure, see R.C. § 4519.03
   Temporary license placards and fees, see R.C. § 4519.10
   Temporary operating permit for certain nonresidents, see R.C. § 4519.09
§ 75.35 CERTIFICATE OF TITLE; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle without having a certificate of title for the off-highway motorcycle or
all-purpose vehicle if such a certificate is required by R.C. Chapter 4519 to
be issued for the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, or, if a
physical certificate of title has not been issued for it, operate an off-
highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle knowing that the ownership
information related to the motorcycle or vehicle has not been entered into the
automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common Pleas.
      (2)   Operate in this municipality an off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle is a certificate of title to the off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle has been issued and then has been canceled.
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title upon cancellation of it
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed
in R.C. Chapter 4519.
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4519, in case of the destruction or
dismantling of, or change in, the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle
described in the certificate of title.
      (5)   Violate any provision of R.C. §§ 4519.51 through 4519.70 for which
no penalty is otherwise provided or any lawful rules adopted pursuant to those
sections.
      (6)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle knowing that the certificate of title to or ownership of the motorcycle
or vehicle as otherwise reflected in the automated title processing system has
been canceled.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200,
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.66) (Prior Code, § 476.09)
Statutory reference:
   Certificate of title: rules and procedures, see R.C. §§ 4519.51 et seq.
   Stolen vehicles and restrictions on sale or transfer, felony provisions, see
R.C. § 4519.67
GOLF CARTS
§ 75.50 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A motor vehicle as that term is defined under R.C. § 4501.01(b).
(Prior Code, § 478.01) (Ord. 788, passed 9-9-2013)
§ 75.51 EQUIPMENT.
   A golf cart must be equipped as outlined in R.C. 4513.
(Prior Code, § 478.02) (Ord. 788, passed 9-9-2013)
§ 75.52 DRIVER RESTRICTION.
   The driver must have a valid driver’s license.
(R.C. 4507.02(A)(1) - 4510.12(A)(1)) (Prior Code, § 478.03) (Ord. 788, passed
9-9-2013)
§ 75.53 INSURANCE.
   The owner must have proof of insurance and carry such proof in his or her
possession or in the cart.
(R.C. § 4509.101(A)(1)) (Prior Code, § 478.04) (Ord. 788, passed 9-9-2013)
§ 75.54 CART INSPECTION.
   No person shall operate a golf cart within the village limits unless the
golf cart has had an inspection by the Police Department and is in compliance
with all pertinent sections of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 478.05) (Ord. 788, passed 9-9-2013)
§ 75.55 TITLE AND LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   Once inspected the certificate of inspection shall be presented to the
County Title Department for issuance of a title so as to obtain license plates
from the Department of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   Once licensed, golf carts may only be operated on public streets,
alleys and roadways posted at 35 miles per hour or lower within the
incorporated limits of the village.
   (C)   As with any motor vehicle, safety must be observed at all times during
operation.
(Prior Code, § 478.06) (Ord. 788, passed 9-9-2013)
§ 75.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted or pleading guilty to a violation of this chapter shall
be held to the penalties as set forth in R.C. § 4511.99.
(Prior Code, § 478.99) (Ord. 788, passed 9-9-2013)
CHAPTER 76: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Parking Regulations
   
76.01   Prohibition against parking on highways
   
76.02   Condition when motor vehicle left unattended
   
76.03   Police may remove illegally parked vehicle
   
76.04   Parking prohibitions
   
76.05   Parking near curb; privileges for persons with disabilities
   
76.06   Parking on private property in violation of posted prohibition
   
76.07   Selling, washing or repairing vehicle upon roadway
   
76.08   Truck loading zones
   
76.09   Bus stops and taxicab stands
   
76.10   Parking in alleys and narrow streets; exceptions
   
76.11   Registered owner prima facie liable for unlawful parking
   
76.12   Parking for business purposes
   
76.13   Parking for advertising
   
76.14   Commercial and heavy vehicles
   
76.15   Snow emergencies
   
76.16   Willfully leaving vehicles on private or public property
   
76.17   Waiver
Parking Meters
   
76.30   Location of meters
   
76.31   Construction of meters
   
76.32   Marking spaces; parking within lines
   
76.33   Holiday and evening parking
   
76.34   Overtime parking
Statutory reference:
   Noncriminal parking infractions, local option to create, see R.C. Chapter
4521
GENERAL PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 76.01 PROHIBITION AGAINST PARKING ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon any highway, no person shall stop, park, or leave standing
any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the paved or main traveled
part of the highway if it is practicable to stop, park, or so leave such
vehicle off the paved or main traveled part of the highway. In every event a
clear and unobstructed portion of the highway opposite such standing vehicle
shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view of such
stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each
direction upon such highway.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or improved or main traveled portion of a highway
in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle in such position.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.66) (Prior Code, § 452.01)
§ 76.02 CONDITION WHEN MOTOR VEHICLE LEFT UNATTENDED.
   (A)   (1)   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit
it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition,
removing the key from the ignition, effectively setting the parking brake, and,
when the motor vehicle is standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to
the curb or side of the highway.
      (2)   The requirements of this section relating to the stopping of the
engine, locking of the ignition, and removing the key from the ignition of a
motor vehicle do not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   A motor vehicle that is parked on residential property;
         (b)   A motor vehicle that is locked, regardless of where it is
parked;
         (c)   An emergency vehicle ;
         (d)   A public safety vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.661) (Prior Code, § 452.06)
§ 76.03 POLICE MAY REMOVE ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of R.C. § 4511.66 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
such officer may move such vehicle, or require the driver or other person in
charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the paved or improved
or main traveled part of such highway.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any
highway, bridge, or causeway, or in any tunnel, where such vehicles constitutes
an obstruction to traffic, such officer may provide for the removal of such
vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(R.C. § 4511.67) (Prior Code, § 452.02)
§ 76.04 PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or to comply with the provisions of this
title, or while obeying the directions of a police officer or a traffic-control
device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk, except as provided in division (B) of this section;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet of, and upon the approach to, any flashing beacon,
stop sign, or traffic- control device;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by a traffic-control device;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of a driveway entrance to any fire station and, on
the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within 75
feet of the entrance when it is properly posted with signs;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   Alongside any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or elevated structure upon a highway, or within a
highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where signs prohibit stopping;
      (15)   Within one foot of another parked vehicle;
      (16)   On the roadway portion of a freeway, expressway, or thruway.
   (B)   A person is permitted, without charge or restriction, to stand or park
on a sidewalk a motor- driven cycle or motor scooter that has an engine not
larger than 150 cubic centimeters, a low-speed micromobility device, or a
bicycle or electric bicycle, provided that the motor-driven cycle, motor
scooter, low-speed micromobility device, bicycle, or electric bicycle does not
impede the normal flow of pedestrian traffic. This division does not authorize
any person to operate a vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.711, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.68) (Prior Code, § 452.03)
§ 76.05 PARKING NEAR CURB; PRIVILEGES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of the
vehicle parallel with and not more than 12 inches from the right-hand curb,
unless it is impossible to approach so close to the curb; in such case the stop
shall be made as close to the curb as possible and only for the time necessary
to discharge and receive passengers or to load or unload merchandise. Local
authorities by ordinance may permit angle parking on any roadway under their
jurisdiction, except that angle parking shall not be permitted on a state route
within the municipality unless an unoccupied roadway width of not less than 25
feet is available for free-moving traffic.
   (B)   Local authorities by ordinance may permit parking of vehicles with the
left-hand wheels adjacent to and within 12 inches of the left-hand curb of a
one-way roadway.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(b) of this section,
no vehicle shall be stopped or parked on a road or highway with the vehicle
facing in a direction other than the direction of travel on that side of the
road or highway.
         (b)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into an
angled parking space so that when the motorcycle is parked it is facing in a
direction other than the direction of travel on the side of the road or
highway.
      (2)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into a parking
space that is located on the side of, and parallel to, a road or highway. The
motorcycle may face any direction when so parked. Not more than two motorcycles
at a time shall be parked in a parking space as described in division (C)(2) of
this section irrespective of whether or not the space is metered.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any statute or any rule, regulation, resolution, or
ordinance, air compressors, tractors, trucks, and other equipment, while being
used in the construction, reconstruction, installation, repair, or removal of
facilities near, on, over, or under a street or highway, may stop, stand, or
park where necessary in order to perform such work, provided a flagperson is on
duty or warning signs or lights are displayed as may be prescribed by the
Director of Transportation.
   (E)   Special parking locations and privileges for persons with disabilities
that limit or impair the ability to walk, also known as handicapped parking
spaces or disability parking spaces, shall be provided and designated by all
political subdivisions and by the state and all agencies and instrumentalities
thereof at all offices and facilities where parking is provided, whether owned,
rented, or leased, and at all publicly owned parking garages. The locations
shall be designated through the posting of an elevated sign, whether
permanently affixed or movable, imprinted with the international symbol of
access and shall be reasonably close to exits, entrances, elevators, and ramps.
All elevated signs posted in accordance with this division and R.C. § 3781.111
(C) shall be mounted on a fixed or movable post, and the distance from the
ground to the bottom edge of the sign shall measure not less than five feet. If
a new sign or a replacement sign designating a special parking location is
posted on or after October 14, 1999, there also shall be affixed upon the
surface of that sign or affixed next to the designating sign a notice that
states the fine applicable for the offense of parking a motor vehicle in the
special designated parking location if the motor vehicle is not legally
entitled to be parked in that location.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle at
special parking locations provided under division (E) of this section, or at
special clearly marked parking locations provided in or on privately owned
parking lots, parking garages, or other parking areas and designated in
accordance with that division, unless one of the following applies:
            1.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a valid removable windshield placard or special license plates; or
            2.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a handicapped person and is displaying a parking card or special handicapped
license plates.
         (b)   Any motor vehicle that is parked in a special marked parking
location in violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section
may be towed or otherwise removed from the parking location by the law
enforcement agency of the municipality. A motor vehicle that is so towed or
removed shall not be released to its owner until the owner presents proof of
ownership of the motor vehicle and pays all towing and storage fees normally
imposed by the municipality for towing and storing motor vehicles. If the motor
vehicle is a leased vehicle, it shall not be released to the lessee until the
lessee presents proof that that person is the lessee of the motor vehicle and
pays all towing and storage fees normally imposed by the municipality for
towing and storing motor vehicles.
         (c)   If a person is charged with a violation of division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section, it is an affirmative defense to the charge that
the person suffered an injury not more than 72 hours prior to the time the
person was issued the ticket or citation and that, because of the injury, the
person meets at least one of the criteria contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
      (2)    No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle in an area
that is commonly known as an access aisle, which area is marked by diagonal
stripes and is located immediately adjacent to a special parking location
provided under division (E) of this section or at a special clearly marked
parking location provided in or on a privately owned parking lot, parking
garage, or other parking area and designated in accordance with that division.
   (G)   When a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a
person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a removable windshield placard or a temporary removable windshield
placard or special license plates, or when a motor vehicle is being operated by
or for the transport of a handicapped person, and is displaying a parking card
or special handicapped license plates, the motor vehicle is permitted to park
for a period of two hours in excess of the legal parking period permitted by
local authorities, except where local ordinances or police rules provide
otherwise or where the vehicle is parked in such a manner as to be clearly a
traffic hazard.
   (H)   No owner of an office, facility, or parking garage where special
parking locations are required to be designated in accordance with division (E)
of this section shall fail to properly mark the special parking locations in
accordance with that division or fail to maintain the markings of the special
locations, including the erection and maintenance of the fixed or movable
signs.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a person or
organization to apply for a removable windshield placard or special license
plates if the parking card or special license plates issued to the person or
organization under prior law have not expired or been surrendered or revoked.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      HANDICAPPED PERSON. Means any person who has lost the use of one or both
legs or one or both arms, who is blind, deaf, or so severely handicapped as to
be unable to move without the aid of crutches or a wheelchair, or whose
mobility is restricted by a permanent cardiovascular, pulmonary, or other
handicapping condition.
      PERSON WITH A DISABILITY THAT LIMITS OR IMPAIRS THE ABILITY TO WALK. Has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 4503.44.
      SPECIAL LICENSE PLATES and REMOVABLE WINDSHIELD PLACARD. Mean any license
plates or removable windshield placard or temporary removable windshield
placard issued under R.C. § 4503.41 or 4503.44, and also mean any substantially
equivalent license plates or removable windshield placard or temporary
removable windshield placard issued by a state, district, country, or
sovereignty.
   (K)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (A) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in
division (K)(2)(a) and (K)(2)(b) of this section. Except as otherwise provided
in division (K)(2)(a) of this section, an offender who violates division (F)(1)
(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section shall be fined not less than $250 nor more
than $500. An offender who violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section shall be fined not more than $100 if the offender, prior to sentencing,
proves either of the following to the satisfaction of the court:
            1.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a removable windshield placard that then was
valid or special license plates that then were valid but the offender or the
person neglected to display the placard or license plates as described in
division (F)(1)(a)1. of this section.
            2.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a parking card that then was valid or special
handicapped license plates that then were valid but the offender or the person
neglected to display the card or license plates as described in division (F)(1)
(a)2. of this section.
         (b)   In no case shall an offender who violates division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. be sentenced to any term of imprisonment.
         (c)   An arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section does not constitute a criminal record and need
not be reported by the person so arrested or convicted in response to any
inquiries contained in any application for employment, license, or other right
or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s appearance as a witness.
         (d)   The clerk of the court shall pay every fine collected under
divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of this section to the municipality. Except as
provided in division (K)(2) of this section, the municipality shall use the
fine moneys it receives under divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of this section to
pay the expenses it incurs in complying with the signage and notice
requirements contained in division (E) of this section. The municipality may
use up to 50% of each fine it receives under divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of
this section to pay the costs of educational, advocacy, support, and assistive
technology programs for persons with disabilities, and for public improvements
within the municipality that benefit or assist persons with disabilities, if
governmental agencies or nonprofit organizations offer the programs.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F)(2) of this section shall be fined not
less than $250 nor more than $500. In no case shall an offender who violates
division (F)(2) of this section be sentenced to any term of imprisonment. An
arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(2) of this section does
not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries contained in any application
for employment, license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection
with the person’s appearance as a witness.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (H) of this section shall be punished as
follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (K)(4) of this section,
the offender shall be issued a warning.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (H) of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to that division, the offender shall
not be issued a warning but shall be fined not more than $25 for each parking
location that is not properly marked or whose markings are not properly
maintained.
(R.C. § 4511.69) (Prior Code, § 452.04)
Statutory reference:
   Buildings, access for disabled persons, see R.C. § 3781.111
§ 76.06 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY IN VIOLATION OF POSTED PROHIBITION.
   (A)   If an owner of private property posts on the property in a conspicuous
manner a prohibition against parking on the property or conditions and
regulations under which parking is permitted, no person shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   Park a vehicle on the property without the owner’s consent;
      (2)   Park a vehicle on the property in violation of any condition or
regulation posted by the owner.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.681) (Prior Code, § 452.055)
§ 76.07 SELLING, WASHING OR REPAIRING VEHICLE UPON ROADWAY.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon any roadway for the
principal purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale; or
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 452.08)
§ 76.08 TRUCK LOADING ZONES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time, other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup and
loading of materials, in any place marked as a truck loading zone during hours
when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case shall
the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
(Prior Code, § 452.09)
§ 76.09 BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any such stop or
stand has been officially designated and appropriately posted, except that the
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of,
and while actually engaged in, loading or unloading passengers when such
stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about
to enter such zone, and then only for a period not to exceed three minutes, if
such stopping is not prohibited therein by posted signs.
   (B)   No operator of a bus shall stop, stand or park such vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers or their baggage other than at a bus stop so designated and posted
as such, except in case of an emergency.
   (C)   No operator of a bus shall fail to enter a bus stop on a street or
other public way in such a manner that the bus when stopped to load or unload
passengers or baggage is in a position with the right front wheel of such
vehicle not further than 18 inches from the curb and the bus approximately
parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular
traffic.
   (D)   No operator of a taxicab shall stand or park such vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place other than in a taxicab stand so
designated and posted as such. This provision shall not prevent the operator of
a taxicab from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or
parking provisions at any place for the purpose of, and while actually engaged
in, the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers.
(Prior Code, § 452.10)
§ 76.10 PARKING IN ALLEYS AND NARROW STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street, other
than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available
less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic, except that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or
unloading of passengers or when directed to by a police officer or traffic
control signal.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle within an alley except while actually loading and unloading, and
then only for a period not to exceed 30 minutes.
(Prior Code, § 452.11)
§ 76.11 REGISTERED OWNER PRIMA FACIE LIABLE FOR UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   In any hearing on a charge of illegally parking a motor vehicle, testimony
that a vehicle bearing a certain license plate was found unlawfully parked as
prohibited by the provisions of this Traffic Code, and further testimony that
the record of the Ohio Registrar of Motor Vehicles shows that the license plate
was issued to the defendant, shall be prima facie evidence that the vehicle
which was unlawfully parked, was so parked by the defendant. A certified
registration copy, showing such fact, from the Registrar shall be proof of such
ownership.
(Prior Code, § 452.15)
§ 76.12 PARKING FOR BUSINESS PURPOSES.
   No owner or operator of any vehicle shall use such vehicle or permit the
same to be used on the streets and public places of the municipality for the
manufacture or repair of shoes, clothing, furniture, metal ware, tools or other
articles of personal or household use.
(Prior Code, § 452.12) (Ord. 260, passed 4-1-1957)
§ 76.13 PARKING FOR ADVERTISING.
   No person shall park upon a street or highway any vehicle displayed for
sale, or operate or park on any street or highway any vehicle for the primary
purpose of displaying advertising.
(Prior Code, § 452.13) (Ord. 260, passed 4-1-1957)
§ 76.14 COMMERCIAL AND HEAVY VEHICLES.
   (A)   No driver of a truck used for the delivery of any material to any
residence or business establishment in the village, if prevented by lack of
space from parking such truck in accordance with the parking regulations of the
village, shall permit such truck to stand in or upon any street or alley for
more than 60 continuous minutes. Household moving vans are exempted from the
provisions of this division.
   (B)   No person shall permit a motor vehicle, truck-trailer combination,
farm equipment, or a combination thereof, or a house trailer or a trailer to be
parked on any street or alley for more than two continuous hours if it has an
overall length of more than thirty feet or an overall weight of more than
10,000 pounds.
   (C)   No person shall park, within the village, any vehicle having a diesel
engine and/or refrigeration unit for longer than 60 continuous minutes with
either or both of such engines running.
(Prior Code, § 452.14) (Ord. 462, passed 5-7-1984; Ord. 646, passed 8-2-1999)
§ 76.15 SNOW EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   Whenever there is a firm forecast of snow predicted to accumulate to
three inches or more by the United States Weather Bureau at Dayton, Ohio, or by
another accredited weather service, or by television or radio, or whenever snow
reaches an accumulation of three inches or more, a snow emergency shall be
deemed to exist in the village.
   (B)   From the inception of a snow emergency until 24 hours thereafter, or
until such time as the snow has been removed, if such time is sooner, no owner
of any vehicle shall park or stand such vehicle, or permit the same to be done,
upon any village street. However, vehicles may be parked for a period of not
longer than 15 minutes for actual loading or unloading of passengers or
property, so long as snow removal equipment is not being operated on such
street and so long as no other ordinance restricting parking is violated
thereby.   
   (C)   Whenever such an emergency exists, the municipal authority shall make
a reasonable attempt to announce the emergency by informing at least two radio
or television stations, or a combination thereof, with a normal operating range
covering the community. However, owners and operators of motor vehicles shall
have the responsibility of determining existing weather conditions and the
depth or extent of snowfall and of complying with this section.
   (D)   Any motor vehicle parked in violation of this section may be impounded
or moved to an open street or an alley by a duly authorized officer or employee
of the village. The Chief of Police shall attempt to notify the owner of such
vehicle, as to the removal or relocation of such vehicle, as soon as it is
reasonably possible to do so. The owner of such vehicle shall be liable for any
towing charges.
   (E)   No person shall cause or permit snow to be moved, placed or stored
over or upon any portion of the paved right-of-way of any street from any
location or private property.
   (F)   Every landowner or controller of private property shall be responsible
for the clearing of any drive or parking area; village snow removal personnel
are not required to clear such areas.
(Prior Code, § 452.145) (Ord. 478, passed 3-18-1985)
§ 76.16 WILLFULLY LEAVING VEHICLES ON PRIVATE OR PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   The County Sheriff or Chief of Police, within the Sheriff’s or Chief’s
respective territorial jurisdiction, or a state highway patrol trooper, upon
notification to the Sheriff or Chief of Police of such action and of the
location of the place of storage, may order into storage any motor vehicle,
including an abandoned junk motor vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4513.63, that:
      (1)   Has come into the possession of the Sheriff, Chief of Police, or
state highway patrol trooper as a result of the performance of the Sheriff’s,
Chief’s, or trooper’s duties; or
      (2)   Has been left on a public street or other property open to the
public for purposes of vehicular travel, or upon or within the right-of-way of
any road or highway, for 48 hours or longer without notification to the Sheriff
or Chief of Police of the reasons for leaving the motor vehicle in such place.
However, when such a motor vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic it may
be ordered into storage immediately unless either of the following applies:
         (a)   The vehicle was involved in an accident and is subject to R.C. §
4513.66, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         (b)   The vehicle is a commercial motor vehicle. If the vehicle is a
commercial motor vehicle, the Sheriff, Chief of Police, or state highway patrol
trooper shall allow the owner or operator of the vehicle the opportunity to
arrange for the removal of the motor vehicle within a period of time specified
by the Sheriff, Chief of Police, or state highway patrol trooper. If the
Sheriff, Chief of Police, or state highway patrol trooper determines that the
vehicle cannot be removed within the specified period of time, the Sheriff,
Chief of Police, or state highway patrol trooper shall order the removal of the
vehicle.
      (3)   Subject to division (C) of this section, the Sheriff or Chief of
Police shall designate the place of storage of any motor vehicle so ordered
removed.
   (B)   If the Sheriff, Chief of Police, or a state highway patrol trooper
issues an order under division (A) of this section and arranges for the removal
of a motor vehicle by a towing service, the towing service shall deliver the
motor vehicle to the location designated by the Sheriff or Chief of Police not
more than two hours after the time it is removed.
   (C)   (1)   The Sheriff or Chief of Police shall cause a search to be made
of the records of an applicable entity listed in R.C. § 4513.601(F)(1) to
ascertain the identity of the owner and any lienholder of a motor vehicle
ordered into storage by the Sheriff or Chief of Police, or by a state highway
patrol trooper within five business days of the removal of the vehicle. Upon
obtaining such identity, the Sheriff or Chief of Police shall send or cause to
be sent to the owner or lienholder at the owner’s or lienholder’s last known
address by certified or express mail with return receipt requested, by
certified mail with electronic tracking, or by a commercial carrier service
utilizing any form of delivery requiring a signed receipt. The notice shall
inform the owner or lienholder that the motor vehicle will be declared a
nuisance and disposed of if not claimed within ten days of the date of the
sending of the notice.
      (2)   (a)   The owner or lienholder of the motor vehicle may reclaim the
motor vehicle upon payment of any expenses or charges incurred in its removal
and storage, and presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by
a certificate of title or memorandum certificate of title to the motor vehicle,
a certificate of registration for the motor vehicle, or a lease agreement. Upon
presentation of proof of ownership evidenced as provided above, the owner of
the motor vehicle also may retrieve any personal items from the vehicle without
retrieving the vehicle and without paying any fee. However, a towing service or
storage facility may charge an after-hours retrieval fee established by the
Public Utilities Commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25 if the owner
retrieves the personal items after hours, unless the towing service or storage
facility fails to provide the notice required under R.C. § 4513.69(B)(3), if
applicable. However, the owner shall not do either of the following:
            1.   Retrieve any personal item that has been determined by the
Sheriff, Chief of Police, or a state highway patrol trooper, as applicable, to
be necessary to a criminal investigation;
            2.   Retrieve any personal item from a vehicle if it would endanger
the safety of the owner, unless the owner agrees to sign a waiver of liability.
         (b)   For purposes of division (C)(2) of this section, “personal
items” do not include any items that are attached to the vehicle.
      (3)   If the owner or lienholder of the motor vehicle reclaims it after a
search of the applicable records has been conducted and after notice has been
sent to the owner or lienholder as described in this section, and the search
was conducted by the place of storage, and the notice was sent to the motor
vehicle owner by the place of storage, the owner or lienholder shall pay to the
place of storage a processing fee of $25, in addition to any expenses or
charges incurred in the removal and storage of the vehicle.
   (D)   If the owner or lienholder makes no claim to the motor vehicle within
ten days of the date of sending the notice, and if the vehicle is to be
disposed of at public auction as provided in R.C. § 4513.62 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the Sheriff or Chief of Police,
without charge to any party, shall file with the Clerk of Courts of the county
in which the place of storage is located an affidavit showing compliance with
the requirements of this section. Upon presentation of the affidavit, the
Clerk, without charge, shall issue a salvage certificate of title, free and
clear of all liens and encumbrances, to the Sheriff or Chief of Police. If the
vehicle is to be disposed of to a motor vehicle salvage dealer or other
facility as provided in R.C. § 4513.62 or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the Sheriff or Chief of Police shall execute in triplicate
an affidavit, as prescribed by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, describing the
motor vehicle and the manner in which it was disposed of, and that all
requirements of this section have been complied with. The Sheriff or Chief of
Police shall retain the original of the affidavit for the Sheriff’s or Chief’s
records, and shall furnish two copies to the motor vehicle salvage dealer or
other facility. Upon presentation of a copy of the affidavit by the motor
vehicle salvage dealer, the Clerk of Courts, within 30 days of the
presentation, shall issue a salvage certificate of title, free and clear of all
liens and encumbrances.
   (E)   Whenever a motor vehicle salvage dealer or other facility receives an
affidavit for the disposal of a motor vehicle as provided in this section, the
dealer or facility shall not be required to obtain an Ohio certificate of title
to the motor vehicle in the dealer’s or facility’s own name if the vehicle is
dismantled or destroyed and both copies of the affidavit are delivered to the
Clerk of Courts.
   (F)   No towing service or storage facility shall fail to comply with this
section.
(R.C. § 4513.61)
   (G)   Abandonment of junk motor vehicle prohibited.
      (1)   (a)   No person shall willfully leave an abandoned junk motor
vehicle, as defined in R.C. § 4513.63, on private property for more than 72
hours without the permission of the person having the right to the possession
of the property, or on a public street or other property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking, or upon or within the right-of-way of
any road or highway for 48 hours or longer without notification to the Police
Chief of the reason for leaving the motor vehicle in that place.
         (b)   For purposes of this division (G)(1), the fact that a motor
vehicle has been so left without permission or notification is prima facie
evidence of abandonment.
         (c)   Nothing contained in this section and R.C. §§ 4513.60, 4513.61
and 4513.63 shall invalidate or prevent the enactment of further provisions of
municipal ordinances regulating or prohibiting the abandonment of motor
vehicles on streets, highways, public property or private property within the
municipality.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (G) is guilty of a minor misdemeanor
and shall also be assessed any costs incurred by the municipality in disposing
of the abandoned junk motor vehicle, less any money accruing to the
municipality from the disposal.
(R.C. § 4513.64)
(Prior Code, § 452.05)
§ 76.17 WAIVER.
   Any person charged with a violation of any provision of this chapter for
which payment of a prescribed fine may be made, may pay such sum in the manner
prescribed on the issued traffic ticket. Such payment shall be deemed a plea of
guilty, waiver of court appearance and acknowledgment of conviction of the
alleged offense and may be accepted in full satisfaction of the prescribed
penalty for such alleged violation. Payment of the prescribed fine need not be
accepted when laws prescribe that a certain number of such offenses shall
require court appearance.
(Prior Code, § 452.16)
PARKING METERS
§ 76.30 LOCATION OF METERS.
   The Mayor, unless Council revises or reverses his or her act or decision, or
Council, may install and provide for the maintenance and use of parking meters
and meter spaces in any area or zone where, in the opinion of the Mayor or
Council, the use of such parking meters would benefit parking and traffic
conditions. The provisions of this chapter relating to parking meters shall not
affect the validity of signs relating to parking or other parking regulations
of this Traffic Code as they may apply to unmetered zones or to metered zones
when such meters are not required to be operated.
(Prior Code, § 454.01) (Ord. 788, passed 9-9-2013)
§ 76.31 CONSTRUCTION OF METERS.
   Each parking meter shall be constructed so that upon the insertion of a
required coin, a specified time or period for lawful parking will be displayed
by an indicator in or on its dial. Upon expiration of such period, unless or
until further coins are inserted, notice of a parking violation will be
displayed on the dial of such meter. Each meter shall indicate by proper legend
the legal parking time limits and the meter rates.
(Prior Code, § 454.02) (Ord. 788, passed 9-9-2013)
§ 76.32 MARKING SPACES; PARKING WITHIN LINES.
   Meter spaces of proper dimensions shall be designated for each meter by
appropriate markings on the curb or street, but the absence of such markings
shall not be a defense for overtime parking at any meter. Vehicles, unless
oversize, shall be parked entirely within the areas designated by such
markings, and no person shall park any standard size vehicle across any such
marking.
(Prior Code, § 454.03) (Ord. 788, passed 9-9-2013)
§ 76.33 HOLIDAY AND EVENING PARKING.
   The provisions relating to parking meters shall not apply on Sundays or
holidays, or on other days between 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. of the following
day.
(Prior Code, § 454.04) (Ord. 788, passed 9-9-2013)
§ 76.34 OVERTIME PARKING.
   No person shall park and leave standing in any metered parking space a motor
vehicle at or after the time when the meter displays a notice of expiration of
lawful parking time.
(Prior Code, § 454.05) (Ord. 788, passed 9-9-2013)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NOISE CONTROL
      
92.   WEEDS
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   TREES AND SHRUBS
      
95.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
96.   REGULATION OF CHRONIC NUISANCES
      
97.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
98.   SAFETY, SANITATION AND HEALTH
      
99.   UNCLEAN HABITATIONS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Dogs and other animals running at large; nuisance; dangerous and
vicious dogs; hearings
   
90.02   Abandoning animals
   
90.03   Killing or injuring animals
   
90.04   Poisoning animals
   
90.05   Cruelty to animals; cruelty to companion animals
   
90.06   Coloring rabbits and baby poultry; sale or display of poultry
   
90.07   Barking or howling dogs
   
90.08   Registration of dogs required
   
90.09   Hindering capture of unregistered dog
   
90.10   Dogs required to wear tags
   
90.11   Unlawful tags
   
90.12   Rabies quarantine
   
90.13   Hunting prohibited
   
90.14   Nuisance conditions prohibited
   
90.15   Impounding and disposition; records
   
90.16   Riding of horses, mules and other animals
   
90.17   Permit required for riding a horse, mule or other animal in the village
   
90.18   Keeping of bees restricted
   
90.19   Restrictions on dog ownership for certain convicted felons
   
90.20   Removing animal feces from public or private property
   
90.21   Keeping of fowl in a residential area
§ 90.01 DOGS AND OTHER ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE; NUISANCE; DANGEROUS AND
VICIOUS DOGS; HEARINGS.
   (A)   Animals running at large.
      (1)   No person, who is the owner or keeper of horses, mules, cattle,
bison, sheep, goats, swine, llamas, alpacas, or poultry, shall permit them to
run at large in the public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon
unenclosed land, or cause the animals to be herded, kept, or detained for the
purpose of grazing on premises other than those owned or lawfully occupied by
the owner or keeper of the animals.
(R.C. § 951.02)
      (2)   Whoever recklessly violates division (A)(1) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 951.99)
      (3)   The owner or keeper of an animal described in division (A)(1) of
this section who negligently permits it to run at large in violation of
division (A)(1) of this section is liable for all damages resulting from
injury, death, or loss to person or property caused by the animal in any of the
places specified in division (A)(1) of this section or upon the premises of
another without reference to the fence that may enclose the premises.
      (4)   The running at large of any animal specified in division (A)(1) of
this section in or upon any of the places specified in division (A)(1) of this
section is prima facie evidence in a civil action for damages under division
(A)(3) of this section that the owner or keeper of the animal negligently
permitted the animal to run at large in violation of division (A)(1) of this
section.
(R.C. § 951.10)
   (B)   Dogs running at large; dangerous dogs; debarked or surgically silenced
dangerous dogs.
      (1)   As used in this division (B), DANGEROUS DOG has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 955.11.
      (2)   No owner, keeper, or harborer of any female dog shall permit it to
go beyond the premises of the owner, keeper, or harborer at any time the dog is
in heat unless the dog is properly in leash.
      (3)   Except when a dog is lawfully engaged in hunting and accompanied by
the owner, keeper, harborer, or handler of the dog, no owner, keeper, or
harborer of any dog shall fail at any time to do either of the following:
         (a)   Keep the dog physically confined or restrained upon the premises
of the owner, keeper, or harborer by a leash, tether, adequate fence,
supervision, or secure enclosure to prevent escape;
         (b)   Keep the dog under the reasonable control of some person.
      (4)   Except when a dangerous dog is lawfully engaged in hunting or
training for the purpose of hunting and is accompanied by the owner, keeper,
harborer, or handler of the dog, no owner, keeper, or harborer of a dangerous
dog shall fail to do either of the following:
         (a)   While the dog is on the premises of the owner, keeper, or
harborer, securely confine it at all times in a locked pen that has a top,
locked fenced yard, or other locked enclosure that has a top.
         (b)   While the dog is off the premises of the owner, keeper, or
harborer, keep that dog on a chain-link leash or tether that is not more than
six feet in length and additionally do at least one of the following: keep the
dog in a locked pen that has a top, locked fenced yard, or other locked
enclosure that has a top; have the leash or tether controlled by a person who
is of suitable age and discretion or securely attach, tie, or affix the leash
or tether to the ground or a stationary object or fixture so that the dog is
adequately restrained and station a person in close enough proximity to that
dog so as to prevent it from causing injury to any person; or muzzle that dog.
      (5)   No person who has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or
more violations of division (B)(3) of this section involving the same dog and
no owner, keeper, or harborer of a dangerous dog shall fail to do the
following:
         (a)   Obtain liability insurance with an insurer authorized to write
liability insurance in this state providing coverage in each occurrence because
of damage or bodily injury to or death of a person caused by the dangerous dog
if so ordered by a court and provide proof of that liability insurance upon
request to any law enforcement officer, county dog warden, or public health
official charged with enforcing this section;
         (b)   Obtain a dangerous dog registration certificate from the County
Auditor pursuant to division (B)(9) of this section, affix a tag that
identifies the dog as a dangerous dog to the dog’s collar, and ensure that the
dog wears the collar and tag at all times;
         (c)   Notify the local dog warden immediately if any of the following
occurs:
            1.   The dog is loose or unconfined.
            2.   The dog bites a person, unless the dog is on the property of
the owner of the dog, and the person who is bitten is unlawfully trespassing or
committing a criminal act within the boundaries of that property.
            3.   The dog attacks another animal while the dog is off the
property of the owner of the dog.
         (d)   If the dog is sold, given to another person, or dies, notify the
County Auditor within ten days of the sale, transfer or death.
      (6)   No person shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Debark or surgically silence a dog that the person knows or has
reason to believe is a dangerous dog;
         (b)   Possess a dangerous dog if the person knows or has reason to
believe that the dog has been debarked or surgically silenced;
         (c)   Falsely attest on a waiver form provided by the veterinarian
under division (B)(7) of this section that the person’s dog is not a dangerous
dog or otherwise provide false information on that written waiver form.
      (7)   Before a veterinarian debarks or surgically silences a dog, the
veterinarian may give the owner of the dog a written waiver form that attests
that the dog is not a dangerous dog. The written waiver form shall include all
of the following:
         (a)   The veterinarian’s license number and current business address;
         (b)   The number of the license of the dog if the dog is licensed;
         (c)   A reasonable description of the age, coloring, and gender of the
dog as well as any notable markings on the dog;
         (d)   The signature of the owner of the dog attesting that the owner’s
dog is not a dangerous dog;
         (e)   A statement that R.C. § 955.22(F) prohibits any person from
doing any of the following:
            1.   Debarking or surgically silencing a dog that the person knows
or has reason to believe is a dangerous dog;
            2.   Possessing a dangerous dog if the person knows or has reason
to believe that the dog has been debarked or surgically silenced;
            3.   Falsely attesting on a waiver form provided by the
veterinarian under R.C. § 955.22(G) that the person’s dog is not a dangerous
dog or otherwise provide false information on that written waiver form.
      (8)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of division
(B)(6) of this section that the veterinarian who is charged with the violation
obtained, prior to debarking or surgically silencing the dog, a written waiver
form that complies with division (B)(7) of this section and that attests that
the dog is not a dangerous dog.
      (9)   (a)   The County Auditor shall issue a dangerous dog registration
certificate to a person who is the owner of a dog, who is 18 years of age or
older, and who provides the following to the County Auditor:
            1.   A fee of $50;
            2.   The person’s address, phone number, and other appropriate
means for the local dog warden or County Auditor to contact the person;
            3.   With respect to the person and the dog for which the
registration is sought, all of the following:
               a.   Either satisfactory evidence of the dog’s current rabies
vaccination or a statement from a licensed veterinarian that a rabies
vaccination is medically contraindicated for the dog;
               b.    Either satisfactory evidence of the fact that the dog has
been neutered or spayed or a statement from a licensed veterinarian that
neutering or spaying of the dog is medically contraindicated;
               c.   Satisfactory evidence of the fact that the person has
posted and will continue to post clearly visible signs at the person’s
residence warning both minors and adults of the presence of a dangerous dog on
the property;
               d.   Satisfactory evidence of the fact that the dog has been
permanently identified by means of a microchip and the dog’s microchip number.
         (b)   Upon the issuance of a dangerous dog registration certificate to
the owner of a dog, the County Auditor shall provide the owner with a uniformly
designed tag that identifies the animal as a dangerous dog. The owner shall
renew the certificate annually for the same fee and in the same manner as the
initial certificate was obtained. If a certificate holder relocates to a new
county, the certificate holder shall follow the procedure in division (B)(9)
(c)2. of this section and, upon the expiration of the certificate issued in the
original county, shall renew the certificate in the new county.
         (c)   1.   If the owner of a dangerous dog for whom a registration
certificate has previously been obtained relocates to a new address within the
same county, the owner shall provide notice of the new address to the County
Auditor within ten days of relocating to the new address.
            2.   If the owner of a dangerous dog for whom a registration
certificate has previously been obtained relocates to a new address within
another county, the owner shall do both of the following within ten days of
relocating to the new address:
               a.   Provide written notice of the new address and a copy of the
original dangerous dog registration certificate to the County Auditor of the
new county;
               b.   Provide written notice of the new address to the County
Auditor of the county where the owner previously resided.
         (d)   The owner of a dangerous dog shall present the dangerous dog
registration certificate upon being requested to do so by any law enforcement
officer, dog warden, or public health official charged with enforcing this
section.
(R.C. § 955.22)
   (C)   Hearing.
      (1)   The municipal court or county court that has territorial
jurisdiction over the residence of the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog
shall conduct any hearing concerning the designation of the dog as a nuisance
dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog.
      (2)   If a person who is authorized to enforce this chapter has
reasonable cause to believe that a dog in the person’s jurisdiction is a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog, the person shall notify the owner,
keeper, or harborer of that dog, by certified mail or in person, of both of the
following:
         (a)   That the person has designated the dog a nuisance dog, dangerous
dog, or vicious dog, as applicable;
         (b)   That the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog may request a
hearing regarding the designation in accordance with this division (C). The
notice shall include instructions for filing a request for a hearing in the
county in which the dog’s owner, keeper, or harborer resides.
      (3)   If the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog disagrees with the
designation of the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog, as
applicable, the owner, keeper, or harborer, not later than ten days after
receiving notification of the designation, may request a hearing regarding the
determination. The request for a hearing shall be in writing and shall be filed
with the municipal court or county court that has territorial jurisdiction over
the residence of the dog’s owner, keeper, or harborer. At the hearing, the
person who designated the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog
has the burden of proving, by clear and convincing evidence, that the dog is a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog. The owner, keeper, or harborer of
the dog or the person who designated the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog,
or vicious dog may appeal the court’s final determination as in any other case
filed in that court.
      (4)   A court, upon motion of an owner, keeper, or harborer or an
attorney representing the owner, keeper, or harborer, may order that the dog
designated as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog be held in the
possession of the owner, keeper, or harborer until the court makes a final
determination under this section or during the pendency of an appeal, as
applicable. Until the court makes a final determination and during the pendency
of any appeal, the dog shall be confined or restrained in accordance with the
provisions of division (B)(4) that apply to dangerous dogs regardless of
whether the dog has been designated as a vicious dog or a nuisance dog rather
than a dangerous dog. The owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog shall not be
required to comply with any other requirements established in this Code or the
Ohio Revised Code that concern a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog,
as applicable, until the court makes a final determination and during the
pendency of any appeal.
      (5)   If a dog is finally determined under this division (C), or on
appeal as described in this division (C), to be a vicious dog, § 90.28(D) and
divisions (B)(4) to (B)(9) of this section apply with respect to the dog and
the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog as if the dog were a dangerous dog,
and § 90.36 applies with respect to the dog as if it were a dangerous dog, and
the court shall issue an order that specifies that those provisions apply with
respect to the dog and the owner, keeper, or harborer in that manner. As part
of the order, the court shall require the owner, keeper, or harborer to obtain
the liability insurance required under division (B)(5)(a) in an amount
described in division (D)(4)(b) of this section.
      (6)   As used in this division (C), NUISANCE DOG, DANGEROUS DOG, and
VICIOUS DOG have the same meanings as in R.C. § 955.11.
(R.C. § 955.222)
   (D)   Penalty.
      (1)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section or commits a
violation of division (B)(3) of this section that involves a dog that is not a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog shall be fined not less than $25 or
more than $100 on a first offense, and on each subsequent offense shall be
fined not less than $75 or more than $250 and may be imprisoned for not more
than 30 days.
         (b)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in division (D)(1)(a) of
this section, if the offender is guilty of a violation of division (B)(2) of
this section or a violation of division (B)(3) of this section that involves a
dog that is not a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog, the court may
order the offender to personally supervise the dog that the offender owns,
keeps, or harbors, to cause that dog to complete dog obedience training, or to
do both.
(R.C. § 955.99(E))
      (2)   (a)   Whoever commits a violation of division (B)(3) of this
section that involves a nuisance dog is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on the
first offense and of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on each subsequent
offense involving the same dog. Upon a person being convicted of or pleading
guilty to a third violation of division (B)(3) of this section involving the
same dog, the court shall require the offender to register the involved dog as
a dangerous dog.
         (b)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, if a violation of division (B)(3) of this section involves a
nuisance dog, the court may order the offender to personally supervise the
nuisance dog that the offender owns, keeps, or harbors, to cause that dog to
complete dog obedience training, or to do both.
(R.C. § 955.99(F))
      (3)   Whoever commits a violation of division (B)(3) of this section that
involves a dangerous dog, or a violation of division (B)(4) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and of a
misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent offense. Additionally, the
court may order the offender to personally supervise the dangerous dog that the
offender owns, keeps, or harbors, to cause that dog to complete dog obedience
training, or to do both, and the court may order the offender to obtain
liability insurance pursuant to division (B)(5) of this section. The court, in
the alternative, may order the dangerous dog to be humanely destroyed by a
licensed veterinarian, the county dog warden, or the county humane society at
the owner’s expense. With respect to a violation of division (B)(3) of this
section that involves a dangerous dog, until the court makes a final
determination and during the pendency of any appeal of a violation of that
division and at the discretion of the dog warden, the dog shall be confined or
restrained in accordance with division (B)(4) of this section or at the county
dog pound at the owner’s expense.
(R.C. § 955.99(G))
      (4)   (a)   Whoever commits a violation of division (B)(3) of this
section that involves a vicious dog is guilty of one of the following:
            1.   A felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the
dog kills or seriously injures a person. Additionally, the court shall order
that the vicious dog be humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the
county dog warden, or the county humane society at the owner’s expense.
            2.   A misdemeanor of the first degree if the dog causes serious
injury to a person. Additionally, the court may order the vicious dog to be
humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the county dog warden, or the
county humane society at the owner’s expense.
         (b)   If the court does not order the vicious dog to be destroyed
under division (D)(4)(a)2. of this section, the court shall issue an order that
specifies that § 90.28(D) and divisions (B)(4) to (B)(9) of this section apply
with respect to the dog and the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog as if the
dog were a dangerous dog and that § 90.36 applies with respect to the dog as if
it were a dangerous dog. As part of the order, the court shall order the
offender to obtain the liability insurance required under division (B)(5)(a) of
this section in an amount, exclusive of interest and costs, that equals or
exceeds $100,000. Until the court makes a final determination and during the
pendency of any appeal of a violation of division (B)(3) of this section and at
the discretion of the dog warden, the dog shall be confined or restrained in
accordance with the provisions described in division (B)(4) of this section or
at the county dog pound at the owner’s expense.
(R.C. § 955.99(H))
      (5)   Whoever violates division (B)(5)(b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(J))
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(6)(a), (B)(6)(b), or (B)(6)(c) of
this section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law. Additionally, the court shall order that the dog involved in the violation
be humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the county dog warden, or the
county humane society. Until the court makes a final determination and during
the pendency of any appeal of a violation of division (B)(6)(a), (B)(6)(b), or
(B)(6)(c) of this section and at the discretion of the dog warden, the dog
shall be confined or restrained in accordance with the provisions of division
(B)(4) of this section or at the county dog pound at the owner’s expense.
(R.C. § 955.99(L))
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(5)(a), (B)(5)(c), or (B)(5)(d) of
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(M))
      (8)   Whoever violates division (B)(9)(d) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(N))
      (9)   (a)   If a dog is confined at the county dog pound pursuant to
division (D)(3), (D)(4), or (D)(6) of this section, the county dog warden shall
give written notice of the confinement to the owner of the dog. If the county
dog warden is unable to give the notice to the owner of the dog, the county dog
warden shall post the notice on the door of the residence of the owner of the
dog or in another conspicuous place on the premises at which the dog was
seized. The notice shall include a statement that a security in the amount of
$100 is due to the county dog warden within ten days to secure payment of all
reasonable expenses, including medical care and boarding of the dog for 60
days, expected to be incurred by the county dog pound in caring for the dog
pending the determination. The county dog warden may draw from the security any
actual costs incurred in caring for the dog.
         (b)   If the person ordered to post security under division (D)(9)(a)
of this section does not do so within ten days of the confinement of the
animal, the dog is forfeited, and the county dog warden may determine the
disposition of the dog unless the court issues an order that specifies
otherwise.
         (c)   Not more than ten days after the court makes a final
determination under division (D)(3), (D)(4), or (D)(6) of this section, the
county dog warden shall provide the owner of the dog with the actual cost of
the confinement of the dog. If the county dog warden finds that the security
provided under division (D)(9)(a) of this section is less than the actual cost
of confinement of the dog, the owner shall remit the difference between the
security provided and the actual cost to the county dog warden within 30 days
after the court’s determination. If the county dog warden finds that the
security provided under division (D)(9)(a) of this section is greater than that
actual cost, the county dog warden shall remit the difference between the
security provided and the actual cost to the owner within 30 days after the
court’s determination.
(R.C. § 955.99(P))
      (10)   As used in this division (D), NUISANCE DOG, DANGEROUS DOG, and
VICIOUS DOG have the same meanings as in R.C. § 955.11.
(R.C. § 955.99(Q))
(Prior Code, § 618.01)
§ 90.02 ABANDONING ANIMALS.
   (A)   No owner or keeper of a dog, cat, or other domestic animal shall
abandon the animal.
(R.C. § 959.01)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
first degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 959.99(E)(3))
(Prior Code, § 618.02)
§ 90.03 KILLING OR INJURING ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously, or willfully and without the consent of
the owner, kill or injure a dog, cat, or any other domestic animal that is the
property of another. This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian
acting in an official capacity.
(R.C. § 959.02)
   (B)   No person shall kill or injure any wild bird, or throw, fire or shoot
a bullet, stone, arrow or other missile at such bird, or break, tear down or
destroy any bird’s nest or the eggs or other contents of such nest, or catch or
capture any wild bird, or set traps or spread nets or snares with intent to
catch or capture the same, or follow or pursue the same with intent to catch or
injure the same.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
If the value of the animal killed or the injury done amounts to $300 or more,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 959.99(B))
   (D)   This section does not apply to a person killing or injuring an animal
or attempting to do so while endeavoring to prevent it from trespassing upon
his or her enclosure, or while it is so trespassing, or while driving it away
from his or her premises; provided within 15 days thereafter, payment is made
for damages done to such animal by killing or injuring, less the actual amount
of damage done by such animal while so trespassing, or a sufficient sum of
money is deposited with the nearest judge of a county court or judge of a
municipal court having jurisdiction within such time to cover the damages. The
deposit shall remain in the custody of such judge until there is a
determination of the damage resulting from such killing or injury and from the
trespass. The judge and his or her bondsmen shall be responsible for the
safekeeping of such money and for the payment thereof as for money collected
upon a judgment.
(R.C. § 959.04)
(Prior Code, § 618.03) (Ord. 260, passed 4-1-1957)
§ 90.04 POISONING ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously, or willfully and without the consent of
the owner, administer poison, except a licensed veterinarian acting in such
capacity, to a dog, cat, or any other domestic animal that is the property of
another; and no person shall, willfully and without the consent of the owner,
place any poisoned food where it may be easily found and eaten by any such
animal, either upon his or her own lands or the lands of another.
(R.C. § 959.03)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 959.99(C))
   (C)   This section does not apply to a person killing or injuring an animal
or attempting to do so while endeavoring to prevent it from trespassing upon
his or her enclosure, or while it is so trespassing, or while driving it away
from his or her premises; provided that within 15 days thereafter, payment is
made for damages done to such animal by killing or injuring, less the actual
amount of damage done by such animal while so trespassing, or a sufficient sum
of money is deposited with the nearest judge of a county court or judge of a
municipal court having jurisdiction within such time to cover the damages. The
deposit shall remain in the custody of such judge until there is a
determination of the damage resulting from such killing or injury and from the
trespass. The judge and his or her bondsmen shall be responsible for the
safekeeping of such money and for the payment thereof as for money collected
upon a judgment.
(R.C. § 959.04)
(Prior Code, § 618.04)
§ 90.05 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS; CRUELTY TO COMPANION ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Torture an animal, deprive one of necessary sustenance,
unnecessarily or cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill, or impound or
confine an animal without supplying it during the confinement with a sufficient
quantity of good wholesome food and water;
      (2)   Impound or confine an animal without affording it, during the
confinement, access to shelter from wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct
sunlight, if it can reasonably be expected that the animal would otherwise
become sick or in some other way suffer. This division does not apply to
animals impounded or confined prior to slaughter. For the purpose of this
section, SHELTER means an artificial enclosure, windbreak, sunshade, or natural
windbreak or sunshade that is developed from the earth’s contour, tree
development, or vegetation;
      (3)   Carry or convey an animal in a cruel or inhuman manner;
      (4)   Keep animals other than cattle, poultry or fowl, swine, sheep, or
goats in an enclosure without wholesome exercise and change of air, nor feed
cows on food that produces impure or unwholesome milk;
      (5)   Detain livestock in railroad cars or compartments longer than 28
hours after they are so placed without supplying them with necessary food,
water, and attention, nor permit the stock to be so crowded as to overlie,
crush, wound, or kill each other.
   (B)   Upon the written request of the owner or person in custody of any
particular shipment of livestock, which written request shall be separate and
apart from any printed bill of lading or other railroad form, the length of
time in which the livestock may be detained in any cars or compartment without
food, water, and attention may be extended to 36 hours without penalty
therefor. Division (A) of this section does not prevent the dehorning of
cattle.
   (C)   All fines collected for violations of division (A) of this section
shall be paid to the society or association for the prevention of cruelty to
animals, if there is one in the municipality; otherwise, all fines shall be
paid to the General Fund.
(R.C. § 959.13)
   (D)   Cruelty to companion animals.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         BOARDING KENNEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 956.01.
         CAPTIVE WHITE-TAILED DEER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
         COMPANION ANIMAL. Means any animal that is kept inside a residential
dwelling and any dog or cat regardless of where it is kept, including a pet
store as defined in R.C. § 956.01. The term does not include livestock or any
wild animal.
         CRUELTY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1717.01.
         DOG KENNEL. Means an animal rescue for dogs that is registered under
R.C. § 956.06, a boarding kennel, or a training kennel.
         FEDERAL ANIMAL WELFARE ACT. Means the “Laboratory Animal Act of 1966”,
Pub. L. No. 89-544, 80 Stat. 350 (1966), 7 U.S.C. §§ 2131 et seq., as amended
by the “Animal Welfare Act of 1970”, Pub. L. No. 91-579, 84 Stat. 1560 (1970),
the “Animal Welfare Act Amendments of 1976”, Pub. L. No. 94-279, 90 Stat. 417
(1976), and the “Food Security Act of 1985”, Pub. L. No. 99-198, 99 Stat. 1354
(1985), and as it may be subsequently amended.
         LIVESTOCK. Means horses, mules, and other equidae; cattle, sheep,
goats, and other bovidae; swine and other suidae; poultry; alpacas; llamas;
captive white-tailed deer; and any other animal that is raised or maintained
domestically for food or fiber.
         PRACTICE OF VETERINARY MEDICINE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4741.01.
         RESIDENTIAL DWELLING. Means a structure or shelter or the portion of a
structure or shelter that is used by one or more humans for the purpose of a
habitation.
         SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM. Means any of the following:
            1.   Physical harm that carries an unnecessary or unjustifiable
substantial risk of death;
            2.   Physical harm that involves either partial or total permanent
incapacity;
            3.   Physical harm that involves acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain;
            4.   Physical harm that results from a person who confines or who
is the custodian or caretaker of a companion animal depriving the companion
animal of good, wholesome food and water that proximately causes the death of
the companion animal.
         TORMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1717.01.
         TORTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1717.01.
         TRAINING KENNEL. Means an establishment operating for profit that
keeps, houses, and maintains dogs for the purpose of training the dogs in
return for a fee or other consideration.
         WILD ANIMAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly torture, torment, needlessly mutilate or
maim, cruelly beat, poison, needlessly kill, or commit an act of cruelty
against a companion animal.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly cause serious physical harm to a
companion animal.
      (4)   No person who confines or who is the custodian or caretaker of a
companion animal shall negligently do any of the following:
         (a)   Torture, torment, or commit an act of cruelty against the
companion animal;
         (b)   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water if it can reasonably be
expected that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way
as a result of or due to the deprivation or confinement;
         (c)   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably be expected
that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way as a
result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
      (5)   No owner, manager, or employee of a dog kennel who confines or is
the custodian or caretaker of a companion animal shall knowingly do any of the
following:
         (a)   Torture, torment, needlessly mutilate or maim, cruelly beat,
poison, needlessly kill, or commit an act of cruelty against the companion
animal;
         (b)   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water if it is reasonably
expected that the companion animal would die or experience unnecessary or
unjustifiable pain or suffering as a result of the deprivation or confinement;
         (c)   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight if it is reasonably expected
that the companion animal would die or experience unnecessary or unjustifiable
pain or suffering as a result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
      (6)   No owner, manager, or employee of a dog kennel who confines or is
the custodian or caretaker of a companion animal shall negligently do any of
the following:
         (a)   Torture, torment, or commit an act of cruelty against the
companion animal;
         (b)   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water if it can reasonably be
expected that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way
as a result of or due to the deprivation or confinement;
         (c)   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably be expected
that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way as a
result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
      (7)   Divisions (D)(2), (D)(3), (D)(4), (D)(5), and (D)(6) of this
section do not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   A companion animal used in scientific research conducted by an
institution in accordance with the federal animal welfare act and related
regulations;
         (b)   The lawful practice of veterinary medicine by a person who has
been issued a license, temporary permit, or registration certificate to do so
under R.C. Chapter 4741;
         (c)   Dogs being used or intended for use for hunting or field trial
purposes, provided that the dogs are being treated in accordance with usual and
commonly accepted practices for the care of hunting dogs;
         (d)   The use of common training devices, if the companion animal is
being treated in accordance with usual and commonly accepted practices for the
training of animals;
         (e)   The administering of medicine to a companion animal that was
properly prescribed by a person who has been issued a license, temporary
permit, or registration certificate under R.C. Chapter 4741.
      (8)   Notwithstanding any section of the Ohio Revised Code that otherwise
provides for the distribution of fine moneys, the Clerk of Court shall forward
all fines the Clerk collects that are so imposed for any violation of this
division (D) to the Treasurer of the municipality, whose county humane society
or law enforcement agency is to be paid the fine money as determined under this
division. The Treasurer shall pay the fine moneys to the county humane society
or the county, township, municipal corporation, or state law enforcement agency
in this state that primarily was responsible for or involved in the
investigation and prosecution of the violation. If a county humane society
receives any fine moneys under this division, the county humane society shall
use the fine moneys either to provide the training that is required for humane
society agents under R.C. § 1717.061 or to provide additional training for
humane society agents.
(R.C. § 959.131)
   (E)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree. In addition, the court may order the offender
to forfeit the animal or livestock and may provide for its disposition
including but not limited to the sale of the animal or livestock. If an animal
or livestock is forfeited and sold pursuant to this division, the proceeds from
the sale first shall be applied to pay the expenses incurred with regard to the
care of the animal from the time it was taken from the custody of the former
owner. The balance of the proceeds from the sale, if any, shall be paid to the
former owner of the animal.
(R.C. § 959.99(D))
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (D)(2) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense and a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D)(3) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (D)(4) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
first degree on each subsequent offense.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D)(5) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (D)(6) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   (a)   A court may order a person who is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a violation of division (D) of this section to forfeit to an
impounding agency, as defined in R.C. § 959.132, any or all of the companion
animals in that person’s ownership or care. The court also may prohibit or
place limitations on the person’s ability to own or care for any companion
animals for a specified or indefinite period of time.
         (b)   A court may order a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty
to a violation of division (A) of this section or division (D) of this section
to reimburse an impounding agency for the reasonably necessary costs incurred
by the agency for the care of a companion animal that the agency impounded as a
result of the investigation or prosecution of the violation, provided that the
costs were not otherwise paid under R.C. § 959.132.
      (7)   If a court has reason to believe that a person who is convicted of
or pleads guilty to a violation of division (D) of this section suffers from a
mental or emotional disorder that contributed to the violation, the court may
impose as a community control sanction or as a condition of probation a
requirement that the offender undergo psychological evaluation or counseling.
The court shall order the offender to pay the costs of the evaluation or
counseling.
(R.C. § 959.99(E))
(Prior Code, § 618.05)
§ 90.06 COLORING RABBITS AND BABY POULTRY; SALE OR DISPLAY OF POULTRY.
   (A)   No person shall dye or otherwise color any rabbit or baby poultry,
including but not limited to chicks and ducklings. No person shall sell, offer
for sale, expose for sale, raffle or give away any rabbit or baby poultry which
has been dyed or otherwise colored. No poultry younger than four weeks of age
may be sold, given away or otherwise distributed to any person in lots of less
than six. Stores, shops, vendors and others offering young poultry for sale or
other distribution shall provide and operate brooders or other heating devices
that may be necessary to maintain poultry in good health, and shall keep
adequate food and water available to the poultry at all times.
(R.C. § 925.62)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on a first offense; each subsequent offense is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
(R.C. § 925.99(B))
(Prior Code, § 618.06)
§ 90.07 BARKING OR HOWLING DOGS.
   (A)   No person shall own, harbor or keep in custody a dog which disturbs
the peace by barking, yelping, howling or making other loud noises to the
annoyance and/or discomfort of any person. Continuous barking, yelping, howling
and/or making other loud noises for 15 consecutive minutes by such dog, whether
confined inside a residence or building or to the outside area, shall be deemed
to have disturbed the peace and to have caused the annoyance and discomfort of
persons; provided, that at the time of the complaint, no person or persons were
trespassing or threatening to trespass upon the private property of the owner,
and provided that the dog was not being teased or provoked in any manner.
   (B)   Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to remain, be lodged or
fed within any dwelling, building, yard or enclosure owned or occupied by such
person shall be considered as harboring or keeping such dog.
   (C)   Upon an initial complaint, an enforcement officer shall warn the
person in writing of the violation. Upon a second such complaint within 30
days, the enforcement officer shall charge the person with a violation of this
section.
   (D)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to owners, operators or
employees of licensed veterinary hospitals, licensed kennels, or licensed
animal boarding establishments, nor does this section apply to blind, deaf or
hearing impaired, or mobility impaired persons when the dog serves as an
assistance dog.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 618.07)
§ 90.08 REGISTRATION OF DOGS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog more than three months of age,
nor owner of a dog kennel, shall fail to file an application for registration
required by R.C. § 955.01, nor shall he or she fail to pay the legal fee
therefor.
(R.C. § 955.21)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $100 on a first offense, and on each subsequent offense shall be
fined not less than $75 nor more than $250 and may be imprisoned for not more
than 30 days.
(R.C. § 955.99(E))
(Prior Code, § 618.08) 90.29(A)
§ 90.09 HINDERING CAPTURE OF UNREGISTERED DOG.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct or interfere with anyone lawfully engaged in
capturing an unlicensed dog or making an examination of a dog wearing a tag.
(R.C. § 955.24)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(B))
(Prior Code, § 618.09)
§ 90.10 DOGS REQUIRED TO WEAR TAGS.
   (A)   No owner of a dog, except a dog constantly confined to a dog kennel
registered under R.C. Chapter 955 or one licensed under R.C. Chapter 956, shall
fail to require the dog to wear, at all times, a valid tag issued in connection
with a certificate of registration. A dog found not wearing at any time a valid
tag shall be prima-facie evidence of lack of registration and shall subject any
dog found not wearing such a tag to impounding, sale, or destruction.
(R.C. § 955.10)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(B))
(Prior Code, § 618.095)
§ 90.11 UNLAWFUL TAGS.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep, or harbor a dog wearing a fictitious,
altered, or invalid registration tag or a registration tag not issued by the
County Auditor in connection with the registration of that animal.
(R.C. § 955.25)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(B))
(Prior Code, § 618.10)
§ 90.12 RABIES QUARANTINE.
   (A)   No person having knowledge of the existence of rabies in an animal, or
knowledge that an animal has exhibited symptoms or behavior suggestive of
rabies, or knowledge that an animal has bitten any person, shall fail to
immediately report such information to the Mayor or the Chief of Police.
   (B)   Whenever it is established by the Mayor or Chief of Police that any
animal has bitten any person or exhibits symptoms or behavior suggestive of
rabies, the person who owns, harbors or otherwise cares for such animal shall
confine it in close quarantine and isolation or shall place such animal in the
establishment of a veterinarian until, in either case, it is determined by the
County Board of Health that the animal is not afflicted with rabies. The
isolation and quarantine period hereby required shall be not less than ten days
from the date the person was bitten. If the animal has, or develops, any
symptoms suspicious of rabies during the ten-day period, the County Board of
Health shall be notified immediately. All expenses incurred for the keeping of
such animal, or the necessary tests to determine whether rabies exists, shall
be borne exclusively by the person who owns, harbors or otherwise cares for
such animal.
   (C)   Whenever the Mayor deems it necessary for the protection of the
public, he or she shall issue an order prohibiting, for a certain time therein
specified, any dog from being at large in any public street or place, unless
muzzled and on leash, so as to prevent it from biting any person or animal.
Such order shall be posted in three conspicuous places in the village, for such
time as the Mayor deems necessary, and any dog found at large during the
existence of such quarantine order shall be impounded and may be destroyed by
village authority without notice to the owner.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 618.11) (Ord. 260, passed 4-1-1957)
§ 90.13 HUNTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The hunting of animals or fowl within the municipality is prohibited.
No person shall hunt, kill or attempt to kill any animal or fowl by the use of
firearms or any other means. However, nothing in this section shall be deemed
to prohibit the killing of rats and other undesirable rodents authorized to be
killed by the Chief of Police using means for such killing which are also
authorized by the Chief.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 618.12)
§ 90.14 NUISANCE CONDITIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall keep or harbor any animal or fowl in the municipality
so as to create noxious or offensive odors or unsanitary conditions which are a
menace to the health, comfort or safety of the public.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 618.13)
§ 90.15 IMPOUNDING AND DISPOSITION; RECORDS.
   (A)   A police officer or animal warden may impound every dog or other
animal found in violation of §
90.01. If the impounded dog is not wearing a valid registration tag, the dog
shall forthwith be turned over to an officer charged by law with the custody
and disposal of such dogs. If the dog is wearing a valid registration tag or
the identity of the owner or harborer is otherwise established, notice shall
immediately be given to such owner or harborer that the dog has been impounded.
Notice may be by telephone or by ordinary mail to the last known address of
such owner or harborer. The dog shall not be released except upon the payment
of reasonable expenses for its taking and keeping. Any dog not redeemed within
three days of the time it is seized or impounded may be sold or otherwise
disposed of as provided by R.C. § 955.16.
   (B)   A record of all dogs impounded, the disposition of the same, the
owner’s name and address, if known, and a statement of any costs or receipts
involving such dog shall be kept.
(Prior Code, § 618.14)
§ 90.16 RIDING OF HORSES, MULES AND OTHER ANIMALS.
   (A)   No horse, mule or other animal shall be ridden in the village by more
than one person riding at one time. Any such horse, mule or other animal being
ridden shall be saddled and bridled. Saddles shall have stirrups and bridles
shall be fitted with strong reins and a workable bit in place.
   (B)   No juvenile under the age of 14 years shall be permitted to ride a
horse, mule or any other animal, unless accompanied by a responsible adult.
Such adult may lead the animal or otherwise accompany such juvenile, but shall
not ride double with such juvenile.
   (C)   No person, while riding a bicycle, skateboard, scooter, roller skates
or any other like means of locomotion, shall hang onto the saddle or other
trappings or any part of a horse, mule or other animal when such animal is in
motion.
   (D)   Any person failing to comply with any part of this section may be
ordered to dismount any horse, mule or other animal he or she may be riding and
required to lead such animal out of the corporation limits of the village. In
addition, whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 618.15) (Ord. 504, passed 6-1-1987)
§ 90.17 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR RIDING A HORSE, MULE OR OTHER ANIMAL IN THE
VILLAGE.
   (A)   Effective September 1, 1994, no person shall ride a horse, mule or
other animal on any street or alley in the village, or on any property owned or
leased by the village, without a permit therefor issued by the Fiscal Officer
after approval from Council.
   (B)   Any person desiring a permit so as to not violate division (A) of this
section shall appear before Council and request a permit in writing. The
written request shall describe the time, location and nature of the request,
and Council shall grant or deny the request based on whether the proposal will
adversely affect the health, safety, morals and welfare of the citizens. There
shall be no fee for the written request, and if approved, the Fiscal Officer
shall issue a written permit under such terms as Council prescribes.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
   (D)   Whoever exceeds the scope of any permit issued under division (B) of
this section shall be deemed to have violated division (A) of this section.
   (E)   This section shall be an additional regulation to those already in law
at this time.
   (F)   This section shall not apply to village or other police officers
acting in the scope of their official police functions.
(Prior Code, § 618.155) (Ord. 603, passed 7-18-1994)
§ 90.18 KEEPING OF BEES RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep, possess or harbor bees within the corporate
limits of the village, except in accordance with the following restriction and
limitation: bees and hives located within the village limits shall not be kept,
housed or harbored nearer than 500 feet to any inhabited residence or any other
buildings or structures.
   (B)   Failure to comply with the provisions of division (A) of this section
shall result in a written order, issued by the Village Mayor to the offender,
to remove or correct the offense.
   (C)   If, after the ten days, the offense has not been corrected by the
offender, he or she shall be deemed to be in noncompliance with a lawful order,
and, upon an adverse judgment by Village Council, the village authority shall
have the right to enter upon the premises to remove the bees and hives and make
a disposition of the offense.
(Prior Code, § 618.16) (Ord. 533, passed 6-5-1939)
§ 90.19 RESTRICTIONS ON DOG OWNERSHIP FOR CERTAIN CONVICTED FELONS.
   (A)   No person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a felony offense of
violence committed on or after May 22, 2012 or a felony violation of any
provision of R.C. Chapter 959, R.C. Chapter 2923 or R.C. Chapter 2925 committed
on or after May 22, 2012 shall knowingly own, possess, have custody of, or
reside in a residence with either of the following for a period of three years
commencing either upon the date of release of the person from any period of
incarceration imposed for the offense or violation or, if the person is not
incarcerated for the offense or violation, upon the date of the person’s final
release from the other sanctions imposed for the offense or violation:
      (1)   An unspayed or unneutered dog older than 12 weeks of age;
      (2)   Any dog that has been determined to be a dangerous dog under R.C.
Chapter 955 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (B)   A person described in division (A) of this section shall microchip for
permanent identification any dog owned, possessed by, or in the custody of the
person.
   (C)   (1)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who is
confined in a correctional institution of the Department of Rehabilitation and
Correction.
      (2)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person with
respect to any dog that the person owned, possessed, had custody of, or resided
in a residence with prior to May 22, 2012.
(R.C. § 955.54)
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(O))
(Prior Code, § 618.17)
§ 90.20 REMOVING ANIMAL FECES FROM PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person, being the owner of any dog or other animal, or harboring or
having charge or control of the same, shall permit such dog or other animal to
defecate on public or private property.
   (B)   Any person, being the owner of any dog or other animal that defecates
on public or private property, or harboring or having charge or control of the
same, shall remove or cause to be removed, without delay, such excreta and
dispose of the same in a safe place.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 618.18) (Ord. 585, passed 5-3-1993)
§ 90.21 KEEPING OF FOWL IN A RESIDENTIAL AREA.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FOWL. Includes geese, turkeys, ducks, chickens and pheasants.
      RESIDENTIAL AREA. Any location within the village’s municipal boundary
that is on land or abuts land containing residential dwellings of any kind.
   (B)   A person who keeps fowl on any land in a residential area of the
village shall comply with all of the following requirements:
      (1)   Keep no more than a total of five fowl, of every kind, nature and
description;
      (2)   The principal use of the land on which fowl are kept shall be
residential;
      (3)   No person shall keep any rooster;
      (4)   The fowl shall be provided with a covered enclosure and must be
kept within the covered enclosure or a fenced enclosure at all times;
      (5)   A person shall not keep fowl in any location on land other than in
the backyard. For purposes of this section, BACKYARD means that portion of land
enclosed by the property’s rear property line and the side property lines to
the points where the side property lines intersect with an imaginary line
established by the rear of a residential dwelling of any kind and extending to
the side property lines;
      (6)   All enclosures for the keeping of fowl shall be so constructed or
repaired as to prevent rats, mice or other rodents from being harbored
underneath, within, or within the walls of the enclosure; and
      (7)   All feed and other items associated with the keeping of fowl that
are likely to attract or to become infested with or infected by rats, mice or
other rodents shall be protected so as to prevent rats, mice or other rodents
from gaining access to or coming into contact with them.
   (C)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 802, passed 12-14-2015)
CHAPTER 91: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Noise pollution prohibited
   
91.03   Noise near residential or institutional uses
   
91.04   Noise near commercial or industrial uses
   
91.05   Noise from mobile sources
   
91.06   Noise from sound-producing devices in motor vehicles; exceptions
   
91.07   Noise from entertainment places
   
91.08   Federal noise emission standards
   
91.09   Interpretation; other laws
   
91.10   Variances
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   All definitions and terminology used in this chapter not defined
herein shall be in conformity with applicable publications of the American
National Standards Institute (ANSI) or its successor body.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      dB(A). The A-weighted sound-pressure level, in decibels, as measured by a
sound-level meter complying with the provisions of the American National
Standards Institute, properly calibrated and operated on the A-weighted
network.
      MOBILE NOISE SOURCE. Any source (other than an individual) of acoustic
energy in motion relative to a fixed position.
      NOISE LEVEL and SOUND-PRESSURE LEVEL. In decibels, ten times the common
logarithm of the ratio of the time-mean-square pressure of the sound to the
reference mean-square-sound pressure. The reference mean-square-sound pressure
shall be 4 x 10 -8 microbars squared (20 micropascal squared).
      NOISE POLLUTION. The presence of that amount of acoustic energy for that
period of time necessary to:
         (a)   Cause temporary or permanent hearing loss in persons exposed;
         (b)   Be otherwise injurious or tend to be, on the basis of current
information, injurious to the public health or welfare;
         (c)   Cause a nuisance;
         (d)   Interfere with domestic tranquility, that is, the comfortable
enjoyment of life and property or the conduct of a business; or
         (e)   Exceed standards or restrictions established herein or pursuant
to the granting of any permit by Council.
      NOISE SOURCE. Any person or animal, or any mechanical, electrical or
thermal device which radiates acoustic energy.
(Prior Code, § 634.01) (Ord. 470, passed 9-4-1984)
§ 91.02 NOISE POLLUTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person owning, leasing or controlling the operation of any source
of noise, including an animal, shall knowingly, negligently, purposely or
recklessly permit the establishment or continuation of a condition of noise
pollution.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor for a
first offense. For a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. The penalty shall be as provided in §
130.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 634.02) (Ord. 470, passed 9-4-1984)
§ 91.03 NOISE NEAR RESIDENTIAL OR INSTITUTIONAL USES.
   (A)   No person shall create or cause to be emitted from his or her person,
or from any stationary noise source, a noise which causes or results in a noise
level equal to or exceeding 55 dB(A) measured at a lot line of any lot located
in a residential district or at an institutional use elsewhere.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor for a
first offense. For a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. The penalty shall be as provided in §
130.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 634.03) (Ord. 470, passed 9-4-1984)
§ 91.04 NOISE NEAR COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL USES.
   (A)   No person shall create or cause to be emitted from his or her person,
or from any stationary noise source, a noise which exceeds or results in a
noise level equal to or exceeding 60 dB(A) measured at a lot line of any lot of
a commercial or industrial enterprise other than a residential lot or
institutional use.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor for a
first offense. For a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. The penalty shall be as provided in §
130.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 634.04) (Ord. 470, passed 9-4-1984)
§ 91.05 NOISE FROM MOBILE SOURCES.
   (A)   No person shall create or cause to be emitted from any mobile noise
source, other than his or her person, a noise which causes or results in a
maximum noise level equal to or exceeding 85 dB(A) at a distance equal to or
greater than 50 feet from the closest point of the source, except for trucks
exceeding 10,000 pounds gross vehicle weight, for which the maximum allowable
noise level shall be 90 dB(A) of a distance equal to or greater than 50 feet
from the closest point of the source. For other measurement distances, the
following table shall apply:
 
Measurement distance in feet Maximum permissible noise level in dB(A)
50                           85
40                           87
30                           90
20                           93
 
   (B)   For trucks exceeding 10,000 pounds gross vehicle weight, the
permissible noise levels in the preceding table shall be increased by five dB
(A).
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor for a
first offense. For a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. The penalty shall be as provided in § 130.99
of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 634.05) (Ord. 470, passed 9-4-1984)
§ 91.06 NOISE FROM SOUND-PRODUCING DEVICES IN MOTOR VEHICLES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall, while operating or occupying a motor vehicle anywhere
within the village, operate or amplify the sound produced by a radio, tape or
CD player, or other mechanical or electronic sound-making device or instrument
from any motor vehicle so that the sound is:
      (1)   Plainly audible at a distance of 100 feet or more from the motor
vehicle; or
      (2)   Louder than necessary for convenient hearing by persons inside the
motor vehicle between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the following
day.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to public safety vehicles equipped with
any communication and/or warning device necessary in the performance of any of
the functions of such vehicles.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to motor vehicles used for business or
political purposes which, in the normal course of conducting such business, use
sound-making devices.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to the noise made by a horn or other
warning device required or permitted by state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, PLAINLY AUDIBLE shall mean any sound produced
by a radio, tape or CD player, or other mechanical or electronic sound-making
device or instrument, from within the interior or on the exterior of a motor
vehicle, including sound produced by a portable sound-making device, that can
be heard outside the vehicle by a person using his or her normal hearing
faculties, at a distance of 100 feet or more from the motor vehicle.
   (F)   Any law enforcement personnel who hears a sound that is plainly
audible, as described herein, shall be entitled to measure the sound according
to the following standards.
      (1)   The primary means of detection shall be by means of the officer’s
ordinary auditory senses, so long as the officer’s hearing is not enhanced by
any mechanical device, such as a microphone or hearing aid.
      (2)   The officer must be able to readily identify the offending vehicle
and the distance involved.
      (3)   The officer need not determine the particular words or phrases
being produced or the name of any song or artist producing the sound. The
detection of a rhythmic bass reverberating type sound is sufficient to
constitute a plainly audible sound.
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and
shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
130.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 634.06) (Ord. 615, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 91.07 NOISE FROM ENTERTAINMENT PLACES.
   (A)   No person owning, leasing or controlling the operation of a place used
for entertainment shall knowingly, negligently, purposely or recklessly permit
the imposition or continuation of a sound pressure (noise) level exceeding 85
dB(A) on any member of the audience or patrons by a person engaged or employed
by the owner, lessee or person in control.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor for a
first offense. For a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. The penalty shall be as provided in § 130.99
of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 634.07) (Ord. 470, passed 9-4-1984)
§ 91.08 FEDERAL NOISE EMISSION STANDARDS.
   In those instances where federal noise emission standards are established
for any noise source, such noise emission standards shall also be applicable to
noise sources existing under conditions, such as non-interstate commerce, where
the federal standards would not otherwise apply. Federal noise emission
standards shall be superceded in all conflicts with this chapter when the
federal standards are less stringent.
(Prior Code, § 634.08) (Ord. 470, passed 9-4-1984)
§ 91.09 INTERPRETATION; OTHER LAWS.
   Compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall not relieve any person
from the responsibility of complying with other laws, statutes, codes,
regulations or village ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 634.09) (Ord. 470, passed 9-4-1984)
§ 91.10 VARIANCES.
   Council may grant variances from the provisions of this chapter after public
hearing or may reject applications on review without a hearing. Variances thus
granted may be effective for not longer than six months.
(Prior Code, § 634.10) (Ord. 470, passed 9-4-1984)
CHAPTER 92: WEEDS
Section
   
92.01   Cutting required
   
92.02   Notice to cut; service
   
92.03   Fees for service and return
   
92.04   Noncompliance; remedy of village
   
92.05   Written return to County Auditor; amount a lien upon property
§ 92.01 CUTTING REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person owning or having charge of land within the village shall
fail to keep such property free and clear from all noxious weeds and rank
vegetation, nor fail to cut all such weeds and vegetation on the lots owned or
controlled by him or her at least six times every year, once between April 15
and May 15, once between May 15 and June 15, once between June 15 and July 15,
once between July 15 and August 15, once between August 15 and September 15,
and once between September 15 and October 15.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues. Punishment shall be as provided in § 130.99 of
this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 674.01) (Ord. 260, passed 4-1-1957; Ord. 647, passed 8-2-1999)
§ 92.02 NOTICE TO CUT; SERVICE.
   (A)   Upon written information that noxious weeds are growing on lands in
the village and are about to spread or mature seeds, Council shall cause
written notice to be served on the owner or person having charge of such land
that such weeds must be cut and destroyed within five days after service of
such notice.
   (B)   If such owner or person having charge of such land is a nonresident
whose address is known, such notice shall be sent to his or her address by
certified mail; if unknown, it shall be sufficient to publish such notice once
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county.
(R.C. § 731.51) (Prior Code, § 674.02)
§ 92.03 FEES FOR SERVICE AND RETURN.
   The Police Chief, any police officer, or Fiscal Officer may make service and
return of the notice provided for in §
92.02 and shall be allowed the same fees as that provided for service and
return of summons in civil cases before a magistrate.
(R.C. § 731.52) (Prior Code, § 674.03) (Ord. 260, passed 4-1-1957)
§ 92.04 NONCOMPLIANCE; REMEDY OF VILLAGE.
   If the owner or person having charge of such land fails to comply with such
notice, Council shall cause the noxious weeds to be cut and destroyed. All
expenses and labor costs incurred shall, when approved by Council, be paid out
of the village funds not otherwise appropriated.
(R.C. § 731.53) (Prior Code, § 674.04) (Ord. 260, passed 4-1-1957)
§ 92.05 WRITTEN RETURN TO COUNTY AUDITOR; AMOUNT A LIEN UPON PROPERTY.
   Council shall make a written return to the County Auditor of its action
under §§
92.02 through
92.04 with a statement of the charges for its services, the amount paid for
labor, the fees of the officers serving the notices and a proper description of
the premises. Such amounts, when allowed, shall be entered upon the tax
duplicate and be a lien upon such lands from and after the date of entry and
shall be collected as other taxes and returned to the village with the General
Fund. Such remedy shall be in addition to the penalty provided in §
92.01(B).
(R.C. § 731.54) (Prior Code, § 674.05) (Ord. 260, passed 4-1-1957)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations
   
93.01   Permit required; fee; deposit
   
93.02   Restoration of pavement
   
93.03   Barricades
   
93.04   Warning lights
Improvements
   
93.15   Conditions precedent to improving streets
   
93.16   Sidewalk construction
   
93.17   Street and gutter specifications
Maintenance
   
93.30   Consent to maintain state highways
 
   
93.99   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS
§ 93.01 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE; DEPOSIT.
   (A)   No person, other than the Village Administrator, the Village Engineer
or the authorized employees or agents of either, shall make any excavation in
any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way of the village unless a permit
to make such excavation has been obtained prior to the commencement of the
work, as hereafter provided.
   (B)   Each permit for such excavation shall be confined to a single project
and shall be issued by the Mayor, the Village Administrator or other duly
appointed official. The fee for such permit shall be $75. Application shall be
made on a form prescribed by Council, giving the exact location of the proposed
excavation, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated and such
other facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after the
person applying for such permit makes a cash deposit of $150 plus $1 per square
foot of excavation surface exceeding 25 square feet, conditioned upon prompt
and satisfactory refilling of the excavation and restoration of all surfaces
disturbed. If the excavation is promptly and satisfactorily refilled and all
surfaces disturbed are restored, $150 shall be returned to the permittee.
(Prior Code, § 1020.01) (Ord. 427, passed 4-21-1980)
§ 93.02 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The excavation and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the Village
Administrator, and in accordance with rules, regulations and specifications
approved by the Mayor and Council.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface and remove all excess materials within the time
specified in the permit or, where not specified therein, within a reasonable
time after commencement of the work, the village may proceed without notice to
make such fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
93.01 shall be deemed forfeited. Thereupon such deposit shall be paid in the
Street Repair Fund of the village, except such part demanded and paid to the
permittee as the difference between the deposit and the charges of the village
for restoration services preformed by it. If the amount of such services
performed by the village exceeds the amount of such deposit, the Fiscal Officer
shall proceed to collect the remainder due from such permittee.
(Prior Code, § 1020.02) (Ord. 260, passed 4-1-1957)
§ 93.03 BARRICADES.
   No person engaged in or employing others in excavating any street, sidewalk,
alley or other public way shall fail to have such excavation fully barricaded
at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
(Prior Code, § 1020.03) (Ord. 260, passed 4-1-1957)
§ 93.04 WARNING LIGHTS.
   No person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley or other
public way shall fail, at night, to erect or cause to be erected at least two
illuminated red or amber lamps to be securely and conspicuously posted on, at
or near each end of such obstruction or excavation. If the space involved
exceeds 50 feet in extent, then at least one additional lamp for each
additional 50 feet or portion thereof shall be required.
(Prior Code, § 1020.04) (Ord. 260, passed 4-1-1957)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 93.15 CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO IMPROVING STREETS.
   No department of the village shall accept, lay out, open, improve, grade,
pave, curb or light any street or other way unless such street or way has been
accepted or opened or otherwise has received the legal status of a public
street or way unless such street or way corresponds in location and extent with
a street or way shown on a recorded plat which has been legally accepted by
Council.
(Prior Code, § 1024.01) (Ord. 260, passed 4-1-1957)
§ 93.16 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the Village Engineer or, if none exists, the Village
Administrator, to supervise construction or repair of sidewalks within the
village. He or she shall cause specifications to be prepared for the
construction of the various kinds of pavements and transmit the same to Council
for approval. When approved, Council shall advertise for proposals to do all
the work which may be ordered by the village in construction and repair of
sidewalks, and shall contract therefor, for a period not exceeding one year,
with the lowest responsible bidder, who shall furnish good and sufficient
sureties for the faithful performance of the work. Council, if it deems
advisable, may make separate contracts for the different kinds of work with
different parties.
(Prior Code, § 1024.02) (Ord. 260, passed 4-1-1957)
§ 93.17 STREET AND GUTTER SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The street and gutter specifications set forth in Ordinance 348,
passed November 4, 1968, copies of which are on file in the Municipal Building,
are guidelines only and not all-inclusive. The Village Engineer or the Village
Administrator, when designated as the agent of Council, is hereby authorized to
clarify and expand such specifications as deemed necessary in the interest of
guaranteeing satisfactory construction.
   (B)   All construction work and material shall be similar to, and in close
conformance with, the requirements of the State of Ohio Department of
Transportation Construction and Material Specifications, the January 1, 1973
edition.
   (C)   Drawings prepared by the Village Engineer or other designated persons,
when approved by Council, shall be considered a part of the specifications set
forth in Ordinance 348 and shall be complied with.
(Prior Code, § 1024.03)
MAINTENANCE
§ 93.30 CONSENT TO MAINTAIN STATE HIGHWAYS.
   The consent of the village is hereby given to the State Department of
Transportation to maintain the traveled portions of, to centerline paint and to
plow snow and place abrasives for ice control on state highways within the
village in accordance with the standard practices of such department.
(Prior Code, § 1026.01) (Ord. 401, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §§
93.01 through
93.04 shall be fined not more than $100. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 1020.99)
CHAPTER 94: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
   
94.01   Authority of village
   
94.02   Responsibility of owners
   
94.03   Removal of dead or diseased trees
   
94.04   Removal of stumps
   
94.05   Interfering with village operations
   
94.06   Abuse of trees and shrubs; bill posting
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 AUTHORITY OF VILLAGE.
   The village shall have the right to plant, prune and remove trees and shrubs
within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes, squares and public
grounds, as may be necessary to ensure public safety or to preserve or enhance
the symmetry and beauty of such public ways and public grounds.
(Prior Code, § 1028.01) (Ord. 469, passed 9-4-1984)
§ 94.02 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNERS.
   Every owner of a tree or shrub overhanging a street or right-of-way within
the village shall prune the branches of such tree or shrub so that such
branches do not obstruct the view of any intersection of streets or other
rights-of-way so that there is a clear space of eight feet above the surface of
a sidewalk or of the ground and a clear space of 12 feet above that portion of
the street, alley or other right-of-way used for vehicular traffic. The owner
of the trees or shrubs shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees or
broken or decayed limbs, which constitute a menace to the safety of the public.
The village, after a property owner has been given a notice of visibility
interference and seven days in which to correct the problem, shall have the
right to prune any tree or shrub on private property when it interferes with
the visibility of any traffic control device or sign.
(Prior Code, § 1028.02) (Ord. 469, passed 9-4-1984)
§ 94.03 REMOVAL OF DEAD OR DISEASED TREES.
   The village shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or
diseased tree on private property when such tree constitutes a hazard to life
and property. The village shall notify the owner of such tree, in writing.
Removal shall be done by such owner, at his or her expense, within 60 days
after the date of service of such notice. If the owner fails to comply with
such notice, the village shall have the authority to remove such tree and place
the cost of such removal on the owner’s property tax notice.
(Prior Code, § 1028.03) (Ord. 469, passed 9-4-1984)
§ 94.04 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of trees within the lines of streets, alleys, avenues, lanes,
squares and public grounds must be removed below the surface of the ground to
facilitate landscaping.
(Prior Code, § 1028.04) (Ord. 469, passed 9-4-1984)
§ 94.05 INTERFERING WITH VILLAGE OPERATIONS.
   No person shall prevent, delay or interfere with the village or any of its
agents while such agents are engaging in and about the planting, pruning,
spraying or removal of any tree on public or private grounds as authorized in
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1028.05) (Ord. 469, passed 9-4-1984)
§ 94.06 ABUSE OF TREES AND SHRUBS; BILL POSTING.
   No person shall abuse, destroy or mutilate any tree, shrub or plant in a
public tree lawn, park or other public place, or attach any sign, poster,
handbill or other thing to or on any tree growing in a public place.
(Prior Code, § 1028.06) (Ord. 469, passed 9-4-1984)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be fined not more than $100. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed each day during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or
continues and for each tree or shrub affected by such a violation or
noncompliance.
(Prior Code, § 1028.99) (Ord. 469, passed 9-4-1984)
CHAPTER 95: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Ohio Fire Code
   
95.01   1998 edition adopted
   
95.02   Purpose
   
95.03   Application of Code
   
95.04   Enforcement; responsibilities of Municipal Fire Safety Inspector
   
95.05   Compliance required
   
95.06   Posting arson laws
   
95.07   Setting fires which spread
   
95.08   Responsibilities upon discovery of unfriendly fires
   
95.09   Inspections
   
95.10   Sale and use of fire equipment; standards; service and repair of
equipment
   
95.11   File and distribution copies
   
95.12   Conflicts of laws
   
95.13   Permit fees
Fireworks
   
95.25   Fireworks
 
   
95.99   Penalty
OHIO FIRE CODE
§ 95.01 1998 EDITION ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to R.C. § 731.231, there is hereby adopted by the
municipality the Ohio Fire Code (OFC), the 1998 edition, as adopted by the Ohio
Department of Commerce, Division of State Fire Marshal, and as published in
Chapter 1301:7-7 of the Ohio Administrative Code (O.A.C.).
   (B)   The BOCA National Fire Prevention Code, 1996, tenth edition, as
amended by O.A.C. 1301:7-7-01 to 1301:7-7-07, as published by Building
Officials and Code Administrators International, Inc., is incorporated herein
as fully as if set out at length.
(Prior Code, § 1602.01)
§ 95.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Ohio Fire Code, as adopted in §
95.01, is to prescribe minimum standards and regulations governing conditions
hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion.
(Prior Code, § 1602.02)
§ 95.03 APPLICATION OF CODE.
   The Ohio Fire Code, as adopted in §
95.01, applies to the use of all lands and properties within the municipality
and such other lands or properties owned by the municipality which are situated
outside the corporate limits thereof.
(Prior Code, § 1602.03)
§ 95.04 ENFORCEMENT; RESPONSIBILITIES OF MUNICIPAL FIRE SAFETY INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Ohio Fire Code shall be enforced by the Volunteer Fire Department
of the village.
   (B)   No person shall serve as a Municipal Fire Safety Inspector unless he
or she has received a certificate issued by the Ohio Superintendent of Public
Instruction under R.C. § 3303.07 or R.C. §4765.55 evidencing his or her
satisfactory completion of a fire safety inspection training program.
(R.C. § 3737.34)
   (C)   The Municipal Fire Safety Inspector, upon examination or inspection,
shall issue citations when he or she finds conditions as specified in R.C. §
3737.41 which are especially dangerous to the safety of persons, buildings,
premises or property, and shall make any necessary remedial orders in
connection therewith. Citation enforcement may be by use of the procedures
established by R.C. § 3737.42 for hearing on the citation or R.C. § 3737.44 for
injunctive relief or a temporary restraining order and oral order for vacation
of the building or premises.
   (D)   The Municipal Fire Safety Inspector, upon reasonable belief and after
inspection or investigation, shall, with reasonable promptness, issue a
citation to the responsible person for a violation of the Ohio Fire Code or any
order issued by the Ohio Fire Marshal or any Municipal Fire Safety Inspector.
The citation shall fix a reasonable time for abatement of the violation. Each
citation issued under this division (D) shall be prominently posted by the
responsible person, as prescribed by the Ohio Fire Code, at or near each place
a violation referred to in the citation occurs.
   (E)   Upon request of the Municipal Fire Safety Inspector, the Law Director
shall institute and prosecute any necessary action or proceeding to enforce
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 3737.
(Prior Code, § 1602.04)
§ 95.05 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly violate any provision of the Ohio Fire Code
as adopted herein or any order issued pursuant thereto.
(R.C. § 3737.51(A))
   (B)   No person shall fail to comply with the fire prevention measures or
fire protection activities as prescribed in the Ohio Fire Code or fail to
comply with the municipal application and plan submission and processing
requirements, including payment of the fees designated therefor.
(Prior Code, § 1602.05)
§ 95.06 POSTING ARSON LAWS.
   (A)   The owner, operator or lessee of any hotel, motel or transient
residential building shall post the provisions of R.C. §§ 2909.02 and 2909.03,
regarding aggravated arson and arson, in a conspicuous place in each room
occupied by guests in such building. The owner, operator or lessee of any
nontransient residential building, institution, school or place of assembly
shall post the provisions of such sections in conspicuous places upon such
premises. No person shall fail to comply with this section.
(R.C. § 3737.61)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3737.99(C))
(Prior Code, § 1602.06)
§ 95.07 SETTING FIRES WHICH SPREAD.
   (A)   No person shall set, kindle, or cause to be set or kindled any fire
which, through his or her negligence, spreads beyond its immediate confines to
any structure, field or wooded lot.
(R.C. § 3737.62)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 3737.99(D))
(Prior Code, § 1602.07)
§ 95.08 RESPONSIBILITIES UPON DISCOVERY OF UNFRIENDLY FIRES.
   (A)   The owner, operator or lessee, an employee of any owner, operator or
lessee, an occupant, and any person in direct control of any building regulated
under the State Building Code, upon the discovery of an unfriendly fire, or
upon receiving information that there is an unfriendly fire upon the premises,
shall immediately, and with all reasonable dispatch and diligence, call or
otherwise notify the Fire Department concerning the fire, and shall spread an
alarm immediately to all occupants of the building.
   (B)   As used in this section, UNFRIENDLY FIRE means a fire of a destructive
nature as distinguished from a controlled fire intended for a beneficial
purpose.
(R.C. §3737.63)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. §3737.99(E))
(Prior Code, § 1602.08)
§ 95.09 INSPECTIONS.
   No person who is not a certified Fire Safety Inspector shall act as such or
hold himself or herself out to be such unless prior to commencing any
inspection function he or she discloses the purpose for which he or she is
making such inspection and the fact that he or she is not employed by any state
or local fire service or agency and that he or she is not acting in an official
capacity for any governmental subdivision or agency.
(R.C. § 3737.64) (Prior Code, § 1602.09)
§ 95.10 SALE AND USE OF FIRE EQUIPMENT; STANDARDS; SERVICE AND REPAIR OF
EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, or use any fire protection or
firefighting equipment that does not meet the minimum standards established by
the Ohio Fire Marshal in the Ohio Fire Code.
   (B)   Except for public and private mobile fire trucks, no person shall
service, test, repair or install for profit any fire protection or firefighting
equipment without a certificate issued by the Ohio Fire Marshal.
(R.C. § 3737.65) (Prior Code, § 1602.10)
§ 95.11 FILE AND DISTRIBUTION COPIES.
   Copies of the Ohio Fire Code and the BOCA Basic Fire Prevention Code, as
adopted in §
95.01, are on file with the Village Fiscal Officer for inspection by the
public. Copies are also on file in the County Law Library. In addition, the
Village Fiscal Officer has copies available for distribution to the public, at
cost.
(Prior Code, § 1602.11)
§ 95.12 CONFLICTS OF LAWS.
   (A)   The Ohio Basic Building Code shall supersede and govern any order,
standard, rule or regulation of the Ohio Fire Code or the Division of State
Fire Marshal, Department of Commerce, in all cases where any such order,
standard, rule or regulation is in conflict with the Ohio Basic Building Code,
except that rules adopted and orders issued by the Fire Marshal pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 3743 prevail in the event of a conflict.
(R.C. § 3781.11(B))
   (B)   In all other cases of conflict between the Ohio Fire Code and any
other municipal ordinance or technical code adopted thereby, the stricter
standard shall control.
(Prior Code, § 1602.12)
§ 95.13 PERMIT FEES.
   The fee for all permits issued by the Fire Chief or the Municipal Fire
Safety Inspector pursuant to § 1301:7-5-03 of the Ohio Fire Code shall be $5
each.
(Prior Code, § 1602.13)
FIREWORKS
§ 95.25 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      1.3G FIREWORKS. Display fireworks consistent with regulations of the
United States Department of Transportation as expressed using the designation
“Division 1.3” in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
      1.4G FIREWORKS. Consumer fireworks consistent with regulations of the
United States Department of Transportation as expressed using the designation
“Division 1.4” in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
      BEER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4301.01.
      BOOBY TRAP. A small tube that has a string protruding from both ends that
has a friction- sensitive composition and that is ignited by pulling the ends
of the string.
      CIGARETTE LOAD. A small wooden peg that is coated with a small quantity
of explosive composition and that is ignited in a cigarette.
      CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
      DISCHARGE SITE. An area immediately surrounding the mortars used to fire
aerial shells.
      FIREWORKS. Any composition or device prepared for the purpose of
producing a visible or an audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or
detonation, except ordinary matches and except as provided in R.C. § 3743.80.
      FIREWORKS INCIDENT. Any action or omission that occurs at a fireworks
exhibition that results in injury or death, or a substantial risk of injury or
death, to any person, and that involves either of the following:
         (a)   The handling or other use, or the results of the handling or
other use, of fireworks or associated equipment or other materials;
         (b)   The failure of any person to comply with any applicable
requirement imposed by this chapter or R.C. Chapter 3743, or any applicable
rule adopted under this chapter or R.C. Chapter 3743.
      FIREWORKS INCIDENT SITE. A discharge site or other location at a
fireworks exhibition where a fireworks incident occurs, a location where an
injury or death associated with a fireworks incident occurs, or a location
where evidence of a fireworks incident or an injury or death associated with a
fireworks incident is found
      FIREWORKS PLANT. All buildings and other structures in which the
manufacturing of fireworks, or the storage or sale of manufactured fireworks by
a manufacturer, takes place.
      FOUNTAIN DEVICE. Means a specific type of 1.4G firework that meets all of
the following criteria:
         (a)   It is nonaerial and nonreport producing.
         (b)   It is recognized and manufactured in accordance with sections
3.1.1 and 3.5 of APA standard 87-1 (2001 edition).
         (c)   It is a ground-based or hand-held sparkler with one or more
tubes containing a nonexplosive pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of
sparks upon ignition, with or without additional effects that may include a
colored flame, audible crackling effect, audible whistle effect, or smoke.
         (d)   It contains not more than 75 grams of the nonexplosive
pyrotechnic mixture in any individual tube and not more than 500 grams or less
for multiple tubes.
      HIGHWAY. Any public street, road, alley, way, lane or other public
thoroughfare.
      INTOXICATING LIQUOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §4301.01.
      LICENSED BUILDING. A building on the licensed premises of a licensed
manufacturer or wholesaler of fireworks that is approved for occupancy by the
building official having jurisdiction.
      LICENSED EXHIBITOR OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED EXHIBITOR. A person licensed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55.
      LICENSED FOUNTAIN DEVICE RETAILER or LICENSED RETAILER. Means a person
licensed pursuant to R.C. § 3743.26.
      LICENSED MANUFACTURER OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED MANUFACTURER. A person
licensed pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.02 through 3743.08.
      LICENSED PREMISES. The real estate upon which a licensed manufacturer or
wholesaler of fireworks conducts business.
      LICENSED WHOLESALER OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED WHOLESALER. A person
licensed pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.15 through 3743.21.
      LIST OF LICENSED EXHIBITORS. The list required by R.C. § 3743.51(C).
      LIST OF LICENSED MANUFACTURERS. The list required by R.C. § 3743.03(C).
      LIST OF LICENSED WHOLESALERS. The list required by R.C. § 3743.16(C).
      MANUFACTURING OF FIREWORKS. The making of fireworks from raw materials,
none of which in and of themselves constitute fireworks, or the processing of
fireworks.
      NAVIGABLE WATERS. Any body of water susceptible of being used in its
ordinary condition as a highway of commerce over which trade and travel is or
may be conducted in the customary modes, but does not include a body of water
that is not capable of navigation by barges, tugboats, and other large vessels.
      NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS.
         (a)   Devices that produce a small report intended to surprise the
user, including but not limited to booby traps, cigarette loads, party poppers,
and snappers;
         (b)   Snakes or glow worms;
         (c)   Smoke devices;
         (d)   Trick matches.
      PARTY POPPER. A small plastic or paper item that contains not more than
16 milligrams of friction-sensitive explosive composition that is ignited by
pulling a string protruding from the item, and from which paper streamers are
expelled when the item is ignited.
      PROCESSING OF FIREWORKS. The making of fireworks from materials all or
part of which in and of themselves constitute fireworks, but does not include
the mere packaging or repackaging of fireworks.
      RAILROAD. Any railway or railroad that carries freight or passengers for
hire, but does not include auxiliary tracks, spurs, and sidings installed and
primarily used in serving a mine, quarry or plant.
      RETAIL SALE or SELL AT RETAIL. A sale of fireworks to a purchaser who
intends to use the fireworks and not to resell them.
      SMOKE DEVICE. A tube or sphere that contains pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      SNAKE or GLOW WORM. A device that consists of a pressed pellet of
pyrotechnic composition that produces a large snake-like ash upon burning,
which ash expands in length as the pellet burns.
      SNAPPER. A small paper-wrapped item that contains a minute quantity of
explosive composition coated on small bits of sand and that, when dropped,
implodes.
      STORAGE LOCATION. A single parcel or contiguous parcels of real estate
approved by the Ohio Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. § 3743.04(I) or R.C. §
3743.17(F) that are separate from a licensed premises containing a retail
showroom, and which parcel or parcels a licensed manufacturer or wholesaler of
fireworks may use only for the distribution, possession, and storage of
fireworks in accordance with this chapter.
      TRICK MATCH. A kitchen or book match that is coated with a small quantity
of explosive composition and that, upon ignition, produces a small report or a
shower of sparks.
      WHOLESALE SALE or SELL AT WHOLESALE. A sale of fireworks to a purchaser
who intends to resell the fireworks so purchased.
      WIRE SPARKLER. A sparkler consisting of a wire or stick coated with a
nonexplosive pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks upon ignition
and that contains no more than 100 grams of this mixture.
(R.C. § 3743.01)
   (B)   Manufacturing and wholesaling.
      (1)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
knowingly fail to comply with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.05 and 3743.18 or the requirements of R.C. §§ 3743.06
and 3743.19.
      (2)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
fail to maintain complete inventory, wholesale sale and retail records as
required by R.C. §§ 3743.07 and 3743.20, or to permit an inspection of these
records or the premises of a fireworks plant or the wholesaler pursuant to R.C.
§§ 3743.08 and 3743.21.
      (3)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
fail to comply with an order of the State Fire Marshal issued pursuant to R.C.
§§ 3743.01(B)(1) and 3743.21(B)(1) within the specified period of time.
      (4)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
fail to comply with an order of the State Fire Marshal issued pursuant to R.C.
§§ 3743.08(B)(2) and 3743.21(B)(2) until the nonconformities are eliminated,
corrected or otherwise remedied or the 72 hour period specified in those
divisions has expired, whichever occurs first.
      (5)   No person shall smoke or shall carry a pipe, cigarette, or cigar,
or a match, lighter, other flame-producing item, or open flame on, or shall
carry a concealed source of ignition into, the premises of a fireworks plant or
on the premises of a wholesaler of fireworks, except as smoking is authorized
in specified lunchrooms or restrooms by a manufacturer or wholesaler pursuant
to R.C. § 3743.06(C) or R.C. § 3743.19(D).
      (6)   No person shall have possession or control of, or be under the
influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer, or controlled substance while on
the premises of the fireworks plant or on the premises of a wholesaler of
fireworks.
      (7)   No licensed manufacturer of fireworks or licensed wholesaler of
fireworks shall negligently fail to furnish a safety pamphlet to a purchaser of
1.4G fireworks as required by R.C. § 3743.47(A).
      (8)   No licensed manufacturer of fireworks or licensed wholesaler of
fireworks shall negligently fail to have safety glasses available for sale as
required by R.C. § 3743.47(B).
(R.C. § 3743.60(E) - (L), 3743.61(E) - (L))
   (C)   Purchasing and transporting.
      (1)   No person who purchases fireworks in this municipality shall obtain
possession of the fireworks in this municipality unless the person complies
with R.C. §§ 3743.44 to 3743.46.
      (2)   Except for the purchase of 1.4G fireworks made under R.C. §
3743.45, no person who resides in another state and who purchases fireworks in
this state shall obtain possession of fireworks in this state other than from a
licensed manufacturer or wholesaler, or fail, when transporting 1.3G fireworks,
to transport them directly out of this state within 72 hours after the time of
their purchase.
      (3)   No person who purchases fireworks in this state under R.C. §
3743.45 shall give or sell to any other person in this municipality fireworks
that the person has acquired in this state.
(R.C. § 3743.63)
   (D)   Prohibited activities by exhibitors.
      (1)   An exhibitor of fireworks licensed under R.C. §§ 3743.50 through
3743.55 who wishes to conduct a public fireworks exhibition shall apply for
approval to conduct the exhibition to the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer
and to the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the
designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
having jurisdiction over the premises.
      (2)   The approval required by division (A) of this section shall be
evidenced by the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief
or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police
Chief or similar chief law enforcement officer, signing a permit for the
exhibition. Any exhibitor of fireworks who wishes to conduct a public fireworks
exhibition may obtain a copy of the form from the State Fire Marshal or, if
available, from the Fire Chief, a fire prevention officer, the Police Chief or
other similar chief law enforcement officer, or a designee of the Police Chief
or other similar chief law enforcement officer.
      (3)   Before a permit is signed and issued to a licensed exhibitor of
fireworks, the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in consultation with the
Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of
the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, shall inspect
the premises on which the exhibition will take place and shall determine that,
in fact, the applicant for the permit is a licensed exhibitor of fireworks.
Each applicant shall show his or her license as an exhibitor of fireworks to
the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer.
      (4)   The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and the Police Chief or
other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police
Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, shall give approval to
conduct a public fireworks exhibition only if satisfied, based on the
inspection, that the premises on which the exhibition will be conducted allow
the exhibitor to comply with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal
pursuant to R.C. § 3743.53(B) and (E) and that the applicant is, in fact, a
licensed exhibitor of fireworks. The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in
consultation with the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement
officer or with the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, may inspect the premises immediately prior to the
exhibition to determine if the exhibitor has complied with the rules, and may
revoke a permit for noncompliance with the rules.
      (5)   If the Council has prescribed a fee for the issuance of a permit
for a public fireworks exhibition, the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer
and Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or their
designee, shall not issue a permit until the exhibitor pays the requisite fee.
      (6)   Each exhibitor shall provide an indemnity bond in the amount of at
least one million dollars with surety satisfactory to the Fire Chief or fire
prevention officer and to the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief
law enforcement officer, conditioned for the payment of all final judgments
that may be rendered against the exhibitor on account of injury, death, or loss
to person or property emanating from the fireworks exhibitor, or proof of
insurance coverage of at least one million dollars for liability arising from
injury, death, or loss of persons or property emanating from the fireworks
exhibition. The Council may require the exhibitor to provide an indemnity bond
or proof of insurance coverage in amounts greater than those required by this
division. The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, or their designee, shall not issue a
permit until the exhibitor provides the bond or proof of the insurance coverage
required by this division or by the Council.
      (7)   Each permit for a fireworks exhibition issued by the Fire Chief or
fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief
law enforcement officer, shall contain a distinct number, designate the
municipality, and identify the certified fire safety inspector, Fire Chief, or
fire prevention officer who will be present before, during and after the
exhibition, where appropriate. A copy of each permit issued shall be forwarded
by the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, or designee of the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, issuing it to the State Fire Marshal. A
permit is not transferable or assignable.
      (8)   The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, or designee of the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, shall keep a record of issued permits
for fireworks exhibitions. In this list, the Fire Chief, fire prevention
officer, Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or
designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
shall list the name of the exhibitor, his or her license number, the premises
on which the exhibition will be conducted, the date and time of the exhibition,
and the number and political subdivision designation of the permit issued to
the exhibitor for the exhibition.
      (9)   The Council shall require that a certified fire safety inspector,
Fire Chief or fire prevention officer be present before, during and after the
exhibition, and shall require the certified fire safety inspector, Fire Chief
or fire prevention officer to inspect the premises where the exhibition is to
take place and determine whether the exhibition is in compliance with this
chapter and R.C. Chapter 3743.
(R.C. § 3743.54(B) - (F))
      (10)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall fail to comply with the
applicable requirements of the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant
to R.C. § 3743.53(B) and (E) or to comply with R.C. § 3743.53(C) and (D).
      (11)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall conduct a fireworks
exhibition unless a permit has been secured for the exhibition pursuant to R.C.
§ 3743.54 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or if a permit so
secured is revoked by a Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in consultation
with a Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or with a
designee of a Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
pursuant to those sections.
      (12)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall acquire fireworks for use
at a fireworks exhibition other than in accordance with R.C. §§ 3743.54 and
3743.55, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (13)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks or other person associated with
the conduct of a fireworks exhibition shall have possession or control of, or
be under the influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer, or controlled
substance while on the premises on which the exhibition is being conducted.
      (14)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall permit an employee to
assist the licensed exhibitor in conducting fireworks exhibitions unless the
employee is registered with the State Fire Marshal under R.C. § 3743.56.
(R.C. § 3743.64(C) - (G))
   (E)   Possession, sale, discharge and advertising; falsification.
      (1)   No person shall possess fireworks in this municipality or shall
possess for sale or sell fireworks in this municipality, except a licensed
manufacturer of fireworks as authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.02 to 3743.08, a
licensed wholesaler of fireworks as authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.15 to 3743.21, a
shipping permit holder as authorized by R.C. § 3743.40, a licensed fountain
device retailer as authorized by R.C. § 3743.27, a person as authorized by R.C.
§§ 3743.44 and 3743.45, or a licensed exhibitor of fireworks as authorized by
R.C. §§ 3743.50 to 3743.55, or as authorized by any municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to any of these statutes, and except as provided in
R.C. § 3743.80 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (H), R.C. §§ 3743.45 and 3743.80 or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and except for licensed
exhibitors of fireworks authorized to conduct a fireworks exhibition pursuant
to R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, no person shall discharge, ignite, or explode any fireworks in this
municipality.
      (3)   No person shall use in a theater or public hall what is technically
known as fireworks showers, or a mixture containing potassium chlorate and
sulphur.
      (4)   No person shall sell fireworks of any kind to a person under 18
years of age. No person under 18 years of age shall enter a fireworks sales
showroom unless that person is accompanied by a parent, legal guardian, or
other responsible adult. No person under 18 years of age shall touch or possess
fireworks on a licensed premises without the consent of the licensee. A
licensee may eject any person from a licensed premises that is in any way
disruptive to the safe operation of the premises.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 3743.44, no person, other
than a licensed manufacturer, licensed wholesaler, licensed exhibitor, or
shipping permit holder shall possess 1.3G fireworks in this municipality.
      (6)   No person shall negligently discharge, ignite, or explode fireworks
while in possession or control of, or under the influence of, any intoxicating
liquor, beer, or controlled substance.
      (7)   No person shall negligently discharge, ignite, or explode fireworks
on the property of another person without that person’s permission to use
fireworks on that property.
(R.C. § 3743.65(A) - (E), (G), (H))
   (F)   Transporting and shipping.
      (1)   No person shall transport fireworks in this municipality except in
accordance with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. §
3743.58.
      (2)   As used in this division, FIREWORKS includes only 1.3G and 1.4G
fireworks. No person shall ship fireworks into this municipality by mail,
parcel post, or common carrier unless the person possesses a valid shipping
permit issued under R.C. §3743.40, and the fireworks are shipped directly to
the holder of a license issued under R.C. § 3743.03, 3743.16 or 3743.51.
      (3)   No person shall ship fireworks within this municipality by mail,
parcel post, or common carrier unless the fireworks are shipped directly to the
holder of a license issued under R.C. § 3743.01, 3743.16 or 3743.51.
(R.C. §3743.66)
   (G)   Exceptions. This subchapter does not apply to the following:
      (1)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage, or use
in emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling devices and distress signals
for marine, aviation, or highway use;
      (2)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use
of fusees, torpedoes, or other signals necessary for the safe operation of
railroads;
      (3)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use
of blank cartridges in connection with theaters or shows, or in connection with
athletics as signals for ceremonial purposes;
      (4)   The manufacture for, the transportation, storage, possession or use
by, or the sale to the armed forces of the United States and the militia of
this state, as recognized by the Adjutant General of Ohio, of pyrotechnic
devices;
      (5)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use
of toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other devices in which paper or plastic
caps containing 0.25 grains or less of explosive material are used, provided
that they are constructed so that a hand cannot come into contact with a cap
when it is in place for explosion, or apply to the manufacture, sale,
possession, transportation, storage or use of those caps;
      (6)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use
of novelties and trick noisemakers, auto burglar alarms, or model rockets and
model rocket motors designed, sold, and used for the purpose of propelling
recoverable aero models;
      (7)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use
of wire sparklers;
      (8)   The conduct of radio-controlled special effect exhibitions that use
an explosive black powder charge of not more than one-quarter pound per charge,
and that are not connected in any manner to propellant charges; provided, that
the exhibition complies with all of the following:
         (a)   No explosive aerial display is conducted in the exhibition;
         (b)   The exhibition is separated from spectators by not less than 200
feet;
         (c)   The person conducting the exhibition complies with regulations
of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms of the United States Department
of the Treasury and the United States Department of Transportation with respect
to the storage and transport of the explosive black powder used in the
exhibition.
(R.C. § 3743.80)
   (H)   Forfeiture and disposal. Fireworks manufactured, sold, possessed,
transported, or used in violation of this section shall be forfeited by the
offender. The Fire Marshal’s office or certified fire safety inspector’s office
shall dispose of seized fireworks pursuant to the procedures specified in R.C.
§§ 2981.11 to 2981.13 for the disposal of forfeited property by law enforcement
agencies, and the Fire Marshal or that office is not liable for claims for the
loss of or damages to the seized fireworks.
(R.C. § 3743.68(B))
(Prior Code, § 672.10)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Criminal penalties.
         (a)   Whoever violates §
95.05(A) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not
more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months, or both.
(R.C. § 3737.99(B))
         (b)   Whoever violates §§
95.05(b) or
95.06 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $100.
(R.C. § 3737.99(C))
         (c)   Whoever violates §§
95.07 or
95.09 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree and shall be fined not
more than $250 or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
(R.C. § 3737.99(D))
         (d)   Whoever violates §§
95.08 or
95.10 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and shall be fined not
more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 60 days, or both.
(R.C. § 3737.99(E))
      (2)   Civil penalties.
         (a)   Any person who has received a citation for a serious violation
of the Ohio Fire Code or any order issued pursuant to it shall be assessed a
civil penalty of not more than $1,000 for each such violation.
         (b)   Any person who has received a citation for a violation of the
Ohio Fire Code or any order issued pursuant to it, and such violation is
specifically determined not to be of a serious nature, may be assessed a civil
penalty of not more than $1,000 for each such violation.
         (c)   Any person who fails to correct a violation for which a citation
has been issued, within the period permitted for its correction, may be
assessed a civil penalty of not more than $1,000 for each day during which such
failure or violation continues.
         (d)   Any person who violates any of the posting requirements, as
prescribed by §
95.04(C) shall be assessed a civil penalty of not more than $1,000 for each
violation.
         (e)   Due consideration to the appropriateness of the penalty with
respect to the gravity of the violation, the good faith of the person being
charged and the history of previous violations shall be given whenever a
penalty is assessed under this chapter.
         (f)   For purposes of this section, a serious violation shall be
considered to exist if there is a substantial probability that an occurrence
causing death or serious physical harm to persons could result from a condition
which exists, or from one or more practices, means, methods, operations or
processes which have been adopted or are in use, unless the person did not and
could not, with the exercise of reasonable diligence, know of the presence of
the violation.
         (g)   Civil penalties imposed under this chapter shall be paid to the
Clerk of Council for deposit into the General Fund. Such penalties may be
recovered in a civil action in the name of the municipality brought in the
Court of Common Pleas.
(R.C. 3737.51(B) - (H))
   (C)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) or (C)(3) of
this section, whoever violates any provisions of §
95.25(D)(10) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of R.C. § 3743.60(I) or R.C. § 3743.61(I), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a violation of §
95.25(B)(5) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates §
95.25(D)(10) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to any
other penalties that may be imposed on a licensed exhibitor of fireworks under
this division and unless the third sentence of this division applies, the
person’s license as an exhibitor of fireworks or as an assistant exhibitor of
fireworks shall be suspended. If the violation of §
95.25(D)(10) results in serious physical harm to persons or serious physical
harm to property, the person’s license as an exhibitor of fireworks or as an
assistant exhibitor of fireworks shall be revoked.
      (4)   Whoever violates §
95.25(E)(6) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. Notwithstanding any
other provision of law to the contrary, a person may be convicted at the same
trial or proceeding of a violation of §
95.25(E)(6) and a violation of R.C. § 2917.11(B), or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, that constitutes the basis of the charge of the violation
of §
95.25(E)(6).
      (5)   Whoever violates §
95.25(E)(7) is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3743.99(C), (D), (F) - (H))
(Prior Code, § 1602.99)
CHAPTER 96: REGULATION OF CHRONIC NUISANCES
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Notification that premises may be a chronic nuisance
   
96.03   Determination that premises is a chronic nuisance
   
96.04   Citations for chronic nuisance activities; criminal and civil penalties
   
96.05   Appeals
   
96.06   Liens
   
96.07   Rules and regulations
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHRONIC NUISANCE. A premises or property that is in violation of this
chapter.
   NUISANCE or NUISANCE ACTIVITY. Any of the following activities, conduct or
behavior whenever engaged in by premises owners, operators, occupants or
invitees to the property:
      (1)   Felonious assault, aggravated assault, assault or negligent assault
as defined in R.C. §§ 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.14, or any offense of
violence as defined in R.C. § 2901.01;
      (2)   Aggravated menacing, menacing by stalking or menacing as defined in
R.C. §§ 2903.21, 2903.211, or 2903.22;
      (3)   Inducing panic, making false alarms or unlawful possession or use
of a hoax weapon of mass destruction as defined by R.C. §§ 2917.31, 2917.32 or
2917.33;
      (4)   Disrupting public services such as, but not limited to, fire and
police services as defined in R.C. § 2909.04;
      (5)   Disorderly conduct as defined in R.C. § 2917.11;
      (6)   Discharging firearms in violation of §
137.09 of this code of ordinances;
      (7)   Commission of any drug offense under R.C. Chapter 2925 or 3719;
      (8)   Compelling or promoting prostitution, procuring, soliciting or
loitering to engage in solicitation, or prostitution as defined in R.C. §§
2907.21 through 2907.25;
      (9)   Gambling as set forth in R.C. §§ 2915.02 through 2915.04;
      (10)   Unauthorized possession, sale or discharge of fireworks as defined
in R.C. § 3743.65;
      (11)   Loud noises or disturbing the peace as set forth in § 132.15 of
this code of ordinances;
      (12)   Barking, howling, dangerous, vicious, or unconfined dog as set
forth in §§
90.01 and
90.07 of this code of ordinances;
      (13)   Kidnapping, as defined in R.C. § 2905.01;
      (14)   Offenses against justice including obstructing official business,
obstructing justice, assaulting a police dog or horse or service dog, resisting
arrest, or failure to comply with order or signal of a police officer as
defined in R.C. §§ 2921.31 through 2921.331; and
      (15)   Allowing an underage person(s) to possess, or consume alcohol,
allowing minors to consume alcohol on the premises (hosting), or selling
alcohol to a minor as defined in R.C. § 4301.69.
   OCCUPANT. The person residing in or having use of a premises. The same
person or person can be owner and occupant.
   OPERATOR. Any person, firm, company and corporation, association, including
their employees, agents, or contractors that controls, operates, or manages a
premises.
   OWNER. Any person, partnership, firm, company, corporation, association, who
alone or jointly with others, shall be in possession of or have control of any
premises, or is listed as the owner of a premises on the records the Preble
County Auditor.
   PERSON ASSOCIATED WITH. A person who, whenever engaged in a nuisance or
nuisance activity, enters, patronizes, visits, attempts to enter, patronize or
visit; or waits to enter, patronize or visit, a premises or person present on a
premises, including any officer, director, customer, agent, employee or
independent contractor of a premises owner.
   PROPERTY or PREMISES. A platted lot or part thereof, or un-platted lot or
parcel of land, or plot of land either occupied or unoccupied by any building
or structure, equipment, or property of any kind.
   UNIT. An individual residential dwelling in which the occupant(s) have a
right to exclusive possession, including, but not limited to, an individual
apartment within an apartment complex or an individual dwelling within a multi-
family home.
(Ord. 911, passed 4-19-2021)
§ 96.02 NOTIFICATION THAT PREMISES MAY BE A CHRONIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   A premises owner must be notified in writing that his or her premises
a nuisance activity has occurred at his or her premises.
   (B)   The premises owner must be notified his or her premises is in danger
of becoming a chronic nuisance when any of the following circumstances have
occurred at the premises: nuisance activities/occurrences in a single family
residence or within a multi/apartment residential unit, and activity occurs on
a separate day within a 90-day period, or the following occurs:
      (1)   Premises with two to four residential units: six nuisance
activities; and
      (2)   Premises with five or more residential units: 14 nuisance
activities.
   (C)   When a drug offense, firearms offense, or violent crime or felony
violation occurs within a one-year period at a single premises, either a
single-family or a multi/apartment residential unit, the premises may be deemed
a nuisance.
   (D)   A notice to the premises owner shall be provided in one of the
following manner:
      (1)   Certified mail to the address of the owner as listed on record of
the Preble County Auditor, which shall be deemed delivered if not returned as
undeliverable; or
      (2)   Hand-delivered to the premises owner, if possible.
   (E)   If service of notice is not perfected by the methods above, then the
notice shall be posted to the front door, or conspicuous location, of the
premises.
   (F)   Notice shall include the following information:
      (1)   Street address or legal description that is sufficient for
identification;
      (2)   A factual description of the nuisance activities that have occurred
at the premises, including the dates of the nuisance activities and any
associated police report numbers;
      (3)   A statement that the premises owner must respond to the Police
Chief within ten days of the dated notice with a written plan to abate the
nuisance activities that is acceptable to the Police Chief; and
      (4)   A statement that the cost of future enforcement at the premises,
resulting of nuisance activities, may be billed to the premises owner and could
become a lien against the property if not paid.
(Ord. 911, passed 4-19-2021)
§ 96.03 DETERMINATION THAT PREMISES IS A CHRONIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   When the Police Chief determines that additional nuisance activities
have occurred at a premises, where a notice has been issued pursuant to §
96.02, and the nuisance occur more than 13 days after a notice has been issued,
the Police Chief may determine the premises a chronic nuisance. The following
must happen.
      (1)   The Police Chief must issue an order that the owner must abate the
nuisance within 30 days of the owner’s receipt of the notice.
      (2)   The Police Chief must calculate the cost of enforcement for this
activity and any subsequent nuisance activities, notify the premises owner that
he or she is being billed for the cost and any subsequent nuisance activities.
   (B)   A notice to the premises owner must be sent in the following manner:
      (1)   Certified mail to the address of the owner as listed on record of
the Preble County Auditor, which shall be deemed delivered if not returned as
undeliverable;
      (2)   Hand-delivered to the premises owner, if possible; or
      (3)   If service of notice is not perfected by the methods above, then
the notice shall be posted to the front door, or conspicuous location, of the
premises.
   (C)   Notice shall include the following information:
      (1)   Street address or legal description that is sufficient for
identification;
      (2)   A factual description of the nuisance activities that have occurred
at the premises, including the dates of the nuisance activities and any
associated police report numbers;
      (3)   An order that the nuisance activity be abated;
      (4)   A statement that the premises owner may appeal the determination of
the chronic nuisance or appeal of the amount of the bill as provided in §
96.05;
      (5)   The statement that the premises is a chronic nuisance and is
subject to bills for the cost of enforcement pursuant this section and subject
to citations or criminal prosecution pursuant to §
96.04; and
      (6)   The statement that the chronic nuisance determination shall be in
effect for a two-year period beginning on the date of the first nuisance
activity that is the subject to the first bill of the cost for enforcement
delivered to the premises owner.
(Ord. 911, passed 4-19-2021)
§ 96.04 CITATIONS FOR CHRONIC NUISANCE ACTIVITIES; CRIMINAL AND CIVIL
PENALTIES.
   (A)   Persons who violate this chapter by failing to obey any lawful order
issued by the Police Chief to abate a chronic nuisance within 30 days, or to
provide a written plan to abate the nuisance activities within ten days, are
subject to the following:
      (1)   First offense: guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
      (2)   Second and subsequent offenses: guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree; and
      (3)   Each day’s continuation of a violation or failure to comply is a
separate offense.
   (B)   Citations for nuisance activities shall be imposed based on the
following: number of bills for enforcement delivered to a premises owner for a
specific premises within a two-year period beginning on the date of the
nuisance activity that is the subject of the first bill for the cost of
enforcement delivered to the premises owner for that specific premises
occurred.
   (C)   Whenever a premises owner has been billed on three more separate dates
within the two-year period beginning with the date of the nuisance activity
that is the subject of the first bill for the cost of enforcement sent to the
premises owner for that specific premises, the Police Chief must issue a
citation to the premises owner as follows:
      (1)   Fourth bill: $250 assessment against the premises;
      (2)   Fifth bill: $500 assessment against the premises;
      (3)   Sixth bill: $750 assessment against the premises; and
      (4)   For each bill incurred after the sixth, a $1,000 assessment will be
placed against the premises.
(Ord. 911, passed 4-19-2021)
§ 96.05 APPEALS.
   (A)   A premises owner may appeal the following:
      (1)   Determination of the premises being deemed a chronic nuisance by
the Police Chief pursuant to §
96.03(A); and
      (2)   The amount of the bill for the cost of enforcement related to
nuisance activities at the premises pursuant to §
96.03(A)(2).
   (B)   An appeal of the determination that a premises is a chronic nuisance
or the amount of the bill for the cost of enforcement related to nuisance
activities at the premises must be made in writing and directed to Council and
delivered to the Fiscal Officer. A written notification of the Police Chief’s
determination will be sent within 30 days of receipt of the appeal by the same
methods as described in §
96.03(B).
   (C)   A premises owner may appeal the Police Chief’s determination that a
premises is a chronic nuisance, the determination regarding an amount of the
bill for enforcement, or a citation within 30 days from the date that the
Police Chief’s determination letter is postmarked by requesting a hearing
before Council. The determination letter must state how many days the premises
owner has to appeal the assessment.
(Ord. 911, passed 4-19-2021)
§ 96.06 LIENS.
   Bills for enforcement and assessments that are not paid will become liens on
the premises to the extent permitted under applicable law.
(Ord. 911, passed 4-19-2021)
§ 96.07 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The village will establish rules and regulations for the maintenance of
information, notification of violations, calculation of bills for the cost of
enforcement services, imposition of fines, determination of whether calls for
service are counted for purposes of this chapter, appeals of decisions made,
and all other relevant issues necessary for implementation of this chapter. The
rules and regulations and amendments thereto shall be made available for public
viewing 30 days prior to their effective date.
(Ord. 911, passed 4-19-2021)
CHAPTER 97: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   Exemptions from chapter
   
97.03   Restrictions applicable to sale of beer and intoxicating liquor for
consumption on the premises
   
97.04   Restrictions on sale of beer and liquor
   
97.05   Permit required; activities prohibited without permit
   
97.06   Illegal transportation prohibited
   
97.07   Open container prohibited; exception
   
97.08   Underage person shall not purchase intoxicating liquor or beer
   
97.09   Prohibitions; minors under 18 years; low-alcohol beverages
   
97.10   Alcohol vaporizing devices prohibited
   
97.11   Misrepresentation to obtain alcoholic beverage for a minor prohibited
   
97.12   Misrepresentation by a minor under 21 years
   
97.13   Sale to underage persons prohibited
   
97.14   Posting of card
   
97.15   Good faith acceptances of spurious identification
   
97.16   Consumption in motor vehicle prohibited
   
97.17   Hours of sale or consumption
   
97.18   Obstructing search of premises prohibited
   
97.19   Illegal possession of intoxicating liquor prohibited
   
97.20   Sale or possession of diluted liquor and refilled containers prohibited
   
97.21   Keeping place where beer or intoxicating liquors are sold in violation
of law
   
97.22   Intoxicating liquors shall not be sold in brothels
   
97.23   Use of intoxicating liquor in a public dance hall prohibited;
exceptions
   
97.24   Poisonously adulterated liquors
   
97.25   Tavern keeper permitting rioting or drunkenness
   
97.26   Notice of action to prohibit liquor business
   
97.27   Procedure when injunction violated
   
97.28   Liquor transaction scans
   
97.29   Affirmative defenses
   
97.30   Window obstructions
   
97.31   Consumption on public property
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, whether rectified or diluted with water or not,
whatever its origin may be, and includes synthetic ethyl alcohol. The term does
not include denatured alcohol and wood alcohol.
   AT RETAIL. For use or consumption by the purchaser and not for resale.
   BEER.
      (1)   Includes all beverages brewed or fermented wholly or in part from
malt products and containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume.
      (2)   Beer, regardless of the percent of alcohol by volume, is not
intoxicating liquor for purposes of this code, the Ohio Revised Code, or any
rules adopted under it.
   CIDER. All liquids that are fit to use for beverage purposes that contain
0.5% of alcohol by volume, but not more than 6% of alcohol by weight that are
made through the normal alcoholic fermentation of the juice of sound, ripe
apples, including, without limitation, flavored, sparkling, or carbonated cider
and cider made from pure condensed apple must.
   CLUB. A corporation or association of individuals organized in good faith
for social, recreational, benevolent, charitable, fraternal, political,
patriotic, or athletic purposes, which is the owner, lessor, or occupant of a
permanent building or part of a permanent building operated solely for such
purposes, membership in which entails the prepayment of regular dues, and
includes the place so operated.
   COMMUNITY FACILITY. Means either of the following:
      (1)   Any convention, sports or entertainment facility or complex, or any
combination of these, that is used by or accessible to the general public and
that is owned or operated in whole or in part by the state, a state agency, or
a political subdivision of the state or that is leased from, or located on
property owned by or leased from, the state, a state agency, a political
subdivision of the state, or a convention facilities authority created pursuant
to R.C. § 351.02;
      (2)   An area designated as a community entertainment district pursuant
to R.C. § 4301.80.
   CONTROLLED ACCESS ALCOHOL AND BEVERAGE CABINET. A closed container, either
refrigerated, in whole or in part, or nonrefrigerated, access to the interior
of which is restricted by means of a device that requires the use of a key,
magnetic card, or similar device and from which beer, intoxicating liquor,
other beverages, or food may be sold.
   HOTEL. The same meaning as in R.C. § 3731.01, subject to the exceptions
mentioned in R.C. § 3731.03.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR and LIQUOR. All liquids and compounds, other than beer,
containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume which are fit to use for beverage
purposes, from whatever source and by whatever process produced, by whatever
name called, and whether they are medicated, proprietary, or patented. The
terms include cider and alcohol, and all solids and confections which contain
0.5% or more of alcohol by volume.
   LOW-ALCOHOL BEVERAGE. Any brewed or fermented malt product or any product
made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits, or other agricultural
products that contains either no alcohol or less than 0.5% of alcohol by
volume. The beverages described in this definition do not include a soft drink
such as root beer, birch beer, or ginger beer.
   MANUFACTURE. All processes by which beer or intoxicating liquor is produced,
whether by distillation, rectifying, fortifying, blending, fermentation,
brewing, or in any other manner.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person engaged in the business of manufacturing beer or
intoxicating liquor.
   MIXED BEVERAGES. Include bottled and prepared cordials, cocktails,
highballs, and solids and confections that are obtained by mixing any type of
whiskey, neutral spirits, brandy, gin or other distilled spirits with, or over,
carbonated or plain water, pure juices from flowers and plants, and other
flavoring materials. The completed product shall contain not less than 0.5% of
alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume. The phrase
includes the contents of a pod.
   NIGHTCLUB. A place habitually operated for profit, where food is served for
consumption on the premises, and one or more forms of amusement are provided or
permitted for a consideration that may be in the form of a cover charge or may
be included in the price of the food and beverages, or both, purchased by
patrons.
   PERSON. Includes firms and corporations.
   PHARMACY. An establishment as defined in R.C. § 4729.01, that is under the
management or control of a licensed pharmacist in accordance with R.C. §
4729.27.
   POD. Means a sealed capsule made from plastic, glass, aluminum, or a
combination thereof to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The capsule contains intoxicating liquor of more than 21% of
alcohol by volume.
      (2)   The capsule also contains a concentrated flavoring mixture.
      (3)   The contents of the capsule are not readily accessible or intended
for consumption unless certain manufacturer’s processing instructions are
followed.
      (4)   The instructions include releasing the contents of the capsule
through a machine specifically designed to process the contents.
      (5)   After being properly processed according to the manufacturer’s
instructions, the final product produced from the capsule contains not less
than 0.5% of alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume.
   RESTAURANT. A place located in a permanent building provided with space and
accommodations wherein, in consideration of the payment of money, hot meals are
habitually prepared, sold, and served at noon and evening, as the principal
business of the place. The term does not include pharmacies, confectionery
stores, lunch stands, nightclubs, and filling stations.
   SALE and SELL. The exchange, barter, gift, offer for sale, sale,
distribution, and delivery of any kind, and the transfer of title or possession
of beer and intoxicating liquor either by constructive or actual delivery by
any means or devices whatever, including the sale of beer or intoxicating
liquor by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet pursuant to
R.C. § 4301.21. Such terms do not include the mere solicitation of orders for
beer or intoxicating liquor from the holders of permits issued by the Division
of Liquor Control authorizing the sale of the beer or intoxicating liquor, but
no solicitor shall solicit any orders until the solicitor has been registered
with the Division pursuant to R.C. § 4303.25.
   SALES AREA OR TERRITORY. An exclusive geographic area or territory that is
assigned to a particular A or B permit holder and that either has one or more
political subdivisions as its boundaries or consists of an area of land with
readily identifiable geographic boundaries. The term does not include, however,
any particular retail location in an exclusive geographic area or territory
that had been assigned to another A or B permit holder before April 9, 2001.
   SEALED CONTAINER. Any container having a capacity of not more than 128 fluid
ounces, the opening of which is closed to prevent the entrance of air.
   SPIRITUOUS LIQUOR. All intoxicating liquors containing more than 21% of
alcohol by volume. The phrase does not include the contents of a pod.
   VEHICLE. All means of transportation by land, by water, or by air, and
everything made use of in any way for such transportation.
   WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTOR and DISTRIBUTOR. A person engaged in the business of
selling to retail dealers for purposes of resale.
   WINE. All liquids fit to use for beverage purposes containing not less than
0.5% of alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume, that is
made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits, or other agricultural
products. The term includes cider, except as used in R.C. §§ 4301.13, 4301.421,
4301.422, 4301.432, and 4301.44, and, for purposes of determining the rate of
the tax that applies, R.C. § 4301.43(B), the term does not include cider.
(R.C. §§4301.01, 4301.244) (Prior Code, § 612.01)
§ 97.02 EXEMPTIONS FROM CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter do not prevent the following:
   (A)   The storage of intoxicating liquor in bonded warehouses, established
in accordance with the Acts of Congress and under the regulation of the United
States, located in the municipality, or the transportation of intoxicating
liquor to or from bonded warehouses of the United States wherever located.
   (B)   A bona fide resident of this state who is the owner of a warehouse
receipt from obtaining or transporting to the resident’s residence for the
resident’s own consumption and not for resale spirituous liquor stored in a
government bonded warehouse in this state or in another state prior to December
1933, subject to such terms as are prescribed by the Division of Liquor
Control.
   (C)   The manufacture of cider from fruit for the purpose of making vinegar,
and nonintoxicating cider and fruit juices for use and sale.
   (D)   A licensed physician or dentist from administering or dispensing
intoxicating liquor or alcohol to a patient in good faith in the actual course
of the practice of the physician’s or dentist’s profession.
   (E)   The sale of alcohol to physicians, dentists, druggists, veterinary
surgeons, manufacturers, hospitals, infirmaries, or medical or educational
institutions using the alcohol for medicinal, mechanical, chemical or
scientific purposes.
   (F)   The sale, gift, or keeping for sale by druggists and others of any of
the medicinal preparations manufactured in accordance with the formulas
prescribed by the United States Pharmacopoeia and National Formulary, patent or
proprietary preparations, and other bona fide medicinal and technical
preparations, which contain no more alcohol than is necessary to hold the
medicinal agents in solution and to preserve the same, which are manufactured
and sold as medicines and not as beverages, are unfit for use for beverage
purposes, and the sale of which does not require the payment of a United States
liquor dealer’s tax.
   (G)   The manufacture and sale of tinctures or of toilet, medicinal and
antiseptic preparations and solutions not intended for internal human use nor
to be sold as beverages, and which are unfit for beverage purposes, if upon the
outside of each bottle, box, or package of which there is printed in English,
conspicuously and legibly, the quantity by volume of alcohol in the preparation
or solution.
   (H)   The manufacture and keeping for sale of the food products known as
flavoring extracts when manufactured and sold for cooking, culinary or
flavoring purposes, and which are unfit for use for beverage purposes.
   (I)   The lawful sale of wood alcohol or of ethyl alcohol for external use
when combined with other substances as to make it unfit for internal use.
   (J)   The manufacture, sale, and transport of ethanol or ethyl alcohol for
use as fuel. As used in this division, ETHANOL has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 122.075.
   (K)   The purchase and importation into the municipality or the purchase at
wholesale from A or B permit holders in this state of beer and intoxicating
liquor for use in manufacturing processes of nonbeverage food products under
terms prescribed by the Division, provided that the terms prescribed by the
Division shall not increase the cost of the beer or intoxicating liquor to any
person, firm or corporation purchasing and importing it into this municipality
or purchasing it from an A or B permit holder for that use.
   (L)   Any resident of this state or any member of the armed forces of the
United States who has attained the age of 21 years from bringing into this
municipality for personal use and not for resale not more than one liter of
spirituous liquor, 4.5 liters of wine, or 288 ounces of beer in any 30-day
period, and the same is free of any tax consent fee when the resident or member
of the armed forces physically possesses and accompanies the spirituous liquor,
wine or beer on returning from a foreign country, another state, or an insular
possession of the United States.
   (M)   Persons at least 21 years of age who collect ceramic commemorative
bottles containing spirituous liquor that have unbroken federal tax stamps on
them from selling or trading the bottles to other collectors. The bottles shall
originally have been purchased at retail from the Division, legally imported
under division (L) of this section, or legally imported pursuant to a supplier
registration issued by the Division. The sales shall be for the purpose of
exchanging a ceramic commemorative bottle between private collectors and shall
not be for the purpose of selling the spirituous liquor for personal
consumption. The sale or exchange authorized by this division shall not occur
on the premises of any permit holder, shall not be made in connection with the
business of any permit holder, and shall not be made in connection with any
mercantile business.
   (N)   The sale of beer or intoxicating liquor without a liquor permit at a
private residence, not more than five times per calendar year at a residence
address, at an event that has the following characteristics:
      (1)   The event is for a charitable, benevolent, or political purpose,
but shall not include any event the proceeds of which are for the profit or
gain of any individual;
      (2)   The event has in attendance not more than 50 people;
      (3)   The event shall be for a period not to exceed 12 hours;
      (4)   The sale of beer and intoxicating liquor at the event shall not
take place between 2:30 a.m. and 5:30 a.m.;
      (5)   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase or consume beer or
intoxicating liquor at the event and no beer or intoxicating liquor shall be
sold to any person under 21 years of age at the event; and
      (6)   No person at the event shall sell or furnish beer or intoxicating
liquor to an intoxicated person.
   (O)   The possession or consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor by a
person who is under 21 years of age and who is a student at an accredited
college or university, provided that both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person is required to taste and expectorate the beer or
intoxicating liquor for a culinary, food service, or hospitality course.
      (2)   The person is under the direct supervision of the instructor of the
culinary, food service, or hospitality course.
(R.C. §4301.20)
§ 97.03 RESTRICTIONS APPLICABLE TO SALE OF BEER AND INTOXICATING LIQUOR FOR
CONSUMPTION ON THE PREMISES.
   (A)   The sale of beer or intoxicating liquor for consumption on the
premises is subject to the following restrictions, in addition to those imposed
by the rules and orders of the Division of Liquor Control:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter
4301, beer or intoxicating liquor may be served to a person not seated at a
table unless there is reason to believe that the beer or intoxicating liquor so
served will be consumed by a person under 21 years of age.
      (2)   Beer or intoxicating liquor may be served by a hotel in the room of
a bona fide guest, and may be sold by a hotel holding a D-5a permit, or a hotel
holding a D-3 or D-5 permit that otherwise meets all of the requirements for
holding a D-5a permit, by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage
cabinet that shall be located only in the hotel room of a registered guest. A
hotel may sell beer or intoxicating liquor as authorized by its permit to a
registered guest by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet
in accordance with the following requirements:
         (a)   Only a person 21 years of age or older who is a guest registered
to stay in a guestroom shall be provided a key, magnetic card, or other similar
device necessary to obtain access to the contents of a controlled access
alcohol and beverage cabinet in that guestroom.
         (b)   The hotel shall comply with R.C. § 4301.22, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, in connection with the handling, restocking,
and replenishing of the beer and intoxicating liquor in the controlled access
alcohol and beverage cabinet.
         (c)   The hotel shall replenish or restock beer and intoxicating
liquor in any controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet only during the
hours during which the hotel may serve or sell beer and intoxicating liquor.
         (d)   The registered guest shall verify in writing that the guest has
read and understands the language that shall be posted on the controlled access
alcohol and beverage cabinet as required by division (A)(2)(e) of this section.
         (e)   A hotel authorized to sell beer and intoxicating liquor pursuant
to division (A)(2) of this section shall post on the controlled access alcohol
and beverage cabinet, in conspicuous language, the following notice:
 
The alcoholic beverages contained in this cabinet shall not be removed from the
premises.
 
         (f)   The hotel shall maintain a record of each sale of beer or
intoxicating liquor made by the hotel by means of a controlled access alcohol
and beverage cabinet for any period in which the permit holder is authorized to
hold the permit pursuant to R.C. §§ 4303.26 and 4303.27 and any additional
period during which an applicant exercises its right to appeal a rejection by
the Division of Liquor Control to renew a permit pursuant to R.C. § 4303.271.
The records maintained by the hotel shall comply with both of the following:
            1.   Include the name, address, age, and signature of each hotel
guest who is provided access by the hotel to a controlled access alcohol and
beverage cabinet pursuant to division (A)(2)(a) of this section;
            2.   Be made available during business hours to authorized agents
of the Division of Liquor Control pursuant to R.C. § 4301.10(A)(6) or to
enforcement agents of the Department of Public Safety pursuant to R.C. §§
5502.13 through 5502.19.
         (g)   The hotel shall observe all other applicable rules adopted by
the Division of Liquor Control and the Liquor Control Commission.
      (3)   The seller shall not require the purchase of food with the purchase
of beer or intoxicating liquor; nor shall the seller of beer or intoxicating
liquor give away food of any kind in connection with the sale of beer or
intoxicating liquor, except as authorized by rule of the state Liquor Control
Commission.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4301.62(C)(8), the seller
shall not permit the purchaser to remove beer or intoxicating liquor so sold
from the premises.
      (5)   A hotel authorized to sell beer and intoxicating liquor pursuant to
division (A)(2) of this section shall provide a registered guest with the
opportunity to refuse to accept a key, magnetic card, or other similar device
necessary to obtain access to the contents of a controlled access alcohol and
beverage cabinet in that guest room. If a registered guest refuses to accept
such key, magnetic card, or other similar device, the hotel shall not assess
any charges on the registered guest for use of the controlled access alcohol
and beverage cabinet in that guest room.
(R.C. § 4301.21)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 97.04 RESTRICTIONS ON SALE OF BEER AND LIQUOR.
   (A)   Restrictions on sales. Sales of beer and intoxicating liquor under all
classes of permits and from liquor stores are subject to the following
restrictions, in addition to those imposed by the rules or orders of the state
Division of Liquor Control.
      (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C.
Chapter 4301, no beer or intoxicating liquor shall be sold to any person under
21 years of age.
         (b)   No low-alcohol beverage shall be sold to any person under 18
years of age. No permit issued by the Division shall be suspended, revoked, or
cancelled because of a violation of this division (A)(1)(b).
         (c)   Except as provided in division (A)(1)(d) of this section, all of
the following apply to the handling, serving, and selling of beer and
intoxicating liquor by a person employed by a permit holder:
            1.   No person under 19 years of age shall sell beer across a bar.
            2.   No person under 21 years of age shall sell wine, mixed
beverages, or spirituous liquor across a bar.
            3.   No person under 18 years of age shall otherwise handle, serve,
or sell beer or intoxicating liquor.
         (d)   Any person employed by a permit holder may handle beer or
intoxicating liquor in sealed containers in connection with manufacturing,
storage, warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading, and
may handle beer or intoxicating liquor in open containers in connection with
cleaning tables or handling empty bottles or glasses.
      (2)   No permit holder and no agent or employee of a permit holder shall
sell or furnish beer or intoxicating liquor to an intoxicated person.
      (3)   (a)   No sales of intoxicating liquor shall be made after 2:30 a.m.
on Sunday, except under either of the following circumstances:
            1.   Intoxicating liquor may be sold on Sunday under authority of a
permit that authorizes Sunday sale.
            2.   Spiritous liquor may be sold on Sunday by any person awarded
an agency contract under R.C. § 4301.17 if the sale of spiritous liquor is
authorized in the applicable precinct as the result of an election on question
(B)(1) or (B)(2) of R.C. § 4301.351 and if the agency contract authorizes the
sale of spiritous liquor on Sunday.
         (b)   This section does not prevent the municipality from adopting a
closing hour for the sale of intoxicating liquor earlier than 2:30 a.m. on
Sunday or to provide that no intoxicating liquor may be sold prior to that hour
on Sunday.
      (4)   (a)   No holder of a permit shall give away any beer or
intoxicating liquor of any kind at any time in connection with the permit
holder’s business. However, with the exception of an A-1-A permit holder that
also has been issued an A-2 or A-2f permit, an A-1-A, A-1c, or D permit holder
may provide to a paying customer not more than a total of four tasting samples
of beer, wine, or spirituous liquor, as authorized by the applicable permit, in
any twenty-four-hour period. The permit holder shall provide the tasting
samples free of charge, at the permit holder’s expense, only to a person who is
21 years of age or older. The person shall consume the tasting samples on the
premises of the permit holder. A distributor is not responsible for the costs
of providing tasting samples authorized under division (A)(4) of this section.
         (b)   As used in division (A)(4) of this section:
            TASTING SAMPLE. Means one of the following, as applicable:
               a.   An amount not to exceed two ounces of beer;
               b.   An amount not to exceed two ounces of wine;
               c.   An amount not to exceed a quarter ounce of spirituous
liquor.
            D PERMIT HOLDER. Means a person that has been issued a D-1, D-2, D-
2x, D-3, D-3a, D-3 x, D-4, D-5, D-5a, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e, D-5f, D-5g, D-5h, D-5i,
D-5j, D-5k, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-6, or D-7 permit.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, no retail permit
holder shall display or permit the display on the outside of any licensed
retail premises, on any lot of ground on which the licensed premises are
situated, or on the exterior of any building of which the licensed premises are
a part, any sign, illustration, or advertisement bearing the name, brand name,
trade name, trademark, designation, or other emblem of, or indicating the
manufacturer, producer, distributor, place of manufacture, production, or
distribution of, any beer or intoxicating liquor. Signs, illustrations, or
advertisements bearing the name, brand name, trade name, trademark,
designation, or other emblem of or indicating the manufacturer, producer,
distributor, place of manufacture, production, or distribution of beer or
intoxicating liquor may be displayed and permitted to be displayed on the
interior or in the show windows of any licensed premises, if the particular
brand or type of product so advertised is actually available for sale on the
premises at the time of that display. The Liquor Control Commission shall
determine by rule the size and character of those signs, illustrations, or
advertisements.
      (6)   No retail permit holder shall possess on the licensed premises any
barrel or other container from which beer is drawn, unless there is attached to
the spigot or other dispensing apparatus the name of the manufacturer of the
product contained in the barrel or other container, provided that, if the beer
is served at a bar, the manufacturer’s name or brand shall appear in full view
of the purchaser. The Commission shall regulate the size and character of the
devices provided for in this section.
      (7)   The sale of gift certificates for the purchase of beer, wine, or
mixed beverages shall be permitted for the purchase of beer, wine, or mixed
beverages for on- or off-premises consumption. Limitations on the use of a gift
certificate for the purchase of beer, wine, or mixed beverages for on- or off-
premises consumption may be expressed by clearly stamping or typing on the face
of the certificate that the certificate may not be used for the purchase of
beer, wine, or mixed beverages for on-premises consumption.
(R.C. § 4301.22)
   (B)   Division (A)(1) not modified or affected. The provisions of R.C. §§
4301.633 through 4301.637, or substantially equivalent municipal ordinances,
shall not be deemed to modify or affect division (A)(1) of this section or R.C.
§ 4301.22(A).
(R.C. § 4301.638)
   (C)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates divisions (A)(1)(b) or (A)(3) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates divisions (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(c) or (A)(2) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Prior Code, §§ 612.03, 612.09)
§ 97.05 PERMIT REQUIRED; ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED WITHOUT PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   No person personally or by the person’s clerk, agent, or employee,
shall manufacture, manufacture for sale, offer, keep, or possess for sale,
furnish or sell, or solicit the purchase or sale of any beer or intoxicating
liquor in this state, or transport, import, or cause to be transported or
imported any beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol in or into this municipality
for delivery, use or sale, unless the person has fully complied with R.C.
Chapters 4301 and 4303 or is the holder of a permit issued by the Division of
Liquor Control and in force at the time.
      (2)   No manufacturer, supplier, wholesale distributor, broker, or
retailer of beer or intoxicating liquor, or other person shall employ, retain,
or otherwise utilize any person in this state to act as an employee, agent,
solicitor, or salesperson, or act in any other representative capacity to sell,
solicit, take orders, or receive offers to purchase or expressions of interest
to purchase beer or intoxicating liquor from any person, at any location other
than a liquor permit premises, except as specifically authorized by R.C.
Chapter 4301 or R.C. Chapter 4303 or rules adopted thereunder. No function,
event, or party shall take place at any location other than a liquor permit
premises where any person acts in any manner to sell, solicit, take orders, or
receive offers to purchase or expressions of intent to purchase beer or
intoxicating liquor to or from any person, except as specifically authorized by
R.C. Chapter 4301 or R.C. Chapter 4303 or rules adopted thereunder.
(R.C. § 4303.25) (Prior Code, § 612.05)
   (B)   Activities prohibited without permit.
      (1)   As used in this division (B):
         CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. An organization described under section 501
(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code and exempt from federal income taxation
under section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         FUNDRAISER. Means a raffle, silent auction, or event where a door
prize is awarded.
         POLITICAL ORGANIZATION. Means a political organization defined under
section 527 of the Internal Revenue Code.
         RAFFLE. Means a raffle conducted in accordance with R.C. Chapter 2915.
         SILENT AUCTION. Means a method of submitting bids in writing by one or
more persons and, after a review of all the bids received, personal property is
awarded to the highest and most responsive bidder.
      (2)   No person, personally or by the person’s clerk, agent, or employee,
who is not the holder of an A permit issued by the Ohio Division of Liquor
Control, in force at the time, and authorizing the manufacture of beer or
intoxicating liquor, or who is not an agent or employee of the Division
authorized to manufacture such beer or intoxicating liquor, shall manufacture
any beer or intoxicating liquor for sale, or shall manufacture spirituous
liquor.
      (3)   No person, personally or by the person’s clerk, agent, or employee,
who is not the holder of an A, B, C, D, E, F, G, I, or S permit issued by the
Division, in force at the time, and authorizing the sale of beer, intoxicating
liquor, or alcohol, or who is not an agent or employee of the Division or the
Tax Commissioner authorized to sell such beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol,
shall sell, keep, or possess beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol for sale to
any persons other than those authorized by R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303 to
purchase any beer or intoxicating liquor, or sell any alcohol at retail.
      (4)   No person, personally or by the person’s clerk, agent, or employee,
who is the holder of a permit issued by the Division, shall sell, keep, or
possess for sale any intoxicating liquor not purchased from the Division or
from the holder of a permit issued by the Division authorizing the sale of such
intoxicating liquor unless the same has been purchased with the special consent
of the Division. The Division shall revoke the permit of any person convicted
of a violation of division (B)(3) of this section.
      (5)   Division (B)(2) of this section does not apply to either of the
following:
         (a)   The sale or possession for sale of any low-alcohol beverage;
         (b)   Beer and intoxicating liquor that is given away if all of the
following apply:
            1.   The beer or intoxicating liquor is given away by a charitable
or political organization to a participant in a fundraiser.
            2.   Any beer, wine, or mixed beverages given away via the
fundraiser is purchased from a person issued a permit under R.C. Chapter 4303.
            3.   Any spirituous liquor given away via the fundraiser is
purchased from an agency store located in this state.
            4.   Regarding any spirituous liquor donated to the charitable or
political organization for purposes of the fundraiser, the donor is not an
agency store located in this state and submits to the charitable or political
organization receipts showing that the donor purchased the spirituous liquor
from an agency store located in this state.
            5.   The charitable or political organization submits purchase
receipts for the spirituous liquor given away via a fundraiser to the Division
of Liquor Control as proof that the spirituous liquor was purchased from an
agency store located in this state. The charitable or political organization
shall submit the receipts in accordance with procedures that the Division shall
establish.
(R.C. § 4301.58)
   (C)   Penalty. Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 97.06 ILLEGAL TRANSPORTATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, who is not the holder of an H permit shall transport beer,
intoxicating liquor, or alcohol in this municipality. This section does not
apply to the transportation and delivery of beer, alcohol, or intoxicating
liquor purchased or to be purchased from the holder of a permit issued by the
Division of Liquor Control, in force at the time, and authorizing the sale and
delivery of the beer, alcohol, or intoxicating liquor so transported, or to the
transportation and delivery of beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol purchased
from the Department or the Tax Commissioner, or purchased by the holder of an A
or B permit outside this state, and transported within this municipality by
them in their own trucks for the purpose of sale under their permits.
(R.C. § 4301.60)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 97.07 OPEN CONTAINER PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE. Means a vehicle registered under R.C. § 4503.24.
      HIGHWAY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (B)   No person shall have in the person’s possession an opened container of
beer or intoxicating liquor in any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(e) of this section, in a
state liquor store;
      (2)   Except as provided in division (C) or (J) of this section, on the
premises of the holder of any permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control;
      (3)   In any other public place;
      (4)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, while
operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on any street, highway,
or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking;
      (5)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, while
being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on any street, highway, or other
public or private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking.
   (C)   (1)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened container
of any of the following:
         (a)   Beer or intoxicating liquor that has been lawfully purchased for
consumption on the premises where bought from the holder of an A-1-A, A-2, A-
2f, A-3a, D-1, D-2, D-3, D-3a, D-4, D-4a, D-5, D-5a, D-5b, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e, D-
5f, D-5g, D-5h, D-5i, D-5j, D-5k, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-7, D-8, E, F, F-2,
F-5, F-7, or F-8 permit;
         (b)   Beer, wine, or mixed beverages served for consumption on the
premises by the holder of an F-3 permit, wine served as a tasting sample by an
A-2, S-1, or S-2 permit holder for consumption on the premises of a farmers
market for which an F-10 permit has been issued, or wine served for consumption
on the premises by the holder of an F-4 or F-6 permit;
         (c)   Beer or intoxicating liquor consumed on the premises of a
convention facility as provided in R.C. § 4303.201;
         (d)   Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed during tastings and
samplings approved by rule of the Liquor Control Commission;
         (e)   Spiritous liquor to be consumed for purposes of a tasting
sample, as defined in R.C. § 4301.171.
      (2)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F liquor permit
premises an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor that was not
purchased from the holder of the F permit if the premises for which the F
permit is issued is a music festival and the holder of the F permit grants
permission for that possession on the premises during the period for which the
F permit is issued. As used in this division (C)(2), MUSIC FESTIVAL means a
series of outdoor live musical performances extending for a period of at least
three consecutive days and located on an area of land of at least 40 acres.
      (3)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on a D-2 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of wine that was not purchased
from the holder of the D-2 permit if the premises for which the D-2 permit is
issued is an outdoor performing arts center, the person is attending an
orchestral performance, and the holder of the D-2 permit grants permission for
the possession and consumption of wine in certain predesignated areas of the
premises during the period for which the D-2 permit is issued.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(3)(a) of this section:
            ORCHESTRAL PERFORMANCE. Means a concert comprised of a group of not
fewer than 40 musicians playing various musical instruments.
            OUTDOOR PERFORMING ARTS CENTER. Means an outdoor performing arts
center that is located on not less than 150 acres of land and that is open for
performances from the first day of April to the last day of October of each
year.
      (4)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened or unopened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location at which the
person is attending an orchestral performance as defined in division (C)(3)(b)
of this section if the person with supervision and control over the performance
grants permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating
liquor in certain predesignated areas of that outdoor location.
      (5)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F-9 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
that was not purchased from the holder of the F-9 permit if the person is
attending either of the following:
            1.   An orchestral performance and the F-9 permit holder grants
permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor in
certain predesignated areas of the premises during the period for which the F-
9 permit is issued;
            2.   An outdoor performing arts event or orchestral performance
that is free of charge and the F-9 permit holder annually hosts not less than
25 other events or performances that are free of charge on the permit premises.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(5) of this section, ORCHESTRAL
PERFORMANCE has the same meaning as in division (C)(3)(b) of this section.
      (6)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of an outdoor motorsports facility an opened or unopened container of beer or
intoxicating liquor that was not purchased from the owner of the facility if
both of the following apply:
            1.   The person is attending a racing event at the facility; and
            2.   The owner of the facility grants permission for the possession
and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor on the property of the facility.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(6)(a) of this section:
            OUTDOOR MOTORSPORTS FACILITY. An outdoor racetrack to which all of
the following apply:
               a.   It is 2.4 miles or more in length.
               b.   It is located on 200 acres or more of land.
               c.   The primary business of the owner of the facility is the
hosting and promoting of racing events.
               d.   The holder of a D-1, D-2, or D-3 permit is located on the
property of the facility.
            RACING EVENT. A motor vehicle racing event sanctioned by one or
more motor racing sanctioning organizations.
      (7)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location within an
outdoor refreshment area created under R.C. § 4301.82 if the opened container
of beer or intoxicating liquor was purchased from an A-1, A-1-A, A-1c, A-2, A-
2f, D class, or F class permit holder to which both of the following apply:
            1.   The permit holder’s premises is located within the outdoor
refreshment area.
            2.   The permit held by the permit holder has an outdoor
refreshment area designation.
         (b)   Division (C)(7) of this section does not authorize a person to
do either of the following:
            1.   Enter the premises of an establishment within an outdoor
refreshment area while possessing an opened container of beer or intoxicating
liquor acquired elsewhere;
            2.   Possess an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
while being in or on a motor vehicle within an outdoor refreshment area, unless
the possession is otherwise authorized under division (D) or (E) of this
section.
         (c)   As used in division (C)(7) of this section, “D class permit
holder” does not include a D-6 or D-8 permit holder.
      (8)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of a market, within a defined F-8 permit premises, an opened container of beer
or intoxicating liquor that was purchased from a D permit premises that is
located immediately adjacent to the market if both of the following apply:
            1.   The market grants permission for the possession and
consumption of beer and intoxicating liquor within the defined F-8 permit
premises;
            2.   The market is hosting an event pursuant to an F-8 permit and
the market has notified the division of liquor control about the event in
accordance with R.C. § 4303.208(A)(3).
         (b)   As used in division (C)(8) of this section, MARKET means a
market, for which an F-8 permit is held, that has been in operation since 1860.
   (D)   This section does not apply to a person who pays all or a portion of
the fee imposed for use of a chauffeured limousine pursuant to a prearranged
contract or the guest of the person, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person or guest is a passenger in the limousine.
      (2)   The person or guest is located in the limousine, but is not
occupying a seat in the front compartment of the limousine where the operator
of the limousine is located.
      (3)   The limousine is located on any street, highway, or other public or
private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking.
   (E)   An opened bottle of wine that was purchased from the holder of a
permit that authorizes the sale of wine for consumption on the premises where
sold is not an opened container for the purposes of this section if both of the
following apply:
      (1)   The opened bottle of wine is securely resealed by the permit holder
or an employee of the permit holder before the bottle is removed from the
premises. The bottle shall be secured in such a manner that it is visibly
apparent if the bottle has been subsequently opened or tampered with.
      (2)   The opened bottle of wine that is resealed in accordance with
division (E)(1) of this section is stored in the trunk of a motor vehicle or,
if the motor vehicle does not have a trunk, behind the last upright seat or in
an area not normally occupied by the driver or passengers and not easily
accessible by the driver.
   (F)   (1)   Except if an ordinance or resolution is enacted or adopted under
division (F)(2) of this section, this section does not apply to a person who,
pursuant to a prearranged contract, is a passenger riding on a commercial
quadricycle when all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is not occupying a seat in the front of the
commercial quadricycle where the operator is steering or braking.
         (b)   The commercial quadricycle is being operated on a street,
highway, or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking.
         (c)   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
an opened container of beer or wine.
         (d)   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
not more than either 36 ounces of beer or 18 ounces of wine.
      (2)   The Council may enact an ordinance or adopt a resolution, as
applicable, that prohibits a passenger riding on a commercial quadricycle from
possessing an opened container of beer or wine.
      (3)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL QUADRICYCLE means a vehicle
that has fully-operative pedals for propulsion entirely by human power and that
meets all of the following requirements:
         (a)   It has four wheels and is operated in a manner similar to a
bicycle.
         (b)   It has at least five seats for passengers.
         (c)   It is designed to be powered by the pedaling of the operator and
the passengers.
         (d)   It is used for commercial purposes.
         (e)   It is operated by the vehicle owner or an employee of the owner.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person’s
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor on the premises
of a market if the beer or intoxicating liquor has been purchased from a D
liquor permit holder that is located in the market.
      (2)   As used in division (G) of this section, MARKET means an
establishment that:
         (a)   Leases space in the market to individual vendors, not less than
50% of which are retail food establishments or food service operations licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3717;
         (b)   Has an indoor sales floor area of not less than 22,000 square
feet;
         (c)   Hosts a farmer’s market on each Saturday from April through
December.
   (H)   (1)   As used in this section, ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE has the same meaning
as in R.C. § 4303.185.
      (2)   An alcoholic beverage in a closed container being transported under
R.C. § 4303.185 to its final destination is not an opened container for the
purposes of this section if the closed container is securely sealed in such a
manner that it is visibly apparent if the closed container has been
subsequently opened or tampered with after sealing.
   (I)   This section does not apply to a person who has in the person’s
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor in a public-use
airport, as described in R.C. § 4303.181(D)(2)(a)(iii), when both of the
following apply:
      (1)   Consumption of the opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
occurs in the area of the airport terminal that is restricted to persons taking
flights to and from the airport; and
      (2)   The consumption is authorized under R.C. § 4303.181(D)(2)(a).
   (J)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person’s
possession an opened container of homemade beer or wine that is served in
accordance with R.C. § 4301.201(E).
(R.C. § 4301.62)
   (K)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4301.99(A))
(Prior Code, § 612.07)
§ 97.08 UNDERAGE PERSON SHALL NOT PURCHASE INTOXICATING LIQUOR OR BEER.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person under the age of 21 years shall purchase beer or intoxicating liquor.
(R.C. § 4301.63) (Prior Code, § 612.02)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $100. The court imposing a fine for a violation of this section may
order that the fine be paid by the performance of public work at a reasonable
hour rate established by the court. The court shall designate the time within
which the public work shall be completed.
(R.C. § 4301.99(E))
§ 97.09 PROHIBITIONS; MINORS UNDER 18 YEARS; LOW-ALCOHOL BEVERAGES.
   (A)   As used in this section, UNDERAGE PERSON means a person under 18 years
of age.
   (B)   No underage person shall purchase any low-alcohol beverage.
   (C)   No underage person shall order, pay for, share the cost of, or attempt
to purchase any low- alcohol beverage.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the
name, age, or other identification of any underage person for the purpose of
obtaining or with the intent to obtain any low- alcohol beverage for an
underage person, by purchase or as a gift.
   (E)   No underage person shall knowingly show or give false information
concerning his or her name, age, or other identification for the purpose of
purchasing or otherwise obtaining any low-alcohol beverage in any place in this
municipality.
   (F)   No person shall sell or furnish any low-alcohol beverage to, or buy
any low-alcohol beverage for, an underage person, unless given by a physician
in the regular line of his or her practice or given for established religious
purposes, or unless the underage person is accompanied by a parent, spouse who
is not an underage person, or legal guardian.
   (G)   (1)   No person who is the owner or occupant of any public or private
place shall knowingly allow any underage person to remain in or on the place
while possessing or consuming any low-alcohol beverage, unless the low-alcohol
beverage is given to the person possessing or consuming it by that person’s
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, and the
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian is present when
the person possesses or consumes the low- alcohol beverage.
      (2)   An owner of a public or private place is not liable for acts or
omissions in violation of division (G)(1) that are committed by a lessee of
that place, unless the owner authorizes or acquiesces in the lessee’s acts or
omissions.
   (H)   No permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control shall be suspended,
revoked, or cancelled because of a violation of either division (F) or (G).
   (I)   No underage person shall knowingly possess or consume any low-alcohol
beverage in any public or private place, unless he or she is accompanied by a
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, or unless the
low-alcohol beverage is given by a physician in the regular line of his or her
practice or given for established religious purposes.
   (J)   No parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian of
an underage person shall knowingly permit the underage person to violate this
section.
(R.C. § 4301.631)
   (K)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of this section for which no
other penalty is provided is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section shall be fined not
less than $25 nor more than $100. The court imposing a fine for a violation of
division (B) of this section may order that the fine be paid by the performance
of public work at a reasonable hour rate established by the court. The court
shall designate the time within which the public work shall be completed.
(R.C. § 4301.99(E))
(Prior Code, § 612.13)
§ 97.10 ALCOHOL VAPORIZING DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section, ALCOHOL VAPORIZING DEVICE means a machine or
other device that mixes beer or intoxicating liquor with pure oxygen or any
other gas to produce a vaporized product for the purpose of consumption by
inhalation.
   (B)   No person shall sell or offer for sale an alcohol vaporizing device.
   (C)   No person shall purchase or use an alcohol vaporizing device.
(R.C. § 4301.65)
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
misdemeanor of the third degree. For a second or subsequent violation occurring
within a period of five consecutive years after the first violation, a person
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(J))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4301.99(A))
§ 97.11 MISREPRESENTATION TO OBTAIN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE FOR A MINOR PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the name, age, or
other identification of any person under 21 years of age, for the purpose of
obtaining, or with the intent to obtain, beer or intoxicating liquor for a
person under 21 years of age, by purchase, or as a gift.
(R.C. § 4301.633)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 97.12 MISREPRESENTATION BY A MINOR UNDER 21 YEARS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person under the age of 21 years shall knowingly show or give false
information concerning his or her name, age, or other identification for the
purpose of purchasing or otherwise obtaining beer or intoxicating liquor in any
place in this municipality where beer or intoxicating liquor is sold under a
permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control, or sold by the Division of
Liquor Control.
(R.C. § 4301.634)
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If, in committing a first violation of
division (A), the offender presented to the permit holder or his or her
employee or agent a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $250 and not
more than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more
than six months.
      (2)   On a second violation in which, for the second time, the offender
presented to the permit holder or his or her employee or agent a false,
fictitious, or altered identification card, a false or fictitious driver’s
license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s license issued by any
state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, and
may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than six months. The
court also may impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operation privilege from
the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
      (3)   On a third or subsequent violation in which, for the third or
subsequent time, the offender presented to the permit holder or his or her
employee or agent a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more
than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than
six months. Except as provided in this division, the court also may impose a
class six suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or permit or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. §
4510.02(A)(6), and the court may order that the suspension or denial remain in
effect until the offender attains the age of 21 years. The court, in lieu of
suspending the offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s
license, or driver’s license, instead may order the offender to perform a
determinate number of hours of community service, with the court determining
the actual number of hours and the nature of the community service the offender
shall perform.
(R.C. § 4301.99(F))
§ 97.13 SALE TO UNDERAGE PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person shall sell beer or intoxicating liquor to an underage person, shall
buy beer or intoxicating liquor for an underage person, or shall furnish it to
an underage person unless given by a physician in the regular line of the
physician’s practice or given for established religious purposes or unless the
underage person is supervised by a parent, spouse who is not an underage
person, or legal guardian. In proceedings before the Liquor Control Commission,
no permit holder, or no employee or agent of a permit holder, charged with a
violation of this division shall be charged, for the same offense, with a
violation of R.C. § 4301.22(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   No person who is the owner or occupant of any public or private place
shall knowingly allow any underage person to remain in or on the place while
possessing or consuming beer or intoxicating liquor, unless the intoxicating
liquor or beer is given to the person possessing or consuming it by that
person’s parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian and
the parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian is present
at the time of the person’s possession or consumption of the beer or
intoxicating liquor. An owner of a public or private place is not liable for
acts or omissions in violation of this division that are committed by a lessee
of that place, unless the owner authorizes or acquiesces in the lessee’s acts
or omissions.
   (C)   No person shall engage or use accommodations at a hotel, inn, cabin,
campground, or restaurant when the person knows or has reason to know either of
the following:
      (1)   That beer or intoxicating liquor will be consumed by an underage
person on the premises of the accommodations that the person engages or uses,
unless the person engaging or using the accommodations is the spouse of the
underage person and who is not an underage person, or is the parent or legal
guardian of all of the underage persons, who consume beer or intoxicating
liquor on the premises and that person is on the premises at all times when
beer or intoxicating liquor is being consumed by an underage person.
      (2)   That a drug of abuse will be consumed on the premises of the
accommodations by any person, except a person who obtained the drug of abuse
pursuant to a prescription issued by a licensed health professionals authorized
to prescribe drugs and has the drug of abuse in the original container in which
it was dispensed to the person.
   (D)   (1)   No person is required to permit the engagement of accommodations
at any hotel, inn, cabin, or campground by an underage person or for an
underage person, if the person engaging the accommodations knows or has reason
to know that the underage person is intoxicated, or that the underage person
possesses any beer or intoxicating liquor and is not supervised by a parent,
spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian who is or will be
present at all times when the beer or intoxicating liquor is being consumed by
the underage person.
      (2)   No underage person shall knowingly engage or attempt to engage
accommodations at any hotel, inn, cabin, or campground by presenting
identification that falsely indicates that the underage person is 21 years of
age or older for the purpose of violating this section.
   (E)   (1)   No underage person shall knowingly order, pay for, share the
cost of, attempt to purchase, possess, or consume any beer or intoxicating
liquor in any public or private place. No underage person shall knowingly be
under the influence of any beer or intoxicating liquor in any public place. The
prohibitions set forth in this division against an underage person knowingly
possessing, consuming, or being under the influence of any beer or intoxicating
liquor shall not apply if the underage person is supervised by a parent, spouse
who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, or the beer or intoxicating
liquor is given by a physician in the regular line of the physician’s practice
or given for established religious purposes.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is charged with violating division (E)(1) of this
section in a complaint filed under R.C. § 2151.27, the court may order the
child into a diversion program specified by the court and hold the complaint in
abeyance pending successful completion of the diversion program. A child is
ineligible to enter into a diversion program under this division if the child
previously has been diverted pursuant to this division. If the child completes
the diversion program to the satisfaction of the court, the court shall dismiss
the complaint and order the child’s record in the case sealed under R.C. §§
2151.356 through 2151.358. If the child fails to satisfactorily complete the
diversion program, the court shall proceed with the complaint.
         (b)   If a person is charged in a criminal complaint with violating
division (E)(1) of this section, R.C. § 2935.36 shall apply to the offense,
except that a person is ineligible for diversion under that section if the
person previously has been diverted pursuant to divisions (E)(2)(a) or (E)(2)
(b) of this section. If the person completes the diversion program to the
satisfaction of the court, the court shall dismiss the complaint and order the
record in the case sealed under R.C. § 2953.52. If the person fails to
satisfactorily complete the diversion program, the court shall proceed with the
complaint.
   (F)   No parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian of
a minor shall knowingly permit the minor to violate this section or R.C. §
4301.63, 4301.633, or 4301.634, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (G)   The operator of any hotel, inn, cabin, or campground shall make the
provisions of this section available in writing to any person engaging or using
accommodations at the hotel, inn, cabin, or campground.
   (H)   As used in this section:
      DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
      HOTEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3731.01.
      LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
      MINOR. Means a person under the age of 18 years.
      PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
      UNDERAGE PERSON. Means a person under the age of 21 years.
(R.C. § 4301.69)
   (I)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4301.633 through 4301.637, or substantially
equivalent municipal ordinances, shall not be deemed to modify or affect
divisions (A) through (H) of this section or R.C. § 4301.69.
(R.C. § 4301.638)
   (J)   (1)   Except as provided in division (J)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If an
offender who violates division (E)(1) of this section was under the age of 18
years at the time of the offense and the offense occurred while the offender
was the operator of or a passenger in a motor vehicle, the court, in addition
to any other penalties it imposes upon the offender, shall suspend the
offender’s temporary instruction permit or probationary driver’s license for a
period of six months. If the offender is 15 years and six months of age or
older and has not been issued a temporary instruction permit or probationary
driver’s license, the offender shall not be eligible to be issued such a
license or permit for a period of six months. If the offender has not attained
the age of 15 years and six months, the offender shall not be eligible to be
issued a temporary instruction permit until the offender attains the age of 16
years.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor, shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, and in
addition to the fine, may be imprisoned for a definite term of not more than
six months.
(R.C. § 4301.99(I))
(Prior Code, § 612.02)
§ 97.14 POSTING OF CARD.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4301.691, every place in
this municipality where beer, intoxicating liquor, or any low-alcohol beverage
is sold for beverage purposes shall display at all times, in a prominent place
on the premises thereof, a printed card, which shall be furnished by the
Division of Liquor Control and which shall read substantially as follows:
   WARNING TO PERSONS UNDER AGE
   If you are under the age of 21
   Under the statutes of the state of Ohio, if you order, pay for, share the
cost of, or attempt to purchase, or possess or consume beer or intoxicating
liquor in any public place, or furnish false information as to name, age, or
other identification, you are subject to a fine of up to $1,000, or
imprisonment up to 6 months, or both.
   If you are under the age of 18
   Under the statutes of the state of Ohio, if you order, pay for, share the
cost of, or attempt to purchase, or posses or consume, any type of beer or wine
that contains either no alcohol or less than one-half of one per cent of
alcohol by volume in any public place, or furnish false information as to the
name, age, or other identification, you are subject to a fine of up to $250 or
to imprisonment up to 30 days, or both.
      (2)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Department or the Liquor Control Commission for failing
to display this card. No permit issued by the Department shall be suspended,
revoked, or canceled because of the failure of the permit holder to display
this card.
   (B)   (1)   Every place in this municipality for which a D permit has been
issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 shall be issued a printed card by the Division
of Liquor Control that shall read substantially as follows:
   WARNING
   If you are carrying a firearm
   Under the statutes of Ohio, if you possess a firearm in any room in which
liquor is being dispensed in premises for which a D permit has been issued
under Chapter 4303 of the Revised Code, you may be guilty of a felony and may
be subjected to a prison term of up to one year.
      (2)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Division of Liquor Control or the Liquor Control
Commission for failing to display this card. No permit issued by the Department
shall be suspended, revoked, or canceled because of the failure of the permit
holder to display this card.
(R.C. § 4301.637) (Prior Code, § 612.06)
§ 97.15 GOOD FAITH ACCEPTANCES OF SPURIOUS IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   No permit holder, agent or employee of a permit holder, or any other
person may be found guilty of a violation of any section of this chapter in
which age is any element of the offense, if any court of record finds all of
the following:
      (1)   That the person buying, at the time of so doing, exhibited to the
permit holder, the agent or employee of the permit holder, or the other person
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card as defined
in R.C. § 4301.61, a military identification card issued by the United States
Department of Defense, or a United States or foreign passport, that displays a
picture of the individual for whom the license, card, or passport was issued
and shows that the person buying was then at least 21 years of age if the
person was buying beer as defined in R.C. § 4301.01 or intoxicating liquor, or
that the person was then at least 18 years of age if the person was buying any
low-alcohol beverage;
      (2)   That the permit holder, the agent or employee of the permit holder,
or the other person made a bona fide effort to ascertain the true age of the
person buying by checking the identification presented at the time of the
purchase to ascertain that the description on the identification compared with
the appearance of the buyer and that the identification presented had not been
altered in any way.
      (3)   That the permit holder, the agent or employee of the permit holder,
or the other person had reason to believe that the person buying was of legal
age.
   (B)   The defense provided by division (A) of this section is in addition to
the affirmative defense provided by § 92.29.
(R.C. § 4301.639(A), (C))
§ 97.16 CONSUMPTION IN MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall consume any beer or intoxicating liquor in a motor
vehicle. This section does not apply to persons described in R.C. § 4301.62(D)
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4301.64)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If an offender who violates this section was under the age of 18 years
at the time of the offense, the court, in addition to any other penalties it
imposes upon the offender, may suspend the offender’s temporary instruction
permit, probationary driver’s license or driver’s license for a period of not
less than six months and not more than one year. In lieu of suspending the
offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or
driver’s license, the court instead may require the offender to perform
community service for a number of hours determined by the court. If the
offender is 15 years and six months of age or older and has not been issued a
temporary instruction permit or probationary driver’s license, the offender
shall not be eligible to be issued such a license or permit for a period of six
months. If the offender has not attained the age of 15 years and six months,
the offender shall not be eligible to be issued a temporary instruction permit
until the offender attains the age of 16 years.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
(Prior Code, § 612.04)
§ 97.17 HOURS OF SALE OR CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   This section shall apply to the retail sale of beer, wine, mixed
beverages, or spirituous liquor.
   (B)   (1)   No beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor shall be
sold or delivered by an A-1, A-1C, A-2, B-1, B-2, B-4, B-5, C-1, C-2, C-2X, D-
1, D-2, D-2X, D-3 when issued without a D-3A, D-3X, D-4, D-5H, D-5K, D-8, F, F-
1, F-2, F-3, F-4, F-5, F-6, F-7, F-8, F-9, G, or I permit holder from Monday to
Saturday between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:30 a.m. and on Sunday between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and Sunday midnight, unless statutorily authorized
otherwise.
      (2)   Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above permit
holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages,
or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.
   (C)   (1)   No beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor shall be
sold or delivered by an A-1A, D-3 when issued with a D-3A, D-4A, D-5, D-5A, D-
5B, D-5C, D-5D, D-5E, D-5F, D-5G, D-5I, D-5J, D-5L, D-5M, D-5N, D-5O, or D-
7 permit holder from Monday to Saturday between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 5:30
a.m. and on Sunday between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and Sunday midnight, unless
statutorily authorized otherwise.
      (2)   Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above permit
holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages,
or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.
   (D)   Permit holders authorized to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages, or
spirituous liquor at retail who are not specifically identified in divisions
(B) or (C) above shall be subject to the provisions of division (B), unless
statutorily authorized otherwise.
   (E)   The hours on Sunday during which sales, delivery, or consumption of
alcoholic beverages may take place are established by statute, but in no event
shall they begin prior to 5:30 a.m.
(O.A.C. § 4301:1-1-49)
   (F)   No association, corporation, local unit of an association or
corporation, or D permit holder who holds an F-2 permit shall sell beer or
intoxicating liquor beyond the hours of sale allowed by the permit. This
division imposes strict liability on the holder of such permit and on any
officer, agent or employee of such permit holder.
(R.C. § 4303.202(D)(2))
   (G)   No F-8 permit holder shall sell beer or intoxicating liquor beyond the
hours of sale allowed by the permit. This division (G) imposes strict liability
on the holder of an F-8 permit and on any officer, agent or employee of that
permit holder.
(R.C. § 4303.208(C))
   (H)   Whoever violates divisions (F) or (G) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4303.99(D))
(Prior Code, § 612.08)
§ 97.18 OBSTRUCTING SEARCH OF PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall hinder or obstruct any agent or employee of the
Division of Liquor Control, any enforcement agent of the Department of Public
Safety or any officer of the law from making an inspection or search of any
place, other than a bona fide private residence, where beer or intoxicating
liquor is possessed, kept, sold, or given away.
(R.C. § 4301.66)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
§ 97.19 ILLEGAL POSSESSION OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall have possession of any spirituous liquor, in excess of
one liter, in one or more containers, which was not purchased at wholesale or
retail from the Division of Liquor Control or otherwise lawfully acquired
pursuant to this chapter, R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, or any other
intoxicating liquor or beer, in one or more containers, which was not lawfully
acquired pursuant to those chapters.
(R.C. § 4301.67)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
§ 97.20 SALE OR POSSESSION OF DILUTED LIQUOR AND REFILLED CONTAINERS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, or possess with the intent to
sell intoxicating liquor in any original container which has been diluted,
refilled, or partly refilled.
(R.C. § 4301.68)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 97.21 KEEPING PLACE WHERE BEER OR INTOXICATING LIQUORS ARE SOLD IN VIOLATION
OF LAW.
   (A)   No person shall keep a place where beer or intoxicating liquors are
sold, furnished, or given away in violation of law. The court, on conviction
for a subsequent violation of this section, shall order the place where the
beer or intoxicating liquor is sold, furnished, or given away to be abated as a
nuisance or shall order the person so convicted to give bond payable to the
state in the sum of $1,000, with sureties to the acceptance of the court, that
the person will not sell, furnish, or give away beer or intoxicating liquor in
violation of law and will pay all fines, costs, and damages assessed against
the person for that subsequent violation of this section. The giving away of
beer or intoxicating liquors, or any other device to evade this section,
constitutes unlawful selling.
   (B)   As used in this section, BEER has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4301.01.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any premises for which
a permit has been issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 while that permit is in
effect.
(R.C. § 4399.09)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500 on a first offense and shall be fined not less than $200 nor
more than $500 on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4399.99(B))
§ 97.22 INTOXICATING LIQUORS SHALL NOT BE SOLD IN BROTHELS.
   (A)   No person shall sell, exchange, or give away intoxicating liquor in a
brothel.
(R.C. § 4399.10)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500 and imprisoned not less than one nor more than six months.
(R.C. § 4399.99(C))
§ 97.23 USE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR IN A PUBLIC DANCE HALL PROHIBITED;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2) of this section,
no person who is the proprietor of, or who conducts, manages, or is in charge
of any public dance hall shall allow the use of any intoxicating liquor or the
presence of intoxicated persons in the public dance hall or on the premises on
which it is located.
      (2)   The prohibition against the use of any intoxicating liquor
contained in division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to establishments
that are holders of a D-1, D-2, D-3, D-4, or D-5 permit whose principal
business consists of conducting a hotel, a restaurant, a club, or a nightclub,
all as defined in R.C. § 4301.01.
(R.C. § 4399.14)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not more than six months, or both.
(R.C. § 4399.99(D))
§ 97.24 POISONOUSLY ADULTERATED LIQUORS.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of sale, shall adulterate spirituous
liquor, alcoholic liquor, or beer used or intended for drink or medicinal or
mechanical purposes, with cocculus indicus, vitriol, grains of paradise, opium,
alum, capsicum, copperas, laurel water, logwood, brazilwood, cochineal, sugar
of lead, aloes, glucose, tannic acid, or any other substance that is poisonous
or injurious to health, or with a substance not a necessary ingredient in the
manufacture of the spiritous liquor, alcoholic liquor, or beer, or sell, offer,
or keep for sale spiritous liquor, alcoholic liquor, or beer that is so
adulterated.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties provided in division (C) of this section,
a person convicted of violating this section shall pay all necessary costs and
expenses incurred in inspecting and analyzing spiritous liquor, alcoholic
liquor, or beer that is so adulterated, sold, kept, or offered for sale.
(R.C. § 4399.15)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $20 nor
more than $100, imprisoned not less than 20 nor more than 60 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4399.99(E))
§ 97.25 TAVERN KEEPER PERMITTING RIOTING OR DRUNKENNESS.
   (A)   No tavern keeper shall permit rioting, intoxication, or drunkenness in
or on his or her premises.
(R.C. § 4399.16)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $5 nor more
than $100.
(R.C. § 4399.99(A))
§ 97.26 NOTICE OF ACTION TO PROHIBIT LIQUOR BUSINESS.
   Any party bringing an action to prohibit the operation of a business under a
liquor permit issued pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4303 shall, upon filing the
complaint in the action, notify the Division of Liquor Control of the filing of
the complaint.
(R.C. § 4303.40)
§ 97.27 PROCEDURE WHEN INJUNCTION VIOLATED.
   (A)   Any person subject to an injunction, temporary or permanent, granted
pursuant to R.C. § 3767.05(D) or (E) involving a condition described in
division (3) of the definition of “nuisance” in R.C. § 3767.01, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall obey the injunction. If the
person violates the injunction, the court, or in vacation a judge thereof, may
summarily try and punish the violator. The proceedings for punishment for
contempt shall be commenced by filing with the Clerk of the Court from which
the injunction issued, information under oath setting out the alleged facts
constituting the violation, whereupon the court shall cause a warrant to issue
under which the defendant shall be arrested. The trial may be had upon
affidavits, or either party may demand the production and oral examination of
the witnesses.
(R.C. § 4301.74)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 97.28 LIQUOR TRANSACTION SCANS.
   (A)   As used in this section and §
97.29:
      CARD HOLDER. Means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a permit holder, or an agent or
employee of a permit holder, for either of the purposes listed in under
divisions (a) or (b) of the definition for “transaction scan” in this section.
      IDENTIFICATION CARD. Means an identification card issued under R.C. §§
4507.50 through 4507.52 or an equivalent identification card issued by another
state.
      PERMIT HOLDER. Means the holder of a permit issued under R.C. Chapter
4303.
      TRANSACTION SCAN. Means the process by which a permit holder or an agent
or employee of a permit holder checks, by means of a transaction scan device,
the validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card that is presented as a condition for doing either of the following:
         (a)   Purchasing any beer, intoxicating liquor, or low-alcohol
beverage;
         (b)   Gaining admission to a premises that has been issued a liquor
permit authorizing the sale of beer or intoxicating liquor for consumption on
the premises where sold, and where admission is restricted to persons 21 years
of age or older.
      TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Means any commercial device or combination of
devices used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card.
   (B)   (1)   A permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit holder may
perform a transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the
validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card
presented by a card holder for either of the purposes listed in divisions (a)
or (b) of the definition for “transaction scan” in this section.
      (2)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (B)(1) of this section fails to match the information printed on
the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by
the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information so
printed is false or fraudulent, neither the permit holder nor any agent or
employee of the permit holder shall sell any beer, intoxicating liquor, or low-
alcohol beverage to the card holder.
      (3)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not preclude a permit holder
or an agent or employee of a permit holder from using a transaction scan device
to check the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or identification card, if the document includes a bar code or
magnetic strip that may be scanned by the device, as a condition of a sale
beer, intoxicating liquor, or a low-alcohol beverage or of granting admission
to a premises described in the definition for “transaction scan” in this
section.
   (C)   The Registrar of Motor Vehicles, with the approval of the Liquor
Control Commission, shall adopt, and may amend or rescind, rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 that do both of the following:
      (1)   Govern the recording and maintenance of information described in
R.C. § 4301.61(D)(1)(a) and (D)(1)(b), R.C. § 2925.57(D)(1)(a) and (D)(1)(b),
and R.C. § 2927.021(D)(1)(a) and (D)(1)(b);
      (2)   Ensure quality control in the use of transaction scan devices under
R.C. §§ 2925.57, 2925.58, 2927.021, 2927.022, 4301.61, and 4301.611.
   (D)   (1)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except for the following:
         (a)   The name and date of birth of the person listed on the driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder;
         (b)   The expiration date and identification number of the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder.
      (2)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall use
the information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to
be recorded and maintained under division (D)(1) of this section, except for
purposes of R.C. § 4301.611, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (3)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall use
a transaction scan device for a purpose other than a purpose listed in
divisions (a) or (b) of the definition for “transaction scan” in this section.
      (4)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall sell
or otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by R.C. § 4301.611, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or another section of this code
or the Ohio Revised Code.
   (E)   Nothing in this section or R.C. § 4301.611, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, relieves a permit holder or an agent or
employee of a permit holder of any responsibility to comply with any other
applicable local, state or federal laws or rules governing the sale of beer,
intoxicating liquor, or low-alcohol beverages.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) or (D) of this section is guilty of
an illegal liquor transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender
a civil penalty of up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court
shall pay each collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into
the County Treasury.
(R.C. § 4301.61)
§ 97.29 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES.
   (A)   A permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit holder may not be
found guilty of a charge of a violation of this chapter or any rule of the
Liquor Control Commission in which the age of the purchaser of any beer,
intoxicating liquor, or low-alcohol beverage is an element of the alleged
violation, if the permit holder, agent, or employee raises and proves as an
affirmative defense that all of the following occurred:
      (1)   A card holder attempting to purchase any beer, intoxicating liquor,
or low-alcohol beverage presented a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
an identification card.
      (2)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that the
license or card was valid.
      (3)   The beer, intoxicating liquor, or low-alcohol beverage was sold to
the card holder in reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan.
   (B)   In determining whether a permit holder or an agent or employee of a
permit holder has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (A) of
this section, the Liquor Control Commission or the trier of fact in a court of
record shall consider any written policy that the permit holder has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of R.C. §§ 4301.22(A)(1)
or (A)(2), 4301.63 through 4301.636, 4301.69, and 4301.691, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances. For purposes of division (A)(3)
of this section, the Commission or trier of fact shall consider that reasonable
reliance upon the identification presented and the completed transaction scan
may require a permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit holder to
exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a transaction
scan device does not excuse a permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit
holder from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
      (1)   Whether a person to whom the permit holder or agent or employee of
a permit holder sells any beer or intoxicating liquor is 21 years of age or
older or sells low-alcohol beverage is 18 years of age or older;
      (2)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
   (C)   The affirmative defense provided by division (A) of this section is in
addition to the defense provided by R.C. § 4301.639, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   In any hearing before the Liquor Control Commission and in any
criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by division (A) of
this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a deputy registrar
who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50 through 4507.52 shall
be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of that issuance in lieu
of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles in the hearing or action.
(R.C. § 4301.611)
§ 97.30 WINDOW OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall use screens, window blinds, curtains, painted or
stained glass windows or any other kind of obstruction in any place where
intoxicating liquors are sold at retail so as to prevent a full inspection of
such places from the public street or highway.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 612.10) (Ord. 45, passed 1-3-1900)
§ 97.31 CONSUMPTION ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall sell or consume any intoxicating liquor or beer in or
upon any village-owned property, any public right-of-way or any other public
area, such as a playground, park, public building or other premises.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(Prior Code, § 612.11) (Ord. 410, passed 7-11-1997)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other penalty
has been provided is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4301.70, 4301.99(A))
CHAPTER 98: SAFETY, SANITATION AND HEALTH
Section
   
98.01   Venting of heaters and burners
   
98.02   Spreading contagion
   
98.03   Littering
   
98.04   Noxious odors; filthy accumulations; polluting and diverting
watercourses
   
98.05   Duty to keep sidewalks in repair and clean
   
98.06   Abandoned refrigerators and airtight containers
   
98.07   Junk and junk cars
   
98.08   Parking, storage, maintenance or collection of motor vehicles on
private premises
   
98.09   Open burning
   
98.10   Barricades and warning lights
   
98.11   Sidewalk obstructions; damage or injury
   
98.12   Notice to fill lots, remove putrid substances
   
98.13   Fences
   
98.14   Burials prohibited
   
98.15   Smoking in places of public assembly
   
98.16   News racks and vending machines on sidewalks
§ 98.01 VENTING OF HEATERS AND BURNERS.
   (A)   The use of a brazier, salamander, space heater, room heater, furnace,
water heater or other burner or heater using wood, coal, coke, fuel oil,
kerosene, gasoline, natural gas, liquid petroleum gas or similar fuel, and
tending to give off carbon monoxide or other harmful gases must comply with the
following provisions:
      (1)   When used in living quarters, or in any enclosed building or space
in which persons are usually present, shall be used with a flue or vent so
designed, installed and maintained as to vent the products of combustion
outdoors; except in storage, factory or industrial buildings which are provided
with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide poisoning;
and
      (2)   When used as a portable or temporary burner or heater at a
construction site, or in a warehouse, shed or structure in which persons are
temporarily present, shall be vented as provided in division (A)(1) or used
with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide poisoning.
   (B)   This section does not apply to domestic ranges, laundry stoves, gas
logs installed in a fireplace with an adequate flue, or hot plates, unless the
same are used as space or room heaters.
   (C)   No person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in
charge, or occupant of premises, negligently permit the use of a burner or
heater in violation of the standards for venting and ventilation provided in
this section.
   (D)   Division (A) above does not apply to any kerosene-fired space or room
heater that is equipped with an automatic extinguishing tip-over device, or to
any natural gas-fired or liquid petroleum gas-fired space or room heater that
is equipped with an oxygen depletion safety shut-off system, and that has its
fuel piped from a source outside the building in which it is located, that are
approved by an authoritative source recognized by the State Fire Marshal in the
State Fire Code adopted by him or her under R.C. § 3737.82.
   (E)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules to ensure the safe use of
unvented kerosene, natural gas, or liquid petroleum gas heaters exempted from
division (A) above when used in assembly buildings, business buildings, high
hazard buildings, institutional buildings, mercantile buildings, and type R-
1 and R-2 residential buildings, as these groups of buildings are defined in
rules adopted by the Board of Building Standards under R.C. § 3781.10. No
person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in charge or occupant
of premises, negligently permit the use of a heater in violation of any rules
adopted under this division.
   (F)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules prescribing standards for
written instructions containing ventilation requirements and warning of any
potential fire hazards that may occur in using a kerosene, natural gas, or
liquid petroleum gas heater. No person shall sell or offer for sale any
kerosene, natural gas, or liquid petroleum gas heater unless the manufacturer
provides with the heater written instructions that comply with any rules
adopted under this division.
   (G)   No product labeled as a fuel additive for kerosene heaters and having
a flash point below 100°F or 37.8°C shall be sold, offered for sale, or used in
any kerosene space heater.
   (H)   No device that prohibits any safety feature on a kerosene, natural
gas, or liquid petroleum gas space heater from operating shall be sold, offered
for sale, or used in connection with any kerosene, natural gas, or liquid
petroleum gas space heater.
   (I)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any kerosene-fired, natural
gas, or liquid petroleum gas-fired heater that is not exempt from division (A)
above, unless it is marked conspicuously by the manufacturer on the container
with the phrase “Not Approved For Home Use”.
   (J)   No person shall use a cabinet-type, liquid petroleum gas-fired heater
having a fuel source within the heater, inside any building, except as
permitted by the State Fire Marshal in the State Fire Code adopted by him or
her under R.C. § 3737.82.
(R.C. § 3701.82)
   (K)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 3701.99(B))
(Prior Code, § 660.01)
§ 98.02 SPREADING CONTAGION.
   (A)   No person, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that he or
she is suffering from a dangerous, contagious disease, shall knowingly fail to
take reasonable measures to prevent exposing himself or herself to other
persons, except when seeking medical aid.
   (B)   No person, having charge or care of a person whom he or she knows or
has reasonable cause to believe is suffering from a dangerous, contagious
disease, shall recklessly fail to take reasonable measures to protect others
from exposure to the contagion, and to inform health authorities of the
existence of the contagion.
   (C)   No person, having charge of a public conveyance or place of public
accommodation, amusement, resort, or trade, and knowing or having reasonable
cause to believe that persons using such conveyance or place have been or are
being exposed to a dangerous, contagious disease, shall negligently fail to
take reasonable measures to protect the public from exposure to the contagion,
and to inform health authorities of the existence of the contagion.
(R.C. § 3701.81)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second
degree.
(R.C. § 3701.99(C))
(Prior Code, § 660.02)
§ 98.03 LITTERING.
   (A)   No person, regardless of intent, shall deposit litter or cause litter
to be deposited on any public property, on private property not owned by the
person, or in or on waters of the state, unless one of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is directed to do so by a public official as part of a
litter collection drive.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the person
deposits the litter in a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents its being
carried away by the elements.
      (3)   The person is issued a permit or license covering the litter
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3734 or 6111.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly deposit litter,
or cause it to be deposited, in a litter receptacle located on any public
property or on any private property not owned by the person, unless one of the
following applies:
      (1)   The litter was generated or located on the property on which the
litter receptacle is located.
      (2)   The person is directed to do so by a public official as part of a
litter collection drive.
      (3)   The person is directed to do so by a person whom the person
reasonably believes to have the privilege to use the litter receptacle.
      (4)   The litter consists of any of the following:
         (a)   The contents of a litter bag or container of a type and size
customarily carried and used in a motor vehicle.
         (b)   The contents of an ash tray of a type customarily installed or
carried and used in a motor vehicle.
         (c)   Beverage containers and food sacks, wrappings, and containers of
a type and in an amount that reasonably may be expected to be generated during
routine commuting or business or recreational travel by a motor vehicle.
         (d)   Beverage containers, food sacks, wrappings, containers, and
other materials of a type and in an amount that reasonably may be expected to
be generated during a routine day by a person and deposited in a litter
receptacle by a casual passerby.
   (C)   (1)   As used in division (B)(1) of this section, PUBLIC PROPERTY
includes any private property open to the public for the conduct of business,
the provision of a service, or upon the payment of a fee but does not include
any private property to which the public otherwise does not have a right of
access.
      (2)   As used in division (B)(4) of this section, CASUAL PASSERBY means a
person who does not have depositing litter in a litter receptacle as the
person’s primary reason for traveling to or by the property on which the litter
receptacle is located.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      AUXILIARY CONTAINER. Means a bag, can, cup, food or beverage service
item, container, keg, bottle, or other packaging to which all of the following
apply:
         (a)   It is designed to be either single use or reusable.
         (b)   It is made of cloth, paper, plastic, foamed or expanded plastic,
cardboard, corrugated material, aluminum, metal, glass, postconsumer recycled
material, or similar materials or substances, including coated, laminated, or
multilayered substrates.
         (c)   It is designed for consuming, transporting, or protecting
merchandise, food, or beverages from or at a food service operation, retail
food establishment, grocery, or any other type of retail, manufacturing, or
distribution establishment.
      DEPOSIT. Means to throw, drop, discard, or place.
      LITTER. Includes garbage, trash, waste, rubbish, ashes, cans, bottles,
wire, paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts, furniture, glass, auxiliary
containers, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
      LITTER RECEPTACLE. Means a dumpster, trash can, trash bin, garbage can,
or similar container in which litter is deposited for removal.
   (E)   This section may be enforced by any sheriff, deputy sheriff, police
officer of a municipal corporation, police constable or officer of a township,
or township or joint police district, wildlife officer designated under R.C. §
1531.13, natural resources officer appointed under R.C. § 1501.24, forest-fire
investigator appointed under R.C. § 1503.09, conservancy district police
officer, inspector of nuisances of a county, or any other law enforcement
officer within the law enforcement officer’s jurisdiction.
(R.C. § 3767.32)
   (F)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. The sentencing court may, in addition to or in
lieu of the penalty provided in this division, require a person who violates
this section to remove litter from any public or private property or in or on
waters of the state.
(R.C. § 3767.99(C))
(Prior Code, § 660.03)
§ 98.04 NOXIOUS ODORS; FILTHY ACCUMULATIONS; POLLUTING AND DIVERTING
WATERCOURSES.
   (A)   No person shall erect, continue to use, or maintain a building,
structure, or place for the exercise of a trade, employment, or business or for
keeping or feeding an animal which, by occasioning noxious exhalations or
noisome or offensive smells, becomes injurious to the health, comfort, or
property of individuals or of the public.
   (B)   No person shall cause or allow offal, filth, or noisome substances to
be collected or remain in any place to the damage or prejudice of others or of
the public.
   (C)   No person shall unlawfully obstruct or impede the passage of a
navigable river, harbor, or collection of water, or corrupt or render
unwholesome or impure a watercourse, stream of water, or unlawfully divert such
watercourse from its natural course or state to the injury or prejudice of
others.
   (D)   Persons who are engaged in agriculture-related activities, as
“agriculture” is defined in R.C. § 519.01, and who are conducting those
activities outside the municipality, in accordance with generally accepted
agricultural practices, and in such a manner so as not to have a substantial,
adverse effect on the public health, safety, or welfare, are exempt from
divisions (A) and (B) above and from any ordinances, resolutions, rules, or
other enactments of the municipality that prohibit excessive noise.
(R.C. § 3767.13)
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 3767.99(C))
(Prior Code, § 660.04)
§ 98.05 DUTY TO KEEP SIDEWALKS IN REPAIR AND CLEAN.
   No owner or occupant of lots or lands abutting any sidewalk, curb or gutter
shall fail to keep the sidewalks, curbs and gutters in repair and free from
snow, ice or any nuisance, and to remove from such sidewalks, curbs or gutters
all snow and ice accumulated thereon within a reasonable time, which will
ordinarily not exceed 12 hours after any storm during which the snow and ice
has accumulated.
(R.C. § 723.011) (Prior Code, § 660.05)
§ 98.06 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS AND AIRTIGHT CONTAINERS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon, discard, or knowingly permit to remain on
premises under the person’s control, in a place accessible to children, any
abandoned or discarded icebox, refrigerator, or other airtight or semi-airtight
container which has a capacity of one and one-half cubic feet or more and an
opening of 50 square inches or more and which has a door or lid equipped with a
hinge, latch, or other fastening device capable of securing such door or lid,
without rendering the equipment harmless to human life by removing such hinges,
latches or other hardware which may cause a person to be confined therein. This
section shall not apply to an icebox, refrigerator or other airtight or semi-
airtight container located in that part of a building occupied by a dealer,
warehouse or repairer.
(R.C. § 3767.29)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 3767.99(B))
(Prior Code, § 660.06)
§ 98.07 JUNK AND JUNK CARS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      JUNK. Any worn out, cast off or discarded material which, in its existing
condition, is ready for destruction, is incapable of being used for its
original purpose or has been collected or stored for salvage or conversion to
some other use. Any article or material which, unaltered or unchanged and
without further reconditioning, can be used for its original purpose as readily
as when new shall not be considered junk.
      INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Refers to a vehicle, as described in the
definition for junk car, if it is incapable of being propelled under its own
power.
      JUNK CAR.
         (a)   any unlicensed car or motor vehicle or any other car or motor
vehicle not in the process of reconditioning, which has been abandoned for use
as a motor vehicle and which is in an unsafe, inoperative or partially
dismantled condition.
         (b)   Portions of junk cars, including, but not limited to, hoods,
fenders, radiators, rims and motors, not being utilized for the repair of a
motor vehicle, shall be considered junk.
      PARTIALLY DISMANTLED CONDITION. A vehicle, as above described, if it has
some part or parts missing which is or are ordinarily an essential component
thereof.
   (B)   No person shall deposit, store, maintain or collect or permit the
deposit, storage, maintenance or collection of any junk or junk cars on his or
her own premises, or any premises in which he or she has a possessory interest,
or any premises under his or her control, or permit the same to remain upon
such premises longer than ten days after receipt of written notice to remove
such junk or junk car from such premises. Such notice shall be signed by the
Police Chief and shall be served upon such person by the Chief or by any member
of the Police Department duly designated by him or her, by personally handing
such notice to such person or, in the case of a firm or corporation, to a duly
authorized agent of the same, by leaving the same at the usual place of
residence of such person or by mailing the same by certified mail addressed to
such person at his or her last known place of residence.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the storage of junk
or junk cars in regularly established automotive junk yards or salvage or scrap
metal yards within the village, nor shall it apply to the storage of junk or
junk cars in an enclosed building.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 660.07) (Ord. 430, passed 7-7-1980)
§ 98.08 PARKING, STORAGE, MAINTENANCE OR COLLECTION OF MOTOR VEHICLES ON
PRIVATE PREMISES.
   (A)   No person shall park, store, maintain or collect, or permit the
parking, storing, maintenance or collection of more than two motor vehicles of
any type, kind or description, licensed or unlicensed, on his or her own
premises or on any premises in which he or she has a possessory interest or any
premises under his or her control, or permit the same to remain upon such
premises longer than ten days after receipt of written notice to remove any and
all such motor vehicles in excess of the allowable two motor vehicles as
stated. Such notice shall be signed by the Chief of Police and shall be served
upon such person by the Chief of Police or by any member of the Police
Department duly designated by him or her, by personally handing such notice to
such person, or by leaving the same at the residence of such person, or by
mailing the same by certified mail addressed to such person at his or her
residence.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) of this section shall not apply to
those motor vehicles parked upon regularly established driveways or in a
carport, or motor vehicles parked, stored, maintained, collected or housed
within garages, barns or any enclosed building on such premises, or in or upon
commercial or noncommercial parking lots, or on any regularly established
parking area open to and maintained for public use.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and
shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
130.99 of this code of ordinances. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 660.075) (Ord. 500, passed 6-1-1987)
§ 98.09 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   General definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         AGRICULTURAL WASTE. Any waste material generated by crop,
horticultural, or livestock production practices, and includes such items as
woody debris and plant matter from stream flooding, bags, cartons, structural
materials, and landscape wastes that are generated in agricultural activities,
but does not include land clearing waste; buildings (including dismantled/
fallen barns); garbage; dead animals; animal waste; motor vehicles and parts
thereof; nor economic poisons and containers thereof, unless the manufacturer
has identified open burning as a safe disposal procedure.
         AIR CURTAIN BURNER. An engineered apparatus consisting of a motorized
high-velocity fan and an air distribution system designed to aid in the
efficient combustion of materials placed in a manufactured steel structure and
for which a permit-to-install has been obtained as required in O.A.C. Chapter
3745-31 and a permit-to-operate has been obtained as required in O.A.C. Chapter
3745-77.
         AIR CURTAIN DESTRUCTOR. An engineered apparatus consisting of a
motorized high- velocity fan and an air distribution system designed to aid in
the efficient combustion of materials placed in an adjacent pit. An air curtain
burner may be used in place of an air curtain destructor, but an air curtain
destructor may not be used in place of an air curtain burner.
         BUILDING MATERIALS. Those materials resulting from the alteration,
construction, destruction, rehabilitation, or repair of any human-made physical
structure, including, without limitation, houses, buildings, industrial or
commercial facilities, or roadways.
         ECONOMIC POISONS. Include but are not restricted to pesticides such as
insecticides, fungicides, rodenticides, miticides, nematocides and fumigants;
herbicides; seed disinfectants; and defoliants.
         EMERGENCY BURNING. The burning of clean wood waste or deceased animals
caused by a natural disaster or an uncontrolled event such as the following:
            1.   A tornado.
            2.   High winds.
            3.   An earthquake.
            4.   An explosion.
            5.   A flood.
            6.   A hail storm, a rain storm, or an ice storm.
         GARBAGE. Any waste material resulting from the handling, processing,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food or food products.
         INHABITED BUILDING. Any inhabited private dwelling house and any
public structure which may be used as a place of resort, assembly, education,
entertainment, lodging, trade, manufacture, repair, storage, traffic, or
occupancy by the public. Examples would include, but are not limited to,
highway rest stops, restaurants, motels, hotels and gas stations.
         LAND CLEARING WASTE. Plant waste material which is removed from land,
including plant waste material removed from stream banks during projects
involving more than one property owner, for the purpose of rendering the land
useful for residential, commercial, or industrial development. Land clearing
waste also includes the plant waste material generated during the clearing of
land for new agricultural development.
         LANDSCAPE WASTE. Any plant waste material, except garbage, including
trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds, leaves, grass,
shrubbery, yard trimmings, and crop residues.
         OHIO EPA. The Ohio Environmental Protection Agency Director or
agencies delegated authority by the Director of the Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency pursuant to R.C. § 3704.03 or the Chief of any Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency District Office.
         OPEN BURNING. The burning of any materials wherein air contaminants
resulting from combustion are emitted directly into the ambient air without
passing through a stack or chimney. Open burning includes the burning of any
refuse or salvageable material in any device not subject to or designed
specifically to comply with the requirements of O.A.C. 3745-17-09 or O.A.C.
3745-17-10.
         RESIDENTIAL WASTE. Any waste material, including landscape waste,
generated on the property of a one-, two- or three-family residence as a result
of residential activities, but not including garbage, rubber, grease, asphalt,
liquid petroleum products, or plastics.
         RESTRICTED AREA. The area within the boundary of the municipality,
plus a zone extending 1,000 feet beyond the boundaries of a municipality having
a population of 1,000 to 10,000 persons and a zone extending one mile beyond
any municipality having a population of 10,000 persons or more according to the
latest federal census.
         UNRESTRICTED AREA. All areas outside the boundaries of a restricted
area as defined in this section.
      (2)   Referenced materials. This subchapter includes references to
certain matter or materials. The text of the referenced materials is not
included in the legislation contained in this subchapter. Information on the
availability of the referenced materials as well as the date of, and/or the
particular edition or version of the material is included in this section. For
materials subject to change, only the specific versions specified in this
section are referenced. Material is referenced as it exists on the effective
date of this section. Except for subsequent annual publication of existing
(unmodified) Code of Federal Regulation compilations, any amendment or revision
to a referenced document is not applicable unless and until this section has
been amended to specify the new dates.
         (a)   Availability. The referenced materials are available as follows:
            1.   Clean Air Act. Information and copies may be obtained by
writing to: Superintendent of Documents, Attn: New Orders, PO Box 371954,
Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954. The full text of the act as amended in 1990 is also
available in electronic format at www.epa.gov/oar/caa/. A copy of the act is
also available for inspection and use at most public libraries and the State
Library of Ohio.
            2.   Code of Federal Regulations (C.F.R.). Information and copies
may be obtained by writing to: Superintendent of Documents, Attn: New Orders,
PO Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954. The full text of the C.F.R. is also
available in electronic format at http://www.ecfr.gov. The C.F.R. compilations
are also available for inspection and use at most public libraries and the
State Library of Ohio.
            3.   National Fire Protection Association. Information on the
National Fire Protection Association codes may be obtained by contacting the
Association at 1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, Massachusetts 02169-7471, 617-770-
3000. Codes may be ordered at www.nfpa.org/catalog/home/index.asp. Copies of
the code exist or are available at most public libraries and the State Library
of Ohio.
         (b)   Referenced materials.
            1.   40 C.F.R. § 60.2974: “Am I required to apply for and obtain a
title V operating permit for my air curtain incinerator that burns only wood
waste, clean lumber, and yard waste?” as published in the July 1, 2017 Code of
Federal Regulations.
            2.   40 C.F.R. § 60.3069: “Am I required to apply for and obtain a
title V operating permit for my air curtain incinerator that burns only wood
waste, clean lumber, and yard waste?” as published in the July 1, 2017 Code of
Federal Regulations.
            3.   NFPA publication 1403: “Standard on Live Fire Training
Evolutions, Chapter 4, Acquired Structures” published April 30, 2007.
            4.   Section 129 of the Clean Air Act, contained in 42 U.S.C. §
7429: “Solid waste combustion” published January 6, 2017 in Supplement IV of
the 2012 Edition of the United States Code.
(O.A.C. § 3745-19-01)
   (B)   Relations to other prohibitions.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any provision in O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19, no open
burning shall be conducted in an area where an air alert, warning or emergency
under O.A.C. Chapter 3745-25 is in effect.
      (2)   No provisions of O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19 permitting open burning,
and no permission to open burn granted by the Ohio EPA, shall exempt any person
from compliance with any section of the Ohio Revised Code, or any regulation of
any state department, or any local ordinance or regulation dealing with open
burning.
(O.A.C. § 3745-19-02)
   (C)   Open burning in restricted areas.
      (1)   No person or property owner shall cause or allow open burning in a
restricted area except as provided in divisions (C)(2) to (C)(4) of this
section or in R.C. § 3704.11.
      (2)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes without
notification to or permission from the Ohio EPA:
         (a)   Heating tar, welding, acetylene torches, highway safety flares,
heating for warmth of outdoor workers and strikers, smudge pots and similar
occupational needs.
         (b)   Bonfires, campfires and outdoor fireplace equipment, whether for
cooking food for human consumption, pleasure, religious, ceremonial, warmth,
recreational, or similar purposes, if the following conditions are met:
            1.   They are fueled with clean seasoned firewood, natural gas or
equivalent, or any clean burning fuel with emissions that are equivalent to or
lower than those created from the burning of seasoned firewood;
            2.   They are not used for waste disposal purposes; and
            3.   They shall have a total fuel area of three feet or less in
diameter and two feet or less in height.
         (c)   Disposal of hazardous explosive materials, military munitions or
explosive devices that require immediate action to prevent endangerment of
human health, public safety, property or the environment and that are excluded
from the requirement to obtain a hazardous waste permit pursuant to O.A.C.
3745-50-45(D)(1)(d).
         (d)   Recognized training in the use of fire extinguishers for
commercial or industrial fire prevention.
         (e)   Fires set at the direction of federal, state, and local law
enforcement officials for the purpose of destruction of cannabis sativa
(marijuana) plant vegetation, processed marijuana material and/or other drugs
seized by federal, state, or local law enforcement officials.
         (f)   Fires allowed by divisions (B)(2)(a), (B)(2)(b), and (B)(2)(d)
of this section shall not be used for waste disposal purposes and shall be of
minimum size sufficient for their intended purpose; the fuel shall be chosen to
minimize the generation and emission of air contaminants.
      (3)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes with prior
notification to the Ohio EPA in accordance with division (D)(2) of this
section:
         (a)   Prevention or control of disease or pests, with written or oral
verification to the Ohio EPA from the Ohio Department of Health or local health
department, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, cooperative
extension service, Ohio Department of Agriculture, or U.S. Department of
Agriculture, that open burning is the only appropriate disposal method.
         (b)   Bonfires or campfires used for ceremonial purposes that do not
meet the requirements of division (C)(2)(b) of this section, provided the
following conditions are met:
            1.   They have a total fuel area no greater than five feet in
diameter by five feet in height and burn no longer than three hours;
            2.   They are not used for waste disposal purposes; and
            3.   They are fueled with clean seasoned firewood, natural gas or
equivalent, or any clean burning fuel with emissions that are equivalent to or
lower than those created from the burning of seasoned firewood.
         (c)   Disposal of agricultural waste generated on the premises if the
following conditions are observed:
            1.   The fire is set only when atmospheric conditions will readily
dissipate contaminants;
            2.   The fire does not create a visibility hazard on the roadways,
railroad tracks, or air fields;
            3.   The fire is located at a point on the premises no less than
1,000 feet from any inhabited building not located on said premises;
            4.   The wastes are stacked and dried to provide the best
practicable condition for efficient burning; and
            5.   No materials are burned which contain rubber, grease, asphalt,
liquid petroleum products, plastics or building materials.
         (d)   Recognized horticultural, silvicultural (forestry), range
management, prairie and grassland management, invasive species management, or
wildlife management practices, if all of the following conditions are met:
            1.   The fire shall be performed within 180 days of submitting the
notification.
            2.   The fire shall be performed when it is anticipated weather
conditions will minimize the dispersion of smoke near populated areas and the
smoke does not create a visibility hazard on roadways, railroad tracks, or air
fields. Smoke dispersion conditions shall be evaluated before, during, and
after the fire and actions taken to minimize smoke impacts.
            3.   The person making the notification shall notify the local fire
department having jurisdiction over the burn area at least 24 hours before the
fire is anticipated to occur.
            4.   The person making the notification shall provide reasonable
notification to populations potentially impacted by the smoke before the fire
occurs. Populations potentially impacted shall include, at a minimum, those
within one-quarter mile of the burn site. Reasonable notification shall include
one of the following:
               a.   Posting notice of intent to burn, including contact
information for the person making the notification and the anticipated date
that the fire will occur, within open view from a public roadway adjacent to
and outside of the property on which the fire will occur.
               b.   Posting a notice in a newspaper of general circulation in
the local community in which the fire will occur. The notice shall include, at
a minimum, the address of the property at which the fire will occur, contact
information for the person making the notification and the anticipated date
that the fire will occur.
               c.   Delivering written notice directly to residences and
businesses within a minimum of one-quarter mile of the burn site. Notices shall
include, at a minimum, the address of the property at which the fire will
occur, contact information for the person making the notification and the
anticipated date that the fire will occur.
            5.   The person making the notification shall document information
on the weather, smoke conditions, any air quality concerns before, during, and
after the fire, the actual number of acres burned, the time the fire was
initially kindled, the time when active kindling ceased and the time at which
mop up activities ceased. The person making the notification shall maintain
this information for a minimum of one year from the date of the fire and shall
provide this information to the appropriate Ohio EPA district office or local
air agency within ten days upon request.
            6.   Reasonable access to the burn site shall be provided to Ohio
EPA representatives at any time during the fire.
      (4)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes upon
receipt of written permission from the Ohio EPA, in accordance with division
(D)(1) of this section, provided that any conditions specified in the
permission are followed:
         (a)   Disposal of ignitable or explosive materials where the Ohio EPA
determines that there is no practical alternate method of disposal, excluding
those materials identified in division (B)(3) of this section;
         (b)   Instruction in methods of firefighting or for research in the
control of fires as recognized by the State Fire Marshal Division of the Ohio
Department of Commerce and the guidelines set forth in the National Fire
Protection Association’s (NFPA) publication 1403, Standard on Live Fire
Training Evolutions, Chapter 4, Acquired Structures, provided that the
application required in division (D)(1)(a) of this section is submitted by the
commercial or public entity responsible for the instruction;
         (c)   In emergency or other extraordinary circumstances for any
purpose determined to be necessary by the Director and performed as identified
in the appendix to O.A.C. § 3745-19-03. If deemed necessary, the open burning
may be authorized with prior oral approval by the Director followed by the
issuance of a written permission to open burn within seven working days of the
oral approval;
         (d)   Fires or pyrotechnic effects, for purposes other than waste
disposal, set as part of commercial film-making or video production activities
for motion pictures and television.
(O.A.C. § 3745-19-03)
   (D)   Permission and notice to open burn.
      (1)   Permission.
         (a)   An application for permission to open burn shall be submitted in
writing to Ohio EPA. The applicant shall allow Ohio EPA at least ten working
days to review the permit. Applicant may proceed with burn upon receipt of
written permission from Ohio EPA. Saturday, Sunday, and legal holidays shall
not be considered working days. The application shall be in such form and
contain such information as required by the Ohio EPA.
         (b)   Except as provided in divisions (D)(1)(f) and (D)(1)(g) of this
section, such applications shall contain, as a minimum, the following
information:
            1.   The purpose of the proposed burning;
            2.   The quantity or acreage and the nature of the materials to be
burned;
            3.   The date or dates when such burning will take place;
            4.   The location of the burning site, including a map showing
distances to residences, populated areas, roadways, air fields, and other
pertinent landmarks; and
            5.   The methods or actions which will be taken to reduce the
emissions of air contaminants.
         (c)   Permission to open burn shall not be granted unless the
applicant demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Ohio EPA that open burning is
necessary to the public interest; will be conducted in a time, place, and
manner as to minimize the emission of air contaminants, when atmospheric
conditions are appropriate; and will have no serious detrimental effect upon
adjacent properties or the occupants thereof. The Ohio EPA may impose such
conditions as may be necessary to accomplish the purpose of O.A.C. Chapter
3745-19.
         (d)   Except as provided in division (D)(1)(f) of this section,
permission to open burn must be obtained for each specific project. In
emergencies where public health or environmental quality will be seriously
threatened by delay while written permission is sought, the fire may be set
with oral permission of the Ohio EPA.
         (e)   Violations of any of the conditions set forth by the Ohio EPA in
granting permission to open burn shall be grounds for revocation of such
permission and refusal to grant future permission, as well as for the
imposition of other sanctions provided by law.
         (f)   The Ohio Department of Commerce, Division of State Fire Marshal,
may request permission to open burn on an annual basis for the purpose of
training firefighters on pre-flashover conditions using the Ohio Fire Academy’s
mobile training laboratory at either the academy or at other training sites in
Ohio. The annual application required pursuant to division (D)(1)(a) of this
section shall contain information as required in division (D)(1)(b) of this
section, except the information required in divisions (D)(1)(b)3. and (D)(1)
(b)4. of this section need not be provided unless it is available at the time
of submittal of the application. The Academy shall contact the appropriate Ohio
EPA District Office or local air agency at least five working days before each
training session of the date or dates when the training session will take place
and its location. Saturday, Sunday, and legal holidays shall not be considered
a working day.
         (g)   For open burning defined under division (C)(4)(b)of this section
and O.A.C. 3745-19-04(C)(2), permission to open burn shall not be granted
unless the applicant provides proof of written notice of intent to demolish
received by the appropriate Ohio EPA field office in accordance with O.A.C.
3745-20-03.
      (2)   Notification.
         (a)   Notification shall be submitted in writing at least ten working
days before the fire is to be set. Saturday, Sunday, and legal holidays shall
not be considered a working day. It shall be in such form and contain such
information as shall be required by the Ohio EPA.
         (b)   Such notification shall inform the Ohio EPA regarding the
following:
            1.   The purpose of the proposed burning;
            2.   The nature and quantities of materials to be burned;
            3.   The date or dates when such burning will take place; and
            4.   The location of the burning site.
         (c)   The Ohio EPA, after receiving notification, may determine that
the open burning is not allowed under O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19 and the Ohio EPA
shall notify the applicant to this effect.
(O.A.C. § 3745-19-05)
(Prior Code, § 660.08)
§ 98.10 BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon or knowingly permit to remain on public or
private property, any excavation, well, cesspool or structure which is in the
process of construction, reconstruction, repair or alteration unless the same
is adequately protected by suitable barricades and guarded by warning devices
or lights at night so that the condition will not reasonably prove dangerous to
life or limb.
   (B)   No person shall destroy, remove, damage or extinguish any barricade or
warning light that is placed for the protection of the public so as to prevent
injury to life or limb.
   (C)   Any owner or agent in control of a premises upon which a basement,
cellar, well or cistern has been abandoned due to demolition, failure to build
or any other reason shall cause the same to be filled to the ground surface
with rock, gravel, earth or other suitable material.
   (D)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 660.09)
§ 98.11 SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTIONS; DAMAGE OR INJURY.
   (A)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a sidewalk or
playground any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails or other articles which may
damage property of another or injure any person or animal traveling along or
upon such sidewalk or playground.
   (B)   No person shall walk on, or allow any animal upon, or injure or deface
in any way, any soft or newly laid sidewalk pavement.
   (C)   No person shall place, deposit or maintain any merchandise, goods,
material or equipment upon any sidewalk so as to obstruct pedestrian traffic
thereon except for such reasonable time as may be actually necessary for the
delivery or pickup of such articles. In no case shall the obstruction remain on
such sidewalk for more than one hour. News racks and vending machines are
exempt from this section, but are otherwise regulated by §
98.16. Traffic control devices, utility company placements, and other items
that Council may from time to time permit on the sidewalks upon application of
a property owner are also exempt from this section of these regulations.
   (D)   No person shall unload upon, or transport any heavy merchandise,
goods, material or equipment over or across any sidewalk or curb without first
placing some sufficient protection over the pavement to protect against damage
or injury.
   (E)   No person shall allow any cellar or trap door, coal chute or elevator
or lift opening in any sidewalk to remain open without providing suitable
safeguards to protect and warn pedestrian traffic of the dangerous conditions.
   (F)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 660.10) (Ord. 637, passed 10-19-1998)
§ 98.12 NOTICE TO FILL LOTS, REMOVE PUTRID SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall fail to comply with the following requirements within
the lawful time after service or publication of the notice or resolution is
made as required by law: to fill or drain any lot or land or remove all putrid
substances therefrom, or remove all obstructions from culverts, covered drains
or natural watercourses as provided in R.C. § 715.47.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 660.11)
§ 98.13 FENCES.
   (A)   No person shall erect or maintain any fence charged with electrical
current.
   (B)   No person shall erect or maintain a barbed wire fence which abuts or
is adjacent to any public street or sidewalk. This division (B) does not
prevent the placement and use of not more than two strands of barbed wire on
top of a fence other than a barbed wire fence, provided such strands are not
less than 48 inches from the ground.
   (C)   Barbed wire partition fences may be erected and maintained as provided
in R.C. § 971.03.
   (D)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 660.12)
§ 98.14 BURIALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall inter any dead body within the village.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the County Health Officer to disinter any dead
body buried within the limits of the village and to remove the dead body
outside of the limits of the village.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 660.13) (Ord. 24, passed 2-15-1904)
§ 98.15 SMOKING IN PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   As used in this section, PLACE OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY means:
      (1)   Enclosed theaters, except the lobby; opera houses; auditoriums;
classrooms; elevators; rooms in which persons are confined as a matter of
health care, including but not limited to a hospital room and a room in a
residential care facility serving as the residence of a person living in such
residential care facility;
      (2)   All buildings and other enclosed structures owned by the state, its
agencies or political subdivisions, including, but not limited to, hospitals
and state institutions for the mentally ill and persons with intellectual
disabilities; university and college buildings, except rooms within those
buildings used primarily as the residences of students or other persons
affiliated with the university or college; office buildings; libraries;
museums; and vehicles used in public transportation. That portion of a building
or other enclosed structure that is owned by the state, a state agency, or a
political subdivision, and that is used primarily as a food service
establishment, is not a place of public assembly; and
      (3)   Each portion of a building or enclosed structure that is not
included in division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is a place of public
assembly if it has a seating capacity of 50 or more persons and is available to
the public. Restaurants, food service establishments, dining rooms, cafes,
cafeterias or other rooms used primarily for the service of food, as well as
bowling alleys and places licensed by the Ohio Division of Liquor Control to
sell intoxicating beverages for consumption on the premises, are not places of
public assembly.
   (B)   For the purpose of separating persons who smoke from persons who do
not smoke for the comfort and health of persons not smoking, in every place of
public assembly there shall be an area where smoking is not permitted, which
shall be designated a no smoking area, provided that not more than one-half of
the rooms in any health care facility in which persons are confined as a matter
of health care may be designated as smoking areas in their entirety. The
designation shall be made before the place of public assembly is made available
to the public. In places included in division (A)(1) of this section, the local
fire authority having jurisdiction shall designate the no smoking area. In
places included in division (A)(2) of this section that are owned by the state
or its agencies, the Ohio Director of Administrative Services shall designate
the area, and if the place is owned by a political subdivision, its legislative
authority shall designate an officer who shall designate the area. In places
included in division (A)(3) of this section, the person having control of the
operations of the place of public assembly shall designate the no smoking area.
In places included in division (A)(2) of this section which are also included
in division (A)(1) of this section, the officer who has authority to designate
the area in places in division (A)(2) of this section shall designate the no
smoking area. A no smoking area may include the entire place of public
assembly. Designations shall be made by the placement of signs that are clearly
visible and that state “no smoking”. No person shall remove signs from areas
designated as no smoking areas.
   (C)   This section does not affect or modify the prohibition contained in
R.C. § 3313.751(B).
   (D)   No person shall smoke in any area designated as a no smoking area in
accordance with division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3791.031) (Prior Code, § 660.14)
§ 98.16 NEWS RACKS AND VENDING MACHINES ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      NEWS RACK. Any mechanical device designed for the purpose of distributing
to the public newspapers, periodicals, magazines, and other printed materials
regularly published with not less than four issues per year.
      VENDING MACHINE. Any self-service device offered for use which, upon
insertion of a coin, coins, or token, or by other means, dispenses unit
servings of food or beverage, either in bulk, can, bottle, carton or in
package, without the necessity of replenishing the device between each vending
operation.
   (B)   No person shall place, locate or maintain on any public sidewalk in
the village, any news rack or vending machine without first filing with the
Village Fiscal Officer a release which agrees to indemnify and save harmless
the village, its officers, Council, and employees against any loss or liability
or damage, including expenses and costs for bodily injury and for property
damage sustained by any person as the result of the installation, use, or
maintenance of a news rack or vending machine within the village.
   (C)   No person shall place, locate, or maintain on any public sidewalk in
the village, any news rack or vending machine which does not meet the following
standards.
      (1)   No news rack or vending machine shall be used for advertising signs
or publicity purposes other than that dealing with the display, sale or
purchase of the items sold therein.
      (2)   Each news rack or vending machine shall be equipped with a coin-
return mechanism to permit a person using the machine to secure an immediate
refund in the event he or she is unable to receive the item paid for. The coin-
return mechanism shall be maintained in good working order.
      (3)   Each news rack or vending machine shall have affixed to it in a
readily visible place as to be seen by anyone using the news rack or vending
machine a notice setting forth the name and address of the distributor and the
telephone number of a working telephone service to call to report a malfunction
or to secure a refund in the event of a malfunction of the coin-return
mechanism or to give the notices provided for in this section.
      (4)   Every news rack or vending machine shall be maintained in a neat
and clean condition and in good repair at all times. Specifically, but without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, each news rack or vending machine
shall be serviced and maintained so that:
         (a)   It is reasonably free of dirt and grease;
         (b)   It is reasonably free of chipped, faded, peeling and cracked
paint in the visible areas thereof;
         (c)   It is reasonably free of rust and corrosion in the visible
unpainted metal areas thereon;
         (d)   The clear plastic or glass parts thereof, if any, through which
the items therein are viewed are unbroken and reasonably free of cracks, dents,
blemishes and discoloration;
         (e)   The paper or cardboard parts or inserts thereof are reasonably
free of tears, peeling or fading; and
         (f)   The areas around it are neat, orderly, and free of loose trash
and garbage.
   (D)   No person shall place, locate or maintain on any public sidewalk in
the village, any news rack or vending machine that substantially obstructs
pedestrian traffic and/or usage of the public sidewalk. While not the exclusive
means of having a substantial obstruction, per tract of real estate, it shall
be considered as prima facie evidence that a substantial obstruction exists if
more than three news racks or more than three vending machines are placed,
located, or maintained on the public sidewalk thereon.
   (E)   No owner of real estate in the Village of West Alexandria, Ohio, shall
allow any person or tenant to violate divisions (B) through (D) of this
section, and upon receipt of written notification from the West Alexandria
Police Department that a violation exists, the owner of real estate shall see
to it that the violation is brought into compliance within 24 hours.
   (F)   Any person claiming undue hardship due to the limitations imposed by
the three news racks and three vending machines limit under division (D) of
this section, may within 45 days of the passage of this section, apply in
writing to Council for “grandfather” protection and Council shall hold a
hearing within 30 days to determine whether or not and under what terms the
protection will be given. If unsatisfied with Council’s determination, the
aggrieved person may appeal the decision of Council to the Preble County Common
Pleas Court within 30 days of Council’s determination.
   (G)   Licenses for news racks and vending machines shall not be required;
however, any violation of divisions (B) through (E) of this section shall be a
minor misdemeanor, punishable by a maximum $100 fine.
(Prior Code, § 660.15) (Ord. 636, passed 10-5-1998)
CHAPTER 99: UNCLEAN HABITATIONS
Section
   
99.01    Order to clean premises
   
99.02    Sanitary inspection
   
99.03    Individual orders for abatement
   
99.04    Copy of resolution to be served or published
   
99.05    Stagnant water; obstruction of watercourses; undesirable accumulations
   
99.06    Periodic inspection
   
99.07    Enforcement; court proceedings
   
99.08    Public nuisance structures
   
99.09    Removal and/or repair of insecure, unsafe, or structurally defective
buildings/structures
§ 99.01 ORDER TO CLEAN PREMISES.
   Prior to May 10 in every year, the Mayor shall cause a notice or
proclamation to be inserted in one or more newspapers of general circulation
within the village, ordering persons to clean thoroughly and provide proper
drainage for all lands, yards, vaults, cesspools, sheds and barns and to cause
all tin cans, trash and other unclean and unsightly matter to be removed
therefrom on or before May 10.
(Prior Code, § 668.01) (Ord. 260, passed 4-1-1957)
§ 99.02 SANITARY INSPECTION.
   Thereafter in the month of May of each year, the County Health Officer or,
in his or her absence, the Chief of Police shall make a thorough sanitary
inspection of all public and private property in the village and shall transmit
his or her report together with his or her recommendations to Council on or
before June 1. A copy of such report shall also be sent to the State Department
of Health.
(Prior Code, § 668.02) (Ord. 260, passed 4-1-1957)
§ 99.03 INDIVIDUAL ORDERS FOR ABATEMENT.
   If, upon inspection, it is found that the published order has not been
complied with as to any lot or parcel of ground, Council shall, by resolution,
direct the owner, occupant or person in charge of such land to abate such
nuisance within ten days, setting forth the nature of the violation and the
acts required to be done. Such resolution shall provide that upon failure or
refusal to comply with such order, the work required will be done by the
village, with the amount expended therefor to be a valid claim against such
owner or occupant and charged as a lien upon such land and recovered by the
village by suit in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 668.03) (Ord. 260, passed 4-1-1957)
§ 99.04 COPY OF RESOLUTION TO BE SERVED OR PUBLISHED.
   A copy of the resolution adopted under §
99.03 may be served personally or at the usual place of residence of such
owner, occupant or person in charge of such land or by registered mail, or, in
lieu of such service, may be published for two consecutive weeks in a newspaper
of general circulation in the village.
(Prior Code, § 668.04)
§ 99.05 STAGNANT WATER; OBSTRUCTION OF WATERCOURSES; UNDESIRABLE ACCUMULATIONS.
   (A)   No owner, occupant or person in charge of any lot or parcel of ground
shall permit water to accumulate thereon and become stagnant, or permit
culverts, drains or natural watercourses thereon to become obstructed, or cause
or permit any putrid or unsanitary substance to accumulate thereon, or cause or
permit any refuse, trash, rubbish or junk to accumulate thereon.
    (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 668.05) (Ord. 473, passed 10-1-1984)
§ 99.06 PERIODIC INSPECTION.
   Independent of the annual clean-up and inspection provided for in §§
99.01 and
99.02, the County Health Officer or the Chief of Police shall make periodic
inspection of properties within the village and shall report all violations of
§
99.05 to Council, which shall thereupon, by resolution, proceed to order such
nuisances abated as provided in §§
99.03 and
99.04.
(Prior Code, § 668.06) (Ord. 260, passed 4-1-1957)
§ 99.07 ENFORCEMENT; COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   In case of failure or refusal to comply with any such resolution of Council,
the work required thereby may be done at the expense of the village and the
amount of money expended therefor shall be a valid claim against the owner,
occupant or person in charge and a lien upon such land, which may be enforced
by suit in any court of competent jurisdiction. Proceedings under this section
shall not relieve any party defendant from criminal prosecution or punishment
for violation of any section of this chapter or any other criminal law or
ordinance in force within the village.
(Prior Code, § 668.07) (Ord. 260, passed 4-1-1957)
§ 99.08 PUBLIC NUISANCE STRUCTURES.
   (A)   General provisions. Public nuisance structures shall be defined as
those buildings or structures possessing any of the following defects, as
determined by the Enforcement Officer who shall be appointed for a one-year
term of office by the Mayor with the advice and consent of Council under
compensation terms that Council may from time to time provide:
      (1)   Structures whose interior or exterior bearing walls or other
vertical structural members list, lean or buckle to such an extent as to weaken
the structural support it provides;
      (2)   Structures which, exclusive of the foundation, show approximately
one-third or more damage to or deterioration of the supporting member or
members, or approximately one-half or more of damage or deterioration of the
non-supporting enclosing or outside walls or covering;
      (3)   Structures which have improperly distributed loads upon the floors
or roofs or in which the same are overloaded to a dangerous degree, or which
have insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the purpose used;
      (4)   Structures which have been so damaged by fire, wind or other causes
as to no longer provide adequate shelter from the elements or have become
dangerous to life, health, safety, morals or the general welfare of the
occupants or the public;
      (5)   Structures lacking facilities required by the Village Building Code
or Fire Code for egress in case of fire or panic, or those having insufficient
stairways, elevators, fire escapes or other means of access;
      (6)   Structures and premises lacking the minimum light, air and
sanitation facilities required by this section or other ordinances or codes for
the protection of present and future occupants;
      (7)   Structures which have parts or appurtenances which are so attached
that they may fall and injure occupants or the general public, or damage
property;
      (8)   Structures and premises which have become or are dilapidated,
decayed, unsafe, unsanitary or vermin-infested or which are likely to cause
sickness, disease or injury to occupants or the general public;
      (9)   Structures and premises which constitute a serious hazard to the
health or safety of the occupants or the general public because of the
location, general conditions and state of the premises; and
      (10)   Structures which are otherwise insecure, unsafe, or structurally
defective.
   (B)   Inspection of public nuisance structure. When any building or
structure in the village is reported to the Enforcement Officer to be dangerous
to the public or to the persons occupying or using such building, or unfit for
human habitation or occupancy, the Enforcement Officer shall inspect such
building or structure to determine if it is a public nuisance structure.
   (C)   General compliance order (issuance). If any building or structure or
portion thereof is upon inspection, found to be a public nuisance structure and
imminently dangerous to the public or unfit for occupancy, the Enforcement
Officer shall immediately notify the owner of the property of the condition so
found by necessary repairs or other corrective measures. Such order shall be in
writing, specifying the building, structure or portion thereof found to be
dangerous or unfit, and specify the repairs to be made thereto, and direct such
owner to cause such repairs to be made, or the building or structure to be
demolished, and specify a reasonable time frame set forth by the Enforcement
Officer. The order shall direct that such repairs or demolition commence within
a period of 30 days from service of notice and proceed with such repairs or
demolition so commenced, without interruption and with diligence, until
completed.
   (D)   General compliance order (service). The general compliance order
specified in division (C) of this section shall be served to the owner of the
property by certified mail, by direct personal service, or if unfeasible or
unable to serve by certified mail or direct personal service, by tacking the
order on the structure in a conspicuous location.
   (E)   Declaration of public nuisance by Village Council.
      (1)   If the owner of the property has not complied with the terms
specified in the general compliance order authorized under division (C) of this
section, the Enforcement Officer shall present the case to the Village Council.
      (2)   If, after hearing testimony and reviewing pictorial evidence
supplied by the Enforcement Officer, it is the opinion of the Village Council
that there exists a condition dangerous to the public health by reason of a
public nuisance structure, the Village Council may, by resolution, declare such
structure to be a public nuisance.
   (F)   Order to abate public nuisance.
      (1)   Upon the declaration of such building or structure as a public
nuisance, the Village Council shall direct the Enforcement Officer to order the
owner of the property, or the agent or other person having control thereof or
responsible for such condition, to abate such public nuisance within 30 days.
      (2)   Whenever the Village Council determines that the cost of repairs
would exceed 100% of the current value of such building or structure, such
repairs shall be presumed unreasonable and it shall be presumed for the purpose
of this section that such structure is a public nuisance which may be ordered
removed or razed without option on the part of the owner to repair.
   (G)   Village Council hearing. If the order of the Village Council is
neglected or disregarded in whole or in part, a citation shall be issued
requiring the owner, or the agent or other person having control thereof or
responsible for such condition, to appear before the Village Council to show
cause why the village should not proceed and furnish the material and labor
necessary to abate the public nuisance and charge the costs thereof to the tax
duplicate.
   (H)   Agreement of owner to abate public nuisance. The owner(s) of record of
such property or the holder(s) of liens of record upon such property may abate
such public nuisance or may enter into an agreement with the village to perform
the removal or repair of the public nuisance structure.
   (I)   Removal of public nuisance structure by village. If the owner of the
property fails to comply with the order by Village Council described in
division (F) of this section to remove the public nuisance structure, fails to
enter into an agreement with the village to remove the public nuisance
structure, and does not show cause at the hearing described in division (G) of
this section why the village should not proceed to remove the public nuisance
structure, then the Village Council shall direct the Enforcement Officer to
cause the public nuisance structure to be razed and removed. Such razing and
removal may be conducted by the village itself, through an available public
agency, or by contract or arrangement with private persons.
   (J)   Cost recovery for removal of public nuisance structure.
      (1)   The total costs incurred by the village for razing and removal of a
public nuisance structure may include any costs incurred due to the use of
employees, materials, or equipment of the village, any costs arising out of
contracts for labor, materials, or equipment, and any costs of service of
notice or publication required.
      (2)   The village may recover such costs by any of the following methods.
         (a)   The Village Fiscal Officer may certify the total costs, together
with a proper description of the land to the County Auditor, who shall place
the costs on the tax duplicate. The costs are a lien upon such lands from and
after the date of entry. The costs shall be collected as other taxes and be
returned to the village.
         (b)   The village may commence a civil action to recover the total
costs from the owner(s).
(Prior Code, § 668.08) (Ord. 649, passed 10-4-1999)
§ 99.09 REMOVAL AND/OR REPAIR OF INSECURE, UNSAFE, OR STRUCTURALLY DEFECTIVE
BUILDINGS/STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Insecure, unsafe or structurally defective buildings or other
structures are herein declared to be public nuisances.
   (B)   The Village Administrator shall have the power to inspect any building
or structure within the village, in which he or she has reason to believe is
insecure, unsafe or structurally defective. The Village Administrator may
retain, use or seek the assistance and advice of any public official or other
person of expert knowledge to assist in the inspection and provide opinions and
recommendations under this section.
   (C)   Prior to inspecting any building or other structure under division (B)
of this section, the Village Administrator shall notify the owners of record of
the real property on which the building or other structure is located, at least
24 hours in advance of the inspection by one or more of the following means:
      (1)   Certified mail letter;
      (2)   Personal hand delivery of a written notice; or
      (3)   Posting a written notice on a conspicuous location on the building
or other structure.
   (D)   (1)   Upon finding any specific building or other structure in the
village to be insecure, unsafe or structurally defective, the Village
Administrator shall declare it to be a public nuisance and placard it with the
following or similar language:
   Public Nuisance
   “This building or other structure has been determined to be insecure,
unsafe, or structurally defective by the Village Administrator, and is
therefore a public nuisance. It is recommended that all citizens stay away from
this public nuisance until it is removed and/or repaired.”
      (2)   In making the public nuisance declaration, the Village
Administrator shall base his or her determination on one or more of the
following methods:
         (a)   Direct visual observation of the exterior of the building or
other structure;
         (b)   An inspection of the building or other structure conducted under
division (B) of this section; or
         (c)   A refusal by any owner of record of the real property containing
the building or other structure to allow its inspection under division (B) of
this section, from which any said building or other structure shall be presumed
and classified as a public nuisance under this section.
   (E)   Upon declaring a building or other structure to be a public nuisance
under division (D) of this section, the Village Administrator shall schedule a
date for its “abatement by removal” to begin. At least 30 days prior to said
abatement by removal date, the Village Administrator shall give notice by
certified mail of the village’s intention of abatement by removal to the
holders of legal or equitable liens of record upon the real property on which
said building or other structure is located and to the owners of record of such
real property. Additionally, the Village Administrator shall place a copy of
the certified mail notice directly on the building or other structure in a
conspicuous location which is herein determined to be sufficient due process
notice in the event the certified mail notice fails for any reason.
   (F)   The Village Administrator is authorized to advertise for bids, when
appropriate, for any project involving an abatement by removal of a public
nuisance under this section.
   (G)   From the date the Village Administrator declares an insecure, unsafe
or structurally defective building or other structure to be a public nuisance
until the day before its scheduled abatement by removal, the Council may (but
does not have to) enter into an agreement with the owners of record of such
real property or the holders of liens of record upon such real property
regarding the performance of the removal or repair of said building or other
structure. Should no agreement be reached, the Village Administrator is
authorized to proceed with and direct the abatement by removal of the public
nuisance beginning as scheduled under division (E) of this section.
   (H)   The total cost of the village of any abatement by removal of a public
nuisance under this section shall and/or may be recovered pursuant to R.C. §
715.261 and/or other applicable law.
   (I)   Council herein determines that any insecure, unsafe or structurally
defective building or other structure that specifically endangers the use of
public streets, alleys, sidewalks, rights-of-way and other public areas are not
only a public nuisance but constitute an existing emergency. The Village
Administrator is authorized to make said emergency determinations. If an
emergency is determined to exist, the abatement by removal date may be
scheduled earlier than 30 days as otherwise contemplated under division (E) of
this section and the notice requirements contemplated under division (E) of
this section shall be modified so as to only require the Village Administrator
to place the notice directly on the building or other structure in a
conspicuous location.
   (J)   In the absence, disability, or other inability to act of the Village
Administrator, or in the event the office of Village Administrator is vacant,
the Mayor shall perform all the functions and duties of the Village
Administrator under this section with all the powers enumerated herein.
   (K)   No officer, agent or employee of the village shall render himself or
herself personally liable for any damages that may accrue to persons or
property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of said
person’s duties under this section.
(Prior Code, § 668.09) (Ord. 741, passed 10-6-2008)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BOWLING ALLEYS AND POOL ROOMS
      
111.   DOG KENNELS
      
112.   HOME SALES
      
113.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
114.   PUBLIC BALLS AND DANCES
      
115.   PUBLIC OUTDOOR SHOWS
      
116.   SLAUGHTERHOUSES
      
117.   VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE
CHAPTER 110: BOWLING ALLEYS AND POOL ROOMS
Section
   
110.01   License required; fees; hours; gambling
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES; HOURS; GAMBLING.
   (A)   Each proprietor of a billiard or pool table or of a bowling alley, or
a combination of both, shall pay an annual license fee of $25 for one such
table, $25 for one such alley, and $10 for each additional table or alley, to
the Mayor.
   (B)   No person shall operate any such table or alley without having
obtained such license and paid such fees, nor between the hours of 12:00
midnight and 6:00 a.m.
   (C)   The licensee of any establishment housing a table or alley wherein
gambling or betting is permitted shall be subject to revocation of his or her
license at the discretion of the court.
(Prior Code, § 810.01) (Ord. 260, passed 4-1-1957)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
more than $100. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 810.99)
CHAPTER 111: DOG KENNELS
Section
   
111.01   Breeding dogs for hunting or sale prohibited
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 BREEDING DOGS FOR HUNTING OR SALE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall, in the village, professionally engage in the business of
breeding dogs for hunting or for sale.
(Prior Code, § 818.01) (Ord. 437, passed 4-30-1981)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
more than $100. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 818.99) (Ord. 437, passed 4-30-1981)
CHAPTER 112: HOME SALES
Section
   
112.01   Home sale defined
   
112.02   Intent
   
112.03   Permit required; information; fee; display
   
112.04   Frequency and conduct of sales; signs
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 HOME SALE DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOME SALES. The sale of, display for sale of, or advertisement for sale of
personal property to the general public or a member or members of the general
public, with the activity located on or conducted on any portion of a
residential premises or other residential tract of real estate within the
village, including, but not to be limited to, garage sales, yard sales, porch
sales, patio sales, garden sales, or sales of an individual item or items, and
the like, but not including personal property with a title recorded with the
Clerk of Courts such as boats, cars, recreational vehicles, manufactured homes,
and the like, and also not including personal property at retail or other
business establishments located on residential tracts of real estate.
(Prior Code, § 826.01) (Ord. 472, passed 9-17-1984; Ord. 651, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 112.02 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this chapter to regulate and control home sales
conducted on residential premises within the village. It is not the intent of
this chapter to prevent nonprofit corporations, churches, temples or recognized
fraternities, sororities, clubs or lodges from conducting home sales.
(Prior Code, § 826.02) (Ord. 472, passed 9-17-1984)
§ 112.03 PERMIT REQUIRED; INFORMATION; FEE; DISPLAY.
   (A)   No person shall conduct a home sale within the village without first
obtaining a permit from the Mayor or other duly appointed issuing authority.
   (B)   The Village Fiscal Officer shall provide permits for home sales. Such
permits shall include the name of the applicant (who shall be a resident of the
village), the date of the sale and the duration of the sale.
   (C)   The Mayor and/or the Fiscal Officer shall approve a proper permit
application and shall regulate the hours of the home sale authorized by the
permit issued to the resident applicant.
   (D)   The Mayor and/or the Fiscal Officer shall charge a fee of $1 to the
applicant for the permit.
   (E)   Every permit for conducting a home sale shall be posted in a prominent
place upon the licensed premises. The permit holder shall exhibit the permit
upon request.
(Prior Code, § 826.03) (Ord. 472, passed 9-17-1984; Ord. 501, passed 6-1-1987)
§ 112.04 FREQUENCY AND CONDUCT OF SALES; SIGNS.
   (A)   No person, or member of his or her family shall conduct a home sale on
the same residential property more than once each calendar month.
   (B)   No person shall conduct a home sale that lasts more than three
consecutive days.
   (C)   No person shall sell or offer for sale, at a home sale, any
merchandise that has been purchased by the resident of the premises for the
sole purpose of resale at such home sale. Offering of new merchandise for
resale shall be prima-facie evidence that such merchandise was purchased by the
resident for resale at such home sale.
   (D)   No resident shall post more than one sign per street front on the lot
on which the sale is located. No sign advertising a home sale shall exceed 16
square feet in area. Such sign shall not be illuminated or animated.
   (E)   No person shall begin a home sale earlier than 9:00 a.m. or continue a
sale later than 8:00 p.m.
   (F)   No person shall fail to remove all signs advertising a home sale from
telephone poles and public rights-of-way and from the public view within 24
hours after the conclusion of the sale.
(Prior Code, § 826.04) (Ord. 472, passed 9-17-1984)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
more than $100 for a first offense. For a second or subsequent offense, such
person shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $250. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
(Prior Code, § 826.99) (Ord. 472, passed 9-17-1984)
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
113.01   Uninvited peddling and soliciting prohibited
   
113.02   Exceptions
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 UNINVITED PEDDLING AND SOLICITING PROHIBITED.
   The practice of going in and upon the private residences in the village by
canvassers, solicitors, peddlers, hawkers, itinerant merchants and transient
vendors of merchandise and services, not having been requested or invited to do
so by the owners or occupants of such private residences, for the purpose of
soliciting orders for the sale of goods, wares, merchandise or services or for
the purpose of disposing of or peddling or hawking the same, is hereby declared
to be a nuisance and is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 850.01)
§ 113.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in §
113.01 shall be deemed to prohibit door-to-door or other solicitation by any
person representing any charitable, religious, patriotic or civic group or
organization for the purpose of furthering any such cause or function.
(Prior Code, § 850.02)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
more than $100. A separate violation shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 850.99)
CHAPTER 114: PUBLIC BALLS AND DANCES
Section
   
114.01   Licenses, fee and permits; notice to homeowners
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 LICENSES, FEE AND PERMITS; NOTICE TO HOMEOWNERS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a public ball or dance within the village
unless such person first obtains a license to do so from the Mayor. PUBLIC BALL
and PUBLIC DANCE, as used in this section, mean any dance or ball where an
admission fee, cover charge or their equivalent is required.
   (B)   The license fee for such public ball or dance shall be $1,000 per year
or any fractional part of the year.
   (C)   Before such license is issued in or adjacent to a residential
district, the Clerk of Council shall notify all owners or occupants of
residences located within 300 feet of the building in which it is proposed to
establish and maintain such ball and dance and set a date, not less than five
days nor more than ten days from the service of such notice, for hearing upon
such application.
   (D)   If a majority of such owners or occupants protests in writing against
the issuance of such license, the Mayor, if he or she finds upon investigation
that it would be for the best interest of such neighborhood to do so, shall
refuse to issue such license.
   (E)   The Mayor may grant a permit without charge for any ball or dance to
be given by or for the benefit of any purely civic, benevolent, charitable,
educational or religious society or organization, or by and for the benefit of
any society or organization genuinely and regularly conducted for a purpose
other than the giving of balls or dances, provided that such application is
made five days prior to the date of the proposed ball or dance and that any
such ball or dance shall be termed a private ball or dance. No such license or
permit shall be issued unless the applicant is a reputable person of good moral
character and unless the building or hall in which such ball or dance is
conducted complies with all building, health, fire and safety regulations of
the state and village, is adequately ventilated and is supplied with adequate
toilet facilities.
(Prior Code, § 860.01) (Ord. 260, passed 4-1-1957)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
more than $100. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 860.99)
CHAPTER 115: PUBLIC OUTDOOR SHOWS
Section
   
115.01   Definition
   
115.02   License required; fee
   
115.03   Performance standards
   
115.04   Duration of license
   
115.05   Exception
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC OUTDOOR SHOW. Any outdoor circus, menagerie, wild west show, dog or
pony show, carnival or other show or exhibition, given, conducted, produced,
presented or offered for gain or profit.
(Prior Code, § 870.01)
§ 115.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   No person, either as owner, lessee, manager, officer or agent, or in any
other capacity, shall give, conduct, produce, present or offer for gain or
profit any public outdoor show without first securing from the Mayor a license
for that purpose and paying therefor a fee as follows: $20 for each
installation, payable by the owner-operator plus $10 per unit annually for all
over five units.
(Prior Code, § 870.02)
§ 115.03 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   Each outdoor public show shall comply with the following performance
standards as a condition precedent to obtaining the license provided for in §
115.02.
   (A)   No operations of such public outdoor show shall be conducted within
100 feet of any residence.
   (B)   A game played for money or anything of value is prohibited as a part
of the operation of such public outdoor show.
   (C)   Every person, whether the owner, lessee, manager, officer, agent or
employee of the public outdoor show, or who is connected therewith in any other
capacity, shall be of good reputation and high moral character.
   (D)   An applicant for the license provided for in §
115.02 shall post a cash bond of $500 as surety for the compliance of such
public outdoor show, or any person connected therewith, with the provisions of
this chapter. If such provisions are complied with, such bond shall be returned
to the applicant no later than five days after the cessation of the operations
of the public outdoor show. However, upon the violation of any provision of
this chapter, the Mayor shall order such bond to be forfeited and credited to
the General Fund of the village.
(Prior Code, § 870.03)
§ 115.04 DURATION OF LICENSE.
   Each license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall authorize the
applicant to operate a public outdoor show at the place thereon described for
seven days, commencing on the day after the date of its issuance and no longer,
subject to revocation or cancellation for noncompliance with any of the
provisions of this chapter, these codified ordinances or the laws of the state.
No more than one license shall be issued to any one public outdoor show or
applicant in any year.
(Prior Code, § 870.04)
§ 115.05 EXCEPTION.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be deemed to regulate a public
outdoor show operated by a charitable organization upon a lot owned by a
charitable organization.
(Prior Code, § 870.05)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
more than $100. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 870.99)
CHAPTER 116: SLAUGHTERHOUSES
Section
   
116.01   Prohibited
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 PROHIBITED.
   No person shall have charge or control of or operate any slaughterhouse or
place where animals are killed or dressed for market, or where the lard and
tallow obtained therefrom are tried or rendered, within the village.
(Prior Code, § 874.01) (Ord. 37, passed 6-4-1901)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
more than $100. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 874.99) (Ord. 37, passed 6-4-1901)
CHAPTER 117: VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE
Section
   
117.01   Establishment
   
117.02   Payment required
   
117.03   Notice of fee
§ 117.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Village Council hereby establishes a video service provider (VSP) fee
that is calculated by applying a VSP fee percentage of 5% to the video service
provider’s gross revenues as defined in R.C. § 1332.32(B) of the Video Law. For
purposes of calculating the VSP fee, the provider’s gross revenues shall
include advertising revenues in accordance with R.C. § 1332.32(B)(2)(g) of the
Video Law. The VSP Fee Percentage and Video Law gross revenues definition, as
modified in this chapter, shall apply equally to all video service providers
and cable television operators providing video service in the village.
(Prior Code, § 874.01) (Ord. 743, passed 3-2-2009)
§ 117.02 PAYMENT REQUIRED.
   The VSP fee shall be paid by each video service provider providing service
in the village on a quarterly basis but not sooner than 45 days nor later than
60 days after the end of each calendar quarter, as per R.C. § 1332.32(A).
(Prior Code, § 874.02) (Ord. 743, passed 3-2-2009)
§ 117.03 NOTICE OF FEE.
   The Mayor is authorized and directed to provide any video service provider
with notice of the VSP fee percentage and gross revenues definition as
determined by Council in this chapter, which notice should be given by
certified mail, upon receipt of notice from such video service provider that it
will begin providing video service in the village pursuant to a state-issued
video service authorization or upon the Mayor finding or receiving evidence
that a video service provider is in any way providing video service in the
village.
(Prior Code, § 874.03) (Ord. 743, passed 3-2-2009)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
133.   SEX OFFENSES
      
134.   GAMBLING OFFENSES
      
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
137.   WEAPONS CONTROL
      
138.   DRUG OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Application of Title XIII
   
130.02   Definitions
   
130.03   Classification of offenses
   
130.04   Common law offenses abrogated
   
130.05   Rules of construction
   
130.06   Limitation of criminal prosecutions
   
130.07   Requirements for criminal liability; voluntary intoxication
   
130.08   Culpable mental states
   
130.09   Organizational criminal liability
   
130.10   Personal accountability for organizational conduct
   
130.11   Attempt
   
130.12   Complicity
   
130.13   Presumption of innocence; proof of offense; affirmative defense
   
130.14   Battered woman syndrome
   
130.15   Delinquency adjudications deemed convictions
   
130.16   Criminal law jurisdiction
   
130.17   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property held by Police
Department
   
130.18   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor
   
130.19   Multiple sentences
   
130.20   Apprehension, detention, or arrest of persons on bond
   
130.21   Self defense: limitations on duty to retreat prior to using force
 
   
130.99   Penalty for Title XIII
Statutory reference:
   Mayor’s Court generally, see R.C. Chapter 1905
   Municipal Court generally, see R.C. Chapter 1901
   Trials, Magistrate Courts, see R.C. Chapter 2938
§ 130.01 APPLICATION OF TITLE XIII.
   (A)   Title XIII of this code of ordinances embodies and prescribes
penalties for offenses against the municipality not classifiable in previous
titles and chapters. The word “misdemeanors”, as used in this title, is not
exhaustive and does not imply that offenses found elsewhere in this code of
ordinances are not also misdemeanors and punishable as such.
   (B)   Each act or omission for which a fine, imprisonment, or both is
provided under this Title or elsewhere in this code, or each act or omission
which is declared a violation of this code, is unlawful and is hereby made a
misdemeanor. Upon conviction, the penalty or penalties so provided shall be
imposed by the court.
§ 130.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRABAND. Any property that is illegal for a person to acquire or possess
under a statute, ordinance, or rule, or that a trier of fact lawfully
determines to be illegal to possess by reason of the property’s involvement in
an offense. The term includes but is not limited to all of the following:
      (1)   Any controlled substance, as defined in R.C. § 3719.01, or any
device or paraphernalia related thereto;
      (2)   Any unlawful gambling device or paraphernalia;
      (3)   Any dangerous ordnance or obscene material.
   DANGEROUS OFFENDER. A person who has committed an offense, whose history,
character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will be a
danger to others, and whose conduct has been characterized by a pattern of
repetitive, compulsive or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences.
   DEADLY FORCE. Any force that carries a substantial risk that it will
proximately result in the death of any person.
   FORCE. Any violence, compulsion, or constraint physically exerted by any
means upon or against a person or thing.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any of the following:
      (1)   A Sheriff, deputy sheriff, constable, police officer of a township
or joint police district, Marshal, deputy marshal, municipal police officer,
member of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under
R.C. § 3735.31(D) or state highway patrol trooper.
      (2)   An officer, agent, or employee of the state or any of its agencies,
instrumentalities, or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute, a duty to
conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and the
authority to arrest violators is conferred, within the limits of such statutory
duty and authority.
      (3)   The Mayor, in a capacity as chief conservator of the peace within
the municipality.
      (4)   A member of an auxiliary police force organized by the county,
township, or municipal law enforcement authorities, within the scope of the
member’s appointment or commission.
      (5)   A person lawfully called pursuant to R.C. § 311.07 to aid a sheriff
in keeping the peace, for the purposes and during the time when the person is
called.
      (6)   A person appointed by a Mayor pursuant to R.C. § 737.01 as a
special patrolling officer during a riot or emergency, for the purposes and
during the time when the person is appointed.
      (7)   A member of the organized militia of this state or the armed forces
of the United States, lawfully called to duty to aid civil authorities in
keeping the peace or protect against domestic violence.
      (8)   A prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, secret
service officer, or municipal prosecutor.
      (9)   A veterans’ home police officer appointed under R.C. § 5907.02.
      (10)   A member of a police force employed by a regional transit
authority under R.C. § 306.35(Y).
      (11)   A special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C. §
4582.04 or 4582.28.
      (12)   The House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms if the House of
Representatives Sergeant at Arms has arrest authority pursuant to R.C. §
101.311(E)(1) and an Assistant House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms.
      (13)   The Senate Sergeant at Arms and an Assistant Senate Sergeant at
Arms;
      (14)   A special police officer employed by a municipal corporation at a
municipal airport, or other municipal air navigation facility, that has
scheduled operations, as defined in 14 C.F.R. § 119.3, as amended, and that is
required to be under a security program and is governed by aviation security
rules of the Transportation Security Administration of the United States
Department of Transportation as provided in 49 C.F.R. parts 1542 and 1544, as
amended.
   NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF INSANITY. A person is “not guilty by reason of
insanity” relative to a charge of an offense only if the person proves, in the
manner specified in R.C. § 2901.05, that at the time of the commission of the
offense, he or she did not know, as a result of a severe mental disease or
defect, the wrongfulness of his or her acts.
   OFFENSE OF VIOLENCE.
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.11,
2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.15, 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, 2905.01, 2905.02,
2905.11, 2905.32, 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.05, 2909.02, 2909.03, 2909.24,
2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2917.01, 2917.02, 2917.03, 2917.31, 2919.25,
2921.03, 2921.04, 2921.34, or 2923.161, of division (A)(1) of R.C. § 2903.34,
of division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of R.C. § 2911.12, or of division (B)(1),
(B)(2), (B)(3) or (B)(4) of R.C. § 2919.22, or felonious sexual penetration in
violation of former R.C. § 2907.12;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States, substantially equivalent to
any section, division or offense listed in division (1) of this definition;
      (3)   An offense, other than a traffic offense, under an existing or
former municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or of the United
States, committed purposely or knowingly, and involving physical harm to
persons or a risk of serious physical harm to persons;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   PERSON.
      (1)   (a)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, as used in any
section contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, the term includes all of the following:
            1.   An individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association.
            2.   An unborn human who is viable.
         (b)   As used in any section contained in Title XIII of this code that
does not set forth a criminal offense, the term includes an individual,
corporation, business trust, estate, partnership and association.
         (c)   As used in division (1)(a)2. of this definition, “unborn human”
means an individual organism of the species Homo sapiens from fertilization
until live birth. “Viable” means the stage of development of a human fetus at
which there is a realistic probability of maintaining and nourishing of a life
outside the womb with or without temporary artificial life-sustaining support.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (1)(a) of this definition, in no case
shall the portion of the definition of the term “person” that is set forth in
division (1)(a)2. of this definition be applied or construed in any section
contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal offense in any
of the following manners:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (2)(a) of this
definition, in a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as
prohibiting any pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion
with the consent of the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman
implied by law in a medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise
authorized by law to consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant
woman. An abortion that violates the conditions described in the immediately
preceding sentence may be punished as a violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02,
2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13,
2903.14, 2903.21 or 2903.22, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, as applicable. An abortion that does not violate the conditions
described in the second immediately preceding sentence but that does violate
R.C. § 2919.12, 2919.13(B), 2919.15, 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of
such section, as applicable. Consent is sufficient under this division if it is
of the type otherwise adequate to permit medical treatment to the pregnant
woman, even if it does not comply with R.C. § 2919.12.
         (b)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
            1.   Her delivery of a stillborn baby;
            2.   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying;
            3.   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human;
            4.   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human;
            5.   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any injury, illness, or other physiological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any tangible or intangible damage to property
that, in any degree, results in loss to its value or interferes with its use or
enjoyment. The term does not include wear and tear occasioned by normal use.
   PRIVILEGE. An immunity, license, or right conferred by law, or bestowed by
express or implied grant, or arising out of status, position, office, or
relationship, or growing out of necessity.
   PROPERTY.
      (1)   Any property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, and any
interest or license in that property. The term includes but is not limited to
cable television service, other telecommunications service, telecommunications
devices, information service, computers, data, computer software, financial
instruments associated with computers, other documents associated with
computers, or copies of the documents, whether in machine or human-readable
form, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents, and property protected by
a trademark, copyright or patent. “Financial instruments associated with
computers” include but are not limited to checks, drafts, warrants, money
orders, notes of indebtedness, certificates of deposit, letters of credit,
bills of credit or debit cards, financial transaction authorization mechanisms,
marketable securities, or any computer system representations of any of them.
      (2)   As used in this definition, “trade secret” has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 1333.61, and “telecommunications service” and “information service”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (3)   As used in this definition and in the definition of “contraband” in
this section, “cable television service”, “computer”, “computer network”,
“computer software”, “computer system”, “data”, and “telecommunications device”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   REPEAT OFFENDER. A person who has a history of persistent criminal activity
and whose character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will
commit another offense. It is prima facie evidence that a person is a repeat
offender if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Having been convicted of one or more offenses of violence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent offense of
violence;
      (2)   Having been convicted of one or more sexually oriented offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2950.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent sexually oriented
offense;
      (3)   Having been convicted of one or more theft offenses, as defined in
R.C. § 2913.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for one or more
of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent theft offense;
      (4)   Having been convicted of one or more felony drug abuse offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2925.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent felony drug abuse
offense;
      (5)   Having been convicted of two or more felonies, and having been
imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such offense, he or she commits a
subsequent offense;
      (6)   Having been convicted of three or more offenses of any type or
degree other than traffic offenses, alcoholic intoxication offenses, or minor
misdemeanors, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such
offense, he or she commits a subsequent offense.
   RISK. A significant possibility, as contrasted with a remote possibility,
that a certain result may occur or that certain circumstances may exist.
   SCHOOL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL ACTIVITY. Any activity held under the auspices of a board of
education of a city, local, exempted village, joint vocational, or cooperative
education school district; a governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; a governing board of an educational
service center; or the governing body of a nonpublic school for which the State
Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07.
   SCHOOL BUILDING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SCHOOL PREMISES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL SAFETY ZONE. Consists of a school, school building, school premises,
school activity, and school bus.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any mental illness or condition of such gravity as would normally
require hospitalization or prolonged psychiatric treatment;
      (2)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
      (3)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent incapacity, whether
partial or total, or that involves some temporary, substantial incapacity;
      (4)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent disfigurement, or
that involves some temporary, serious disfigurement;
      (5)   Any physical harm that involves acute pain of such duration as to
result in substantial suffering, or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any physical harm to property that does
either of the following:
      (1)   Results in substantial loss to the value of the property, or
requires a substantial amount of time, effort, or money to repair or replace;
      (2)   Temporarily prevents the use or enjoyment of the property, or
substantially interferes with its use or enjoyment for an extended period of
time.
   SUBSTANTIAL RISK. A strong possibility, as contrasted with a remote or
significant possibility, that a certain result may occur or that certain
circumstances may exist.
(R.C. §§ 2901.01, 2935.36(E)) (Prior Code, § 606.01)
§ 130.03 CLASSIFICATION OF OFFENSES.
   As used in this Title:
   (A)   Offenses include misdemeanors of the first, second, third, and fourth
degree, minor misdemeanors, and offenses not specifically classified.
   (B)   Regardless of the penalty that may be imposed, any offense
specifically classified as a misdemeanor is a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any offense not specifically classified is a misdemeanor if
imprisonment for not more than one year may be imposed as a penalty.
   (D)   Any offense not specifically classified is a minor misdemeanor if the
only penalty that may be imposed is one of the following:
      (1)   For an offense committed prior to January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $100;
      (2)   For an offense committed on or after January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $150, community service under R.C. § 2929.27(D), or a financial
sanction other than a fine under R.C. § 2929.28.
(R.C. § 2901.02) (Prior Code, § 606.03)
§ 130.04 COMMON LAW OFFENSES ABROGATED.
   (A)   No conduct constitutes a criminal offense against the municipality
unless it is defined as an offense in this code.
   (B)   An offense is defined when one or more sections of this code state a
positive prohibition or enjoin a specific duty, and provide a penalty for
violation of such prohibition or failure to meet such duty.
   (C)   This section does not affect the power of a court to punish for
contempt or to employ any sanction authorized by law to enforce an order, civil
judgment or decree.
(R.C. § 2901.03) (Prior Code, § 606.04)
§ 130.05 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) or (D) of this section,
sections of this code defining offenses or penalties shall be strictly
construed against the municipality and liberally construed in favor of the
accused.
   (B)   Rules of criminal procedure and sections of this code providing for
criminal procedure shall be construed so as to effect the fair, impartial,
speedy, and sure administration of justice.
   (C)   Any provision of a section of this code that refers to a previous
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of a section of this code, the
Ohio Revised Code or a division of a section of this code or the Ohio Revised
Code shall be construed to also refer to a previous conviction of or plea of
guilty to a substantially equivalent offense under an existing or former law of
this municipality, state, another state, or the United States or under an
existing or former municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Any provision of this code that refers to a section, or to a division
of a section, of this code that defines or specifies a criminal offense shall
be construed to also refer to an existing or former law of this state, another
state, or the United States, to an existing or former municipal ordinance, or
to an existing or former division of any such existing or former law or
ordinance that defines or specifies, or that defined or specified, a
substantially equivalent offense.
(R.C. § 2901.04) (Prior Code, § 606.05)
§ 130.06 LIMITATION OF CRIMINAL PROSECUTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2), (A)(3) or (A)(4) of this
section or as otherwise provided in this section, a prosecution shall be barred
unless it is commenced within the following periods after an offense is
committed:
         (a)   For a felony, six years;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor other than a minor misdemeanor, two years;
         (c)   For a minor misdemeanor, six months.
      (2)   There is no period of limitation for the prosecution of a violation
of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (B) through (J) of this
section, a prosecution of any of the following offenses shall be barred unless
it is commenced within 20 years after the offense is committed:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.03, 2903.04, 2905.01, 2905.32,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.21, 2909.02, 2909.22, 2909.23, 2909.24, 2909.26,
2909.27, 2909.28, 2909.29, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, or 2917.02, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.11 or 2903.12 if the victim is a peace officer, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 that is a felony, or a violation of former R.C. §
2907.12.
         (b)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing a violation set forth in division (A)(3)(a) of this section.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (D) to (L) of this
section, a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 or a
conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in committing a
violation of either section shall be barred unless it is commenced within 25
years after the offense is committed.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) of this section,
if the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this
section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for an offense of which an
element is fraud or breach of fiduciary duty within one year after discovery of
the offense either by an aggrieved person or by the aggrieved person’s legal
representative who is not a party to the offense.
      (2)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3)
of this section has expired, prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2913.49
shall be commenced within five years after discovery of the offense either by
an aggrieved person or the aggrieved person’s legal representative who is not a
party to the offense.
   (C)   (1)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)
(3) of this section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for the
following offenses during the following specified periods of time:
         (a)   For an offense involving misconduct in office by a public
servant at any time while the accused remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter;
         (b)   For an offense by a person who is not a public servant but whose
offense is directly related to the misconduct in office of a public servant, at
any time while that public servant remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter.
      (2)   As used in this division:
         OFFENSE IS DIRECTLY RELATED TO THE MISCONDUCT IN OFFICE OF A PUBLIC
SERVANT. The phrase includes but is not limited to a violation of R.C. §
101.71, 101.91, 121.61 or 2921.13, 102.03(F) or (H), 2921.02(A), 2921.43(A) or
(B), or 3517.13(F) or (G), that is directly related to an offense involving
misconduct in office of a public servant, or a violation of any municipal
ordinance substantially equivalent to those Ohio Revised Code sections listed
in this division (C)(2).
         PUBLIC SERVANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
   (D)   (1)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal
investigation of the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 is
determined to match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if
the time of the determination is later than 25 years after the offense is
committed, prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be
commenced within five years after the determination is complete.
      (2)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal investigation
of the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 is determined to
match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if the time of
the determination is within 25 years after the offense is committed,
prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be commenced
within the longer of 25 years after the offense is committed or five years
after the determination is complete.
      (3)   As used in this division, DNA RECORD has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 109.573.
   (E)   An offense is committed when every element of the offense occurs. In
the case of an offense of which an element is a continuing course of conduct,
the period of limitation does not begin to run until such course of conduct or
the accused’s accountability for it terminates, whichever occurs first.
   (F)   A prosecution is commenced on the date an indictment is returned or an
information filed, or on the date a lawful arrest without a warrant is made, or
on the date a warrant, summons, citation, or other process is issued, whichever
occurs first. A prosecution is not commenced by the return of an indictment or
the filing of an information unless reasonable diligence is exercised to issue
and execute process on the same. A prosecution is not commenced upon issuance
of a warrant, summons, citation, or other process unless reasonable diligence
is exercised to execute the same.
   (G)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the corpus
delicti remains undiscovered.
   (H)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the
accused purposely avoids prosecution. Proof that the accused departed this
municipality or conceals the accused’s identity or whereabouts is prima facie
evidence of the accused’s purpose to avoid prosecution.
   (I)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time a prosecution
against the accused based on the same conduct is pending in this state, even
though the indictment, information, or process that commenced the prosecution
is quashed or the proceedings on the indictment, information, or process are
set aside or reversed on appeal.
   (J)   The period of limitation for a violation of this Title XIII or Title
XXIX of the Ohio Revised Code that involves a physical or mental wound, injury,
disability, or condition of a nature that reasonably indicates abuse or neglect
of a child under 18 years of age or of a child with a developmental disability
or physical impairment under 21 years of age shall not begin to run until
either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The victim of the offense reaches the age of majority.
      (2)   A public children services agency, or a municipal or county peace
officer that is not the parent or guardian of the child, in the county in which
the child resides or in which the abuse or neglect is occurring or has occurred
has been notified that abuse or neglect is known, suspected, or believed to
have occurred.
   (K)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2935.01.
   (L)   The amendments to divisions (A) and (D) of this section apply to a
violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 committed on and after July 16, 2015,
and apply to a violation of either of those sections committed prior to July
16, 2015, if prosecution for that violation was not barred under this section
as it existed on July 15, 2015.
(R.C. § 2901.13) (Prior Code, § 606.06)
Statutory reference:
   Limitation for income tax violations, see R.C. § 718.12
§ 130.07 REQUIREMENTS FOR CRIMINAL LIABILITY; VOLUNTARY INTOXICATION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, a person is not
guilty of an offense unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person’s liability is based on conduct that includes either a
voluntary act, or an omission to perform an act or duty that the person is
capable of performing;
      (2)   The person has the requisite degree of culpability for each element
as to which a culpable mental state is specified by the language defining the
offense.
   (B)   When the language defining an offense does not specify any degree of
culpability, and plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict criminal
liability for the conduct described in the section, then culpability is not
required for a person to be guilty of the offense. The fact that one division
of a section plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict liability for an
offense defined in that division does not by itself plainly indicate a purpose
to impose strict criminal liability for an offense defined in other divisions
of the section that do not specify a degree of culpability.
   (C)   (1)   When language defining an element of an offense that is related
to knowledge or intent or to which mens rea could fairly be applied neither
specifies culpability nor plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict
liability, the element of the offense is established only if a person acts
recklessly.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to offenses defined
in R.C. Title XLV.
      (3)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not relieve the prosecution of
the burden of proving the culpable mental state required by any definition
incorporated into the offense.
   (D)   Voluntary intoxication may not be taken into consideration in
determining the existence of a mental state that is an element of a criminal
offense. Voluntary intoxication does not relieve a person of a duty to act if
failure to act constitutes a criminal offense. Evidence that a person was
voluntarily intoxicated may be admissible to show whether or not the person was
physically capable of performing the act with which the person is charged.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      CULPABILITY. Means purpose, knowledge, recklessness, or negligence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.22.
      INTOXICATION. Includes but is not limited to intoxication resulting from
the ingestion of alcohol, a drug, or alcohol and a drug.
      INVOLUNTARY ACTS. Means reflexes, convulsions, body movements during
unconsciousness or sleep, and body movements that are not otherwise a product
of the actor’s volition are involuntary acts.
      POSSESSION. Means a voluntary act if the possessor knowingly procured or
received the thing possessed, or was aware of the possessor’s control of the
thing possessed for a sufficient time to have ended possession.
(R.C. § 2901.21) (Prior Code, § 606.07)
§ 130.08 CULPABLE MENTAL STATES.
   (A)   A person acts purposely when it is the person’s specific intention to
cause a certain result, or, when the gist of the offense is a prohibition
against conduct of a certain nature, regardless of what the offender intends to
accomplish thereby, it is the offender’s specific intention to engage in
conduct of that nature.
   (B)   A person acts knowingly, regardless of purpose, when the person is
aware that the person’s conduct will probably cause a certain result or will
probably be of a certain nature. A person has knowledge of circumstances when
the person is aware that such circumstances probably exist. When knowledge of
the existence of a particular fact is an element of an offense, such knowledge
is established if a person subjectively believes that there is a high
probability of its existence and fails to make inquiry or acts with a conscious
purpose to avoid learning the fact.
   (C)   A person acts recklessly when, with heedless indifference to the
consequences, the person disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that
the person’s conduct is likely to cause a certain result or is likely to be of
a certain nature. A person is reckless with respect to circumstances when, with
heedless indifference to the consequences, the person disregards a substantial
and unjustifiable risk that such circumstances are likely to exist.
   (D)   A person acts negligently when, because of a substantial lapse from
due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that the person’s
conduct may cause a certain result or may be of a certain nature. A person is
negligent with respect to circumstances when, because of a substantial lapse
from due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that such
circumstances may exist.
   (E)   When the section defining an offense provides that negligence suffices
to establish an element thereof, then recklessness, knowledge, or purpose is
also sufficient culpability for such element. When recklessness suffices to
establish an element of an offense, then knowledge or purpose is also
sufficient culpability for such element. When knowledge suffices to establish
an element of an offense, then purpose is also sufficient culpability for such
element.
(R.C. § 2901.22) (Prior Code, § 606.02)
§ 130.09 ORGANIZATIONAL CRIMINAL LIABILITY.
   (A)   An organization may be convicted of an offense under any of the
following circumstances:
      (1)   The offense is a minor misdemeanor committed by an officer, agent,
or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s office or employment, except that if the
section defining the offense designates the officers, agents, or employees for
whose conduct the organization is accountable or the circumstances under which
it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (2)   A purpose to impose organizational liability plainly appears in the
section defining the offense, and the offense is committed by an officer,
agent, or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the
scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s office or employment, except
that if the section defining the offense designates the officers, agents, or
employees for whose conduct the organization is accountable or the
circumstances under which it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (3)   The offense consists of an omission to discharge a specific duty
imposed by law on the organization.
      (4)   If, acting with the kind of culpability otherwise required for the
commission of the offense, its commission was authorized, requested, commanded,
tolerated, or performed by the board of directors, trustees, partners, or by a
high managerial officer, agent, or employee acting in behalf of the
organization and within the scope of such a board’s or person’s office or
employment.
   (B)   If strict liability is imposed for the commission of an offense, a
purpose to impose organizational liability shall be presumed, unless the
contrary plainly appears.
   (C)   In a prosecution of an organization for an offense other than one for
which strict liability is imposed, it is a defense that the high managerial
officer, agent, or employee having supervisory responsibility over the subject
matter of the offense exercised due diligence to prevent its commission. This
defense is not available if it plainly appears inconsistent with the purpose of
the section defining the offense.
   (D)   As used in this section, ORGANIZATION means a corporation for profit
or not for profit, partnership, limited partnership, joint venture,
unincorporated nonprofit association, estate, trust, or other commercial or
legal entity. The term does not include an entity organized as or by a
governmental agency for the execution of a governmental program.
(R.C. § 2901.23) (Prior Code, § 606.08)
§ 130.10 PERSONAL ACCOUNTABILITY FOR ORGANIZATIONAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   An officer, agent, or employee of an organization, as defined in R.C.
§ 2901.23, may be prosecuted for an offense committed by such organization, if
he or she acts with the kind of culpability required for the commission of the
offense, and any of the following apply:
      (1)   In the name of the organization or in its behalf, he or she engages
in conduct constituting the offense, or causes another to engage in such
conduct, or tolerates such conduct when it is of a type for which he or she has
direct responsibility;
      (2)   He or she has primary responsibility to discharge a duty imposed on
the organization by law, and such duty is not discharged.
   (B)   When a person is convicted of an offense by reason of this section, he
or she is subject to the same penalty as if he or she had acted in his or her
own behalf.
(R.C. § 2901.24) (Prior Code, § 606.09)
§ 130.11 ATTEMPT.
   (A)   No person, purposely or knowingly, and when purpose or knowledge is
sufficient culpability for the commission of an offense, shall engage in
conduct that, if successful, would constitute or result in the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that, in retrospect,
commission of the offense that was the object of the attempt was either
factually or legally impossible under the attendant circumstances, if that
offense could have been committed had the attendant circumstances been as the
actor believed them to be.
   (C)   No person who is convicted of committing a specific offense, of
complicity in the commission of an offense, or of conspiracy to commit an
offense, shall be convicted of an attempt to commit the same offense in
violation of this section.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor abandoned his or her effort to commit the offense or otherwise prevented
its commission, under circumstances manifesting a complete and voluntary
renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an attempt to commit an
offense. An attempt to commit aggravated murder, murder, or an offense for
which the maximum penalty is imprisonment for life is a felony of the first
degree, to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to commit a
drug abuse offense for which the penalty is determined by the amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance involved in the drug abuse offense is
an offense of the same degree as the drug abuse offense attempted would be if
that drug abuse offense had been committed and had involved an amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance that is within the next lower range
of controlled substance amounts than was involved in the attempt. An attempt to
commit any other offense is an offense of the next lesser degree than the
offense attempted. In the case of an attempt to commit an offense other than a
violation of R.C. Chapter 3734 that is not specifically classified, an attempt
is a misdemeanor of the first degree if the offense attempted is a felony, and
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the offense attempted is a misdemeanor.
In the case of an attempt to commit a violation of any provision of R.C.
Chapter 3734, other than R.C. § 3734.18, that relates to hazardous wastes, an
attempt is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to
commit a minor misdemeanor, or to engage in conspiracy, is not an offense under
this section.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 2923.02) (Prior Code, § 606.21)
Statutory reference:
   Conspiracy, see R.C. § 2923.01
   Solid and hazardous wastes, see R.C. Chapter 3734
§ 130.12 COMPLICITY.
   (A)   No person, acting with the kind of culpability required for the
commission of an offense, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Solicit or procure another to commit the offense;
      (2)   Aid or abet another in committing the offense;
      (3)   Conspire with another to commit the offense in violation of R.C. §
2923.01;
      (4)   Cause an innocent or irresponsible person to commit the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that no person with
whom the accused was in complicity has been convicted as a principal offender.
   (C)   No person shall be convicted of complicity under this section unless
an offense is actually committed, but a person may be convicted of complicity
in an attempt to commit an offense in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   If an alleged accomplice of the defendant testifies against the
defendant in a case in which the defendant is charged with complicity in the
commission of or an attempt to commit an offense, an attempt to commit an
offense, or an offense, the court shall charge the jury in accordance with R.C.
§ 2923.03(D).
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that,
prior to the commission of or attempt to commit the offense, the actor
terminated his or her complicity, under circumstances manifesting a complete
and voluntary renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of complicity in the
commission of an offense, and shall be prosecuted and punished as if he or she
were a principal offender. A charge of complicity may be stated in terms of
this section, or in terms of the principal offense.
(R.C. § 2923.03) (Prior Code, § 606.22)
Statutory reference:
   Conspiracy, see R.C. § 2923.01
§ 130.13 PRESUMPTION OF INNOCENCE; PROOF OF OFFENSE; AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE.
   (A)   Every person accused of an offense is presumed innocent until proven
guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, and the burden of proof for all elements of
the offense is upon the prosecution. The burden of going forward with the
evidence of an affirmative defense, and the burden of proof by a preponderance
of the evidence, for an affirmative defense other than self-defense, defense of
another, or defense of the accused’s residence presented as described in
division (B)(1) of this section, is upon the accused.
   (B)   (1)   A person is allowed to act in self-defense, defense of another,
or defense of that person’s residence. If, at the trial of a person who is
accused of an offense that involved the person’s use of force against another,
there is evidence presented that tends to support that the accused person used
the force in self-defense, defense of another, or defense of that person’s
residence, the prosecution must prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the
accused person did not use the force in self-defense, defense of another, or
defense of that person’s residence, as the case may be.
      (2)   Subject to division (B)(3) of this section, a person is presumed to
have acted in self-defense or defense of another when using defensive force
that is intended or likely to cause death or great bodily harm to another if
the person against whom the defensive force is used is in the process of
unlawfully and without privilege to do so entering, or has unlawfully and
without privilege to do so entered, the residence or vehicle occupied by the
person using the defensive force.
      (3)   The presumption set forth in division (B)(2) of this section does
not apply if either of the following is true:
         (a)   The person against whom the defensive force is used has a right
to be in, or is a lawful resident of, the residence or vehicle.
         (b)   The person who uses the defensive force uses it while in a
residence or vehicle and the person is unlawfully, and without privilege to be,
in that residence or vehicle.
      (4)   The presumption set forth in division (B)(2) of this section is a
rebuttable presumption and may be rebutted by a preponderance of the evidence,
provided that the prosecution’s burden of proof remains proof beyond a
reasonable doubt as described in divisions (A) and (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   As part of its charge to the jury in a criminal case, the court shall
read the definitions of “reasonable doubt” and “proof beyond a reasonable
doubt”, contained in division (E) of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE. An affirmative defense is either of the following:
         (a)   A defense expressly designated as affirmative;
         (b)   A defense involving an excuse or justification peculiarly within
the knowledge of the accused, on which the accused can fairly be required to
adduce supporting evidence.
      DWELLING. Means a building or conveyance of any kind that has a roof over
it and that is designed to be occupied by people lodging in the building or
conveyance at night, regardless of whether the building or conveyance is
temporary or permanent or is mobile or immobile. As used in this division, a
building or conveyance includes but is not limited to an attached porch, and a
building or conveyance with a roof over it includes but is not limited to a
tent.
      RESIDENCE. Means a dwelling in which a person resides either temporarily
or permanently or is visiting as a guest.
      VEHICLE. Means a conveyance of any kind, whether or not motorized, that
is designed to transport people or property.
   (E)   “Reasonable doubt” is present when the jurors, after they have
carefully considered and compared all the evidence, cannot say they are firmly
convinced of the truth of the charge. It is a doubt based on reasonable and
common sense. Reasonable doubt is not mere possible doubt, because everything
relating to human affairs or depending on moral evidence is open to some
possible or imaginary doubt. “Proof beyond a reasonable doubt” is proof of such
character that an ordinary person would be willing to rely and act upon it in
the most important of the person’s own affairs.
(R.C. § 2901.05)
§ 130.14 BATTERED WOMAN SYNDROME.
   (A)   The municipality hereby declares that it recognizes both of the
following, in relation to the “battered woman syndrome”: that the syndrome
currently is a matter of commonly accepted scientific knowledge, and that the
subject matter and details of the syndrome are not within the general
understanding or experience of a person who is a member of the general populace
and are not within the field of common knowledge.
   (B)   If a person is charged with an offense involving the use of force
against another and the person, as a defense to the offense charged, raises the
affirmative defense of self defense, the person may introduce expert testimony
of the “battered woman syndrome” and expert testimony that the person suffered
from that syndrome as evidence to establish the requisite belief of an imminent
danger of death or great bodily harm that is necessary, as an element of the
affirmative defense, to justify the person’s use of force in question. The
introduction of any expert testimony under this division shall be in accordance
with the Ohio Rules of Evidence.
(R.C. § 2901.06)
§ 130.15 DELINQUENCY ADJUDICATIONS DEEMED CONVICTIONS.
   (A)   If a person is alleged to have committed an offense and if the person
previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or juvenile traffic offender
for a violation of a law or ordinance, except as provided in division (B) of
this section, the adjudication as a delinquent child or as a juvenile traffic
offender is a conviction for a violation of the law for purposes of determining
the offense with which the person should be charged and, if the person is
convicted of or pleads guilty to an offense, the sentence to be imposed upon
the person relative to the conviction or guilty plea.
   (B)   A previous adjudication of a person as a delinquent child or juvenile
traffic offender for a violation of a law or ordinance is not a conviction for
a violation of the law or ordinance for purposes of determining any of the
following:
      (1)   Whether the person is a repeat violent offender, as defined in R.C.
§ 2929.01, or whether the person should be sentenced as a repeat violent
offender under R.C. § 2929.14(B)(2) and R.C. § 2941.149;
      (2)    Whether the person is a violent career criminal as defined in R.C.
§ 2923.132, whether the person has committed unlawful use of a weapon by a
violent career criminal in violation of R.C. § 2923.132 or should be sentenced
for that offense under that section, or whether the person should be sentenced
under R.C. § 2929.14(K) as a violent career criminal who had a firearm on or
about the person’s person or under the person’s control while committing a
violent felony offense and displayed or brandished the firearm, indicated that
the offender possessed a firearm, or used the firearm to facilitate the
offense.
(R.C. § 2901.08)
§ 130.16 CRIMINAL LAW JURISDICTION.
   (A)   A person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality if any of the following occur:
      (1)   The person commits an offense under the laws of this municipality,
any element of which takes place in this municipality;
      (2)   While in this municipality, the person attempts to commit, or is
guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in another jurisdiction,
which offense is an offense under both the laws of this municipality and the
other jurisdiction, or, while in this municipality, the person conspires to
commit an offense in another jurisdiction, which offense is an offense under
both the laws of this municipality and the other jurisdiction, and a
substantial overt act in furtherance of the conspiracy is undertaken in this
municipality by the person or another person involved in the conspiracy,
subsequent to the person’s entrance into the conspiracy. In any case in which a
person attempts to commit, is guilty of complicity in the commission of, or
conspires to commit an offense in another jurisdiction as described in this
division, the person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality for the attempt, complicity, or conspiracy, and for any resulting
offense that is committed or completed in the other jurisdiction;
      (3)   While out of this municipality, the person conspires or attempts to
commit, or is guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in this
municipality;
      (4)   While out of this municipality, the person omits to perform a legal
duty imposed by the laws of this municipality, which omission affects a
legitimate interest of the municipality in protecting, governing or regulating
any person, property, thing, transaction, or activity in this municipality;
      (5)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
retains property and subsequently brings any of the unlawfully taken or
retained property into this municipality;
      (6)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
entices another person and subsequently brings the other person into this
municipality;
      (7)   The person, by means of a computer, computer system, computer
network, telecommunication, telecommunications device, telecommunications
service, or information service, causes or knowingly permits any writing, data,
image or other telecommunication to be disseminated or transmitted into this
municipality in violation of the law of this state or municipality.
   (B)   In homicide, the element referred to in division (A)(1) of this
section includes the act that causes death, the physical contact that causes
death, the death itself, or any other element that is set forth in the offense
in question. If any part of the body of a homicide victim is found in this
municipality, the death is presumed to have occurred within this municipality.
   (C)   (1)   This municipality includes the land and water within its
boundaries and the air space above that land and water, with respect to which
this municipality has either exclusive or concurrent legislative jurisdiction.
Where the boundary between this municipality and another jurisdiction is
disputed, the disputed territory is conclusively presumed to be within this
municipality for purposes of this section.
      (2)   The courts of common pleas of Adams, Athens, Belmont, Brown,
Clermont, Columbiana, Gallia, Hamilton, Jefferson, Lawrence, Meigs, Monroe,
Scioto, and Washington counties have jurisdiction beyond the north or northwest
shore of the Ohio River extending to the opposite shore line, between the
extended boundary lines of any adjacent counties or adjacent state. Each of
those courts of common pleas has concurrent jurisdiction on the Ohio River with
any adjacent court of common pleas that borders on that river and with any
court of Kentucky or of West Virginia that borders on the Ohio River and that
has jurisdiction on the Ohio River under the law of Kentucky or the law of West
Virginia, whichever is applicable, or under federal law.
   (D)   When an offense is committed under the laws of this municipality, and
it appears beyond a reasonable doubt that the offense or any element of the
offense took place either in this municipality or in another jurisdiction or
jurisdictions, but it cannot reasonably be determined in which it took place,
the offense or element is conclusively presumed to have taken place in this
municipality for purposes of this section.
   (E)   When a person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in
this municipality for an offense committed or completed outside this
municipality, the person is subject to all specifications for that offense that
would be applicable if the offense had been committed within this municipality.
   (F)   Any act, conduct, or element that is a basis of a person being subject
under this section to criminal prosecution and punishment in this municipality
need not be committed personally by the person as long as it is committed by
another person who is in complicity or conspiracy with the person.
   (G)   This section shall be liberally construed, consistent with
constitutional limitations, to allow this municipality the broadest possible
jurisdiction over offenses and persons committing offenses in, or affecting,
this municipality.
   (H)   For purposes of division (A)(2) of this section, an overt act is
substantial when it is of a character that manifests a purpose on the part of
the actor that the object of the conspiracy should be completed.
   (I)   As used in this section, COMPUTER, COMPUTER SYSTEM, COMPUTER NETWORK,
INFORMATION SERVICE, TELECOMMUNICATION, TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE,
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE, DATA and WRITING have the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 2913.01.
(R.C. § 2901.11) (Prior Code, § 606.055)
Statutory reference:
   State criminal law jurisdiction, see R.C. § 2901.11
§ 130.17 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED OR FORFEITED PROPERTY HELD BY POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Safekeeping of property in custody.
      (1)   (a)   Any property that has been lost, abandoned, stolen, seized
pursuant to a search warrant, or otherwise lawfully seized or forfeited and
that is in the custody of the Police Department shall be kept safely by the
Police Department, pending the time it no longer is needed as evidence or for
another lawful purpose, and shall be disposed of pursuant to this section or
R.C. §§ 2981.12 and 2981.13.
         (b)   This section does not apply to the custody and disposal of any
of the following:
            1.   Vehicles subject to forfeiture under R.C. Title 45, except as
provided in division (B)(1)(f) of this section;
            2.   Abandoned junk motor vehicles or other property of negligible
value;
            3.   Property held by a department of rehabilitation and correction
institution that is unclaimed, that does not have an identified owner, that the
owner agrees to dispose of, or that is identified by the department as having
little value;
            4.   Animals taken, and devices used in unlawfully taking animals,
under R.C. § 1531.20;
            5.   Controlled substances sold by a peace officer in the
performance of the officer’s official duties under R.C. § 3719.141;
            6.   Property recovered by a township law enforcement agency under
R.C. §§ 505.105 to 505.109;
            7.   Property held and disposed of under an ordinance of the
municipality or under R.C. §§ 737.29 to 737.33, except that if the municipality
has received notice of a citizens’ reward program as provided in division (B)
(5) of this section and disposes of property under an ordinance shall pay 25%
of any moneys acquired from any sale or auction to the citizens’ reward
program.
      (2)   (a)   The Police Department shall adopt and comply with a written
internal control policy that does all of the following:
            1.   Provides for keeping detailed records as to the amount of
property acquired by the Police Department and the date property was acquired;
            2.   Provides for keeping detailed records of the disposition of
the property, which shall include but not be limited to both of the following:
               a.   The manner in which it was disposed, the date of
disposition, detailed financial records concerning any property sold, and the
name of any person who received the property. The record shall not identify or
enable identification of the individual officer who seized any item of
property.
               b.   An itemized list of the specific expenditures made with
amounts that are gained from the sale of the property and that are retained by
the agency, including the specific amount expended on each expenditure, except
that the policy shall not provide for or permit the identification of any
specific expenditure that is made in an ongoing investigation.
            3.   Complies with R.C. § 2981.13 if the Police Department has a
Law Enforcement Trust Fund or similar fund created under that section.
         (b)   The records kept under the internal control policy shall be open
to public inspection during the Police Department’s regular business hours. The
policy adopted under this section is a public record open for inspection under
R.C. § 149.43.
      (3)   The Police Department, with custody of property to be disposed of
under this section or R.C. §§ 2981.12 or 2981.13, shall make a reasonable
effort to locate persons entitled to possession of the property, to notify them
of when and where it may be claimed, and to return the property to them at the
earliest possible time. In the absence of evidence identifying persons entitled
to possession, it is sufficient notice to advertise in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county and to briefly describe the nature of the property in
custody and inviting persons to view and establish their right to it.
      (4)   As used in this section:
         CITIZENS’ REWARD PROGRAM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 9.92.
         LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Includes correctional institutions.
         TOWNSHIP LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Means an organized police department
of a township, a township police district, a joint police district, or the
office of a township constable.
(R.C. § 2981.11)
   (B)   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property.
      (1)   Unclaimed or forfeited property in the custody of the Police
Department, other than property described in division (A)(1)(b) of this
section, shall be disposed of by order of any court of record that has
territorial jurisdiction over the municipality, as follows:
         (a)   Drugs shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 3719.11 or placed
in the custody of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States for
disposal or use for medical or scientific purposes under applicable federal
law.
         (b)   Firearms and dangerous ordnance suitable for police work may be
given to a law enforcement agency for that purpose. Firearms suitable for
sporting use or as museum pieces or collectors’ items may be sold at public
auction pursuant to division (B)(2) of this section. The Police Department may
sell other firearms and dangerous ordnance to a federally licensed firearms
dealer in a manner that the court considers proper. The Police Department shall
destroy any firearms or dangerous ordnance not given to a law enforcement
agency or sold or shall send them to the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation for destruction by the Bureau.
         (c)   Obscene materials shall be destroyed.
         (d)   Beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol seized from a person who
does not hold a permit issued under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303 or otherwise
forfeited to the state for an offense under R.C. § 4301.45 or R.C. § 4301.53
shall be sold by the Division of Liquor Control if the Division determines that
it is fit for sale or shall be placed in the custody of the Investigations Unit
in the Ohio Department of Public Safety and be used for training relating to
law enforcement activities. The Ohio Department of Public Safety, with the
assistance of the Division of Liquor Control, shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 to provide for the distribution to state or local law
enforcement agencies upon their request. If any tax imposed under R.C. Title 43
has not been paid in relation to the beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol, any
moneys acquired from the sale shall first be used to pay the tax. All other
money collected under this division (B)(1)(d) shall be paid into the State
Treasury. Any beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol that the Division
determines to be unfit for sale shall be destroyed.
         (e)   Money received by an inmate of a correctional institution from
an unauthorized source or in an unauthorized manner shall be returned to the
sender, if known, or deposited in the Inmates’ Industrial and Entertainment
Fund of the institution if the sender is not known.
         (f)   1.   Any mobile instrumentality forfeited under R.C. Chapter
2981 may be given to the law enforcement agency that initially seized the
mobile instrumentality for use in performing its duties, if the agency wants
the mobile instrumentality. The agency shall take the mobile instrumentality
subject to any security interest or lien on the mobile instrumentality.
            2.   Vehicles and vehicle parts forfeited under R.C. §§ 4549.61 to
4549.63 may be given to a law enforcement agency for use in performing its
duties. Those parts may be incorporated into any other official vehicle. Parts
that do not bear vehicle identification numbers or derivatives of them may be
sold or disposed of as provided by rules of the Director of Public Safety.
Parts from which a vehicle identification number or derivative of it has been
removed, defaced, covered, altered, or destroyed and that are not suitable for
police work or incorporation into an official vehicle shall be destroyed and
sold as junk or scrap.
         (g)   Computers, computer networks, computer systems, and computer
software suitable for police work may be given to a law enforcement agency for
that purpose or disposed of under division (B)(2) of this section.
         (h)   Money seized in connection with a violation of R.C. § 2905.32,
2907.21, or 2907.22 shall be deposited in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund
created by R.C. § 5101.87.
      (2)   Unclaimed or forfeited property that is not described in division
(B)(1) of this section or division (A)(1)(b) of this section, with court
approval, may be used by the law enforcement agency in possession of it. If it
is not used by the agency, it may be sold without appraisal at a public auction
to the highest bidder for cash or disposed of in another manner that the court
considers proper.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(5) of this section
and after compliance with division (B)(4) of this section when applicable, any
moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of pursuant to this section
shall be placed in the General Revenue Fund of the state, or the General Fund
of the municipality.
      (4)   If the property was in the possession of the Police Department in
relation to a delinquent child proceeding in a juvenile court, 10% of any
moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of under this section shall
be applied to one or more community addiction services providers, as defined in
R.C. § 5119.01. A juvenile court shall not specify a services provider, except
as provided in this division, unless the services provider is in the same
county as the court or in a contiguous county. If no services provider is
located in any of those counties, the juvenile court may specify a services
provider anywhere in Ohio. The remaining 90% of the proceeds or cash shall be
applied as provided in division (B)(3) of this section.
      (5)   (a)   If the Board of County Commissioners recognizes a citizens’
reward program under R.C. § 9.92, the Board shall notify the Police Department
of the recognition by filing a copy of its resolution conferring that
recognition with the Police Department. When the Board recognizes a citizens’
reward program and the county includes a part, but not all, of the territory of
the municipality, the Board shall so notify the Police Department of the
recognition of the citizens’ reward program only if the county contains the
highest percentage of the municipality’s population.
         (b)   Upon being so notified, the Police Department shall pay 25% of
any forfeited proceeds or cash derived from each sale of property disposed of
pursuant to this section to the citizens’ reward program for use exclusively to
pay rewards. No part of the funds may be used to pay expenses associated with
the program. If a citizens’ reward program that operates in more than one
county or in another state in addition to this state receives funds under this
section, the funds shall be used to pay rewards only for tips and information
to law enforcement agencies concerning offenses committed in the county from
which the funds were received.
      (6)   Any property forfeited under R.C. Chapter 2981 not be used to pay
any fine imposed upon a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to an
underlying criminal offense or a different offense arising out of the same
facts and circumstances.
      (7)   Any moneys acquired from the sale of personal effects, tools, or
other property seized because the personal effects, tools, or other property
were used in the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2905.32, 2907.21, or
2907.22 or derived from the proceeds of the commission of a violation of R.C. §
2905.32, 2907.21, or 2907.22 and disposed of pursuant to this division (B)
shall be placed in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund created by R.C. §
5101.87.
(R.C. § 2981.12)
   (C)   Disposition of contraband, proceeds, or instrumentalities. Except as
otherwise provided in R.C. § 2981.13, property ordered forfeited as contraband,
proceeds, or an instrumentality pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2981 shall be disposed
of, used, or sold pursuant to division (B) of this section or R.C. § 2981.12.
If the property is to be sold under division (B) of this section or R.C. §
2981.12, the prosecutor shall cause notice of the proposed sale to be given in
accordance with law.
(R.C. § 2981.13(A))
(Prior Code, § 606.24)
Statutory reference:
   Forfeiture of property generally, see R.C. Chapter 2981
§ 130.18 IMPOSING SENTENCE FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   (A)   (1)   Unless a mandatory jail term is required to be imposed by R.C. §
1547.99(G), 4510.14(B), or 4511.19(G), or any other provision of the Ohio
Revised Code, or any municipal ordinance, a court that imposes a sentence under
this chapter upon an offender for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor has
discretion to determine the most effective way to achieve the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in §
130.99(B).
      (2)   Unless a specific sanction is required to be imposed or is
precluded from being imposed by the section setting forth an offense or the
penalty for an offense or by any provision of §
130.99 or
133.99 of this code or R.C. §§ 2929.23 through 2929.28, a court that imposes a
sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor may impose on the offender any
sanction or combination of sanctions under §
130.99(C) through (G). The court shall not impose a sentence that imposes an
unnecessary burden on local government resources.
   (B)   (1)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, the
court shall consider all of the following factors:
         (a)   The nature and circumstances of the offense or offenses;
         (b)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender has a history of persistent criminal
activity and that the offender’s character and condition reveal a substantial
risk that the offender will commit another offense;
         (c)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender’s history, character, and condition
reveal a substantial risk that the offender will be a danger to others and that
the offender’s conduct has been characterized by a pattern of repetitive,
compulsive, or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences;
         (d)   Whether the victim’s youth, age, disability, or other factor
made the victim particularly vulnerable to the offense or made the impact of
the offense more serious;
         (e)   Whether the offender is likely to commit future crimes in
general, in addition to the circumstances described in divisions (B)(1)(b) and
(B)(1)(c) of this section;
         (f)   Whether the offender has an emotional, mental, or physical
condition that is traceable to the offender’s service in the armed forces of
the United States and that was a contributing factor in the offender’s
commission of the offense or offenses;
         (g)   The offender’s military service record.
      (2)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, in
addition to complying with division (B)(1) of this section, the court may
consider any other factors that are relevant to achieving the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in §
130.99(B).
   (C)   Before imposing a jail term as a sentence for a misdemeanor, a court
shall consider the appropriateness of imposing a community control sanction or
a combination of community control sanctions under §
130.99(D), (E), (F), and (G). A court may impose the longest jail term
authorized under §
130.99(C) only upon offenders who commit the worst forms of the offense or upon
offenders whose conduct and response to prior sanctions for prior offenses
demonstrate that the imposition of the longest jail term is necessary to deter
the offender from committing a future crime.
   (D)   (1)   A sentencing court shall consider any relevant oral or written
statement made by the victim, the defendant, the defense attorney, or the
prosecuting authority regarding sentencing for a misdemeanor. This division
does not create any rights to notice other than those rights authorized by R.C.
Chapter 2930.
      (2)   At the time of sentencing for a misdemeanor or as soon as possible
after sentencing, the court shall notify the victim of the offense of the
victim’s right to file an application for an award of reparations pursuant to
R.C. §§ 2743.51 through 2743.72.
(R.C. § 2929.22) (Prior Code, § 698.03)
§ 130.19 MULTIPLE SENTENCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, R.C. § 2929.14(C),
or R.C. § 2971.03(D) or (E), a prison term, jail term, or sentence of
imprisonment shall be served concurrently with any other prison term, jail
term, or sentence of imprisonment imposed by a court of this municipality, this
state, another state, or the United States. Except as provided in division (B)
(2) of this section, a jail term or sentence of imprisonment for misdemeanor
shall be served concurrently with a prison term or sentence of imprisonment for
felony served in a state or federal correctional institution.
   (B)   (1)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment for a misdemeanor shall
be served consecutively to any other prison term, jail term, or sentence of
imprisonment when the trial court specifies that it is to be served
consecutively or when it is imposed for a misdemeanor violation of R.C. §
2907.322, 2921.34 or 2923.131. When consecutive sentences are imposed for
misdemeanors under this division, the term to be served is the aggregate of the
consecutive terms imposed, except that the aggregate term to be served shall
not exceed 18 months.
      (2)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment imposed for a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.14, 4510.16, 4510.21, or 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be served consecutively to
a prison term that is imposed for a felony violation of R.C. § 2903.06,
2903.07, 2903.08 or 4511.19 or a felony violation of R.C. § 2903.04 involving
the operation of a motor vehicle by the offender and that is served in a state
correctional institution when the trial court specifies that it is to be served
consecutively. When consecutive jail terms or sentences of imprisonment and
prison terms are imposed for one or more misdemeanors and one or more felonies
under this division, the term to be served is the aggregate of the consecutive
terms imposed, and the offender shall serve all terms imposed for a felony
before serving any term imposed for a misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2929.41) (Prior Code, § 698.05)
§ 130.20 APPREHENSION, DETENTION, OR ARREST OF PERSONS ON BOND.
   (A)   No person, other than a law enforcement officer, shall apprehend,
detain, or arrest a principal on bond, wherever issued, unless that person
meets all of the following criteria:
      (1)   The person is any of the following:
         (a)   Qualified, licensed, and appointed as a surety bail bond agent
under R.C. §§ 3905.83 through 3905.95;
         (b)   Licensed as a surety bail bond agent by the state where the bond
was written;
         (c)   Licensed as a private investigator under R.C. Chapter 4749;
         (d)   Licensed as a private investigator by the state where the bond
was written;
         (e)   An off-duty peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2921.51.
      (2)   The person, prior to apprehending, detaining, or arresting the
principal, has entered into a written contract with the surety or with a
licensed surety bail bond agent appointed by the surety, which contract sets
forth the name of the principal who is to be apprehended, detained, or
arrested. For purposes of this division (A)(2), SURETY has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 3905.83.
      (3)   The person, prior to apprehending, detaining, or arresting the
principal, has notified the local law enforcement agency having jurisdiction
over the area in which such activities will be performed and has provided any
form or identification or other information requested by the law enforcement
agency.
   (B)   No person shall represent the person’s self to be a bail enforcement
agent or bounty hunter, or claim any similar title, in this municipality.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal bail bond agent
practices.
      (1)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of division (A) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of division (B) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.27)
§ 130.21 SELF DEFENSE: LIMITATIONS ON DUTY TO RETREAT PRIOR TO USING FORCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, RESIDENCE has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2901.05.
   (B)   For purposes of any section of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, a person has no duty to retreat before using force in self-defense,
defense of another, or defense of that person’s residence if that person is in
a place in which the person lawfully has a right to be.
   (C)   A trier of fact shall not consider the possibility of retreat as a
factor in determining whether or not a person who used force in self-defense,
defense of another, or defense of that person’s residence reasonably believed
that the force was necessary to prevent injury, loss, or risk to life or
safety.
(R.C. § 2901.09) (Prior Code, § 606.30)
§ 130.99 PENALTY FOR TITLE XIII.
   (A)   Generally. Except where otherwise specifically classified within the
body of the section of a chapter of this title, a violation of such section
shall be deemed a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a fine of not more
than $500, imprisonment of not more than six months, or both.
(R.C. § 715.67)
   (B)   Considerations in misdemeanor sentencing.
      (1)   A court that sentences an offender for a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, or of any
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, shall be guided
by the overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing. The overriding purposes
of misdemeanor sentencing are to protect the public from future crime by the
offender and others and to punish the offender. To achieve those purposes, the
sentencing court shall consider the impact of the offense upon the victim and
the need for changing the offender’s behavior, rehabilitating the defender, and
making restitution to the victim of the offense, the public, or the victim and
the public.
      (2)   A sentence imposed for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation
of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a violation of a municipal ordinance
that is subject to division (B)(1) of this section shall be reasonably
calculated to achieve the two overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing set
forth in division (B)(1) of this section, commensurate with and not demeaning
to the seriousness of the offender’s conduct and its impact upon the victim,
and consistent with sentences imposed for similar offenses committed by similar
offenders.
      (3)   A court that imposes a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor
or minor misdemeanor violation of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a
violation of a municipal ordinance that is subject to division (B)(1) of this
section shall not base the sentence upon the race, ethnic background, gender,
or religion of the offender.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) of this section shall not apply to any
offense that is disposed of by a traffic violations bureau of any court
pursuant to Traffic Rule 13 and shall not apply to any violation of any
provision of the Ohio Revised Code that is a minor misdemeanor and that is
disposed of without a court appearance. Divisions (B)(1) through (B)(3) of this
section do not affect any penalties established by the municipality for a
violation of its ordinances that are not substantially equivalent to a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised
Code.
(R.C. § 2929.21)
   (C)   Misdemeanor jail terms.
      (1)   Except as provided in §
130.18 or 133.99 of this code or R.C. § 2929.22 or 2929.23 or division (C)(5)
or (C)(6) of this section and unless another term is required or authorized
pursuant to law, if the sentencing court imposing a sentence upon an offender
for a misdemeanor elects or is required to impose a jail term on the offender
pursuant to this chapter, the court shall impose a definite jail term that
shall be one of the following:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than 180 days;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than 90 days;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than 60 days;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than 30 days.
      (2)   (a)   A court that sentences an offender to a jail term under
division (C) of this section may permit the offender to serve the sentence in
intermittent confinement or may authorize a limited release of the offender as
provided in division (E)(2) of this section. The court retains jurisdiction
over every offender sentenced to jail to modify the jail sentence imposed at
any time, but the court shall not reduce any mandatory jail term.
         (b)   1.   If a prosecutor, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01, has filed a
notice with the court that the prosecutor wants to be notified about a
particular case and if the court is considering modifying the jail sentence of
the offender in that case, the court shall notify the prosecutor that the court
is considering modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case. The
prosecutor may request a hearing regarding the court’s consideration of
modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, and, if the
prosecutor requests a hearing, the court shall notify the eligible offender of
the hearing.
            2.   If the prosecutor requests a hearing regarding the court’s
consideration of modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, the
court shall hold the hearing before considering whether or not to release the
offender from the offender’s jail sentence.
      (3)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under division (C)
of this section and the court assigns the offender to a county jail that has
established a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30, the
court shall specify, as part of the sentence, whether the offender may be
considered for participation in the program. During the offender’s term in the
county jail, the court retains jurisdiction to modify its specification
regarding the offender’s participation in the county jail industry program.
      (4)   If a person sentenced to a jail term pursuant to division (C) of
this section, the court may impose as part of the sentence pursuant to R.C. §
2929.28 a reimbursement sanction, and, if the local detention facility in which
the term is to be served is covered by a policy adopted pursuant to R.C. §
307.93, 341.14, 341.19, 341.21, 341.23, 753.02, 753.04, 753.16, 2301.56, or
2947.19 and R.C. § 2929.37, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The court shall specify both of the following as part of the
sentence:
            1.   If the person is presented with an itemized bill pursuant to
R.C. § 2929.37 for payment of the costs of confinement, the person is required
to pay the bill in accordance with that section.
            2.   If the person does not dispute the bill described in division
(C)(4)(a)1. of this section and does not pay the bill by the times specified in
R.C. § 2929.37, the clerk of the court may issue a certificate of judgment
against the person as described in that section.
         (b)   The sentence automatically includes any certificate of judgment
issued as described in division (C)(4)(a)2. of this section.
      (5)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation
of R.C. § 4511.19(B), or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, also
is convicted of or also pleads guilty to a specification of the type described
in R.C. § 2941.1414 and if the court imposes a jail term on the offender for
the underlying offense, the court shall impose upon the offender an additional
definite jail term of not more than six months. The additional jail term shall
not be reduced pursuant to any provision of the Ohio Revised Code. The offender
shall serve the additional jail term consecutively to and prior to the jail
term imposed for the underlying offense and consecutively to any other
mandatory term imposed in relation to the offense.
      (6)   (a)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and to a specification of the
type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 and if the court imposes a jail term on the
offender for the misdemeanor violation, the court may impose upon the offender
an additional definite jail term as follows:
            1.   Subject to division (C)(6)(a)2. of this section, an additional
definite jail term of not more than 60 days;
            2.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one or more misdemeanor or felony violations of R.C. § 2907.22,
2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and also was convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 regarding one or more
of those violations, an additional definite jail term of not more than 120
days.
         (b)   In lieu of imposing an additional definite jail term under
division (C)(6)(a) of this section, the court may directly impose on the
offender a sanction that requires the offender to wear a real-time processing,
continual tracking electronic monitoring device during the period of time
specified by the court. The period of time specified by the court shall equal
the duration of an additional jail term that the court could have imposed upon
the offender under division (C)(6)(a) of this section. A sanction imposed under
this division shall commence on the date specified by the court, provided that
the sanction shall not commence until after the offender has served the jail
term imposed for the misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24,
2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
any residential sanction imposed for the violation under division (E) of this
section or R.C. § 2929.26. A sanction imposed under this division shall be
considered to be a community control sanction for purposes of division (D) or
this section or R.C. § 2929.25, and all provisions of this code and the Ohio
Revised Code that pertain to community control sanctions shall apply to a
sanction imposed under this division, except to the extent that they would by
their nature be clearly inapplicable. The offender shall pay all costs
associated with a sanction imposed under this division, including the cost of
the use of the monitoring device.
      (7)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1423 that charges that the
victim of the violation was a woman whom the offender knew was pregnant at the
time of the violation, the court shall impose on the offender a mandatory jail
term that is a definite term of at least 30 days.
      (8)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under this division
(C), the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender and the jail
term. Upon motion of either party or upon the court’s own motion, the court, in
the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may substitute
one or more community control sanctions under division (E) or (F) of this
section for any jail days that are not mandatory jail days.
(R.C. § 2929.24)
   (D)   Misdemeanor community control sanctions.
      (1)   (a)   Except as provided in §§
130.18 and
133.99 of this code or R.C. §§ 2929.22 and 2929.23 or when a jail term is
required by law, in sentencing an offender for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, the sentencing court may do either of the following:
            1.   Directly impose a sentence that consists of one or more
community control sanctions authorized by divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this
section. The court may impose any other conditions of release under a community
control sanction that the court considers appropriate. If the court imposes a
jail term upon the offender, the court may impose any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions in addition to the jail
term.
            2.   Impose a jail term under division (C) of this section from the
range of jail terms authorized under that division for the offense, suspend all
or a portion of the jail term imposed, and place the offender under a community
control sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this section.
         (b)   The duration of all community control sanctions imposed upon an
offender and in effect for an offender at any time shall not exceed five years.
         (c)   At sentencing, if a court directly imposes a community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)
(1)(a)1. of this section, the court shall state the duration of the community
control sanctions imposed and shall notify the offender that if any of the
conditions of the community control sanctions are violated the court may do any
of the following:
            1.   Impose a longer time under the same community control sanction
if the total time under all of the offender’s community control sanctions does
not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this section;
            2.   Impose a more restrictive community control sanction under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, but the court is not required to
impose any particular sanction or sanctions;
            3.   Impose a definite jail term from the range of jail terms
authorized for the offense under division (C) of this section.
      (2)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control sanction
or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)(1)(a)1.
of this section, the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender
and the period of community control for the duration of the period of community
control. Upon the motion of either party or on the court’s own motion, the
court, in the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may
modify the community control sanctions or conditions of release previously
imposed, substitute a community control sanction or condition of release for
another community control sanction or condition of release previously imposed,
or impose an additional community control sanction or condition of release.
      (3)   (a)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, the court shall place the offender
under the general control and supervision of the court or of a department of
probation in the jurisdiction that serves the court for purposes of reporting
to the court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. If
the offender resides in another jurisdiction and a department of probation has
been established to serve the municipal court or county court in that
jurisdiction, the sentencing court may request the municipal court or the
county court to receive the offender into the general control and supervision
of that department of probation for purposes of reporting to the sentencing
court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. The
sentencing court retains jurisdiction over any offender whom it sentences for
the duration of the sanction or sanctions imposed.
         (b)   The sentencing court shall require as a condition of any
community control sanction that the offender abide by the law and not leave the
state without the permission of the court or the offender’s probation officer.
In the interests of doing justice, rehabilitating the offender, and ensuring
the offender’s good behavior, the court may impose additional requirements on
the offender. The offender’s compliance with the additional requirements also
shall be a condition of the community control sanction imposed upon the
offender.
      (4)   (a)   If the court imposing sentence upon an offender sentences the
offender to any community control sanction or combination of community control
sanctions authorized under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, and the
offender violates any of the conditions of the sanctions, the public or private
person or entity that supervises or administers the program or activity that
comprises the sanction shall report the violation directly to the sentencing
court or to the department of probation or probation officer with general
control and supervision over the offender. If the public or private person or
entity reports the violation to the department of probation or probation
officer, the department or officer shall report the violation to the sentencing
court.
         (b)   If an offender violates any condition of a community control
sanction, the sentencing court may impose upon the violator one or more of the
following penalties:
            1.   A longer time under the same community control sanction if the
total time under all of the community control sanctions imposed on the violator
does not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this
section;
            2.   A more restrictive community control sanction;
            3.   A combination of community control sanctions, including a jail
term.
         (c)   If an offender was acting pursuant to R.C. § 2925.11(B)(2)(b),
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and in so doing violated
the conditions of a community control sanction based on a minor drug possession
offense, as defined in R.C. § 2925.11, the sentencing court may consider the
offender’s conduct in seeking or obtaining medical assistance for another in
good faith or for self or may consider the offender being the subject of
another person seeking or obtaining medical assistance in accordance with that
division as a mitigating factor before imposing any of the penalties described
in division (D)(4)(b) of this section.
         (d)   If the court imposes a jail term upon a violator pursuant to
division (D)(4)(b) of this section, the total time spent in jail for the
misdemeanor offense and the violation of a condition of the community control
sanction shall not exceed the maximum jail term available for the offense for
which the sanction that was violated was imposed. The court may reduce the
longer period of time that the violator is required to spend under the longer
sanction or the more restrictive sanction imposed under division (D)(4)(b) of
this section by all or part of the time the violator successfully spent under
the sanction that was initially imposed.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if an offender, for
a significant period of time, fulfills the conditions of a community control
sanction imposed pursuant to division (E), (F), or (G) of this section in an
exemplary manner, the court may reduce the period of time under the community
control sanction or impose a less restrictive community control sanction.
Fulfilling the conditions of a community control sanction does not relieve the
offender of a duty to make restitution under division (G) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.25)
   (E)   Community residential sanction.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any community residential sanction or combination of
community residential sanctions under this division (E). Community residential
sanctions include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   A term of up to 180 days in a halfway house or a term in a
halfway house not to exceed the longest jail term available for the offense,
whichever is shorter, if the political subdivision that would have
responsibility for paying the costs of confining the offender in a jail has
entered into a contract with the halfway house for use of the facility for
misdemeanor offenders;
         (b)   If the offender is an eligible offender, as defined in R.C. §
307.932, a term in a community alternative sentencing center or district
community alternative sentencing center established and operated in accordance
with that section, in the circumstances specified in that section, with one of
the conditions of the sanction being that the offender successfully complete
the portion of the sentence to be served in the center.
      (2)   A sentence to a community residential sanction under division (E)
(1)(b) of this section shall be in accordance with R.C. § 307.932. In all other
cases, the court that sentences an offender to a community residential sanction
under this division (E) may do either or both of the following:
         (a)   Permit the offender to serve the offender’s sentence in
intermittent confinement, overnight, on weekends or at any other time or times
that will allow the offender to continue at the offender’s occupation or care
for the offender’s family;
         (b)   Authorize the offender to be released so that the offender may
seek or maintain employment, receive education or training, receive treatment,
perform community service, or otherwise fulfill an obligation imposed by law or
by the court. A release pursuant to this division shall be only for the
duration of time that is needed to fulfill the purpose of the release and for
travel that reasonably is necessary to fulfill the purposes of release.
      (3)   The court may order that a reasonable portion of the income earned
by the offender upon a release pursuant to division (E)(2) of this section be
applied to any financial sanction imposed under division (G) of this section.
      (4)   No court shall sentence any person to a prison term for a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor or to a jail term for a minor misdemeanor.
      (5)   If a court sentences a person who has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a misdemeanor to a community residential sanction as described in
division (E)(1) of this section, at the time of reception and at other times
the person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place at which the offender will serve the residential
sanction determines to be appropriate, the person in charge of the operation of
the halfway house, community alternative sentencing center, district community
alternative sentencing center, or other place may cause the convicted offender
to be examined and tested for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis, including
but not limited to hepatitis A, B, and C, and other contagious diseases. The
person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community alternative
sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing center, or other
place at which the offender will serve the residential sanction may cause a
convicted offender in the halfway house, community alternative sentencing
center, district community alternative sentencing center, or other place who
refuses to be tested or treated for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis,
including but not limited to hepatitis A, B, and C, or another contagious
disease to be tested and treated involuntarily.
      (6)   The municipality may enter into a contract with a halfway house for
use of the halfway house to house misdemeanor offenders under a sanction
imposed under division (E)(1)(a) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.26)
   (F)   Nonresidential sanction where jail term is not mandatory.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any nonresidential sanction or combination of
nonresidential sanctions authorized under this division. Nonresidential
sanctions include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   A term of day reporting;
         (b)   A term of house arrest with electronic monitoring or continuous
alcohol monitoring or both electronic monitoring and continuous alcohol
monitoring, a term of electronic monitoring or continuous alcohol monitoring
without house arrest, or a term of house arrest without electronic monitoring
or continuous alcohol monitoring;
         (c)   A term of community service of up to 500 hours for misdemeanor
of the first degree or 200 hours for a misdemeanor of the second, third, or
fourth degree;
         (d)   A term in a drug treatment program with a level of security for
the offender as determined necessary by the court;
         (e)   A term of intensive probation supervision;
         (f)   A term of basic probation supervision;
         (g)   A term of monitored time;
         (h)   A term of drug and alcohol use monitoring, including random drug
testing;
         (i)   A curfew term;
         (j)   A requirement that the offender obtain employment;
         (k)   A requirement that the offender obtain education or training;
         (l)   Provided the court obtains the prior approval of the victim, a
requirement that the offender participate in victim-offender mediation;
         (m)   If authorized by law, suspension of the offender’s privilege to
operate a motor vehicle, immobilization or forfeiture of the offender’s motor
vehicle, a requirement that the offender obtain a valid motor vehicle
operator’s license, or any other related sanction;
         (n)   A requirement that the offender obtain counseling if the offense
is a violation of R.C. § 2919.25 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance or a violation of R.C. § 2903.13 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance involving a person who was a family or household member at
the time of the violation, if the offender committed the offense in the
vicinity of one or more children who are not victims of the offense, and if the
offender or the victim of the offense is a parent, guardian, custodian, or
person in loco parentis of one or more of those children. This division does
not limit the court in requiring that the offender obtain counseling for any
offense or in any circumstance not specified in this division.
      (2)   If the court imposes a term of community service pursuant to
division (F)(1)(c) of this section, the offender may request that the court
modify the sentence to authorize the offender to make a reasonable
contribution, as determined by the court, to the general fund of the county,
municipality, or other local entity that provides funding to the court. The
court may grant the request if the offender demonstrates a change in
circumstances from the date the court imposes the sentence or that the
modification would otherwise be in the interests of justice. If the court
grants the request, the offender shall make a reasonable contribution to the
court, and the clerk of the court shall deposit that contribution into the
general fund of the county, municipality, or other local entity that provides
funding to the court. If more than one entity provides funding to the court,
the clerk shall deposit a percentage of the reasonable contribution equal to
the percentage of funding the entity provides to the court in that entity’s
general fund.
      (3)   In addition to the sanctions authorized under division (F)(1) of
this section, the court imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, upon an offender who is not required to serve a mandatory
jail term may impose any other sanction that is intended to discourage the
offender or other persons from committing a similar offense if the sanction is
reasonably related to the overriding purposes and principles of misdemeanor
sentencing.
      (4)   The court imposing a sentence for a minor misdemeanor may impose a
term of community service in lieu of all or part of a fine. The term of
community service imposed for a minor misdemeanor shall not exceed 30 hours.
After imposing a term of community service, the court may modify the sentence
to authorize a reasonable contribution, as determined by the court, to the
appropriate general fund as provided in division (F)(2) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.27)
   (G)   Financial sanctions.
      (1)   In addition to imposing court costs pursuant to R.C. § 2947.23, the
court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor, including a minor
misdemeanor, may sentence the offender to any financial sanction or combination
of financial sanctions authorized under this division (G). If the court in its
discretion imposes one or more financial sanctions, the financial sanctions
that may be imposed pursuant to this section include but are not limited to the
following:
         (a)   Restitution.
            1.   Unless the misdemeanor offense is a minor misdemeanor or could
be disposed of by the Traffic Violations Bureau serving the court under Traffic
Rule 13, restitution by the offender to the victim of the offender’s crime or
any survivor of the victim, in an amount based upon the victim’s economic loss.
The court may not impose restitution as a sanction pursuant to this division if
the offense is a minor misdemeanor or could be disposed of by the Traffic
Violations Bureau serving the court under Traffic Rule 13. If the court
requires restitution, the court shall order that the restitution be made to the
victim in open court or to the adult probation department that serves the
jurisdiction or the clerk of the court on behalf of the victim.
            2.   If the court imposes restitution, the court shall determine
the amount of restitution to be paid by the offender. If the court imposes
restitution, the court may base the amount of restitution it orders on an
amount recommended by the victim, the offender, a presentence investigation
report, estimates or receipts indicating the cost of repairing or replacing
property, and other information, provided that the amount the court orders as
restitution shall not exceed the amount of economic loss suffered by the victim
as a direct and proximate result of the commission of the offense. If the court
imposes restitution for the cost of accounting or auditing done to determine
the extent of economic loss, the court may order restitution for any amount of
the victim’s costs of accounting or auditing provided that the amount of
restitution is reasonable and does not exceed the value of property or services
stolen or damaged as a result of the offense. If the court decides to impose
restitution, the court shall hold an evidentiary hearing on restitution if the
offender, victim, or survivor disputes the amount of restitution. If the court
holds an evidentiary hearing, at the hearing the victim or survivor has the
burden to prove by a preponderance of the evidence the amount of restitution
sought from the offender.
            3.   All restitution payments shall be credited against any
recovery of economic loss in a civil action brought by the victim or any
survivor of the victim against the offender. No person may introduce evidence
of an award of restitution under this section in a civil action for purposes of
imposing liability against an insurer under R.C. § 3937.18.
            4.   If the court imposes restitution, the court may order that the
offender pay a surcharge, of not more than 5% of the amount of the restitution
otherwise ordered, to the entity responsible for collecting and processing
restitution payments.
            5.   The victim or survivor of the victim may request that the
prosecutor in the case file a motion, or the offender may file a motion, for
modification of the payment terms of any restitution ordered. If the court
grants the motion, it may modify the payment terms as it determines
appropriate.
         (b)   Fines. A fine of the type described in divisions (G)(1)(b)1. and
(G)(1)(b)2. of this section payable to the appropriate entity as required by
law:
            1.   A fine in the following amount:
               a.   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than
$1,000;
               b.   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $750;
               c.   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $500;
               d.   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $250;
               e.   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $150.
            2.   A state fine or cost as defined in R.C. § 2949.111.
         (c)   Reimbursement.
            1.   Reimbursement by the offender of any or all of the costs of
sanctions incurred by the government, including but not limited to the
following:
               a.   All or part of the costs of implementing any community
control sanction, including a supervision fee under R.C. § 2951.021;
               b.   All or part of the costs of confinement in a jail or other
residential facility, including but not limited to a per diem fee for room and
board, the costs of medical and dental treatment, and the costs of repairing
property damaged by the offender while confined;
               c.   All or part of the cost of purchasing and using an
immobilizing or disabling device, including a certified ignition interlock
device, or a remote alcohol monitoring device that a court orders an offender
to use under R.C. § 4510.13.
            2.   The amount of reimbursement under division (G)(1)(c)1. of this
section shall not exceed the total amount of reimbursement the offender is able
to pay and shall not exceed the actual cost of the sanctions. The court may
collect any amount of reimbursement the offender is required to pay under that
division. If the court does not order reimbursement under that division,
confinement costs may be assessed pursuant to a repayment policy adopted under
R.C. § 2929.37. In addition, the offender may be required to pay the fees
specified in R.C. § 2929.38 in accordance with that section.   
      (2)   (a)   If the court determines a hearing is necessary, the court may
hold a hearing to determine whether the offender is able to pay the financial
sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G) or court costs or is likely in
the future to be able to pay the sanction or costs.
         (b)   If the court determines that the offender is indigent and unable
to pay the financial sanction or court costs, the court shall consider imposing
and may impose a term of community service under division (F)(1) of this
section in lieu of imposing a financial sanction or court costs. If the court
does not determine that the offender is indigent, the court may impose a term
of community service under division (F)(1) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this division (G) and in
addition to imposing court costs. The court may order community service for a
minor misdemeanor pursuant to division (F)(4) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this section and in addition to
imposing court costs. If a person fails to pay a financial sanction or court
costs, the court may order community service in lieu of the financial sanction
or court costs.
      (3)   (a)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the
offender pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs
incurred by a county pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F),
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the county
treasurer. The county treasurer shall deposit the reimbursements in the
county’s General Fund. The county shall use the amounts deposited in the fund
to pay the costs incurred by the county pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (b)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the offender
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs incurred by a
municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F),
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the
treasurer of the municipal corporation. The treasurer shall deposit the
reimbursements in the municipal corporation’s General Fund. The municipal
corporation shall use the amounts deposited in the fund to pay the costs
incurred by the municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (c)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(c) of this section for the costs incurred by a private provider
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section
to the provider.
      (4)   In addition to any other fine that is or may be imposed under this
division (G), the court imposing sentence upon an offender for misdemeanor
domestic violence or menacing by stalking may impose a fine of not less than
$70 nor more than $500, which shall be transmitted to the Treasurer of Ohio to
be credited to the address confidentiality program fund created by R.C. §
111.48.
      (5)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (G)(5), a
financial sanction imposed under division (G)(1) of this section is a judgment
in favor of the state or the political subdivision that operates the court that
imposed the financial sanction, and the offender subject to the financial
sanction is the judgment debtor. A financial sanction of reimbursement imposed
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.a. of this section upon an offender is a
judgment in favor of the entity administering the community control sanction,
and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the judgment debtor. A
financial sanction of reimbursement imposed pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.b.
of this section upon an offender confined in a jail or other residential
facility is a judgment in favor of the entity operating the jail or other
residential facility, and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the
judgment debtor. A financial sanction of restitution imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(a) of this section is an order in favor of the victim of the
offender’s criminal act that can be collected through a certificate of judgment
as described in division (G)(5)(b)1. of this section, through execution as
described in division (G)(5)(b)2. of this section or through an order as
described in division (G)(5)(b)3. of this section and the offender shall be
considered for purposes of the collection as a judgment debtor.
         (b)   Once a financial sanction is imposed as a judgment or order
under this division, the victim, private provider, state, or political
subdivision may do any of the following:
            1.   Obtain from the clerk of the court in which the judgment was
entered a certificate of judgment that shall be in the same manner and form as
a certificate of judgment issued in a civil action;
            2.   Obtain execution of the judgment or order through any
available procedure, including any of the procedures identified in R.C. §
2929.18(D)(1) and (D)(2) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            3.   Obtain an order for the assignment of wages of the judgment
debtor under R.C. § 1321.33 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (6)   The civil remedies authorized under division (G)(5) of this section
for the collection of the financial sanction supplement, but do not preclude,
enforcement of the criminal sentence.
      (7)   Each court imposing a financial sanction upon an offender under
this division (G) may designate the clerk of the court or another person to
collect the financial sanction. The clerk, or another person authorized by law
or the court to collect the financial sanction may do the following:
         (a)   Enter into contracts with one or more public agencies or private
vendors for the collection of amounts due under the sanction. Before entering
into a contract for the collection of amounts due from an offender pursuant to
any financial sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G), a court shall
comply with R.C. §§ 307.86 through 307.92.
         (b)   Permit payment of all or any portion of the sanction in
installments, by financial transaction device if the court is a county court or
a municipal court operated by a county, or by any other reasonable method, in
any time, and on any terms that the court considers just, except that the
maximum time permitted for payment shall not exceed five years. If the court is
a county court or a municipal court operated by a county, the acceptance of
payments by any financial transaction device shall be governed by the policy
adopted by the board of county commissioners of the county pursuant to R.C. §
301.28. If the court is a municipal court not operated by a county, the clerk
may pay any fee associated with processing an electronic transfer out of public
money or may charge the fee to the offender.
         (c)   To defray administrative costs, charge a reasonable fee to an
offender who elects a payment plan rather than a lump sum payment of any
financial sanction.
      (8)   No financial sanction imposed under this division (G) shall
preclude a victim from bringing a civil action against the offender.
(R.C. § 2929.28)
(Prior Code, § 698.02)
   (H)   Organizational penalties.
      (1)   Regardless of the other penalties provided in this section, an
organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
130.09 shall be fined by the court as follows:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than $5,000;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $4,000;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $3,000;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $2,000;
         (e)   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $1,000;
         (f)   For a misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more than
$2,000;
         (g)   For a minor misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more
than $1,000.
      (2)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the section defining the offense or penalty plainly indicates a
purpose to impose the penalty provided for violation upon organizations, then
such penalty shall be imposed in lieu of the penalty provided in this section.
      (3)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the penalty provided includes a higher fine than that provided
in this section, then the penalty imposed shall be pursuant to the penalty
provided for violation of the section defining the offense.
      (4)   This section does not prevent the imposition of available civil
sanctions against an organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
130.09, either in addition to or in lieu of a fine imposed pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2929.31) (Prior Code, § 698.04)
Statutory reference:
   Citation issuance and limitations on arrest for minor misdemeanors, see R.C.
§ 2935.26
   Crime Victim’s Reparations Fund, see R.C. § 2929.32
   Habitual sex offender and sexual predator registration, see R.C. Chapter
2950
   Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
   Reports to health care licensing boards of criminal offenses, see R.C. §
2929.42
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Arson; determining property value or amount of physical harm
   
131.03   Criminal damaging or endangering; vehicular vandalism
   
131.04   Criminal mischief
   
131.05   Damaging or endangering aircraft or airport operations
   
131.06   Criminal trespass; aggravated trespass
   
131.07   Tampering with coin machines
   
131.08   Theft
   
131.09   Unauthorized use of a vehicle
   
131.10   Unauthorized use of property, including telecommunication property and
computers; possession of municipal property
   
131.11   Passing bad checks
   
131.12   Misuse of credit cards
   
131.13   Making or using slugs
   
131.14   Prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud
   
131.15   Tampering with records
   
131.16   Securing writings by deception
   
131.17   Defrauding creditors
   
131.18   Receiving stolen property
   
131.19   Value of stolen property
   
131.20   Degree of offense when certain property involved
   
131.21   Injuring vines, bushes, trees, or crops
   
131.22   Detention and arrest of shoplifters and those committing motion
picture piracy; protection of institutional property
   
131.23   Insurance fraud; workers’ compensation fraud; Medicaid fraud
   
131.24   Injury to property by hunters
   
131.25   Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental
services; evidence of lack of capacity to consent
   
131.26   Forgery of identification cards
   
131.27   Criminal simulation
   
131.28   Personating an officer
   
131.29   Trademark counterfeiting
   
131.30   Diminishing or interfering with forfeitable property
   
131.31   Recording credit card, telephone or Social Security numbers
   
131.32   Prosecutions for theft of utilities
   
131.33   Motion picture piracy
   
131.34   Railroad vandalism; criminal trespass; interference with operation of
train; grade crossing device vandalism
   
131.35   Desecration
Statutory reference:
   Cable television service devices, unauthorized sale or possession, felony,
see R.C. § 2913.041
   Deceptive acts or practices in connection with consumer transactions, see
O.A.C. Chapter 109:4-3
   Disrupting public services, felony, see R.C. § 2909.04
   E-mail advertisements, civil offenses and felony forgery offense, see R.C. §
2307.64
   E-mail spam, civil offenses and felony offenses, see R.C. § 2913.421
   Food stamps, illegal use, see R.C. § 2913.46
   Telecommunications: fraud and unlawful use of a device, felony offenses, see
R.C. §§ 2913.05 and 2913.06
   Terrorism involving agricultural products or equipment, see R.C. § 901.511
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE DUTY SERVICE MEMBER. Any member of the armed forces of the United
States performing active duty under Title 10 of the United States Code.
   ANHYDROUS AMMONIA. A compound formed by the combination of two gaseous
elements, nitrogen and hydrogen, in the manner described below. Anhydrous
ammonia is one part nitrogen to three parts hydrogen (NH3). Anhydrous ammonia
by weight is fourteen parts nitrogen to three parts hydrogen, which is
approximately 82% nitrogen to 18% hydrogen.
   ASSISTANCE DOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
   CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE. Any services provided by or through the facilities
of any cable television system or other similar closed circuit coaxial cable
communications system, or any microwave or similar transmission service used in
connection with any cable television system or other similar closed circuit
coaxial cable communications system.
   COIN MACHINE. Any mechanical or electronic device designed to do both of the
following:
      (1)   Receive a coin or bill, or token made for that purpose;
      (2)   In return for the insertion or deposit of a coin, bill, or token,
automatically dispense property, provide a service, or grant a license.
   COMPUTER. An electronic device that performs logical, arithmetic, and memory
functions by the manipulation of electronic or magnetic impulses. The term
includes but is not limited to all input, output, processing, storage, computer
program, or communication facilities that are connected, or related, in a
computer system or network to an electronic device of that nature.
   COMPUTER CONTAMINANT. Means a computer program that is designed to modify,
damage, destroy, disable, deny or degrade access to, allow unauthorized access
to, functionally impair, record, or transmit information within a computer,
computer system, or computer network without the express or implied consent of
the owner or other person authorized to give consent and that is of a type or
kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this definition or of a type or
kind similar to a type or kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this
definition:
      (1)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “viruses” and
“worms” that are self- replicating or self-propagating and that are designed to
contaminate other computer programs, compromise computer security, consume
computer resources, modify, destroy, record, or transmit data, or disrupt the
normal operation of the computer, computer system, or computer network;
      (2)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “Trojans” or “Trojan
horses” that are not self-replicating or self-propagating and that are designed
to compromise computer security, consume computer resources, modify, destroy,
record, or transmit data, or disrupt the normal operation of the computer,
computer system, or computer network;
      (3)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “zombies” that are
designed to use a computer without the knowledge and consent of the owner, or
other person authorized to give consent, and that are designed to send large
quantities of data to a targeted computer network for the purpose of degrading
the targeted computer’s or network’s performance, or denying access through the
network to the targeted computer or network, resulting in what is commonly
known as “denial of service” or “distributed denial of service” attacks;
      (4)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “trap doors”, “back
doors”, or “root kits” that are designed to bypass standard authentication
software and that are designed to allow access or use of a computer without the
knowledge or consent of the owner, or other person authorized to give consent.
   COMPUTER HACKING.
      (1)   The term means any of the following:
         (a)   Gaining access or attempting to gain access to all or part of a
computer, computer system, or a computer network without express or implied
authorization with the intent to defraud or with intent to commit a crime;
         (b)   Misusing computer or network services including but not limited
to mail transfer programs, file transfer programs, proxy servers, and web
servers by performing functions not authorized by the owner of the computer,
computer system, or computer network or other person authorized to give
consent. As used in this division, “misuse of computer and network services”
includes but is not limited to the unauthorized use of any of the following:
            1.   Mail transfer programs to send mail to persons other than the
authorized users of that computer or computer network;
            2.   File transfer program services or proxy servers to access
other computers, computer systems, or computer networks;
            3.   Web servers to redirect users to other web pages or web
servers.
         (c)   1.   Subject to division (1)(c)2. of this definition, using a
group of computer programs commonly known as “port scanners” or “probes” to
intentionally access any computer, computer system, or computer network without
the permission of the owner of the computer, computer system, or computer
network or other person authorized to give consent. The group of computer
programs referred to in this division includes but is not limited to those
computer programs that use a computer network to access a computer, computer
system, or another computer network to determine any of the following: the
presence or types of computers or computer systems on a network; the computer
network’s facilities and capabilities; the availability of computer or network
services; the presence or versions of computer software including but not
limited to operating systems, computer services, or computer contaminants; the
presence of a known computer software deficiency that can be used to gain
unauthorized access to a computer, computer system, or computer network; or any
other information about a computer, computer system, or computer network not
necessary for the normal and lawful operation of the computer initiating the
access.
            2.   The group of computer programs referred to in division (1)
(c)1. of this definition does not include standard computer software used for
the normal operation, administration, management, and test of a computer,
computer system, or computer network including but not limited to domain name
services, mail transfer services, and other operating system services, computer
programs commonly called “ping”, “tcpdump”, and “traceroute” and other network
monitoring and management computer software, and computer programs commonly
knows as “nslookup” and “whois” and other systems administration computer
software.
         (d)   The intentional use of a computer, computer system, or a
computer network in a manner that exceeds any right or permission granted by
the owner of the computer, computer system, or computer network or other person
authorized to give consent.
      (2)   The term does not include the introduction of a computer
contaminant, as defined in this section, into a computer, computer system,
computer program, or computer network.
   COMPUTER NETWORK. A set of related and remotely-connected computers and
communication facilities that includes more than one computer system that has
the capability to transmit among the connected computers and communication
facilities through the use of computer facilities.
   COMPUTER PROGRAM. An ordered set of data representing coded instructions or
statements that, when executed by a computer, causes the computer to process
data.
   COMPUTER SERVICES. Includes but is not limited to the use of a computer
system, computer network, computer program, data that is prepared for computer
use, or data that is contained within a computer system or computer network.
   COMPUTER SOFTWARE. Computer programs, procedures, and other documentation
associated with the operation of a computer system.
   COMPUTER SYSTEM. A computer and related devices, whether connected or
unconnected, including but not limited to data input, output, and storage
devices, data communications links, and computer programs and data that make
the system capable of performing specified special purpose data processing
tasks.
   COUNTERFEIT TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. A telecommunications device that,
alone or with another telecommunications device, has been altered, constructed,
manufactured, or programmed to acquire, intercept, receive, or otherwise
facilitate the use of a telecommunications service or information service
without the authority or consent of the provider of the telecommunications
service or information service. The phrase includes but is not limited to a
clone telephone, clone microchip, tumbler telephone, or tumbler microchip; a
wireless scanning device capable of acquiring, intercepting, receiving, or
otherwise facilitating the use of telecommunications service or information
service without immediate detection; or a device, equipment, hardware, or
software designed for, or capable of, altering or changing the electronic
serial number in a wireless telephone.
   CREATE A SUBSTANTIAL RISK OF SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO ANY PERSON. Includes
the creation of a substantial risk of serious physical harm to any emergency
personnel.
   CREDIT CARD. Includes but is not limited to a card, code, device, or other
means of access to a customer’s account for the purpose of obtaining money,
property, labor, or services on credit, or for initiating an electronic fund
transfer at a point-of-sale terminal, an automated teller machine, or a cash
dispensing machine. It also includes a county procurement card issued under
R.C. § 301.29.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
   DATA. A representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts, or
instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner and
that are intended for use in a computer, computer system, or computer network.
   DECEPTION. To knowingly deceive another or cause another to be deceived by
any false or misleading representation, by withholding information, by
preventing another from acquiring information, or by any other conduct, act, or
omission that creates, confirms, or perpetuates a false impression in another,
including a false impression as to law, value, state of mind, or other
objective or subjective fact.
   DEFRAUD. To knowingly obtain, by deception, some benefit for oneself or
another, or to knowingly cause, by deception, some detriment to another.
   DEPRIVE. To do any of the following:
      (1)   To withhold property of another permanently, or for a period that
appropriates a substantial portion of its value or use, or with purpose to
restore it only upon payment of a reward or other consideration;
      (2)   To dispose of property so as to make it unlikely that the owner
will recover it;
      (3)   To accept, use, or appropriate money, property, or services, with
purpose not to give proper consideration in return for the money, property, or
services, and without reasonable justification or excuse for not giving proper
consideration.
   DISABLED ADULT. A person who is 18 years of age or older and has some
impairment of body or mind that makes the person unable to work at any
substantially remunerative employment that the person otherwise would be able
to perform and that will, with reasonable probability, continue for a period of
at least 12 months without any present indication of recovery from the
impairment, or who is 18 years of age or older and has been certified as
permanently and totally disabled by an agency of this state or the United
States that has the function of so classifying persons.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   ELDERLY PERSON. A person who is 65 years of age or older.
   ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER. Has the same meaning as in 92 Stat. 3728, 15
U.S.C. § 1693a, as amended.
   EMERGENCY PERSONNEL. Means any of the following persons:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01;
      (2)   A member of a fire department or other firefighting agency of a
municipal corporation, township, township fire district, joint fire district,
other political subdivision, or combination of political subdivisions;
      (3)   A member of a private fire company, as defined in R.C. § 9.60, or a
volunteer firefighter;
      (4)    A member of a joint ambulance district or joint emergency medical
services district;
      (5)   An emergency medical technician-basic, emergency medical
technician-intermediate, emergency medical technician-paramedic, ambulance
operator, or other member of an emergency medical service that is owned or
operated by a political subdivision or a private entity;
      (6)   The State Fire Marshal, the Chief Deputy State Fire Marshal, or an
assistant state fire marshal;
      (7)   A fire prevention officer of a political subdivision or an arson,
fire, or similar investigator of a political subdivision.
   FEDERALLY-LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5502.63.
   FIREARM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
   FORGE. To fabricate or create, in whole or in part and by any means, any
spurious writing, or to make, execute, alter, complete, reproduce, or otherwise
purport to authenticate any writing, when the writing in fact is not
authenticated by that conduct.
   GAIN ACCESS. To approach, instruct, communicate with, store data in,
retrieve data from, or otherwise make use of any resources of a computer,
computer system, or computer network, or any cable service or cable system both
as defined in R.C. § 2913.04.
   INFORMATION SERVICE.
      (1)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, the offering of a
capability for generating, acquiring, storing, transforming, processing,
retrieving, utilizing, or making available information via telecommunications,
including but not limited to electronic publishing.
      (2)   The term does not include any use of a capability of a type
described in division (1) of this definition for the management, control, or
operation of a telecommunications system or the management of a
telecommunications service.
   INTERNET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 341.42.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. Means any house, building, outbuilding, watercraft,
aircraft, railroad car, truck, trailer, tent, or other structure, vehicle, or
shelter, or any portion thereof, to which any of the following applies:
      (1)   It is maintained as a permanent or temporary dwelling, even though
it is temporarily unoccupied and whether nor not any person is actually
present;
      (2)   At the time, it is occupied as the permanent or temporary
habitation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (3)   At the time, it is specially adapted for the overnight
accommodation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (4)   At the time, any person is present or likely to be present in it.
   OWNER. Unless the context requires a different meaning, any person, other
than the actor, who is the owner of, who has possession or control of, or who
has any license or interest in property or services, even though the ownership,
possession, control, license, or interest is unlawful.
   POLICE DOG OR HORSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.321.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   RENTED PROPERTY. Personal property in which the right of possession and use
of the property is for a short and possibly indeterminate term in return for
consideration; the rentee generally controls the duration of possession of the
property within any applicable minimum or maximum term; and the amount of
consideration is generally determined by the duration of possession of the
property.
   SERVICES. Includes labor, personal services, professional services, rental
services, public utility services including wireless service as defined in R.C.
§ 128.01(F)(1), common carrier services, and food, drink, transportation,
entertainment, and cable television services and, for purposes of R.C. §
2913.04 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, includes cable
services as defined in that section.
   SLUG. An object that, by virtue of its size, shape, composition, or other
quality, is capable of being inserted or deposited in a coin machine as an
improper substitute for a genuine coin, bill, or token made for that purpose.
   STATE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   TELECOMMUNICATION. The origination, emission, dissemination, transmission,
or reception of data, images, signals, sounds, or other intelligence or
equivalence or intelligence of any nature over any communications system by any
method, including but not limited to a fiber optic, electronic, magnetic,
optical, digital or analog method.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Any instrument, equipment, machine, or other
device that facilitates telecommunication, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer chip, computer circuit, scanner,
telephone, cellular telephone, pager, personal communications device,
transponder, receiver, radio, modem, or device that enables the use of a modem.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The providing, allowing, facilitating, or
generating of any form of telecommunication through the use of a
telecommunications device over a telecommunications system.
   THEFT OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, 2911.13,
2911.31, 2911.32, 2913.02, 2913.03, 2913.04, 2913.041, 2913.11, 2913.21,
2913.31, 2913.32, 2913.33, 2913.34, 2913.40, 2913.42, 2913.43, 2913.44,
2913.45, 2913.47, 2913.48, former R.C. § 2913.47 or 2913.48, or R.C. § 2913.51,
2915.05, or 2921.41;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
section listed in division (1) of this definition, or a violation of R.C. §
2913.41, 2913.81 or 2915.06 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or the United States involving robbery, burglary,
breaking and entering, theft, embezzlement, wrongful conversion, forgery,
counterfeiting, deceit, or fraud;
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing any offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   UTTER. To issue, publish, transfer, use, put or send into circulation,
deliver, or display.
   WRITING. Any computer software, document, letter, memorandum, note, paper,
plate, data, film, or other thing having in or upon it any written, type-
written, or printed matter, and any token, stamp, seal, credit card, badge,
trademark, label, or other symbol of value, right, privilege, license, or
identification.
(R.C. §§ 2909.01, 2913.01) (Prior Code, § 642.01)
§ 131.02 ARSON; DETERMINING PROPERTY VALUE OR AMOUNT OF PHYSICAL HARM.
   (A)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of another without the other person’s consent;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of the offender or another, with purpose to defraud;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to the
statehouse or a courthouse, school building, or other building or structure
that is owned or controlled by the state, any political subdivision, or any
department, agency, or instrumentality of the state or a political subdivision,
and that is used for public purposes;
      (4)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
property of another without the other person’s consent or to any property of
the offender or another with purpose to defraud;
      (5)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision without the consent of
the other person, the state, or the political subdivision;
      (6)   With purpose to defraud, cause, or create a substantial risk of,
physical harm to any park, preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over
land, forest, timberland, greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is
owned or controlled by the offender, another person, the state, or a political
subdivision.
   (B)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure that is not an occupied structure and that is in or on any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision.
   (C)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(1)
or (B)(2) of this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the
other person.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(3) of
this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the other person, the
state, or the political subdivision.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of arson.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(1) or (B)(1) of this section is one of
the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(2)(b) of this
section, a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the value of the property or the amount of the physical harm
involved is $1,000 or more, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   A violation of division (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)(5), (A)(6), (B)
(2) or (B)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.03) (Prior Code, § 642.09)
   (E)   Determining property value or amount of physical harm.
      (1)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or amount of physical harm involved in a violation of division (A)(1)
or (B)(1) of this section:
         (a)   If the property is an heirloom, memento, collector’s item,
antique, museum piece, manuscript, document, record, or other thing that is
either irreplaceable or is replaceable only on the expenditure of substantial
time, effort, or money, the value of the property or the amount of physical
harm involved is the amount that would compensate the owner for its loss.
         (b)   If the property is not covered under division (B)(1)(a) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property can be restored
substantially to its former condition, the amount of physical harm involved is
the reasonable cost of restoring the property.
         (c)   If the property is not covered under division (B)(1)(a) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property cannot be restored
substantially to its former condition, the value of the property, in the case
of personal property, is the cost of replacing the property with new property
of like kind and quality, and in the case of real property or real property
fixtures, is the difference in the fair market value of the property
immediately before and immediately after the offense.
      (2)   As used in this section, FAIR MARKET VALUE has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 2913.61.
      (3)   Prima facie evidence of the value of property, as provided in R.C.
§ 2913.61(D), may be used to establish the value of property pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2909.11(B) - (D)) (Prior Code, § 642.25)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated arson, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.02
   Arson offender registration, see R.C. §§ 2909.13, 2909.14 and 2909.15
   Convicted arsonist to make restitution to public agency, see R.C. § 2929.71
§ 131.03 CRIMINAL DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING; VEHICULAR VANDALISM.
   (A)   Criminal damaging or endangering.
      (1)   No person shall cause or create a substantial risk of physical harm
to any property of another without the other person’s consent:
         (a)   Knowingly, by any means; or
         (b)   Recklessly, by means of fire, explosion, flood, poison gas,
poison, radioactive material, caustic or corrosive material, or other
inherently dangerous agency or substance.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of criminal damaging
or endangering, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If violation of this
division (A) creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging
or endangering is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the property involved
in a violation of this division (A) is an aircraft, an aircraft engine,
propeller, appliance, spare part, or any other equipment or implement used or
intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging or endangering
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the property
involved in a violation of this division (A) is an aircraft, an aircraft
engine, propeller, appliance, spare part, or any other equipment or implement
used or intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the
violation creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or if the
property involved in a violation of this division (A) is an occupied aircraft,
criminal damaging or endangering is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.06)
   (B)   Vehicular vandalism.
      (1)   As used in this division (B):
         ALLEY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
         HIGHWAY. Means any highway as defined in R.C. § 4511.01 or any lane,
road, street, alley, bridge, or overpass.
         STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
         VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
         VESSEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1546.01.
         WATERS IN THIS STATE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1546.01.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any
object at, onto, or in the path of any of the following:
         (a)   Any vehicle on a highway;
         (b)   Any boat or vessel on any of the waters in this state.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of vehicular
vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(3), vehicular
vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of this
division (B) creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or the
violation of this division (B) causes serious physical harm to property,
vehicular vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
If the violation of this division (B) causes physical harm to any person or
serious physical harm to any person, vehicular vandalism is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.09)
(Prior Code, § 642.10)
Statutory reference:
   Disrupting public services, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.04
   Vandalism, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.05
§ 131.04 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with the either of the following:
         (a)   The property of another;
         (b)   One’s own residential real property with the purpose to decrease
the value of or enjoyment of the residential real property, if both of the
following apply:
            1.   The residential real property is subject to a mortgage.
            2.   The person has been served with a summons and complaint in a
pending residential mortgage loan foreclosure action relating to that real
property. As used in this division, “pending” includes the time between
judgment entry and confirmation of sale.
      (2)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of property of
another, employ a tear gas device, stink bomb, smoke generator, or other device
releasing a substance that is harmful or offensive to persons exposed, or that
tends to cause public alarm;
      (3)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with a bench mark, triangulation
station, boundary marker, or other survey station, monument, or marker;
      (4)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with any safety device, the property of
another, or the property of the offender when required or placed for the safety
of others, so as to destroy or diminish its effectiveness or availability for
its intended purpose;
      (5)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of the property
of another, set a fire on the land of another or place personal property that
has been set on fire on the land of another, which fire or personal property is
outside and apart from any building, other structure, or personal property that
is on that land;
      (6)   Without privilege to do so, and with intent to impair the
functioning of any computer, computer system, computer network, computer
software, or computer program, knowingly do any of the following:
         (a)   In any manner or by any means, including but not limited to
computer hacking, alter, damage, destroy, or modify a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program or data
contained in a computer, computer system, computer network, computer software,
or computer program;
         (b)   Introduce a computer contaminant into a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program.
      (7)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly destroy or improperly tamper
with a critical infrastructure facility.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2911.21.
      IMPROPERLY TAMPER. Means to change the physical location or the physical
condition of the property.
      SAFETY DEVICE. Means any fire extinguisher, fire hose, or fire axe, or
any fire escape, emergency exit, or emergency escape equipment, or any life
line, life-saving ring, life preserver, or life boat or raft, or any alarm,
light, flare, signal, sign, or notice intended to warn of danger or emergency,
or intended for other safety purposes, or any guard railing or safety
barricade, or any traffic sign or signal, or any railroad grade crossing sign,
signal, or gate, or any first aid or survival equipment, or any other device,
apparatus, or equipment intended for protecting or preserving the safety of
persons or property.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal mischief,
and shall be punished as provided in division (C)(2), (C)(3), or (C)(4) of this
section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, if the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section creates a risk of physical harm to any person,
criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3),
(A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
property involved in the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section is an aircraft, an aircraft engine, propeller,
appliance, spare part, fuel, lubricant, hydraulic fluid, any other equipment,
implement, or material used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft, or any cargo carried or intended to be carried in an aircraft and if
the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or if the
aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief committed in
violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) of this section or the loss to the victim resulting from the
violation is $1,000 or more, or if the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) is used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft and the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or
if the aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)(7) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.07) (Prior Code, § 642.11)
§ 131.05 DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING AIRCRAFT OR AIRPORT OPERATIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AIR GUN. Means a hand pistol or rifle that propels its projectile by
means of releasing compressed air, carbon dioxide, or other gas.
      AIRPORT OPERATIONAL SURFACE. Means any surface of land or water that is
developed, posted, or marked so as to give an observer reasonable notice that
the surface is designed and developed for the purpose of storing, parking,
taxiing, or operating aircraft, or any surface of land or water that is
actually being used for any of those purposes.
      FIREARM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
      SPRING-OPERATED GUN. Means a hand pistol or rifle that propels a
projectile not less than four or more than five millimeters in diameter by
means of a spring.
   (B)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly throw an object at, or drop an object upon, any moving
aircraft.
      (2)   Knowingly shoot with a bow and arrow, or knowingly discharge a
firearm, air gun, or spring-operated gun, at or toward any aircraft.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly shoot with a bow and arrow, or
shall knowingly or recklessly discharge a firearm, air gun, or spring-operated
gun, upon or over any airport operational surface. This division does not apply
to the following:
      (1)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or of the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, authorized to discharge firearms
and acting within the scope of his or her duties.
      (2)   A person who, with the consent of the owner or operator of the
airport operational surface or the authorized agent of either, is lawfully
engaged in any hunting or sporting activity or is otherwise lawfully
discharging a firearm.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of endangering
aircraft, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation creates any risk
of physical harm to any person, or if the aircraft that is the subject of the
violation is occupied, endangering aircraft is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of endangering
airport operations, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person or substantial risk of serious
harm to any person, endangering airport operations is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. In addition to any other penalty or sanction
imposed for the violation, the hunting license or permit of a person who
violates division (C) of this section while hunting shall be suspended or
revoked pursuant to R.C. § 1533.68.
(R.C. § 2909.08(A) - (E)) (Prior Code, § 672.14)
§ 131.06 CRIMINAL TRESPASS; AGGRAVATED TRESPASS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another;
      (2)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, the
use of which is lawfully restricted to certain persons, purposes, modes, or
hours, when the offender knows the offender is in violation of any such
restriction or is reckless in that regard;
      (3)   Recklessly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, as
to which notice against unauthorized access or presence is given by actual
communication to the offender, or in a manner prescribed by law, or by posting
in a manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential
intruders, or by fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to restrict
access;
      (4)   Being on the land or premises of another, negligently fail or
refuse to leave upon being notified by signage posted in a conspicuous place or
otherwise being notified to do so by the owner or occupant, or the agent or
servant of either;
      (5)   Knowingly enter or remain on a critical infrastructure facility.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the land or
premises involved was owned, controlled, or in custody of a public agency.
   (C)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the offender was
authorized to enter or remain on the land or premises involved, when the
authorization was secured by deception.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal trespass.
Criminal trespass in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Criminal trespass in
violation of division (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, if the person, in committing the
violation of this section, used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle, the court shall impose a fine of two times the usual amount
imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2911.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and the offender, in committing each violation,
used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle, the court,
in addition to or independent of all other penalties imposed for the violation,
may impound the certificate of registration of that snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle or the certificate of registration and license plate of that all-
purpose vehicle for not less than 60 days. In such a case, R.C. § 4519.47
applies.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, if the
offender, in committing the violation of this section, used an all-purpose
vehicle, the Clerk of the Court shall pay the fine imposed pursuant to this
section to the State Recreational Vehicle Fund created by R.C. § 4519.11.
   (F)   As used in divisions (A) through (E) of this section:
      ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE, and SNOWMOBILE. Have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4519.01.
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Means:
         (a)   One of the following, if completely enclosed by a fence or other
physical barrier that is obviously designed to exclude intruders, or if clearly
marked with signs that are reasonably likely to come to the attention of
potential intruders and that indicate entry is forbidden without site
authorization:
            1.   A petroleum or alumina refinery;
            2.   An electric generating facility, substation, switching
station, electrical control center, or electric transmission and distribution
lines and associated equipment;
            3.   A chemical, polymer, or rubber manufacturing facility;
            4.   A water intake structure, water treatment facility, waste
water facility, drainage facility, water management facility, or any similar
water or sewage treatment system and its water and sewage piping;
            5.   A natural gas company facility or interstate natural gas
pipeline, including a pipeline interconnection, a natural gas compressor
station and associated facilities, city gate or town border station, metering
station, above-ground piping, regulator station, valve site, delivery station,
fabricated assembly, or any other part of a natural gas storage facility
involved in the gathering, storage, transmission, or distribution of gas;
            6.   A telecommunications central switching office or remote
switching facility or an equivalent network facility that serves a similar
purpose;
            7.   Wireline or wireless telecommunications infrastructure,
including telecommunications towers and telephone poles and lines, including
fiber optic lines;
            8.   A port, trucking terminal, or other freight transportation
facility;
            9.   A gas processing plant, including a plant used in the
processing, treatment, or fractionation of natural gas or natural gas liquids;
            10.   A transmission facility used by a federally licensed radio or
television station;
            11.   A steel-making facility that uses an electric arc furnace to
make steel;
            12.   A facility identified and regulated by the United States
Department of Homeland Security’s Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
Program under 6 C.F.R. part 27;
            13.   A dam that is regulated by the state or federal government;
            14.   A crude oil or refined products storage and distribution
facility, including valve sites, pipeline interconnections, pump station,
metering station, below- or above-ground pipeline, or piping and truck loading
or off-loading facility;
            15.   A video service network and broadband infrastructure,
including associated buildings and facilities, video service headends, towers,
utility poles, and utility lines such as fiber optic lines. As used in this
division, “video service network” has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
            16.   Any above-ground portion of an oil, gas, hazardous liquid or
chemical pipeline, tank, or other storage facility;
            17.   Any above-ground portion of a well, well pad, or production
operation;
            18.   A laydown area or construction site for pipe and other
equipment intended for use on an interstate or intrastate natural gas or crude
oil pipeline;
            19.   Any mining operation, including any processing equipment,
batching operation, or support facility for that mining operation.
         (b)   With respect to a video service network or broadband or wireless
telecommunications infrastructure, the above-ground portion of a facility
installed in a public right-of-way on a utility pole or in a conduit;
         (c)   Any railroad property;
         (d)   An electronic asset of any of the following:
            1.   An electric light company that is a public utility under R.C.
§ 4905.02;
            2.   An electric cooperative, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            3.   A municipal electric utility, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            4.   A natural gas company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            5.   A telephone company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            6.   A video service provider, including a cable operator, as those
terms are defined in R.C. § 1332.21.
      ELECTRONIC ASSET. Includes, but is not limited to, the hardware,
software, and data of a programmable electronic device; all communications,
operations, and customer data networks; and the contents of those data
networks.
      LAND or PREMISES. Includes any land, building, structure, or place
belonging to, controlled by, or in custody of another, and any separate
enclosure or room, or portion thereof.
      PRODUCTION OPERATION, WELL, and WELL PAD. Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 1509.01.
(R.C. § 2911.21)
   (G)   Aggravated trespass.
      (1)   (a)   No person shall enter or remain on the land or premises of
another with purpose to commit on that land or those premises a misdemeanor,
the elements of which involve causing physical harm to another person or
causing another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
that person.
         (b)   No person shall enter or remain on a critical infrastructure
facility with purpose to destroy or tamper with the facility.
      (2)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of aggravated trespass.
Aggravated trespass in violation of division (G)(1)(a) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Aggravated trespass in violation of division
(G)(1)(b) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   As used in this division (G), CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2911.21.
(R.C. § 2911.211)
   (H)   Criminal trespass on a place of public amusement.
      (1)   As used in this division (H), PLACE OF PUBLIC AMUSEMENT means a
stadium, theater, or other facility, whether licensed or not, at which a live
performance, sporting event, or other activity takes place for entertainment of
the public and to which access is made available to the public, regardless of
whether admission is charged.
      (2)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly enter or
remain on any restricted portion of a place of public amusement and, as a
result of that conduct, interrupt or cause the delay of the live performance,
sporting event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement
after a printed written notice has been given as provided in division (H)(4)(a)
of this section that the general public is restricted from access to that
restricted portion of the place of public amusement. A restricted portion of a
place of public amusement may include but is not limited to a playing field, an
athletic surface, or a stage located at the place of public amusement.
      (3)   An owner or lessee of a place of public amusement, an agent of the
owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a place of public amusement
may use reasonable force to restrain and remove a person from a restricted
portion of the place of public amusement if the person enters or remains on the
restricted portion of the place of public amusement and, as a result of that
conduct, interrupts or causes the delay of the live performance, sporting
event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement. This
division does not provide immunity from criminal liability for any use of force
beyond reasonable force by an owner or lessee of a place of public amusement,
an agent of either the owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a
place of public amusement.
      (4)   (a)   Notice has been given that the general public is restricted
from access to a portion of a place of public amusement if a printed written
notice of the restricted access has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at
the entrance to that portion of the place of public amusement. If a printed
written notice is posted or exhibited as described in this division regarding a
portion of a place of public amusement, in addition to that posting or
exhibition, notice that the general public is restricted from access to that
portion of the place of public amusement also may be given, but is not required
to be given, by either of the following means:
            1.   By notifying the person personally, either orally or in
writing, that access to that portion of the place of public amusement is
restricted;
            2.   By broadcasting over the public address system of the place of
public amusement an oral warning that access to that portion of the place of
public amusement is restricted.
         (b)   If notice that the general public is restricted from access to a
portion of a place of public amusement is provided by the posting or exhibition
of a printed written notice as described in division (H)(4)(a) of this section,
the municipality, in a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (H)(2)
of this section, is not required to prove that the defendant received actual
notice that the general public is restricted from access to a portion of a
place of public amusement.
      (5)   (a)   Whoever violates division (H)(2) of this section is guilty of
criminal trespass on a place of public amusement, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
         (b)   In addition to any jail term, fine, or other sentence, penalty,
or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to division (H)(5)(a) of this
section, a court may require an offender who violates this section to perform
not less than 30 and not more than 120 hours of supervised community service
work.
(R.C. § 2911.23)
(Prior Code, § 642.12, 642.125)
§ 131.07 TAMPERING WITH COIN MACHINES.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to commit theft or to defraud, shall knowingly
enter, force an entrance into, tamper with, or insert any part of an instrument
into any coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with coin
machines, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of this section or of any theft offense as
defined in R.C. § 2913.01, tampering with coin machines is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2911.32) (Prior Code, § 642.13)
§ 131.08 THEFT.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to deprive the owner of property or services,
shall knowingly obtain or exert control over either the property or services in
any of the following ways:
      (1)   Without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give
consent;
      (2)   Beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent;
      (3)   By deception;
      (4)   By threat;
      (5)   By intimidation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of theft. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, a violation of this section is petty theft, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   If the value of the property or services is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   If the property stolen is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person, disabled adult,
active duty service member, or spouse of an active duty service member;
      (4)   If the property stolen is a firearm or dangerous ordnance;
      (5)   If the property stolen is a motor vehicle;
      (6)   If the property stolen is any dangerous drug, or if the offender
previously has been convicted of a felony drug abuse offense;
      (7)   If the property stolen is a police dog or horse or an assistance
dog and the offender knows or should know that the property stolen is a police
dog or horse or an assistance dog;
      (8)   If the property stolen is anhydrous ammonia; or
      (9)    If the property stolen is a special purchase article as defined in
R.C. § 4737.04 or is a bulk merchandise container as defined in R.C. §
4737.012.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by causing a motor vehicle to
leave the premises of an establishment at which gasoline is offered for retail
sale without the offender making full payment for gasoline that was dispensed
into the fuel tank of the motor vehicle or into another container, the court
may do one of the following:
      (1)   Unless division (C)(2) of this section applies, suspend for not
more than six months the offenders driver’s license, probationary driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
nonresident operating privilege;
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s license, probationary driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or nonresident
operating privilege has previously been suspended pursuant to division (C)(1)
of this section, or any other substantially equivalent state or local law,
impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s license, permit, or privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), provided that the suspension
shall be at least six months;
      (3)   The court, in lieu of suspending the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, probationary driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or nonresident operating privilege pursuant to division (C)
(1) or (C)(2) of this section, instead may require the offender to perform
community service for a number of hours determined by the court.
   (D)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by stealing rented property or
rental services, the court may order that the offender make restitution
pursuant to R.C. § 2929.18 or R.C. § 2929.28. Restitution may include, but is
not limited to, the cost of repairing or replacing the stolen property, or the
cost of repairing the stolen property and any loss of revenue resulting from
deprivation of the property due to theft of rental services that is less than
or equal to the actual value of the property at the time it was rented.
Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental services shall
be determined pursuant to the provisions of R.C. § 2913.72.
   (E)   The sentencing court that suspends an offender’s license, permit, or
nonresident operating privilege under division (C) of this section may grant
the offender limited driving privileges during the period of the suspension in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 4510.
(R.C. § 2913.02) (Prior Code, § 642.02)
Statutory reference:
   Felony theft provisions, see R.C. § 2913.02(B)
§ 131.09 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF A VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorcycle, motorboat, or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of
the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorboat, or other motor- propelled vehicle without the consent of the owner
or person authorized to give consent, and either remove it from this state, or
keep possession of it for more than 48 hours.
   (C)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section:
      (1)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor, though mistaken,
reasonably believed that he or she was authorized to use or operate the
property.
      (2)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor reasonably believed
that the owner or person empowered to give consent would authorize the actor to
use or operate the property.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unauthorized use of a
vehicle.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D)(1), a violation
of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled adult and if the victim
incurs a loss as a result of the violation, a violation of division (A) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.03) (Prior Code, § 642.04)
Statutory reference:
   Theft offense involving a motor vehicle, offender to pay towing and storage
fees, see R.C. § 2913.82
§ 131.10 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PROPERTY, INCLUDING TELECOMMUNICATION PROPERTY AND
COMPUTERS; POSSESSION OF MUNICIPAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate the property of another
without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person, in any manner and by any means, including but not limited
to computer hacking, shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
or cause access to be gained to any computer, computer system, computer
network, cable service, cable system, telecommunications device,
telecommunications service, or information service without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the owner of the
computer, computer system, computer network, cable service, cable system,
telecommunications device, telecommunications service, or information service
or other person authorized to give consent.
   (C)   Except as permitted under R.C. § 5503.101, no person shall knowingly
gain access to, attempt to gain access to, cause access to be granted to, or
disseminate information gained from access to the law enforcement automated
database system created pursuant to R.C. § 5503.10 without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the chair of the Law
Enforcement Automated Data System Steering Committee.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
cause access to be granted to, or disseminate information gained from access to
the Ohio law enforcement gateway established and operated pursuant to R.C. §
109.57(C)(1) without the consent of, or beyond the scope of the express or
implied consent of, the Superintendent of the Bureau of Criminal Identification
and Investigation.
   (E)   The affirmative defenses contained in R.C. § 2913.03(C) are
affirmative defenses to a charge under this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of property. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
unauthorized use of property is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (1)   If unauthorized use of property is committed for the purpose of
devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to obtain property or services,
unauthorized use of property is whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided below, unauthorized use of property
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the value of the property or services or the loss to the
victim is $1,000 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (2)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, unauthorized use of property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of computer, cable, or telecommunication property, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the law enforcement automated database system, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the Ohio law enforcement gateway, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      CABLE OPERATOR. Means any person or group of persons that does either of
the following:
         (a)   Provides cable service over a cable system and directly through
one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in that cable system;
         (b)   Otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of a cable system.
      CABLE SERVICE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or
of information that a cable operator makes available to all subscribers
generally;
         (b)   Subscriber interaction, if any, that is required for the
selection or use of video programming or of information that a cable operator
makes available to all subscribers generally, both as described in division (a)
of this definition;
         (c)   Any cable television service.
      CABLE SYSTEM. Means any facility, consisting of a set of closed
transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control
equipment that is designed to provide cable service that includes video
programming and that is provided to multiple subscribers within a community.
The term does not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any facility that serves only to retransmit the television
signals of one or more television broadcast stations;
         (b)   Any facility that serves subscribers without using any public
right-of-way;
         (c)   Any facility of a common carrier that, under 47 U.S.C. § 522(7)
(c), is excluded from the term “cable system” as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(7);
         (d)   Any open video system that complies with 47 U.S.C. § 573;
         (e)   Any facility of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility system.
(R.C. § 2913.04)
   (K)   Possession of municipal property.
      (1)   No person shall, without being authorized, have in his or her
control or possession any equipment, tools, implements or other property
belonging to the municipality.
(R.C. § 5589.12)
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (K) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
(Prior Code, § 642.05, 642.23)
Statutory reference:
   Telecommunications: fraud and unlawful use of a device, felony offenses, see
R.C. §§ 2913.05 and 2913.06
§ 131.11 PASSING BAD CHECKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CHECK. Includes any form of debit from a demand deposit account,
including but not limited to any of the following:
         (a)   A check, bill of exchange, draft, order of withdrawal, or
similar negotiable or non-negotiable instrument;
         (b)   An electronic check, electronic transaction, debit card
transaction, check card transaction, substitute check, web check, or any form
of automated clearing house transaction.
      ISSUE A CHECK. Means causing any form of debit from a demand deposit
account.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall issue or transfer or cause
to be issued or transferred a check or other negotiable instrument, knowing
that it will be dishonored or knowing that a person has ordered or will order
stop payment on the check or other negotiable instrument.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, a person who issues or transfers a check
or other negotiable instrument is presumed to know that it will be dishonored
if either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The drawer has no account with the drawee at the time of issue or
the stated date, whichever is later.
      (2)   The check or other negotiable instrument was properly refused
payment for insufficient funds upon presentment within 30 days after issue or
the stated date, whichever is later, and the liability of the drawer, indorser,
or any party who may be liable thereon is not discharged by payment or
satisfaction within ten days after receiving notice of dishonor.
   (D)   In determining the value of the payment for purposes of division (E)
of this section, the court may aggregate all checks and other negotiable
instruments that the offender issued or transferred or caused to be issued or
transferred in violation of division (B) of this section within a period of 180
consecutive days.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of passing bad checks. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, passing bad checks is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the check or checks or other negotiable instrument or
instruments are issued or transferred to a single vendor or single other person
for the payment of $1,000 or more, or if the check or checks or other
negotiable instrument or instruments are issued or transferred to multiple
vendors or persons for the payment of $1,500 or more, passing bad checks is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.11) (Prior Code, § 642.14)
§ 131.12 MISUSE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Practice deception for the purpose of procuring the issuance of a
credit card, when a credit card is issued in actual reliance thereon;
      (2)   Knowingly buy or sell a credit card from or to a person other than
the issuer;
      (3)   As an officer, employee, or appointee of a political subdivision or
as a public servant as defined under R.C. § 2921.01, knowingly misuse a credit
card account held by a political subdivision.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Obtain control over a credit card as security for a debt;
      (2)   Obtain property or services by the use of a credit card, in one or
more transactions, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the card
has expired or been revoked, or was obtained, is retained, or is being used in
violation of law;
      (3)   Furnish property or services upon presentation of a credit card,
knowing that the card is being used in violation of law;
      (4)   Represent or cause to be represented to the issuer of a credit card
that property or services have been furnished, knowing that the representation
is false.
   (C)   No person, with purpose to violate this section, shall receive,
possess, control, or dispose of a credit card.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misuse of credit cards.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section, a
violation of division (A), (B)(1), or (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (D)(3) of
this section, a violation of division (B)(2), (B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the cumulative retail value of the
property and services involved in one or more violations of division (B)(2),
(B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section which violations involve one or more credit
card accounts and occur within a period of 90 consecutive days commencing on
the date of the first violation, is $1,000 or more, misuse of credit cards is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, and if the offense involves a violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of
this section, misuse of credit cards is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.21) (Prior Code, § 642.15)
§ 131.13 MAKING OR USING SLUGS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Insert or deposit a slug in a coin machine, with purpose to
defraud;
      (2)   Make, possess, or dispose of a slug, with purpose of enabling
another to defraud by inserting or depositing it in a coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or using slugs, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2913.33) (Prior Code, § 642.16)
§ 131.14 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF PURPOSE TO DEFRAUD.
   In a prosecution of a person for a theft offense that alleges that the
person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she was facilitating a
fraud, hired or rented an aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, kept
or operated any of the same that has been hired or rented, or engaged
accommodations at a hotel, motel, inn, campground, or other hostelry, it is
prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud if the person did any of the
following:
   (A)   Used deception to induce the rental agency to furnish the person with
the aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat, sailboat, camper, trailer,
horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, or used deception to induce the
hostelry to furnish the person with accommodations;
   (B)   Hired or rented any aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, or
engaged accommodations, knowing that he or she is without sufficient means to
pay the hire or rental;
   (C)   Absconded without paying the hire or rental;
   (D)   Knowingly failed to pay the hire or rental as required by the contract
of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure;
   (E)   Knowingly failed to return hired or rented property as required by the
contract of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure.
(R.C. § 2913.41) (Prior Code, § 642.17)
§ 131.15 TAMPERING WITH RECORDS.
   (A)   No person, knowing that he or she has no privilege to do so, and with
purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is facilitating a fraud, shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Falsify, destroy, remove, conceal, alter, deface, or mutilate any
writing, computer software, data, or record;
      (2)   Utter any writing or record, knowing it to have been tampered with
as provided in division (A)(1) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with records.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if the
offense does not involve data or computer software, tampering with records is
whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   If division (B)(1)(b) of this section does not apply, it is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the writing or record is a will unrevoked at the time of the
offense, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if the
offense involves a violation of division (A) of this section involving data or
computer software, tampering with records is whichever of the following is
applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this
section, it is a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the value of the data or computer software involved in the
offense or the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more or if the offense is
committed for the purpose of devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to
obtain property or services and the value of the property or services or the
loss to the victim is $7,500 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the writing, data, computer software, or record is kept by or
belongs to a local, state, or federal governmental entity, it is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.42) (Prior Code, § 642.18)
§ 131.16 SECURING WRITINGS BY DECEPTION.
   (A)   No person, by deception, shall cause another to execute any writing
that disposes of or encumbers property, or by which a pecuniary obligation is
incurred.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of securing writings by
deception. Except as otherwise provided in this division, securing writings by
deception is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property or
the obligation involved is $1,000 or more, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate to state law. If the victim of the
offense is an elderly person, disabled adult, active duty service member, or
spouse of an active duty service member, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.43) (Prior Code, § 642.19)
§ 131.17 DEFRAUDING CREDITORS.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud one or more of his or her
creditors, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Remove, conceal, destroy, encumber, convey, or otherwise deal with
any of his or her property;
      (2)   Misrepresent or refuse to disclose to a fiduciary appointed to
administer or manage his or her affairs or estate, the existence, amount, or
location of any of his or her property, or any other information regarding the
property which he or she is legally required to furnish to the fiduciary.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of defrauding creditors.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, defrauding creditors is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property involved is
$1,000 or more, defrauding creditors is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.45)
(Prior Code, § 642.21)
§ 131.18 RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall receive, retain, or dispose of property of another
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the property has been
obtained through commission of a theft offense.
   (B)   It is not a defense to a charge of receiving stolen property in
violation of this section that the property was obtained by means other than
through the commission of a theft offense if the property was explicitly
represented to the accused person as being obtained through the commission of a
theft offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of receiving stolen property.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, receiving stolen property is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   The value of the property involved is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   The property involved is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   The property involved is a firearm or dangerous ordnance, as
defined in R.C. § 2923.11;
      (4)   The property involved is a motor vehicle as defined in R.C. §
4501.01;
      (5)   The property involved is any dangerous drug, as defined in R.C. §
4729.01; or
      (6)   The property involved in violation of this section is a special
purchase article as defined in R.C. § 4737.04 or a bulk merchandise container
as defined in R.C. § 4737.012.
(R.C. § 2913.51) (Prior Code, § 642.22)
§ 131.19 VALUE OF STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   If more than one item of property or services is involved in a theft
offense or in a violation of R.C. § 1716.14(A) involving a victim who is an
elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, the value of the property or services involved for the purpose of
determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value
of all property or services involved in the offense.
   (B)   (1)   When a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or
complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A), R.C. § 2913.02, 2913.03, or
2913.04, R.C. § 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or R.C. § 2913.31 or 2913.43 involving
a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is committed by the
offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity, or relationship to
another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single offense. When a
series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of violations of, attempts
to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations
of R.C. § 2913.02 or 2913.43 involving a victim who is an active duty service
member or spouse of an active duty service member, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is committed by the
offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity, or relationship to
another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single offense. The value of
the property or services involved in the series of offenses for the purpose of
determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value
of all property and services involved in all offenses in the series.
      (2)   If an offender commits a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02
that involves a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims, all of
the offenses may be tried as a single offense. If an offender is being tried
for the commission of a series of violations of, attempts to commit a violation
of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A),
R.C. § 2913.02, 2913.03, or 2913.04, R.C. § 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or R.C. §
2913.31 or 2913.43, whether committed against one victim or more than one
victim, involving a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, pursuant
to a scheme or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a
single offense. If an offender is being tried for the commission of a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or
complicity in violations of R.C. § 2913.02 or 2913.43, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, whether committed
against one victim or more than one victim, involving a victim who is an active
duty service member or spouse of an active duty service member pursuant to a
scheme or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a single
offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the value of the
property or services involved for the purpose of determining the value as
required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property and
services involved in all of the offenses in the course of conduct.
      (3)   When a series of two or more offenses under R.C. § 2913.40,
2913.48, or 2921.41 is committed by the offender in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another, all of those offenses may be
tried as a single offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the
value of the property or services involved for the purpose of determining the
value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property
and services involved in all of the offenses in the series of two or more
offenses.
      (4)   In prosecuting a single offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2) or
(B)(3) of this section, it is not necessary to separately allege and prove each
offense in the series. Rather, it is sufficient to allege and prove that the
offender, within a given span of time, committed one or more theft offenses or
violations of R.C. § 2913.40, 2913.48, or 2921.41 in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another as described in division (B)
(1) or (B)(3) of this section, or committed one or more theft offenses that
involve a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims or a scheme or
course of conduct as described in division (B)(2) of this section. While it is
not necessary to separately allege and prove each offense in the series in
order to prosecute a single offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of
this section, it remains necessary in prosecuting them as a single offense to
prove the aggregate value of the property or services in order to meet the
requisite statutory offense level sought by the prosecution.
   (C)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   The value of an heirloom, memento, collector’s item, antique,
museum piece, manuscript, document, record, or other thing that has intrinsic
worth to its owner and that either is irreplaceable or is replaceable only on
the expenditure of substantial time, effort, or money, is the amount which
would compensate the owner for its loss.
      (2)   The value of personal effects and household goods, and of
materials, supplies, equipment, and fixtures used in the profession, business,
trade, occupation, or avocation of its owner, which property is not covered
under division (C)(1) of this section, and which retains substantial utility
for its purpose regardless of its age or condition, is the cost of replacing
such property with new property of like kind and quality.
      (3)   The value of any real or personal property that is not covered
under division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section, and the value of services, is
the fair market value of the property or services. As used in this section,
FAIR MARKET VALUE is the money consideration which a buyer would give and a
seller would accept for property or services, assuming that the buyer is
willing to buy and the seller is willing to sell, that both are fully informed
as to all facts material to the transaction, and that neither is under any
compulsion to act.
   (D)   Without limitation on the evidence which may be used to establish the
value of property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   When the property involved is personal property held for sale at
wholesale or retail, the price at which the property was held for sale is prima
facie evidence of its value.
      (2)   When the property involved is a security or commodity traded on an
exchange, the closing price or, if there is no closing price, the asked price,
given in the latest marked quotation prior to the offense, is prima facie
evidence of the value of the security or commodity.
      (3)   When the property involved is livestock, poultry, or raw
agricultural products for which a local market price is available, the latest
local market price prior to the offense is prima facie evidence of the value of
the livestock, poultry, or products.
      (4)   When the property involved is a negotiable instrument, the face
value is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (5)   When the property involved is a warehouse receipt, bill of lading,
pawn ticket, claim check, or other instrument entitling the holder or bearer to
receive property, the face value or, if there is no face value, the value of
the property covered by the instrument less any payment necessary to receive
the property, is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (6)   When the property involved is a ticket of admission, ticket for
transportation, coupon, token, or other instrument entitling the holder or
bearer to receive property or services, the face value or, if there is no face
value, the value of the property or services which may be received by the
instrument is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (7)   When the services involved are gas, electricity, water, telephone,
transportation, shipping, or other services for which the rate is established
by law, the duly established rate is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
      (8)   When the services involved are services for which the rate is not
established by law, and the offender has been notified prior to the offense of
the rate for the services, either in writing, or orally, or by posting in a
manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential offenders,
the rate contained in the notice is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
(R.C. § 2913.61(B) - (E)) (Prior Code, § 642.24)
§ 131.20 DEGREE OF OFFENSE WHEN CERTAIN PROPERTY INVOLVED.
   Regardless of the value of the property involved, and regardless of whether
the offender previously has been convicted of a theft offense, a violation of §
131.08 or §
131.18 is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the property
involved is any of the following:
   (A)   A credit card;
   (B)   A printed form for a check or other negotiable instrument, that on its
face identifies the drawer or maker for whose use it is designed or identifies
the account on which it is to be drawn, and that has not been executed by the
drawer or maker or on which the amount is blank;
   (C)   A motor vehicle identification license plate as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.22, a temporary motor vehicle license registration as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.182, or any comparable temporary motor vehicle license registration as
prescribed by the applicable law of another state or the United States;
   (D)   A blank form for a certificate of title or a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate to a motor vehicle, as prescribed by R.C. § 4505.07;
   (E)   A blank form for any license listed in R.C. § 4507.01.
(R.C. § 2913.71) (Prior Code, § 642.03)
§ 131.21 INJURING VINES, BUSHES, TREES, OR CROPS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly cut down,
destroy, girdle, or otherwise injure a vine, bush, shrub, sapling, tree, or
crop standing or growing on the land of another or upon public land.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (C) of this section,
whoever violates this section is liable in treble damages for the injury
caused.
(R.C. § 901.51)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 901.99(A))
(Prior Code, § 642.06)
§ 131.22 DETENTION AND ARREST OF SHOPLIFTERS AND THOSE COMMITTING MOTION
PICTURE PIRACY; PROTECTION OF INSTITUTIONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ARCHIVAL INSTITUTION. Means any public or private building, structure, or
shelter in which are stored historical documents, devices, records,
manuscripts, or items of public interest, which historical materials are stored
to preserve the materials or the information in the materials, to disseminate
the information contained in the materials, or to make the materials available
for public inspection or for inspection by certain persons who have a
particular interest in, use for, or knowledge concerning the materials.
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2913.07.
      FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.07.
      MUSEUM. Means any public or private nonprofit institution that is
permanently organized for primarily educational or aesthetic purposes, owns or
borrows objects or items of public interest, and cares for and exhibits to the
public the objects or items.
      PRETRIAL DIVERSION PROGRAM. Means a rehabilitative, educational program
designed to reduce recidivism and promote personal responsibility that is at
least four hours in length and that has been approved by any court in this
state.
   (B)   A merchant, or an employee or agent of a merchant, who has probable
cause to believe that things offered for sale by a mercantile establishment
have been unlawfully taken by a person, may, for the purposes set forth in
division (D) below, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable
length of time within the mercantile establishment or its immediate vicinity.
   (C)   Any officer, employee, or agent of a library, museum, or archival
institution may, for the purposes set forth in division (D) below or for the
purpose of conducting a reasonable investigation of a belief that the person
has acted in a manner described in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) below, detain a
person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of time within, or in the
immediate vicinity of, the library, museum, or archival institution, if the
officer, employee, or agent has probable cause to believe that the person has:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly moved, defaced, damaged,
destroyed, or otherwise improperly tampered with property owned by or in the
custody of the library, museum, or archival institution; or
      (2)   With purpose to deprive the library, museum, or archival
institution of property owned by it or in its custody, knowingly obtained or
exerted control over the property without the consent of the owner or person
authorized to give consent, beyond the scope of the express or implied consent
of the owner or person authorized to give consent, by deception, or by threat.
   (D)   An officer, agent, or employee of a library, museum, or archival
institution pursuant to division (C) above or a merchant or an employee or
agent of a merchant pursuant to division (B) above may detain another person
for any of the following purposes:
      (1)   To recover the property that is the subject of the unlawful taking,
criminal mischief, or theft;
      (2)   To cause an arrest to be made by a peace officer;
      (3)   To obtain a warrant of arrest;
      (4)   To offer the person, if the person is suspected of the unlawful
taking, criminal mischief, or theft and notwithstanding any other provision of
this Code or the Ohio Revised Code, an opportunity to complete a pretrial
diversion program and to inform the person of the other legal remedies
available to the library, museum, archival institution, or merchant.
   (E)   The owner or lessee of a facility in which a motion picture is being
shown, or the owner’s or lessee’s employee or agent, who has probable cause to
believe that a person is or has been operating an audiovisual recording
function of a device in violation of R.C. § 2917.07 may, for the purpose of
causing an arrest to be made by a peace officer or of obtaining an arrest
warrant, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of
time within the facility or its immediate vicinity.
   (F)   The officer, agent, or employee of the library, museum, or archival
institution, the merchant or an employee or agent of a merchant, or the owner,
lessee, employee, or agent of the facility acting under divisions (B), (C) or
(E) above shall not search the person detained, search or seize any property
belonging to the person detained without the person’s consent, or use undue
restraint upon the person detained.
   (G)   Any peace officer may arrest without a warrant any person that the
officer has probable cause to believe has committed any act described in
divisions (C)(1) or (C)(2) above, that the officer has probable cause to
believe has committed an unlawful taking in a mercantile establishment, or that
the officer has reasonable cause to believe has committed an act prohibited by
R.C. § 2913.07. An arrest under this division shall be made within a reasonable
time after the commission of the act or unlawful taking.
(R.C. § 2935.041) (Prior Code, § 606.23)
Statutory reference:
   Arrest without a warrant generally, see R.C. § 2935.03
   Probable cause, see R.C. § 2933.22
§ 131.23 INSURANCE FRAUD; WORKERS’ COMPENSATION FRAUD; MEDICAID FRAUD.
   (A)   Insurance fraud.
      (1)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   Present to, or cause to be presented to, an insurer any written
or oral statement that is part of, or in support of, an application for
insurance, a claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other
benefit pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the
statement, is false or deceptive;
         (b)   Assist, aid, abet, solicit, procure, or conspire with another to
prepare or make any written or oral statement that is intended to be presented
to an insurer as part of, or in support of, an application for insurance, a
claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other benefit
pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the statement,
is false or deceptive.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of insurance fraud.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, insurance fraud is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the amount of the claim that is false or deceptive is
$1,000 or more, insurance fraud is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   This division (A) shall not be construed to abrogate, waive, or
modify R.C. § 2317.02(A).
      (4)   As used in this division (A):
         DATA. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01 and additionally
includes any other representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts,
or instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner.
         DECEPTIVE. Means that a statement, in whole or in part, would cause
another to be deceived because it contains a misleading representation,
withholds information, prevents the acquisition of information, or by any other
conduct, act, or omission creates, confirms, or perpetuates a false impression,
including but not limited to a false impression as to law, value, state of
mind, or other objective or subjective fact.
         INSURER. Means any person that is authorized to engage in the business
of insurance in this state under R.C. Title 39, the Ohio Fair Plan Underwriting
Association created under R.C. § 3929.43, any health insuring corporation, and
any legal entity that is self-insured and provides benefits to its employees or
members.
         POLICY. Means a policy, certificate, contract, or plan that is issued
by an insurer.
         STATEMENT. Includes but is not limited to any notice, letter, or
memorandum; proof of loss; bill of lading; receipt for payment; invoice,
account, or other financial statement; estimate of property damage; bill for
services; diagnosis or prognosis; prescription; hospital, medical, or dental
chart or other record; x-ray, photograph, videotape, or movie film; test
result; other evidence of loss, injury, or expense; computer-generated
document; and data in any form.
(R.C. § 2913.47) (Prior Code, § 642.31)
   (B)   Workers’ compensation fraud.
      (1)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Receive workers’ compensation benefits to which the person is
not entitled;
         (b)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false or
misleading statement with the purpose to secure payment for goods or services
rendered under R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131 or to secure workers’
compensation benefits;
         (c)   Alter, falsify, destroy, conceal, or remove any record or
document that is necessary to fully establish the validity of any claim filed
with, or necessary to establish the nature and validity of all goods and
services for which reimbursement or payment was received or is requested from
the Bureau of Workers’ Compensation, or a self-insuring employer under R.C.
Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131;
         (d)   Enter into an agreement or conspiracy to defraud the Bureau of
Workers’ Compensation or a self-insuring employer by making or presenting or
causing to be made or presented a false claim for workers’ compensation
benefits;
         (e)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false
statement concerning manual codes, classification or employees, payroll, paid
compensation, or number of personnel, when information of that nature is
necessary to determine the actual workers’ compensation premium or assessment
owed to the Bureau by an employer;
         (f)   Alter, forge, or create a workers’ compensation certificate or
falsely show current or correct workers’ compensation coverage;
         (g)   Fail to secure or maintain workers’ compensation coverage as
required by R.C. Chapter 4123 with the intent to defraud the Bureau of Workers’
Compensation.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of workers’
compensation fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, workers’
compensation fraud is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of
premiums and assessments unpaid pursuant to actions described in divisions (B)
(1)(e), (B)(1)(f), or (B)(1)(g) of this section, or goods, services, property,
or money stolen is $1,000 or more, workers’ compensation fraud is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Upon application of the governmental body that conducted the
investigation and prosecution of a violation of this division (B), the court
shall order the person who is convicted of the violation to pay the
governmental body its costs of investigating and prosecuting the case. These
costs are in addition to any other costs or penalty provided under federal,
state or local law.
      (4)   The remedies and penalties provided in this division (B) are not
exclusive remedies and penalties and do not preclude the use of any other
criminal or civil remedy or penalty for any act that is in violation of this
division (B).
      (5)   As used in this division (B):
         CLAIM. Means any attempt to cause the Bureau of Workers’ Compensation,
an independent third party with whom the administrator or an employer contracts
under R.C. § 4121.44, or a self-insuring employer to make payment or
reimbursement for workers’ compensation benefits.
         EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         EMPLOYER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         EMPLOYMENT. Means participating in any trade, occupation, business,
service, or profession for substantial gainful remuneration.
         FALSE. Means wholly or partially untrue or deceptive.
         GOODS. Includes but is not limited to medical supplies, appliances,
rehabilitative equipment, and any other apparatus or furnishing provided or
used in the care, treatment, or rehabilitation of a claimant for workers’
compensation benefits.
         RECORDS. Means any medical, professional, financial, or business
record relating to the treatment or care of any person, to goods or services
provided to any person, or to rates paid for goods or services provided to any
person, or any record that the administrator of workers’ compensation requires
pursuant to rule.
         REMUNERATION. Includes but is not limited to wages, commissions,
rebates, and any other reward or consideration.
         SELF-INSURING EMPLOYER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         SERVICES. Includes but is not limited to any service provided by any
health care provider to a claimant for workers’ compensation benefits and any
and all services provided by the Bureau as part of workers’ compensation
insurance coverage.
         STATEMENT. Includes but is not limited to any oral, written,
electronic, electronic impulse, or magnetic communication notice, letter,
memorandum, receipt for payment, invoice, account, financial statement, or bill
for services; a diagnosis, prognosis, prescription, hospital, medical, or
dental chart or other record; and a computer generated document.
         WORKERS’ COMPENSATION BENEFITS. Means any compensation or benefits
payable under R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131.
(R.C. § 2913.48) (Prior Code, § 642.32)
   (C)   Medicaid fraud.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a false or
misleading statement or representation for use in obtaining reimbursement from
the Medicaid program.
      (2)   No person, with purpose to commit fraud or knowing that the person
is facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   Contrary to the terms of the person’s provider agreement,
charge, solicit, accept or receive for goods or services that the person
provides under the Medicaid program any property, money or other consideration
in addition to the amount of reimbursement under the Medicaid program and the
person’s provider agreement for the goods or services and any cost-sharing
expenses authorized by R.C. § 5162.20 or rules adopted by the Medicaid Director
regarding the Medicaid program.
         (b)   Solicit, offer or receive any remuneration, other than any cost-
sharing expenses authorized by R.C. § 5162.20 or rules adopted by the Medicaid
Director regarding the Medicaid program, in cash or in kind, including but not
limited to a kickback or rebate, in connection with the furnishing of goods or
services for which whole or partial reimbursement is or may be made under the
Medicaid program.
      (3)   No person, having submitted a claim for or provided goods or
services under the Medicaid program, shall do either of the following for a
period of at least six years after a reimbursement pursuant to that claim, or a
reimbursement for those goods or services, is received under the Medicaid
program:
         (a)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to fully disclose the nature of all goods or services for
which the claim was submitted, or for which reimbursement was received, by the
person; or
         (b)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to disclose fully all income and expenditures upon which
rates of reimbursements were based for the person.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (C) is guilty of Medicaid fraud.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, Medicaid fraud is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the value of the property, services or funds obtained
in violation of this section is $1,000 or more, Medicaid fraud is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
      (5)   Upon application of the governmental agency, office or other entity
that conducted the investigation and prosecution in a case under this section,
the court shall order any person who is convicted of a violation of this
section for receiving any reimbursement for furnishing goods or services under
the Medicaid program to which the person is not entitled to pay to the
applicant its cost of investigating and prosecuting the case. The costs of
investigation and prosecution that a defendant is ordered to pay pursuant to
this division shall be in addition to any other penalties for the receipt of
that reimbursement that are provided in this section, R.C. § 2913.40 or
5164.35, or any other provision of law.
      (6)   The provisions of this section are not intended to be exclusive
remedies and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this section.
      (7)   As used in this division (C):
         PROVIDER. Means any person who has signed a provider agreement with
the Department of Medicaid to provide goods or services pursuant to the
Medicaid program or any person who has signed an agreement with a party to such
a provider agreement under which the person agrees to provide goods or services
that are reimbursable under the Medicaid program.
         PROVIDER AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
         RECIPIENT. Means any individual who receives goods or services from a
provider under the Medicaid program.
         RECORDS. Means any medical, professional, financial or business
records relating to the treatment or care of any recipient, to goods or
services provided to any recipient, or to rates paid for goods or services
provided to any recipient, and any records that are required by the rules of
the Medicaid Director to be kept for the Medicaid program.
         STATEMENT or REPRESENTATION. Means any oral, written, electronic,
electronic impulse or magnetic communication that is used to identify an item
of goods or a service for which reimbursement may be made under the Medicaid
program or that states income and expense and is or may be used to determine a
rate of reimbursement under the Medicaid program.
(R.C. § 2913.40)
   (D)   Medicaid eligibility fraud.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following in an application
for enrollment in the Medicaid program or in a document that requires a
disclosure of assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for the
Medicaid program:
         (a)   Make or cause to be made a false or misleading statement;
         (b)   Conceal an interest in property;
         (c)   1.   Except as provided in division (D)(1)(c)2. of this section,
fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during the period
beginning 36 months before submission of the application or document and ending
on the date the application or document was submitted;
            2.   Fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during
the period beginning 60 months before submission of the application or document
and ending on the date the application or document was submitted and that was
made to an irrevocable trust a portion of which is not distributable to the
applicant for or recipient of Medicaid or to a revocable trust.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation
of this division (D) is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the
Medicaid services paid as a result of the violation is $1,000 or more, a
violation of this division (D) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
         (b)   In addition to imposing a sentence under division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, the court shall order that a person who is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud make restitution in the full amount of any Medicaid services
paid on behalf of an applicant for or recipient of Medicaid for which the
applicant or recipient was not eligible, plus interest at the rate applicable
to judgments on unreimbursed amounts from the date on which the Medicaid
services were paid to the date on which restitution is made.
         (c)   The remedies and penalties provided in this division (D) are not
exclusive and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this division (D).
      (3)   This division (D) does not apply to a person who fully disclosed in
an application for Medicaid or in a document that requires a disclosure of
assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for Medicaid all of the
interests in property of the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, all
transfers of property by the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, and the
circumstances of all those transfers.
      (4)   Any amounts of Medicaid services recovered as restitution under
this division (D) and any interest on those amounts shall be credited to the
General Revenue Fund, and any applicable federal share shall be returned to the
appropriate agency or department of the United States.
      (5)   As used in this division (D):
         MEDICAID SERVICES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
         PROPERTY. Means any real or personal property or other asset in which
a person has any legal title or interest.
(R.C. § 2913.401)
(Prior Code, § 642.33)
§ 131.24 INJURY TO PROPERTY BY HUNTERS.
   (A)   No person in the act of hunting, pursuing, taking, or killing a wild
animal shall act in a negligent, careless, or reckless manner so as to injure
property.
(R.C. § 1533.171(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Violation, license revocation, see R.C. § 1533.171(B) through (E)
§ 131.25 EVIDENCE OF INTENT TO COMMIT THEFT OF RENTED PROPERTY OR RENTAL
SERVICES; EVIDENCE OF LACK OF CAPACITY TO CONSENT.
   (A)   Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental
services.
      (1)   As used in this division (A):
         RENTER. Means a person who owns rented property.
         RENTEE. Means a person who pays consideration to a renter for the use
of rented property.
      (2)   Each of the following shall be considered evidence of intent to
commit theft of rented property or rental services:
         (a)   At the time of entering into the rental contract, the rentee
presented the renter with identification that was materially false, fictitious,
or not current with respect to name, address, place of employment, or other
relevant information.
         (b)   After receiving a notice demanding the return of the rented
property as provided in division (A)(3) of this section, the rentee neither
returned the rented property nor made arrangements acceptable with the renter
to return the rented property.
      (3)   To establish that a rentee has an intent to commit theft of rented
property or rental services under division (A)(2)(b) above, a renter may issue
a notice to a rentee demanding the return of the rented property. The renter
shall mail the notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
rentee at the address the rentee gave when the rental contract was executed, or
to the rentee at the last address the rentee or the rentee’s agent furnished in
writing to the renter.
      (4)   A demand for the return of the rented property is not a
prerequisite for the prosecution of a rentee for theft of rented property or
rental services. The evidence specified in division (A)(2) above does not
constitute the only evidence that may be considered as evidence of intent to
commit theft of rented property or rental services.
(R.C. § 2913.72)
   (B)   Evidence of lack of capacity to consent.
      (1)   In a prosecution for any alleged violation of §
131.08 through
131.20,
131.23,
131.25 through
131.29, or
132.11, if the lack of consent of the victim is an element of the provision
that allegedly was violated, evidence that, at the time of the alleged
violation, the victim lacked the capacity to give consent is admissible to show
that the victim did not give consent.
      (2)   As used in this section, LACKS THE CAPACITY TO CONSENT means being
impaired for any reason to the extent that the person lacks sufficient
understanding or capacity to make and carry out reasonable decisions concerning
the person or the person’s resources.
(R.C. § 2913.73)
(Prior Code, § 642.035)
§ 131.26 FORGERY OF IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do either of the following:
      (1)   Forge an identification card.
      (2)   Sell or otherwise distribute a card that purports to be an
identification card, knowing it was forged.
   (B)   As used in this section, IDENTIFICATION CARD means a card that
includes personal information or characteristics of an individual, a purpose of
which is to establish the identity of the bearer described on the card, whether
the words “identity”, “identification”, “identification card”, or other similar
words appear on the card.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of forging
identification cards or selling or distributing forged identification cards.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, forging identification cards or
selling or distributing forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
division (A) of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, forging identification cards or selling or distributing
forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the first degree and, in
addition, the court shall impose upon the offender a fine not less than $250.
      (2)    If the victim of a violation of this section is an elderly person,
R.C. § 2913.31(C)(2)(b) applies and the offense shall be prosecuted under R.C.
§ 2913.31.
(R.C. § 2913.31(B), (C)(2)) (Prior Code, § 642.145)
Statutory reference:
   Forgery, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2913.31(A) and (C)(1)
   Forgery of originating address or other routing information in connection
with the transmission of an electronic mail advertisement, felony provisions,
see R.C. § 2307.64
§ 131.27 CRIMINAL SIMULATION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud, or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Make or alter any object so that it appears to have value because
of antiquity, rarity, curiosity, source, or authorship, which it does not in
fact possess.
      (2)   Practice deception in making, retouching, editing, or reproducing
any photograph, movie film, video tape, phonograph record, or recording tape.
      (3)   Falsely or fraudulently make, simulate, forge, alter, or
counterfeit any wrapper, label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor
Control Commission under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, falsely or fraudulently
cause to be made, simulated, forged, altered, or counterfeited any wrapper,
label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under
R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, or use more than once any wrapper, label, stamp,
cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under R.C. Chapters
4301 and 4303.
      (4)   Offer, or possess with the purpose to offer, any object that the
person knows to have been simulated as provided in divisions (A)(1), (A)(2) or
(A)(3) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal simulation. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, criminal simulation is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more, criminal
simulation is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.32) (Prior Code, § 642.146)
§ 131.28 PERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is
facilitating a fraud, or with purpose to induce another to purchase property or
services, shall personate a law enforcement officer, or an inspector,
investigator, or agent of any governmental agency.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of personating an officer, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2913.44) (Prior Code, § 642.20)
Cross-reference:
   Impersonating an officer (non-fraud offense), see §
132.12
§ 131.29 TRADEMARK COUNTERFEITING.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Attach, affix, or otherwise use a counterfeit mark in connection
with the manufacture of goods or services, whether or not the goods or services
are intended for sale or resale.
      (2)   Possess, sell, or offer for sale tools, machines, instruments,
materials, articles, or other items of personal property with the knowledge
that they are designed for the production or reproduction of counterfeit marks.
      (3)   Purchase or otherwise acquire goods, and keep or otherwise have the
goods in the person’s possession, with the knowledge that a counterfeit mark is
attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used in connection with the goods and
with the intent to sell or otherwise dispose of the goods.
      (4)   Sell, offer for sale, or otherwise dispose of goods with the
knowledge that a counterfeit mark is attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used
in connection with the goods.
      (5)   Sell, offer for sale, or otherwise provide services with the
knowledge that a counterfeit mark is used in connection with that sale, offer
for sale, or other provision of the services.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of trademark counterfeiting.
      (1)   A violation of division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)    Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
division (A)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
circumstances of the violation indicate that the tools, machines, instruments,
materials, articles, or other items of personal property involved in the
violation were intended for use in the commission of a felony, a violation of
division (A)(2) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
division (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the cumulative sales price of the goods or services to which or in
connection with which the counterfeit mark is attached, affixed or otherwise
used in the offense is $1,000 or more, a violation of division (A)(3), (A)(4)
or (A)(5) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   A defendant may assert as an affirmative defense to a charge of a
violation of this section defenses, affirmative defenses, and limitations on
remedies that would be available in a civil, criminal or administrative action
or proceeding under the Lanham Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1051 through 1127, as
amended, the Trademark Counterfeiting Act of 1984, being 18 U.S.C. § 2320, as
amended, R.C. Chapter 1329 or another section of the Ohio Revised Code, or
common law.
   (D)   (1)   Law enforcement officers may seize pursuant to Criminal Rule 41,
R.C. Chapter 2933, or R.C. Chapter 2981 either of the following:
         (a)   Goods to which or in connection with which a person attached,
affixed, otherwise used, or intended to attach, affix or otherwise use a
counterfeit mark in violation of this section.
         (b)   Tools, machines, instruments, materials, articles, vehicles or
other items of personal property that are possessed, sold, offered for sale, or
used in a violation of this section or in an attempt to commit or complicity in
the commission of a violation of this section.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of R.C. Chapter 2981, if a
person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section, an
attempt to violate this section, or complicity in a violation of this section,
the court involved shall declare that the goods described in division (D)(1)(a)
of this section and the personal property described in division (D)(1)(b) of
this section are contraband and are forfeited. Prior to the court’s entry of
judgment under Criminal Rule 32, the owner of a registered trademark or service
mark that is the subject to the counterfeit mark may recommend a manner in
which the forfeited goods and forfeited personal property should be disposed
of. If that owner makes a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition, the
court is not bound by the recommendation. If that owner makes a timely
recommendation of a manner of disposition, the court may include in its entry
of judgment an order that requires appropriate persons to dispose of the
forfeited goods and forfeited personal property in the recommended manner. If
the owner fails to make a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition or
if that owner makes a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition but the
court determines to not follow the recommendation, the court shall include in
its entry of judgement an order that requires the law enforcement agency that
employs the law enforcement officer who seized the forfeited goods or the
forfeited personal property to destroy them or cause their destruction.
   (E)   This section does not affect the rights of an owner of a trademark or
service mark, or the enforcement in a civil action or in administrative
proceedings of the rights of an owner or a trademark or service mark under the
Lanham Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1051 through 1127, as amended, the Trademark
Counterfeiting Act of 1984, being 18 U.S.C. § 2320, as amended, R.C. Chapter
1329, or another section of the Ohio Revised Code, or common law.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      COUNTERFEIT MARK.
         (a)   Except as provided in division (b) of this definition, the term
means a spurious trademark or a spurious service mark that satisfies both of
the following:
            1.   It is identical with or substantially indistinguishable from a
mark that is registered on the principal register in the United States Patent
and Trademark Office for the same goods or services as the goods or services to
which or in connection with which the spurious trademark or spurious service
mark is attached, affixed, or otherwise used, or from a mark that is registered
with the Secretary of State pursuant to R.C. §§ 1329.54 through 1329.67 for the
same goods or services as the goods or services to which or in connection with
which the spurious trademark or spurious service mark is attached, affixed, or
otherwise used, and the owner of the registration uses that registered
trademark, whether or not the offender knows that the mark is registered in a
manner described in this division (a)1.
            2.   Its use is likely to cause confusion or mistake or to deceive
other persons.
         (b)   The term does not include a mark or other designation that is
attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used in connection with goods or services
if the holder of the right to use the mark or other designation authorizes the
manufacturer, producer, or vendor of those goods or services to attach, affix,
or otherwise use the mark or other designation in connection with those goods
or services at the time of their manufacture, production or sale.
      CUMULATIVE SALES PRICE. Means the product of the lowest single unit sales
price charged or sought to be charged by an offender for goods to which or in
connection with which a counterfeit mark is attached, affixed, or otherwise
used or of the lowest single service transaction price charged or sought to be
charged by an offender for services in connection with which a counterfeit mark
is used, multiplied by the total number of those goods or services, whether or
not units of goods are sold or are in an offender’s possession, custody or
control.
      REGISTERED TRADEMARK OR SERVICE MARK. Means a trademark or service mark
that is registered in a manner described in division (a) of the definition of
“counterfeit mark”.
      SERVICE MARK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1329.54.
      TRADEMARK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1329.54.
(R.C. § 2913.34)
§ 131.30 DIMINISHING OR INTERFERING WITH FORFEITABLE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall destroy, damage, remove, or transfer property that is
subject to forfeiture or otherwise take any action in regard to property that
is subject to forfeiture with purpose to do any of the following:
      (1)   Prevent or impair the state’s or political subdivision’s lawful
authority to take the property into its custody or control under R.C. Chapter
2981 or to continue holding the property under its lawful custody or control;
      (2)   Impair or defeat the court’s continuing jurisdiction over the
person and property;
      (3)   Devalue property that the person knows, or has reasonable cause to
believe, is subject to forfeiture proceedings under R.C. Chapter 2981.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with or
diminishing forfeitable property. Except as otherwise provided in this division
(B), interference with or diminishing forfeitable property is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the property is $1,000 or more, interference
with or diminishing forfeitable property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2981.07) (Prior Code, § 642.35)
§ 131.31 RECORDING CREDIT CARD, TELEPHONE OR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS.
   (A)   No person shall record or cause to be recorded either of the
following:
      (1)   A credit card account number of the other party to a transaction,
when a check, bill of exchange or other draft is presented for payment; or
      (2)   The telephone number or Social Security account number of the other
party to a transaction, when payment is made by credit card charge agreement,
check, bill of exchange or other draft.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a transaction, if all
of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number is recorded for a legitimate business purpose, including
collection purposes.
      (2)   The other party to the transaction consents to the recording of the
credit card account number, Social Security account number or telephone number.
      (3)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number that is recorded during the course of the transaction is not
disclosed to any third party for any purposes other than collection purposes
and is not used to market goods or services unrelated to the goods or services
purchased in the transaction.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prohibits the recording of the number of a
credit card account when given in lieu of a deposit to secure payment in the
event of default, loss, damage or other occurrence, or requires a person to
accept a check presented for payment, if the other party to the transaction
refuses to consent to the recording of the number of the party’s Social
Security account or license to operate a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 1349.17)
   (D)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1349.99(A))
(Prior Code, § 642.155)
§ 131.32 PROSECUTIONS FOR THEFT OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01,
that involves alleged tampering with a gas, electric, steam or water meter,
conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the utility,
proof that a meter, conduit or attachment of a utility has been tampered with
is prima facie evidence that the person who is obligated to pay for the service
rendered through the meter, conduit or attachment, and who is in possession or
control of the meter, conduit or attachment at the time the tampering occurred
has caused the tampering with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (B)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01,
that involves the alleged reconnection of a gas, electric, steam or water
meter, conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the
utility, proof that a meter, conduit or attachment disconnected by a utility
has been reconnected without the consent of the utility is prima facie evidence
that the person in possession or control of the meter, conduit or attachment at
the time of the reconnection has reconnected the meter, conduit or attachment
with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (C)   As used in this section:
      TAMPER. Means to interfere with, damage or bypass a utility meter,
conduit or attachment with the intent to impede the correct registration of a
meter or the proper functions of a conduit or attachment so as to reduce the
amount of utility service that is registered on the meter.
      UTILITY. Means any electric light company, gas company, natural gas
company, pipe-line company, water-works company or heating or cooling company,
as defined in R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), its lessees,
trustees or receivers, or any similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision.
(R.C. § 4933.18)
   (D)   Each electric light company, gas company, natural gas company,
pipeline company, waterworks company or heating or cooling company, as defined
by R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), or its lessees, trustees or
receivers, and each similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision, shall notify its customers, on an annual basis, that tampering
with or bypassing a meter constitutes a theft offense that could result in the
imposition of criminal sanctions.
(R.C. § 4933.19)
(Prior Code, § 642.26)
§ 131.33 MOTION PICTURE PIRACY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION. Means the capability of a device to
record or transmit a motion picture or any part of a motion picture by means of
any technology existing on, or developed after, March 9, 2004.
      FACILITY. Means a movie theater.
   (B)   No person, without the written consent of the owner or lessee of the
facility and of the licensor of the motion picture, shall knowingly operate an
audiovisual recording function of a device in a facility in which the motion
picture is being shown.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of motion
picture piracy, a misdemeanor of the first degree on the first offense and a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
   (D)   This section does not prohibit or restrict a lawfully authorized
investigative, law enforcement, protective, or intelligence gathering employee
or agent of the government of this state or a political subdivision of this
state, or of the federal government, when acting in an official capacity, from
operating an audiovisual recording function of a device in any facility in
which a motion picture is being shown.
   (E)   Division (B) of this section does not limit or affect the application
of any other prohibition in this code or the Ohio Revised Code. Any act that is
a violation of both division (B) of this section and another provision of this
code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, under the
other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, or under both this
section and the other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 2913.07) (Prior Code, § 642.34)
§ 131.34 RAILROAD VANDALISM; CRIMINAL TRESPASS; INTERFERENCE WITH OPERATION OF
TRAIN; GRADE CROSSING DEVICE VANDALISM.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any object
at, onto, or in the path of, any railroad rail, railroad track, locomotive,
engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company while such vehicle
is on a railroad track.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall climb upon or into any
locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company when
it is on a railroad track.
   (C)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall disrupt, delay, or
prevent the operation of any train or other vehicle of a railroad company while
such vehicle is on a railroad track.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of railroad
vandalism. Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of criminal
trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other railroad vehicle.
Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of interference with
the operation of a train. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad vandalism; criminal trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or
other railroad vehicle; and interference with the operation of a train each is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of division (A), (B), or
(C) of this section causes serious physical harm to property or creates a
substantial risk of physical harm to any person, causes physical harm to any
person, or causes serious physical harm to any person, the violation is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.10)
   (E)   No person shall knowingly deface, damage, obstruct, remove, or
otherwise impair the operation of any railroad grade crossing warning signal or
other protective device, including any gate, bell, light, crossbuck, stop sign,
yield sign, advance warning sign, or advance pavement marking.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of railroad
grade crossing device vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the violation of division (E) of this section causes serious physical harm
to property or creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person,
causes physical harm to any person, or causes serious physical harm to any
person, railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.101)
§ 131.35 DESECRATION.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall purposely deface, damage,
pollute, or otherwise physically mistreat any of the following:
      (1)   Any public monument;
      (2)   Any historical or commemorative marker, or any structure, Indian
mound or earthwork, cemetery, thing, or site of great historical or
archaeological interest;
      (3)   A place of worship, its furnishings, or religious artifacts or
sacred texts within the place of worship or within the grounds upon which the
place of worship is located;
      (4)   A work of art or museum piece;
      (5)   Any other object of reverence or sacred devotion.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of desecration. A violation of
division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the second degree. A violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   As used in this section, “cemetery” means any place of burial and
includes burial sites that contain American Indian burial objects placed with
or containing American Indian human remains.
(R.C. § 2927.11) (Prior Code, § 642.07)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
132.01   Riot
   
132.02   Failure to disperse
   
132.03   Justifiable use of force to suppress riot
   
132.04   Disorderly conduct
   
132.05   Disturbing a lawful meeting
   
132.06   Misconduct at an emergency
   
132.07   Telecommunications harassment
   
132.08   Inducing panic
   
132.09   Making false alarms
   
132.10   Inciting to violence
   
132.11   Unlawful display of law enforcement emblem
   
132.12   Impersonating a peace officer
   
132.13   Safety of crowds attending live entertainment performances
   
132.14   Misconduct involving a public transportation system
   
132.15   Disturbing the peace
Statutory reference:
   Misuse of “Block Parent” or “McGruff House” symbol, see R.C. § 2917.46
§ 132.01 RIOT.
   (A)   No person shall participate with four or more others in a course of
disorderly conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance:
      (1)   With purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of a
misdemeanor, other than disorderly conduct;
      (2)   With purpose to intimidate a public official or employee into
taking or refraining from official action, or with purpose to hinder, impede,
or obstruct a function of government;
      (3)   With purpose to hinder, impede, or obstruct the orderly process of
administration or instruction at an educational institution, or to interfere
with or disrupt lawful activities carried on at the institution.
   (B)   No person shall participate with four or more others with purpose to
do an act with unlawful force or violence, even though the act might otherwise
be lawful.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of riot, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2917.03)
   (D)   For the purposes of prosecuting violations of this section, the
prosecution is not required to allege or prove that the offender expressly
agreed with four or more others to commit any act that constitutes a violation
this section prior to or while committing those acts.
(R.C. § 2917.031)
(Prior Code, § 648.01)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated riot, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2917.02
§ 132.02 FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   (A)   Where five or more persons are participating in a course of disorderly
conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, and there are other persons in the vicinity whose presence creates
the likelihood of physical harm to persons or property or of serious public
inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm, a law enforcement officer or other public
official may order the participants and the other persons to disperse. No
person shall knowingly fail to obey the order.
   (B)   Nothing in this section requires persons to disperse who are peaceably
assembled for a lawful purpose.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to disperse.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3) of this section,
failure to disperse is a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Failure to disperse is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the
failure to obey the order described in division (A) of this section creates the
likelihood of physical harm to persons or is committed at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
(R.C. § 2917.04) (Prior Code, § 648.02)
§ 132.03 JUSTIFIABLE USE OF FORCE TO SUPPRESS RIOT.
   A law enforcement officer or firefighter engaged in suppressing a riot or in
protecting persons or property during a riot:
   (A)   Is justified in using force, other than deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters;
   (B)   Is justified in using force, including deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters whose conduct is creating a substantial risk of
serious physical harm to persons.
(R.C. § 2917.05) (Prior Code, § 648.03)
§ 132.04 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly cause inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm to
another, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting, in threatening harm to persons or property,
or in violent or turbulent behavior;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise or an offensively coarse utterance,
gesture, or display, or communicating unwarranted and grossly abusive language
to any person;
      (3)   Insulting, taunting, or challenging another, under circumstances in
which that conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
      (4)   Hindering or preventing the movement of persons on a public street,
road, highway, or right-of-way, or to, from, within, or upon public or private
property, so as to interfere with the rights of others, and by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender;
      (5)   Creating a condition that is physically offensive to persons or
that presents a risk of physical harm to persons or property, by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender.
   (B)   No person while voluntarily intoxicated shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   In a public place or in the presence of two or more persons, engage
in conduct likely to be offensive or to cause inconvenience, annoyance, or
alarm to persons of ordinary sensibilities, which conduct the offender, if he
or she were not intoxicated, should know is likely to have such effect on
others;
      (2)   Engage in conduct or create a condition that presents a risk of
physical harm to himself, herself or another, or to the property of another.
   (C)   Violation of any statute or ordinance of which an element is operating
a motor vehicle, locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse is not a violation of division
(B) of this section.
   (D)   If a person appears to an ordinary observer to be intoxicated, it is
probable cause to believe that the person is voluntarily intoxicated for
purposes of division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disorderly conduct.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (E)(2) and (E)(3) of this
section, disorderly conduct is a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Disorderly conduct is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if any of
the following applies:
         (a)   The offender persists in disorderly conduct after reasonable
warning or request to desist.
         (b)   The offense is committed in the vicinity of a school or in a
school safety zone.
         (c)   The offense is committed in the presence of any law enforcement
officer, firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services
person, or other authorized person who is engaged in the person’s duties at the
scene of a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
         (d)   The offense is committed in the presence of any emergency
facility person who is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to three or more violations of division (B) of this section, R.C. § 2917.11(B),
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation
of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2925.01.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.11) (Prior Code, § 648.04)
§ 132.05 DISTURBING A LAWFUL MEETING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to prevent or disrupt a lawful meeting,
procession, or gathering, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Do any act which obstructs or interferes with the due conduct of
the meeting, procession, or gathering.
      (2)   Make any utterance, gesture, or display which outrages the
sensibilities of the group.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disturbing a lawful
meeting, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2917.12) (Prior Code, § 648.05)
§ 132.06 MISCONDUCT AT AN EMERGENCY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Hamper the lawful operations of any law enforcement officer,
firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services person, or
other authorized person engaged in the person’s duties at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind;
      (2)   Hamper the lawful activities of any emergency facility person who
is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility;
      (3)   Fail to obey the lawful order of any law enforcement officer
engaged in the law enforcement officer’s duties at the scene of or in
connection with a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit access or deny
information to any news media representative in the lawful exercise of the news
media representative’s duties.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misconduct at an emergency.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If violation of this section creates a risk
of physical harm to persons or property, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.13) (Prior Code, § 648.06)
§ 132.07 TELECOMMUNICATIONS HARASSMENT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a
telecommunication, or knowingly permit a telecommunication to be made from a
telecommunications device under the person’s control, to another, if the caller
does any of the following:
      (1)   Makes the telecommunication with purpose to harass, intimidate, or
abuse any person at the premises to which the telecommunication is made,
whether or not actual communication takes place between the caller and a
recipient;
      (2)   Describes, suggests, requests, or proposes that the caller, the
recipient of the telecommunication, or any other person engage in sexual
activity, and the recipient or another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made has requested, in a previous telecommunication or in
the immediate telecommunication, that the caller not make a telecommunication
to the recipient or to the premises to which the telecommunication is made;
      (3)   During the telecommunication, violates R.C. § 2903.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (4)   Knowingly states to the recipient of the telecommunication that the
caller intends to cause damage to or destroy public or private property, and
the recipient, any member of the recipient’s family, or any other person who
resides at the premises to which the telecommunication is made owns, leases,
resides, or works in, will at the time of the destruction or damaging be near
or in, has the responsibility of protecting, or insures the property that will
be destroyed or damaged;
      (5)   Knowingly makes the telecommunication to the recipient of the
telecommunication, to another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made, or to those premises, and the recipient or another
person at those premises previously has told the caller not to make a
telecommunication to those premises or to any persons at those premises;
      (6)   Knowingly makes any comment, request, suggestion, or proposal to
the recipient of the telecommunication that is threatening, intimidating,
menacing, coercive, or obscene with the intent to abuse, threaten, or harass
the recipient;
      (7)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly interrupts the
telecommunication service of any person;
      (8)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly transmits to any
person, regardless of whether the telecommunication is heard in its entirety,
any file, document, or other communication that prevents that person from using
the person’s telephone service or electronic communication device;
      (9)   Knowingly makes any false statement concerning the death, injury,
illness, disfigurement, reputation, indecent conduct, or criminal conduct of
the recipient of the telecommunication or family or household member of the
recipient with purpose to abuse, threaten, intimidate, or harass the recipient;
      (10)   Knowingly incites another person through a telecommunication or
other means to harass or participate in the harassment of a person;
      (11)   Knowingly alarms the recipient by making a telecommunication
without a lawful purpose at an hour or hours known to be inconvenient to the
recipient and in an offensive or repetitive manner.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall make or cause to be made a telecommunication or
permit a telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under
the person’s control, with purpose to abuse, threaten, or harass another
person.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly post a text or audio statement or an
image on an internet web site or web page for the purpose of abusing,
threatening, or harassing another person.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of telecommunications
harassment.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(5), (A)(6), (A)
(7), (A)(8), (A)(9), (A)(10), or (A)(11) or (B) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense and a felony on each
subsequent offense, which shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree on a
first offense and a felony on each subsequent offense, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of division (A)(4) of this section
results in economic harm of $1,000 or more, telecommunications harassment is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   No cause of action may be asserted in any court of this municipality
against any provider of a telecommunications service, interactive computer
service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or against any
officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, for any
injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises out of the
provider’s, officer’s, employee’s, or agent’s provision of information,
facilities, or assistance in accordance with the terms of a court order that is
issued in relation to the investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation
of this section. A provider of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or an
officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, is
immune from any civil or criminal liability for injury, death, or loss to
person or property that allegedly arises out of the provider’s, officer’s,
employee’s, or agent’s provision of information, facilities, or assistance in
accordance with the terms of a court order that is issued in relation to the
investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation of this section.
   (E)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person solely because the
person provided access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control, including
having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access or
connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection. In addition, any
person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control shall not be
liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the receipt or
transmission through its service of any information that the person believes
is, or will be sent, in violation of this section.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not create an affirmative duty
for any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method
of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control to block
the receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it
believes is, or will be sent, in violation of this section except as otherwise
provided by law.
      (3)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of this section or who knowingly
advertises the availability of material of that nature.
      (4)   A provider or user of an interactive computer service, as defined
in 47 U.S.C. § 230, shall neither be treated as the publisher or speaker of any
information provided by another information content provider, as defined in 47
U.S.C. § 230, nor held civilly or criminally liable for the creation or
development of information provided by another information content provider, as
defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230. Nothing in this division shall be construed to
protect a person from liability to the extent that the person developed or
created any content in violation of this section.
   (F)   Divisions (A)(5) to (A)(11) and (B)(2) of this section do not apply to
a person who, while employed or contracted by a newspaper, magazine, press
association, news agency, news wire service, cable channel or cable operator,
or radio or television station, is gathering, processing, transmitting,
compiling, editing, or disseminating information for the general public within
the scope of the person’s employment in that capacity or the person’s
contractual authority in that capacity.
   (G)   As used in divisions (A) through (D) of this section:
      CABLE OPERATOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
      CALLER. Means the person described in division (A) of this section who
makes or causes to be made a telecommunication or who permits a
telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under that
person’s control.
      ECONOMIC HARM. Means all direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary
harm suffered by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. The term
includes but is not limited to all of the following:
         (a)   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (b)   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (c)   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct;
         (d)   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division
(A)(9) of this section is committed:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse of
the recipient;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the recipient, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the recipient;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the recipient, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
recipient.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the recipient of the
telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division (A)(9) of this
section is committed is the other natural parent or is the putative other
natural parent.
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived with
the recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in
division (A)(9) of this section is committed in a common law marital
relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting with the recipient, or who otherwise
has cohabited with the recipient within five years prior to the date of the
alleged commission of the act in question.
      SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   (H)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person from making a
telecommunication to a debtor that is in compliance with the Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act, 15 U.S.C. § 1692, as amended, or the Telephone
Consumer Protection Act, 47 U.S.C. § 227, as amended.
(R.C. § 2917.21) (Prior Code, § 636.15)
§ 132.08 INDUCING PANIC.
   (A)   No person shall cause the evacuation of any public place, or otherwise
cause serious public inconvenience or alarm, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Initiating or circulating a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false.
      (2)   Threatening to commit any offense of violence.
      (3)   Committing any offense, with reckless disregard of the likelihood
that its commission will cause serious public inconvenience or alarm.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any person
conducting an authorized fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inducing panic.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3), inducing panic is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If a violation of this section results in physical harm to any
person, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of $1,000 or more,
inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
public place involved in a violation of division (A)(1) is a school or an
institution of higher education, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a
purported, threatened or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, inducing
panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      BIOLOGICAL AGENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2917.33.
      ECONOMIC HARM. Means any of the following:
         (a)   All direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary harm suffered
by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. “Economic harm” as described
in this division includes but is not limited to all of the following:
            1.   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            2.   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            3.   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct;
            4.   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
         (b)   All costs incurred by the state or any political subdivision as
a result of, or in making any response to, the criminal conduct that
constituted the violation of this section or R.C. § 2917.32, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, including but not limited to all
costs so incurred by any law enforcement officers, firefighters, rescue
personnel, or emergency medical services personnel of the state or the
political subdivision.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSONNEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2133.21.
      INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A state university or college as defined in R.C. § 3345.12(A)
(1), community college, state community college, university branch, or
technical college;
         (b)   A private, nonprofit college, university or other post-secondary
institution located in this state that possesses a certificate of authorization
issued by the Ohio Board of Regents pursuant to R.C. Chapter 1713;
         (c)   A post-secondary institution with a certificate of registration
issued by the State Board of Career Colleges and Schools pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 3332.
      SCHOOL. Means any school operated by a board of education or any school
for which the State Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C.
§ 3301.07, whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or
training provided by the school is being conducted at the time a violation of
this section is committed.
      WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any weapon that is designed or intended to cause death or
serious physical harm through the release, dissemination, or impact of toxic or
poisonous chemicals, or other precursors;
         (b)   Any weapon involving a disease organism or biological agent;
         (c)   Any weapon that is designed to release radiation or
radioactivity at a level dangerous to human life;
         (d)   Any of the following, except to the extent that the item or
device in question is expressly excepted from the definition of “destructive
device” pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(4) and regulations issued under that
section:
            1.   Any explosive, incendiary, or poison gas bomb, grenade, rocket
having a propellant charge of more than four ounces, missile having an
explosive or incendiary charge of more than one-quarter ounce, mine, or similar
device;
            2.   Any combination of parts either designed or intended for use
in converting any item or device into any item or device described in division
(d)1. of this definition and from which an item or device described in that
division may be readily assembled.
(R.C. § 2917.31) (Prior Code, § 648.07)
§ 132.09 MAKING FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to cause public inconvenience or alarm.
      (2)   Knowingly cause a false alarm of fire or other emergency to be
transmitted to or within any organization, public or private, for dealing with
emergencies involving a risk of physical harm to persons or property.
      (3)   Report to any law enforcement agency an alleged offense or other
incident within its concern, knowing that the offense did not occur;
      (4)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to impede the operation of a critical
infrastructure facility.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person conducting an authorized
fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making false alarms. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, making false alarms is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of
$1,000 or more, making false alarms is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a purported,
threatened, or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, making false alarms
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2911.21.
      ECONOMIC HARM and WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION. Have the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2917.31.
(R.C. § 2917.32) (Prior Code, § 648.08)
§ 132.10 INCITING TO VIOLENCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly engage in conduct designed to urge or incite
another to commit any offense of violence when either of the following apply:
      (1)   The conduct takes place under circumstances that create a clear and
present danger that any offense of violence will be committed.
      (2)   The conduct proximately results in the commission of any offense of
violence.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inciting to violence. If
the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or incited to
commit is a misdemeanor, inciting to violence is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or
incited to commit is a felony, inciting to violence is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2917.01) (Prior Code, § 648.10)
§ 132.11 UNLAWFUL DISPLAY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT EMBLEM.
   (A)   No person who is not entitled to do so shall knowingly display on a
motor vehicle the emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law
enforcement officers.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of the unlawful display of the
emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law enforcement
officers, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2913.441) (Prior Code, § 606.26)
§ 132.12 IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Means an employee of the United States
who serves in a position the duties of which are primarily the investigation,
apprehension, or detention of individuals suspected or convicted of offenses
under the criminal laws of the United States.
      IMPERSONATE. Means to act the part of, assume the identity of, wear the
uniform or any part of the uniform of, or display the identification of a
particular person or of a member of a class of persons with purpose to make
another person believe that the actor is that particular person or is a member
of that class of persons.
      INVESTIGATOR OF THE BUREAU OF CRIMINAL IDENTIFICATION AND INVESTIGATION.
Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.11.
      PEACE OFFICER. A Sheriff, deputy sheriff, Marshal, deputy marshal, member
of the organized police department of a municipal corporation, or township
constable, who is employed by a political subdivision of this state; a member
of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under R.C. §
3735.31(D); a member of a police force employed by a regional transit authority
under R.C. § 306.35(Y); a state university law enforcement officer appointed
under R.C. § 3345.04; a veterans’ home police officer appointed under R.C. §
5907.02; a special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C. §
4582.04 or 4582.28; an officer, agent, or employee of the state or any of its
agencies, instrumentalities, or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute,
a duty to conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and
the authority to arrest violators is conferred, within limits of that statutory
duty and authority; or a state highway patrol trooper whose primary duties are
to preserve the peace, to protect life and property, and to enforce the laws,
ordinances, or rules of the state or any of its political subdivisions.
      PRIVATE POLICE OFFICER. Means any security guard, special police officer,
private detective, or other person who is privately employed in a police
capacity.
   (B)   No person shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or
federal law enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, by impersonating a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or
federal law enforcement officer, shall arrest or detain any person, search any
person, or search the property of any person.
   (D)   No person, with purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of an
offense, shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer, federal law
enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the municipality or the
state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation.
   (E)   No person shall commit a felony while impersonating a peace officer,
private police officer, federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or
employee of the municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of
Criminal Identification and Investigation.
   (F)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B) of this
section that the impersonation of the peace officer, private police officer,
federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the
municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation was for a lawful purpose.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the purpose of a
violation of division (D) of this section is to commit or facilitate the
commission of a felony, a violation of division (D) is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. Whoever violates division (E) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.51) (Prior Code, § 606.25)
Cross-reference:
   Personating an officer (fraud offense), see §
131.28
§ 132.13 SAFETY OF CROWDS ATTENDING LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CONCERT. Means a musical performance of which the primary component is a
presentation by persons singing or playing musical instruments, that is
intended by its sponsors mainly, but not necessarily exclusively, for the
listening enjoyment of the audience, and that is held in a facility. The term
does not include any performance in which music is a part of the presentation
and the primary component of which is acting, dancing, a motion picture, a
demonstration of skills or talent other than singing or playing an instrument,
an athletic event, an exhibition or a speech.
      FACILITY. Means any structure that has a roof or partial roof and that
has walls that wholly surround the area on all sides, including but not limited
to a stadium, hall, arena, armory, auditorium, ballroom, exhibition hall,
convention center or music hall.
      LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCE. Means any live speech; any live musical
performance, including a concert; any live dramatic performance; any live
variety show; and any other live performance with respect to which the primary
intent of the audience can be construed to be viewing the performers. The term
does not include any form of entertainment with respect to which the person
purchasing a ticket routinely participates in amusements as well as views
performers.
      PERSON. Includes, in addition to an individual or entity specified in
R.C. § 1.59(C), any governmental entity.
      RESTRICTED ENTERTAINMENT AREA. Means any wholly or partially enclosed
area, whether indoors or outdoors, that has limited access through established
entrances or established turnstiles or similar devices.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or offer in return for a
donation, any ticket that is not numbered and that does not correspond to a
specific seat for admission to either of the following:
         (a)   A live entertainment performance that is not exempted under
division (D) of this section, that is held in a restricted entertainment area,
and for which more than 8,000 tickets are offered to the public;
         (b)   A concert that is not exempted under division (D) of this
section and for which more than 3,000 tickets are offered to the public.
      (2)   No person shall advertise any live entertainment performance as
described in division (B)(1)(a) of this section or any concert as described in
division (B)(1)(b) of this section, unless the advertisement contains the words
“Reserved Seats Only”.
   (C)   Unless exempted by division (D)(1) of this section, no person who owns
or operates any restricted entertainment area shall fail to open, maintain and
properly staff at least the number of entrances designated under division (E)
of this section for a minimum of 90 minutes prior to the scheduled start of any
live entertainment performance that is held in the restricted entertainment
area and for which more than 3,000 tickets are sold, offered for sale or
offered in return for a donation.
   (D)   (1)   A live entertainment performance, other than a concert, is
exempted from the provisions of divisions (B) and (C) of this section if both
of the following apply:
         (a)   The restricted entertainment area in which the performance is
held has at least eight entrances or, if both entrances and separate admission
turnstiles or similar devices are used, has at least eight turnstiles or
similar devices.
         (b)   The eight entrances or, if applicable, the eight turnstiles or
similar devices, are opened, maintained and properly staffed at least one hour
prior to the scheduled start of the performance.
      (2)   (a)   The officer responsible for public safety in the municipality
may, upon application of the sponsor of a concert covered by division (B) of
this section, exempt the concert from the provisions of that division if such
officer finds that the health, safety and welfare of the participants and
spectators would not be substantially affected by failure to comply with the
provisions of that division. In determining whether to grant an exemption, the
officer shall consider the following factors: the size and design of the
facility in which the concert is scheduled; the size, age and anticipated
conduct of the crowd expected to attend the concert; and the ability of the
sponsor to manage and control the expected crowd. If the sponsor of any concert
desires to obtain an exemption under this division, the sponsor shall apply to
the appropriate official on a form prescribed by that official. The official
shall issue an order that grants or denies the exemption within five days after
receipt of the application. The sponsor may appeal any order that denies an
exemption to the Court of Common Pleas of the county in which the facility is
located.
         (b)   If an official grants an exemption under division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, the official shall designate an on-duty law enforcement officer
to be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue
orders to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety
and welfare of the participants and spectators.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (D)(2) of this section, in the case of a
concert held in a facility located on the campus of an educational institution
covered by R.C. § 3345.04, a state university law enforcement officer appointed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Exercise the authority to grant exemptions provided by division
(D)(2)(a) of this section in lieu of an official designated in that division;
         (b)   If the officer grants an exemption under division (D)(3)(a) of
this section, designate an on-duty state university law enforcement officer to
be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue orders
to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the participants and spectators.
   (E)   (1)   Unless a live entertainment performance is exempted by division
(D)(1) of this section, the officer responsible for public safety within the
municipality shall designate, for purposes of division (C) of this section, the
minimum number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed at
each live entertainment performance so as to permit crowd control and reduce
congestion at the entrances. The designation shall be based on such factors as
the size and nature of the crowd expected to attend the live entertainment
performance, the length of time prior to the live entertainment performance
that crowds are expected to congregate at the entrances and the amount of
security provided at the restricted entertainment area.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (E)(1) of this section, a state university
law enforcement officer appointed pursuant to R.C. §§ 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall
designate the number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed
in the case of a live entertainment performance that is held at a restricted
entertainment area located on the campus of an educational institution covered
by R.C. § 3345.04.
   (F)   No person shall enter into any contract for a live entertainment
performance that does not permit or require compliance with this section.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to a live entertainment performance
held in a restricted entertainment area if one admission ticket entitles the
holder to view or participate in three or more different games, rides,
activities or live entertainment performances occurring simultaneously at
different sites within the restricted entertainment area and if the initial
admittance entrance to the restricted entertainment area, for which the ticket
is required, is separate from the entrance to any specific live entertainment
performance and an additional ticket is not required for admission to the
particular live entertainment performance.
      (2)   This section does not apply to a symphony orchestra performance, a
ballet performance, horse races, dances or fairs.
   (H)   This section does not prohibit the Legislative Authority from imposing
additional requirements, not in conflict with the section, for the promotion or
holding of live entertainment performances.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (B), (C) or (F) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If any individual suffers physical harm to
the individual’s person as a result of a violation of this section, the
sentencing court shall consider this factor in favor of imposing a term of
imprisonment upon the offender.
(R.C. § 2917.40) (Prior Code, § 636.18)
§ 132.14 MISCONDUCT INVOLVING A PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM means a county
transit system operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.01 through 306.13, a
regional transit authority operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.30 through
306.71, or a regional transit commission operated in accordance with R.C. §§
306.80 through 306.90.
   (B)   No person shall evade the payment of the known fares of a public
transportation system.
   (C)   No person shall alter any transfer, pass, ticket or token of a public
transportation system with the purpose of evading the payment of fares or of
defrauding the system.
   (D)   No person shall do any of the following while in any facility or on
any vehicle of a public transportation system:
      (1)   Play sound equipment without the proper use of a private earphone;
      (2)   Smoke, eat or drink in any area where the activity is clearly
marked as being prohibited; or
      (3)   Expectorate upon a person, facility or vehicle.
   (E)   No person shall write, deface, draw or otherwise mark on any facility
or vehicle of a public transportation system.
   (F)   No person shall fail to comply with a lawful order of a public
transportation system police officer, and no person shall resist, obstruct or
abuse a public transportation police officer in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
   (G)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of
misconduct involving a public transportation system.
      (1)   A violation of division (B), (C), or (F) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (D) of this section is a minor misdemeanor
on a first offense. If a person previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of any division of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any division of this section, a
violation of division (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (E) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 75% of each fine paid to
satisfy a sentence imposed for a violation of any of the provisions of this
section shall be deposited into the treasury of the County and 25% shall be
deposited with the county transit board, regional transit authority or regional
transit commission that operates the public transportation system involved in
the violation, unless the Board of County Commissioners operates the public
transportation system, in which case 100% of each fine shall be deposited into
the treasury of the County.
(R.C. § 2917.41) (Prior Code, § 642.30)
§ 132.15 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   Generally. No person shall disturb the good order and quiet of the
municipality by clamors or noises, by intoxication, drunkenness, fighting,
quarreling, wrangling, committing assault, assault and battery, using obscene
or profane language in the streets and other public places to the annoyance of
the citizens, or otherwise violate the public peace by indecent and disorderly
conduct, or by lewd and lascivious behavior.
   (B)   Complicity. Any person permitting an act of conduct prohibited by
division (A) of this section to be committed within or about his or her room,
house, building or premises shall be deemed an aider and abettor in the
violation of division (A) of this section.
   (C)   Disturbing sounds or noises in public places. No owner, keeper,
manager or any person in charge or control of a hotel, night club, restaurant,
dance or amusement hall, tavern or other public place, shall engage in or
permit the playing of musical or other instruments, singing, loud talking or
the making of other noises in or about the premises in such manner as to
disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood.
   (D)   Other loud noises. No person shall operate or cause to be operated,
any whistle, rattle, bell, gong, clapper, hamper, drum, horn, player piano,
calliope, radio, phonograph or other sound producing or sound amplifying
instrument or otherwise create noise or sound in such manner as to disturb the
peace and quiet of a neighborhood or interfere with the transaction of business
or other ordinary pursuits. Nothing herein shall be construed to affect the
usual and reasonable operation of steam railroads, electric railways and motor
buses, or to prohibit the reasonable use of automobile warning signals, the
reasonable ringing of church bells or the reasonable and ordinary noises
attendant on athletic contests or lawful public or semipublic meetings, parades
or celebrations.
   (E)   Permitting rioting, reveling and intoxication in public place. No
owner, keeper, manager or any person in charge or control of a hotel, night
club, restaurant, dance or amusement hall, tavern or other public place, shall
engage in or permit rioting, reveling, intoxication or drunkenness in or about
his or her place of business or premises.
   (f)   Penalty. Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is
guilty of disturbing the peace, a minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 648.09) (Ord. 260, passed 4-1-1957; Ord. 528, passed 1-23-1989)
CHAPTER 133: SEX OFFENSES
Section
   
133.01   Definitions
   
133.02   Unlawful sexual conduct with a minor
   
133.03   Sexual imposition
   
133.04   Public indecency
   
133.05   Voyeurism
   
133.06   Polygraph examinations for victims: restrictions on use
   
133.07   Procuring; engagement in sexual activity for hire
   
133.08   Soliciting; loitering to engage in
   
133.09   Prostitution
   
133.10   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.11   Displaying matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.12   Deception to obtain matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.13   Rules of evidence
   
133.14   Declaratory judgment
   
133.15   Injunction; abatement of nuisance
   
133.16   Unlawful operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct
   
133.17   Juveniles on the premises of adult entertainment establishments
prohibited
   
133.18   Sexually oriented businesses; illegal operation and activity
   
133.19   Unlawful advertising of massage
   
133.20   Nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images
   
133.21   Loitering to engage in solicitation
   
133.99   Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators;
registration
§ 133.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   HARMFUL TO JUVENILES. That quality of any material or performance describing
or representing nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement, or sado-masochistic
abuse in any form to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, appeals to
the prurient interest of juveniles in sex.
      (2)   The material or performance is patently offensive to prevailing
standards in the adult community as a whole with respect to what is suitable
for juveniles.
      (3)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, lacks
serious literary, artistic, political, and scientific value for juveniles.
   JUVENILE. Any unmarried person under 18 years of age.
   MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, poster, print, picture,
figure, image, description, motion picture film, video cassette, laser disc,
phonograph record, cassette tape, compact disc, or other tangible thing capable
of arousing interest through sight, sound, or touch and includes an image or
text appearing on a computer monitor, television screen, liquid crystal
display, or similar display device or an image or text recorded on a computer
hard disk, computer floppy disk, compact disk, magnetic tape, or similar data
storage device.
   MENTAL HEALTH CLIENT OR PATIENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.51.
   MENTAL HEALTH PROFESSIONAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.115.
   MINOR. A person under the age of 18.
   NUDITY. The showing, representation, or depiction of human male or female
genitals, pubic area, or buttocks with less than a full, opaque covering, or of
a female breast with less than a full, opaque covering of any portion thereof
below the top of the nipple, or of covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
   OBSCENE. When considered as a whole, and judged with reference to ordinary
adults or, if it is designed for sexual deviates or other specially susceptible
group, judged with reference to that group, any material or performance is
“obscene” if any of the following apply:
      (1)   Its dominant appeal is to prurient interest.
      (2)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
sexual activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, or nudity in a way that tends
to represent human beings as mere objects of sexual appetite.
      (3)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
bestiality or extreme or bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality.
      (4)   Its dominant tendency is to appeal to scatological interest by
displaying or depicting human bodily functions of elimination in a way that
inspires disgust or revulsion in persons with ordinary sensibilities, without
serving any genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or artistic
purpose.
      (5)   It contains a series of displays or descriptions of sexual
activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, nudity, bestiality, extreme or
bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality, or human bodily functions of
elimination, the cumulative effect of which is a dominant tendency to appeal to
prurient or scatological interest, when the appeal to such an interest is
primarily for its own sake or for commercial exploitation, rather than
primarily for a genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or
artistic purpose.
   PERFORMANCE. Any motion picture, preview, trailer, play, show, skit, dance,
or other exhibition performed before an audience.
   PROSTITUTE. A male or female who promiscuously engages in sexual activity
for hire, regardless of whether the hire is paid to the prostitute or to
another.
   SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person or the
condition of being fettered, bound, or otherwise physically restrained.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Sexual conduct or sexual contact, or both.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Vaginal intercourse between a male and female; anal
intercourse, fellatio, and cunnilingus between persons regardless of sex; and,
without privilege to do so, the insertion, however slight, of any part of the
body or any instrument, apparatus, or other object into the vaginal or anal
opening of another. Penetration, however slight, is sufficient to complete
vaginal or anal intercourse.
   SEXUAL CONTACT. Any touching of an erogenous zone of another, including
without limitation the thigh, genitals, buttock, pubic region, or, if the
person is a female, a breast, for the purpose of sexually arousing or
gratifying either person.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals when in a
state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   SPOUSE. A person married to an offender at the time of an alleged offense,
except that such person shall not be considered the spouse when any of the
following apply:
      (1)   When the parties have entered into a written separation agreement
pursuant to R.C. § 3103.06.
      (2)   When an action is pending between the parties for annulment,
divorce, dissolution of marriage, or legal separation.
      (3)   In the case of an action for legal separation, after the effective
date of the judgment for legal separation.
(R.C. § 2907.01) (Prior Code, § 666.01)
§ 133.02 UNLAWFUL SEXUAL CONDUCT WITH A MINOR.
   (A)   No person who is 18 years of age or older shall engage in sexual
conduct with another who is not the spouse of the offender, when the offender
knows the other person is 13 years of age or older but less than 16 years of
age, or the offender is reckless in that regard.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful sexual conduct
with a minor.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2), unlawful sexual
conduct with a minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if
the offender is less than four years older than the other person, unlawful
sexual conduct with a minor is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03 or 2907.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or a violation of former R.C. § 2907.12, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, unlawful sexual conduct with a
minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.04) (Prior Code, § 666.02)
§ 133.03 SEXUAL IMPOSITION.
   (A)   No person shall have sexual contact with another, not the spouse of
the offender; cause another, not the spouse of the offender, to have sexual
contact with the offender; or cause two or more other persons to have sexual
contact when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The offender knows that the sexual contact is offensive to the
other person, or one of the other persons, or is reckless in that regard.
      (2)   The offender knows that the other person’s, or one of the other
person’s ability to appraise the nature of or control the offender’s or
touching person’s conduct is substantially impaired.
      (3)   The offender knows that the other person, or one of the other
persons, submits because of being unaware of the sexual contact.
      (4)   The other person, or one of the other persons, is 13 years of age
or older but less than 16 years of age, whether or not the offender knows the
age of the person, and the offender is at least 18 years of age and four or
more years older than the other person.
      (5)   The offender is a mental health professional, the other person or
one of the other persons is a mental health client or patient of the offender,
and the offender induces the other person who is the client or patient to
submit by falsely representing to the other person who is the client or patient
that the sexual contact is necessary for mental health treatment purposes.
   (B)   No person shall be convicted of a violation of this section solely
upon the victim’s testimony unsupported by other evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of sexual imposition, a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2907.02,
2907.03, 2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any combination of those
sections, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree and,
notwithstanding the range of jail terms prescribed in R.C. § 2929.24, the court
may impose on the offender a definite jail term of not more than one year.
(R.C. § 2907.06) (Prior Code, § 666.03)
Statutory reference:
   Gross sexual imposition, felony, see R.C. § 2907.05
   Notice to licensing board or agency upon indictment, conviction or guilty
plea of mental health
    professional, see R.C. §§ 2907.17 and 2907.18
§ 133.04 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following, under
circumstances in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and
affront others who are in the person’s physical proximity and who are not
members of the person’s household:
      (1)   Expose the persons’s private parts.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following, under circumstances
in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and affront another
person who is in the person’s physical proximity, who is a minor, and who is
not the spouse of the offender:
      (1)   Engage in masturbation.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (4)   Expose the person’s private parts with the purpose of personal
sexual arousal or gratification or to lure the minor into sexual activity.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public indecency and
shall be punished as provided in divisions (C)(2), (C)(3), (C)(4), and (C)(5)
of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(2), a violation
of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the third degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by the
offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more
violations of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the second degree or, if any person who was likely to view
and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if any person who was
likely to view and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(4), a violation
of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(5), a violation
of division (B)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of
this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (B)(4) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   If either of the following applies, the court may determine at
the time of sentencing whether to classify the offender as a tier I sex
offender/child-victim offender for a violation of division (B)(4) of this
section:
         (a)   The offender is less than ten years older than the other person.
         (b)   The offender is ten or more years older than the other person
and the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any
violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance.
      (2)   If the offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (B)(4) of this section, is ten or more years older than the other
person, and previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the court shall issue an order at the time of sentencing that
classifies the offender as a tier I sex offender/child-victim offender subject
to registration under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and 2950.06.
(R.C. § 2907.09)
   (E)   A mother is entitled to breast-feed her baby in any location of a
place of public accommodation, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, wherein the mother
otherwise is permitted.
(R.C. § 3781.55)
(Prior Code, § 666.04)
Statutory reference:
   Bail considerations for persons charged, see R.C. § 2907.41
§ 133.05 VOYEURISM.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another, to spy or eavesdrop upon another.
   (B)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another to videotape, film, photograph, or otherwise record the
other person in a state of nudity.
   (C)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another to videotape, film, photograph, otherwise record, or spy or
eavesdrop upon the other person in a state of nudity if the other person is a
minor.
   (D)   No person shall secretly or surreptitiously videotape, film,
photograph, or otherwise record another person under or through the clothing
being worn by that person for the purpose of viewing the body of, or the
undergarments worn by, that other person.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of voyeurism.
      (1)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (4)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.08) (Prior Code, § 666.05)
§ 133.06 POLYGRAPH EXAMINATIONS FOR VICTIMS: RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   (A)   (1)   A peace officer, prosecutor, or other public official shall not
ask or require a victim of an alleged sex offense to submit to a polygraph
examination as a condition for proceeding with the investigation of the alleged
sex offense.
      (2)   The refusal of the victim of an alleged sex offense to submit to a
polygraph examination shall not prevent the investigation of the alleged sex
offense, the filing of criminal charges with respect to the alleged sex
offense, or the prosecution of the alleged perpetrator of the alleged sex
offense.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.51.
      POLYGRAPH EXAMINATION. Means any mechanical or electrical instrument or
device of any type used or allegedly used to examine, test, or question an
individual for the purpose of determining the individual’s truthfulness.
      PROSECUTION. Means the prosecution of criminal charges in a criminal
prosecution or the prosecution of a delinquent child complaint in a delinquency
proceeding.
      PROSECUTOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
      PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 117.01.
      SEX OFFENSE. Means a violation of any provision of §§ 133.02 to 133.05 or
R.C. §§ 2907.02 to 2907.09.
(R.C. § 2907.10) (Prior Code, § 666.06)
§ 133.07 PROCURING; ENGAGEMENT IN SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE.
   (A)   No person, knowingly and for gain, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Entice or solicit another to patronize a prostitute or brothel;
      (2)   Procure a prostitute for another to patronize, or take or direct
another at the other’s request to any place for the purpose of patronizing a
prostitute.
   (B)   No person, having authority or responsibility over the use of
premises, shall knowingly permit the premises to be used for the purpose of
engaging in sexual activity for hire.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of
procuring. Except as otherwise provided in this division, procuring is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the prostitute who is procured, patronized,
or otherwise involved in a violation of division (A)(2) of this section is
under 18 years of age at the time of the violation, regardless of whether the
offender who violates division (A)(2) of this section knows the prostitute’s
age, or if a prostitute who engages in sexual activity for hire in premises
used in violation of division (B) of this section is under 18 years of age at
the time of the violation, regardless of whether the offender who violates
division (B) of this section knows the prostitute’s age, procuring is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.23)
   (D)   No person shall recklessly induce, entice, or procure another to
engage in sexual activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything
of value to the other person.
   (E)   As used in division (D) of this section, SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE
means an implicit or explicit agreement to provide sexual activity in exchange
for anything of value paid to the person engaging in such sexual activity, to
any person trafficking that person, or to any person associated with either
such person.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of engaging in
prostitution, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In sentencing the offender
under this division, the court shall require the offender to attend an
education or treatment program aimed at preventing persons from inducing,
enticing, or procuring another to engage in sexual activity for hire in
exchange for the person giving anything of value to the other person and,
notwithstanding the fine specified in R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a) for a misdemeanor
of the first degree, the court may impose upon the offender a fine of not more
than $1,500.
(R.C. § 2907.231)
(Prior Code, § 666.07)
§ 133.08 SOLICITING; LOITERING TO ENGAGE IN.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly solicit another to engage in sexual activity
for hire in exchange for the person receiving anything of value from the other
person.
   (B)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (A) of this section.
   (C)   As used in division (A) of this section, SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE
means an implicit or explicit agreement to provide sexual activity in exchange
for anything of value paid to the person engaging in such sexual activity, to
any person trafficking that person, or to any person associated with either
such person.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
soliciting. Soliciting is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of engaging
in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.24)
   (E)   No person, with purpose to solicit another to engage in sexual
activity for hire and while in or near a public place, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Beckon to, stop or attempt to stop another;
      (2)   Engage or attempt to engage another in conversation;
      (3)   Stop or attempt to stop the operator of a vehicle or approach a
stationary vehicle;
      (4)   If the offender is the operator of or a passenger in a vehicle,
stop, attempt to stop, beckon to, attempt to beckon to, or entice another to
approach or enter the vehicle of which the offender is the operator or in which
the offender is the passenger;
      (5)   Interfere with the free passage of another.
   (F)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (E) of this section.
   (G)   As used in division (E) of this section:
      PUBLIC PLACE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A street, road, highway, thoroughfare, bikeway, walkway,
sidewalk, bridge, alley, alleyway, plaza, park, driveway, parking lot or
transportation facility.
         (b)   A doorway or entrance way to a building that fronts on a place
described in division (a) of this definition.
         (c)   A place not described in division (a) or (b) of this definition
that is open to the public.
      VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (H)   (1)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.241)
(Prior Code, § 666.08)
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.09 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   No person shall engage in sexual activity for hire.
   (B)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in sexual activity for hire.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
prostitution, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of engaging
in prostitution after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.25) (Prior Code, § 666.09)
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.10 DISSEMINATING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, with knowledge of its character or content, shall
recklessly do any of following:
      (1)   Directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit,
rent, or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles;
      (2)   Directly offer or agree to sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law
enforcement officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement
officers posing as juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or
harmful to juveniles;
      (3)   While in the physical proximity of the juvenile or law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, allow any juvenile or law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile to review or peruse any material or view any live
performance that is harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section
that involves material or a performance that is harmful to juveniles but not
obscene:
      (1)   The defendant is the parent, guardian, or spouse of the juvenile
involved.
      (2)   The juvenile involved, at the time of the conduct in question, was
accompanied by his or her parent or guardian who, with knowledge of its
character, consented to the material or performance being furnished or
presented to the juvenile.
      (3)   The juvenile exhibited to the defendant or his or her agent or
employee a draft card, driver’s license, birth record, marriage license, or
other official or apparently official document purporting to show that the
juvenile was 18 years of age or over or married, and the person to whom the
document was exhibited did not otherwise have reasonable cause to believe that
the juvenile was under the age of 18 and unmarried.
   (C)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section,
involving material or a performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles,
that the material or performance was furnished or presented for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, governmental, judicial, or other proper
purpose, by a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher,
librarian, clergy, prosecutor, judge, or other proper person.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, mistake of
age is not a defense to a charge under this section.
   (D)   (1)   A person directly sells, delivers, furnishes, disseminates,
provides, exhibits, rents, or presents or directly offers or agrees to sell,
deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present material or a
performance to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section by means of an electronic method of
remotely transmitting information if the person knows or has reason to believe
that the person receiving the information is a juvenile or the group of persons
receiving the information are juveniles.
      (2)   A person remotely transmitting information by means of a method of
mass distribution does not directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present or directly offer or agree to sell, deliver,
furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present the material or
performance in question to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section if either of the following applies:
         (a)   The person has inadequate information to know or have reason to
believe that a particular recipient of the information or offer is a juvenile.
         (b)   The method of mass distribution does not provide the person the
ability to prevent a particular recipient from receiving the information.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disseminating matter
harmful to juveniles. If the material or performance involved is harmful to
juveniles except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the material or performance
involved is obscene, violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.31) (Prior Code, § 666.11)
   (F)   Presumptions, notice and defense.
      (1)   An owner or manager, or agent or employee of an owner or manager,
of a bookstore, newsstand, theater, or other commercial establishment engaged
in selling material or exhibiting performances, who, in the course of business
does any of the acts prohibited by this section is presumed to have knowledge
of the character of the material or performance involved if the owner, manager,
or agent or employee of the owner or manager has actual notice of the nature of
such material or performance, whether or not the owner, manager, or agent or
employee of the owner or manager has precise knowledge of its contents.
      (2)   Without limitation on the manner in which such notice may be given,
actual notice of the character of material or a performance may be given in
writing by the chief legal officer of the municipality. Such notice, regardless
of the manner in which it is given, shall identify the sender, identify the
material or performance involved, state whether it is obscene or harmful to
juveniles, and bear the date of such notice.
      (3)   This §
133.10 does not apply to a motion picture operator or projectionist acting
within the scope of employment as an employee of the owner or manager of the
theater or other place for the showing of motion pictures to the general
public, and having no managerial responsibility or financial interest in the
operator’s or projectionist’s place of employment, other than wages.
      (4)   (a)   The provisions of §§
133.10,
133.11 and
133.12(A) do not apply to a person solely because the person provided access or
connection to or from an electronic method of remotely transferring information
not under that person’s control, including having provided capabilities that
are incidental to providing access or connection to or from the electronic
method of remotely transferring the information, and that do not include the
creation of the content of the material that is the subject of the access or
connection.
         (b)   Division (F)(4)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who conspires with an entity actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of §
133.10,
133.11, or
133.12 or who knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
         (c)   Division (F)(4)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who provides access or connection to an electronic method of remotely
transferring information that is engaged in the violation of §
133.10,
133.11, or
133.12 and that contain content that person has selected and introduced into
the electronic method of remotely transferring information or content over
which that person exercises editorial control.
      (5)   An employer is not guilty of a violation of §
133.10,
133.11, or
133.12 based on the actions of an employee or agent of the employer unless the
employee’s or agent’s conduct is within the scope of the employee’s or agent’s
employment or agency, and the employer does either of the following:
         (a)   With knowledge of the employee’s or agent’s conduct, the
employer authorizes or ratifies the conduct.
         (b)   The employer recklessly disregards the employee’s or agent’s
conduct.
      (6)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under §
133.10 or
133.11 as the section applies to an image transmitted through the internet or
other electronic method of remotely transmitting information that the person
charged with violating the section has taken, in good faith, reasonable,
effective, and appropriate actions under the circumstances to restrict or
prevent access by juveniles to material that is harmful to juveniles, including
any method that is feasible under available technology.
(R.C. § 2907.35) (Prior Code, § 666.14)
§ 133.11 DISPLAYING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person who has custody, control, or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character or content of the material
involved, shall display at the establishment any material that is harmful to
juveniles and that is open to view by juveniles as part of the invited general
public.
   (B)   It is not a violation of division (A) of this section if the material
in question is displayed by placing it behind “blinder racks” or similar
devices that cover at least the lower two-thirds of the material, if the
material in question is wrapped or placed behind the counter, or if the
material in question otherwise is covered or located so that the portion that
is harmful to juveniles is not open to the view of juveniles.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of displaying matter harmful
to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day during which the
offender is in violation of this section constitutes a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2907.311) (Prior Code, § 666.115)
§ 133.12 DECEPTION TO OBTAIN MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of enabling a juvenile to obtain any
material or gain admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles,
shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is the parent, guardian, or spouse
of the juvenile.
      (2)   Furnish the juvenile with any identification or document purporting
to show that the juvenile is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (B)   No juvenile, for the purpose of obtaining any material or gaining
admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles, shall do either of
the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is 18 years of age or over or
married.
      (2)   Exhibit any identification or document purporting to show that he
or she is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of deception to obtain matter
harmful to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the second degree. A juvenile who
violates division (B) of this section shall be adjudged an unruly child, with
the disposition of the case as may be appropriate under R.C. Chapter 2151.
(R.C. § 2907.33) (Prior Code, § 666.13)
Statutory reference:
   Juvenile Court, see R.C. Chapter 2151
§ 133.13 RULES OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a place is a
brothel, evidence as to the reputation of such place and as to the reputation
of the persons who inhabit or frequent it is admissible on the question of
whether such place is or is not a brothel.
   (B)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a person is a
prostitute, evidence as to the reputation of such person is admissible on the
question of whether such person is or is not a prostitute.
   (C)   In any prosecution for a violation of §§
133.07 through
133.09, proof of a prior conviction of the accused of any such offense or
substantially equivalent offense is admissible in support of the charge.
   (D)   The prohibition contained in R.C. § 2317.02(D) against testimony by a
husband or wife concerning communications between them does not apply, and the
accused’s spouse may testify concerning any such communication in any of the
following cases:
      (1)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
133.07 and the spouse testifying was the prostitute involved in the offense or
the person who used the offender’s premises to engage in sexual activity for
hire;
      (2)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
133.08(A) or §
133.09.
(R.C. § 2907.26) (Prior Code, § 666.10)
§ 133.14 DECLARATORY JUDGMENT.
   (A)   Without limitation on the persons otherwise entitled to bring an
action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2721, involving the
same issue, the following persons have standing to bring a declaratory judgment
action to determine whether particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles:
      (1)   The chief legal officer of the municipality if and when there is
reasonable cause to believe that R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be
violated;
      (2)   Any person who, pursuant to R.C. § 2907.35(B) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, has received notice in writing from the chief
legal officer stating that particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   Any party to an action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to division
(A) of this section is entitled, upon the party’s request, to trial on the
merits within five days after joinder of the issues, and the court shall render
judgment within five days after trial is concluded.
   (C)   An action for a declaratory judgement pursuant to division (A) of this
section shall not be brought during the pendency of any civil action or
criminal prosecution when the character of the particular materials or
performances involved is at issue in the pending case, and either of the
following applies:
      (1)   Either of the parties to the action for a declaratory judgment is a
party to the pending case;
      (2)   A judgment in the pending case will necessarily constitute res
judicata as to the character of the materials or performances involved.
   (D)   A civil action or criminal prosecution in which the character of
particular materials or performances is at issue, brought during the pendency
of an action for a declaratory judgment involving the same issue, shall be
stayed during the pendency of the action for a declaratory judgment.
   (E)   The fact that a violation of R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, occurs prior to a judicial
determination of the character of the material or performance involved in the
violation does not relieve the offender of criminal liability for the
violation, even though prosecution may be stayed pending the judicial
determination.
(R.C. § 2907.36) (Prior Code, § 666.15)
§ 133.15 INJUNCTION; ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Where it appears that R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be
violated, the chief legal officer of the municipality may bring an action to
enjoin the violation. The defendant, upon his or her request, is entitled to
trial on the merits within five days after the joinder of the issues, and the
court shall render judgment within five days after the trial is concluded.
   (B)   Premises used or occupied for repeated violations of R.C. § 2907.31 or
R.C. § 2907.32, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2907.37) (Prior Code, § 666.16)
Statutory reference:
   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles, felony, see R.C. § 2907.31
   Pandering obscenity, felony, see R.C. § 2907.32
§ 133.16 UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF VIEWING BOOTHS DEPICTING SEXUAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Means an entity that is open to the public and
to which either of the following applies:
         (a)   It has a substantial or significant portion of its stock in
trade of the sale, rental, or viewing of visual materials or performances
depicting sexual conduct.
         (b)   It has as a principal business purpose the sale, rental, or
viewing of visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct.
      VISUAL MATERIALS OR PERFORMANCES. Means films, videos, CD-ROM discs,
streaming video, or other motion pictures.
   (B)   No person who has custody, control, or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character of the visual material or
performance involved, shall knowingly permit the use of, or offer the use of,
viewing booths, stalls, or partitioned portions of a room located in the
commercial establishment for the purpose of viewing visual materials or
performances depicting sexual conduct unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The inside of each booth, stall, or partitioned room is visible
from, and at least one side of each booth, stall, or partitioned room is open
to, a continuous and contiguous main aisle or hallway that is open to the
public areas of the commercial establishment and is not obscured by any
curtain, door, or other covering or enclosure.
      (2)   No booth, stall, or partitioned room is designed, constructed,
pandered, or allowed to be used for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating
nudity or sexual activity on the part of or between patrons or members of the
public, and no booth, stall, or partitioned room has any aperture, hole, or
opening for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating nudity or sexual
activity.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
either of the following applies to the involved visual materials or
performances:
      (1)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct are
disseminated or presented for a bona fide medical, scientific, educational,
religious, governmental, judicial, or other proper purpose and by or to a
physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher, person pursuing bona
fide studies or research, librarian, member of the clergy, prosecutor, judge,
or other person having a proper interest in the visual materials or
performances.
      (2)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct,
taken as a whole, would be found by a reasonable person to have serious
literary, artistic, political, or scientific value or are presented or
disseminated in good faith for a serious literary, artistic, political, or
scientific purpose and are not pandered for their prurient appeal.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting unlawful
operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2907.38)
§ 133.17 JUVENILES ON THE PREMISES OF ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ADULT ARCADE. Means any place to which the public is permitted or invited
in which coin- operated, slug-operated, or electronically, electrically, or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other
image-producing devices are regularly maintained to show images to five or
fewer persons per machine at any one time, and in which the images so displayed
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon matter exhibiting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
         (a)   Means a commercial establishment that, for any form of
consideration, has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock-in-
trade in, derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues from,
devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising to, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display
space for the sale or rental of any of the following:
            1.   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides, or
other visual representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the
exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas;
            2.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for
use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of self or others.
         (b)   Includes a commercial establishment as defined in R.C. §
2907.38. An establishment may have other principal business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale, rental, or viewing of materials exhibiting
or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and
still be categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video
store. The existence of other principal business purposes does not exempt an
establishment from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, or adult video store so long as one of its principal business purposes
is offering for sale or rental, for some form of consideration, such materials
that exhibit or describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      ADULT CABARET. Means a nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle
club, or similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages
are served, that regularly features any of the following:
         (a)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity;
         (b)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities;
         (c)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT. Means the sale, rental, or exhibition, for any form
of consideration, of books, films, video cassettes, magazines, periodicals, or
live performances that are characterized by an emphasis on the exposure or
display of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activity.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. Means an adult arcade, adult
bookstore, adult novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motion
picture theater, adult theater, nude or seminude model studio, or sexual
encounter establishment. An establishment in which a medical practitioner,
psychologist, psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the
state engages in medically approved and recognized therapy, including but not
limited to massage therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not an
“adult entertainment establishment”.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. Means a commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon
the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas are regularly shown for any form of consideration.
      ADULT THEATER. Means a theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar
commercial establishment that, for any form of consideration, regularly
features persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity or live
performances that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
      DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY THEIR EMPHASIS UPON. Means the dominant
or principal character and theme of the object described by this phrase. For
instance, when the phrase refers to films “that are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas”, the films so described are
those whose dominant or principal character and theme are the exhibition or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      NUDE OR SEMINUDE MODEL STUDIO. Means any place where a person, who
regularly appears in a state of nudity or seminudity, is provided for money or
any other form of consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons. A modeling
class or studio is not a nude or seminude model studio and is not subject to
this chapter if it is operated in any of the following ways:
         (a)   By a college or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation;
         (b)   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs, the credits for which are transferable to a college or
university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
         (c)   In a structure that has no sign visible from the exterior of the
structure and no other advertising indicating that a person appearing in a
state of nudity or seminudity is available for viewing, if in order to
participate in a class in the structure, a student must enroll at least three
days in advance of the class and if not more than one nude or seminude model is
on the premises at any one time.
      NUDITY, NUDE, or STATE OF NUDITY. Means the showing of the human male or
female genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft, or cleavage with less
than a fully opaque covering; or the showing of the female breasts with less
than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple.
      REGULARLY FEATURES or REGULARLY SHOWN. Means a consistent or substantial
course of conduct, such that the films or performances exhibited constitute a
substantial portion of the films or performances offered as a part of the
ongoing business of the adult entertainment establishment.
      SEMINUDE or STATE OF SEMINUDITY. Means a state of dress in which opaque
clothing covers not more than the genitals, pubic region, and nipple of the
female breast, as well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or
devices.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT.
         (a)   Means a business or commercial establishment that, as one of its
principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration a place where
either of the following occur:
            1.   Two or more persons may congregate, associate, or consort for
the purpose of engaging in specified sexual activities.
            2.   Two or more persons appear nude or seminude for the purpose of
displaying their nude or seminude bodies for their receipt of consideration or
compensation in any type or form.
         (b)   An establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized therapy, including but not limited to massage
therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not a “sexual encounter
establishment”.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Means the cleft of the buttocks, anus, male
or female genitals, or the female breast.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, or actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy;
         (b)   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of
the activities described in division (a) of this definition.
   (B)   No person knowingly shall allow an individual, including but not
limited to a patron, customer, or employee, who is under 18 years of age on the
premises of an adult entertainment establishment.
   (C)   No individual who is under 18 years of age knowingly shall show or
give false information concerning the individual’s name or age, or other false
identification, for the purpose of gaining entrance to an adult entertainment
establishment.
   (D)   A person shall not be found guilty of a violation of division (B) of
this section if the person raises as an affirmative defense and if the jury or,
in a nonjury trial, the court finds the person has established by a
preponderance of the evidence, all of the following:
      (1)   The individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment exhibited to an operator, employee, agent, or independent
contractor of the adult entertainment establishment a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and
4507.52 showing that the individual was then at least 18 years of age.
      (2)   The operator, employee, agent, or independent contractor made a
bona fide effort to ascertain the true age of the individual gaining entrance
to the adult entertainment establishment by checking the identification
presented, at the time of entrance, to ascertain that the description on the
identification compared with the appearance of the individual and that the
identification had not been altered in any way.
      (3)   The operator, employee, agent, or independent contractor had reason
to believe that the individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment was at least 18 years of age.
   (E)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense described in
division (D) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or the
deputy registrar who issued a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an
identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and 4507.52 shall be permitted to
submit certified copies of the records, in the Registrar’s or deputy
registrar’s possession, of the issuance of the license or identification card
in question, in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles in the action.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
permitting a juvenile on the premises of an adult entertainment establishment,
a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day a person violates this division
constitutes a separate offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of use by a
juvenile of false information to enter an adult entertainment establishment, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if committed by
an adult.
(R.C. § 2907.39)
§ 133.18 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; ILLEGAL OPERATION AND ACTIVITY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. Means a commercial establishment
that has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock in trade or
inventory in, derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues
from, devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising to, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display
space for the sale or rental, for any form of consideration, of books,
magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides, or other visual
representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition
or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT CABARET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. Means a commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions that are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly shown
to more than five individuals for any form of consideration.
      CHARACTERIZED BY. Describing the essential character or quality of an
item.
      EMPLOYEE. Means any individual who performs any service on the premises
of a sexually oriented business on a full-time, part-time, or contract basis,
regardless of whether the individual is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent, or otherwise, but does not include an individual exclusively
on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or for the delivery
of goods to the premises.
      NUDE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      NUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      OPERATOR. Means any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented
business who causes the business to function or who puts or keeps in operation
the business or who is authorized to manage the business or exercise overall
operational control of the business premises.
      PATRON. Means any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented
business except for any of the following:
         (a)   An operator or an employee of the sexually oriented business;
         (b)   An individual who is on the premises exclusively for repair or
maintenance of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises;
         (c)   A public employee or a volunteer firefighter emergency medical
services worker acting within the scope of the public employee’s or volunteer’s
duties as a public employee or volunteer.
      PREMISES. Means the real property on which the sexually oriented business
is located and all appurtenances to the real property, including, but not
limited, to the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways, and
parking lots or parking garages adjacent to the real property under the
ownership, control, or supervision of the owner or operator of the sexually
oriented business.
      REGULARLY. Means consistently or repeatedly.
      SEMINUDE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      SEXUAL DEVICE. Means any three-dimensional object designed and marketed
for stimulation of the male or female human genitals or anus or female breasts
or for sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others, including but not
limited to dildos, vibrators, penis pumps, and physical representations of the
human genital organs, but not including devices primarily intended for
protection against sexually transmitted diseases or for preventing pregnancy.
      SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP. Means a commercial establishment that regularly
features sexual devices, but not including any pharmacy, drug store, medical
clinic, or establishment primarily dedicated to providing medical or healthcare
products or services, and not including any commercial establishment that does
not restrict access to its premises by reason of age.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. Means a business or commercial enterprise that,
as one of its principal business purposes, purports to offer for any form of
consideration physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
individuals of the opposite sex when one or more of the individuals is nude or
seminude.
      SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Means an adult bookstore, adult video store,
adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater, sexual device shop, or sexual
encounter center, but does not include a business solely by reason of its
showing, selling, or renting materials that may depict sex.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Includes human genitals, pubic region, and
buttocks and the human female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Means sexual intercourse, oral copulation,
masturbation, or sodomy, or excretory functions as a part of or in connection
with any of these activities.
      STATE OF NUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      STATE OF SEMINUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
   (B)   No sexually oriented business shall be or remain open for business
between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day, except that a sexually
oriented business that holds a liquor permit pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4303 may
remain open until the hour specified in that permit if it does not conduct,
offer, or allow sexually oriented entertainment activity in which the
performers appear nude.
   (C)   (1)   No patron who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family
shall knowingly touch any employee while that employee is nude or seminude or
touch the clothing of any employee while that employee is nude or seminude.
      (2)   No employee who regularly appears nude or seminude on the premises
of a sexually oriented business, while on the premises of that sexually
oriented business and while nude or seminude, shall knowingly touch a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or the clothing of a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or allow a patron who is not
a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who is not a
member of the employee’s immediate family to touch the employee or the clothing
of the employee.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegally
operating a sexually oriented business, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal
sexually oriented activity in a sexually oriented business. If the offender
touches a specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing
covering a specified anatomical area, a violation of division (C) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender does not touch a
specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing covering a
specified anatomical area, a violation of division (C) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2907.40) (Prior Code, § 666.17)
Statutory reference:
   State indemnification for certain municipal liability stemming from local
adult business regulations, see R.C. § 715.55
§ 133.19 UNLAWFUL ADVERTISING OF MASSAGE.
   (A)   No person, by means of a statement, solicitation, or offer in a print
or electronic publication, sign, placard, storefront display, or other medium,
shall advertise massage, relaxation massage, any other massage technique or
method, or any related service, with the suggestion or promise of sexual
activity.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful advertising of
massage, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prevents the municipality from enacting any
regulation of the advertising of massage further than and in addition to the
provisions of divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section, SEXUAL ACTIVITY has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2907.01.
(R.C. § 2927.17) (Prior Code, § 666.18)
§ 133.20 NONCONSENSUAL DISSEMINATION OF PRIVATE SEXUAL IMAGES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CABLE SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.01.
      DIRECT-TO-HOME SATELLITE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. §
303, as amended.
      DISSEMINATE. Means to post, distribute, or publish on a computer device,
computer network, web site, or other electronic device or medium of
communication.
      IMAGE. Means a photograph, film, videotape, digital recording, or other
depiction or portrayal of a person.
      INTERACTIVE COMPUTER SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in the
“Telecommunications Act of 1996", 47 U.S.C. § 230, as amended.
      INTERNET PROVIDER. Means a provider of internet service, including all of
the following:
         (a)   Broadband service, however defined or classified by the Federal
Communications Commission;
         (b)   Information service or telecommunications service, both as
defined in the Telecommunications Act of 1996, 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended;
         (c)   Internet protocol-enabled services, as defined in R.C. §
4927.01.
      MOBILE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended.
      SEXUAL ACT. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Sexual activity;
         (b)   Masturbation;
         (c)   An act involving a bodily substance that is performed for the
purpose of sexual arousal or gratification;
         (d)   Sado-masochistic abuse.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153,
as amended.
      VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly disseminate an image of another person if
all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person in the image is 18 years of age or older.
      (2)   The person in the image can be identified from the image itself or
from information displayed in connection with the image and the offender
supplied the identifying information.
      (3)   The person in the image is in a state of nudity or is engaged in a
sexual act.
      (4)   The image is disseminated without consent from the person in the
image.
      (5)   The image is disseminated with intent to harm the person in the
image.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit the dissemination of an image if any of
the following apply:
      (1)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of a criminal
investigation that is otherwise lawful.
      (2)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of, or in connection
with, the reporting of unlawful conduct.
      (3)   The image is part of a news report or commentary or an artistic or
expressive work, such as a performance, work of art, literary work, theatrical
work, musical work, motion picture, film, or audiovisual work.
      (4)   The image is disseminated by a law enforcement officer, or a
corrections officer or guard in a detention facility, acting within the scope
of the person’s official duties.
      (5)   The image is disseminated for another lawful public purpose.
      (6)   The person in the image is knowingly and willingly in a state of
nudity or engaged in a sexual act and is knowingly and willingly in a location
in which the person does not have a reasonable expectation of privacy.
      (7)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of medical treatment or
examination.
   (D)   The following entities are not liable for a violation of this section
solely as a result of an image or other information provided by another person:
      (1)   A provider of interactive computer service;
      (2)   A mobile service;
      (3)   A telecommunications carrier;
      (4)   An internet provider;
      (5)   A cable service provider;
      (6)   A direct-to-home satellite service;
      (7)   A video service provider.
   (E)   Any conduct that is a violation of this section and any other section
of this Code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (F)(1)(b), (F)(1)
(c), or (F)(1)(d) of this section, whoever violates this section is guilty of
nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images, a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images is
a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, nonconsensual dissemination of
private sexual images is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (d)   If the offender is under 18 years of age and the person in the
image is not more than five years older than the offender, the offender shall
not be prosecuted under this section.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty or disposition authorized or
required by law, the court may order any person who is convicted of a violation
of this section or who is adjudicated delinquent by reason of a violation of
this section to criminally forfeit all of the following property to the state
under R.C. Chapter 2981:
         (a)   Any profits or proceeds and any property the person has acquired
or maintained in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines
to have been acquired or maintained as a result of the violation;
         (b)   Any interest in, securities of, claim against, or property or
contractual right of any kind affording a source of influence over any
enterprise that the person has established, operated, controlled, or conducted
in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines to have been
acquired or maintained as a result of the violation.
   (G)   A victim of a violation of this section may commence a civil cause of
action against the offender, as described in R.C. § 2307.66.
(R.C. § 2917.211)
§ 133.21 LOITERING TO ENGAGE IN SOLICITATION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to solicit another to engage in sexual
activity for hire and while in or near a public place, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Beckon to, stop or attempt to stop another;
      (2)   Engage or attempt to engage another in conversation;
      (3)   Stop or attempt to stop the operator of a vehicle or approach a
stationary vehicle;
      (4)   If the offender is the operator of or a passenger in a vehicle,
stop, attempt to stop, beckon to, attempt to beckon to, or entice another to
approach or enter the vehicle of which the offender is the operator or in which
the offender is the passenger;
      (5)   Interfere with the free passage of another.
   (B)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (A) of this section.
   (C)   As used in division (A) of this section:
      (1)   PUBLIC PLACE. Any of the following:
         (a)   A street, road, highway, thoroughfare, bikeway, walkway,
sidewalk, bridge, alley, alleyway, plaza, park, driveway, parking lot or
transportation facility.
         (b)   A doorway or entrance way to a building that fronts on a place
described in division (1)(a) of this definition.
         (c)   A place not described in division (1)(a) or (1)(b) of this
definition that is open to the public.
      (2)   VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.241) (Prior Code, § 666.085)
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.99 SENTENCING FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED OFFENSES; SEXUAL PREDATORS;
REGISTRATION.
   (A)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, and the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim
offender relative to the offense or the offense is any offense listed in R.C. §
2901.07(D)(1) to (D)(3), the judge shall include in the offender’s sentence a
statement that the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim offender,
shall comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2950.03, and shall require the
offender to submit to a DNA specimen collection procedure pursuant to R.C. §
2901.07.
   (B)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or a
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, the judge shall include in the sentence a summary of the
offender’s duties imposed under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and
2950.06, and the duration of the duties. The judge shall inform the offender,
at the time of sentencing, of those duties and of their duration. If required
under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(2), the judge shall perform the duties specified in
that section or, if required under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(6), the judge shall
perform the duties specified in that division.
(R.C. § 2929.23) (Prior Code, § 666.99)
CHAPTER 134: GAMBLING OFFENSES
Section
   
134.01   Definitions
   
134.02   Prohibitions against gambling; exception
   
134.03   Operating a gambling house
   
134.04   Public gaming
   
134.05   Cheating
   
134.06   Regulations concerning operation of licensed bingo game
   
134.07   Records to be kept
   
134.08   Requirements for bingo game operators
   
134.09   Bingo games for amusement only
   
134.10   Prohibitions where instant bingo game is conducted
   
134.11   Raffle drawings
   
134.12   Instant bingo other than at bingo sessions
   
134.13   Restrictions on owner or lessor of location at instant bingo
   
134.14   Skill-based amusement machines; prohibited conduct
   
134.15   Electronic instant bingo; prohibited conduct
Statutory reference:
   Conducting an illegal bingo game, felony, see R.C. § 2915.07
   Licensing bingo games by Attorney General, see R.C. § 2915.08
   Licensing distributors of bingo supplies by Attorney General, see R.C. §
2915.081
   Licensing manufacturers of bingo supplies by Attorney General, see R.C. §
2915.082
§ 134.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BET. The hazarding of anything of value upon the result of an event,
undertaking, or contingency, but does not include a bona fide business risk.
   BINGO. Either of the following:
      (1)   A game with all of the following characteristics:
         (a)   The participants use bingo cards or sheets, including paper
formats and electronic representation or image formats, that are divided into
25 spaces arranged in five horizontal and five vertical rows of spaces, with
each space, except the central space, being designated by a combination of a
letter and a number and with the central space being designated as a free
space;
         (b)   The participants cover the spaces on the bingo cards or sheets
that correspond to combinations of letters and numbers that are announced by a
bingo game operator;
         (c)   A bingo game operator announces combinations of letters and
numbers that appear on objects that a bingo game operator selects by chance,
either manually or mechanically, from a receptacle that contains 75 objects at
the beginning of each game, each object marked by a different combination of a
letter and a number that corresponds to one of the 75 possible combinations of
a letter and a number that can appear on the bingo cards or sheets;
         (d)   The winner of the bingo game includes any participant who
properly announces during the interval between the announcements of letters and
numbers, as described in division (1)(c) of this definition, that a
predetermined and pre-announced pattern of spaces has been covered on a bingo
card or sheet being used by the participant.
      (2)   Instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, and raffles.
   BINGO GAME OPERATOR. Any person, except security personnel, who performs
work or labor at the site of bingo including but not limited to collecting
money from participants, handing out bingo cards or sheets or objects to cover
spaces on bingo cards or sheets, selecting from a receptacle the objects that
contain the combination of letters and numbers that appear on bingo cards or
sheets, calling out the combinations of letters and numbers, distributing
prizes, selling or redeeming instant bingo tickets or cards, selling or
redeeming electronic instant bingo tickets, credits, or vouchers, accessing an
electronic instant bingo system other than as a participant, supervising the
operation of a punch board, selling raffle tickets, selecting raffle tickets
from a receptacle and announcing the winning numbers in a raffle, and
preparing, selling, and serving food or beverages. “Bingo game operator” does
not include a person who is installing, maintaining, updating, or repairing an
electronic instant bingo system.
   BINGO SESSION. A period that includes both of the following:
      (1)   Not to exceed five continuous hours for the conduct of one or more
games described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section,
instant bingo, and electronic instant bingo;
      (2)   A period for the conduct of instant bingo and electronic instant
bingo for not more than two hours before and not more than two hours after the
period described in division (1) of this definition.
   BINGO SUPPLIES. Bingo cards or sheets; instant bingo tickets or cards;
electronic bingo aids; raffle tickets; punch boards; seal cards; instant bingo
ticket dispensers; electronic instant bingo systems; and devices for selecting
or displaying the combination of bingo letters and numbers or raffle tickets.
Items that are “bingo supplies” are not gambling devices if sold or otherwise
provided, and used, in accordance with this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915. For
purposes of this chapter, “bingo supplies” are not to be considered equipment
used to conduct a bingo game.
   BOOKMAKING. The business of receiving or paying off bets.
   CHAMBER OF COMMERCE. Any organization of individuals, professionals, and
businesses that has the purpose to advance the commercial, financial,
industrial, and civic interests of the community and that is, and has received
from the Internal Revenue Service a determination letter that currently is in
effect stating that the organization is, exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(6).
   CHARITABLE BINGO GAME. Any bingo game described in divisions (1) or (2) of
the definition of “bingo” in this section that is conducted by a charitable
organization that has obtained a license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08 and the
proceeds of which are used for a charitable purpose.
   CHARITABLE INSTANT BINGO ORGANIZATION. An organization that is exempt from
federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3) and
is a charitable organization as defined in this section. The term does not
include a charitable organization that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3) and that is created by a
veteran’s organization, a fraternal organization, or a sporting organization in
regards to bingo conducted or assisted by a veteran’s organization, a fraternal
organization, or a sporting organization pursuant to R.C. § 2915.13, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, “charitable
organization” means either of the following:
         (a)   An organization that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
         (b)   A volunteer rescue service organization, volunteer firefighter’s
organization, veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §§ 501(c)
(4), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19).
      (2)   To qualify as a charitable organization, an organization shall have
been in continuous existence as such in this state for a period of two years
immediately preceding either the making of an application for a bingo license
under R.C. § 2915.08 or the conducting of any game of chance as provided in
R.C. § 2915.02(D), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE PURPOSE. Means that the net profit of bingo, other than instant
bingo or electronic instant bingo, is used by, or is given, donated, or
otherwise transferred to, any of the following:
      (1)   Any organization that is described in IRC §§ 509(a)(1), 509(a)(2),
or 509(a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization that is tax
exempt under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
      (2)   A veteran’s organization that is a post, chapter, or organization
of veterans, or an auxiliary unit or society of, or a trust or foundation for,
any such post, chapter, or organization organized in the United States or any
of its possessions, at least 75% of the members of which are veterans and
substantially all of the other members of which are individuals who are
spouses, widows, or widowers of veterans, or such individuals, provided that no
part of the net earnings of such post, chapter, or organization inures to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual, and further provided that the
net profit is used by the post, chapter, or organization for the charitable
purposes set forth in R.C. § 5739.02(B)(12), is used for awarding scholarships
to or for attendance at an institution mentioned in that division of the Ohio
Revised Code, is donated to a governmental agency, or is used for nonprofit
youth activities, the purchase of United States or Ohio flags that are donated
to schools, youth groups, or other bona fide nonprofit organizations, promotion
of patriotism, or disaster relief;
      (3)   A fraternal organization that has been in continuous existence in
this state for 15 years and that uses the net profit exclusively for religious,
charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes, or for the
prevention of cruelty to children or animals, if contributions for such use
would qualify as a deductible charitable contribution under IRC § 170;
      (4)   A volunteer firefighter’s organization that uses the net profit for
the purposes set forth in the definition of “volunteer firefighter’s
organization” in this section.
   COMMUNITY ACTION AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 122.66.
   CONDUCT. To back, promote, organize, manage, carry on, sponsor, or prepare
for the operation of bingo or a game of chance, a scheme of chance, or a
sweepstakes.
   DEAL. A single game of instant bingo tickets, or a single game of electronic
instant bingo tickets, all with the same serial number.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person who purchases or obtains bingo supplies and who does
either of the following:
      (1)   Sells, offers for sale, or otherwise provides or offers to provide
the bingo supplies to another person for use in this state;
      (2)   Modifies, converts, adds to, or removes parts from the bingo
supplies to further their promotion or sale for use in this state.
   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID.
      (1)   An electronic device used by a participant to monitor bingo cards
or sheets purchased at the time and place of a bingo session and that does all
of the following:
         (a)   It provides a means for a participant to input numbers and
letters announced by a bingo caller.
         (b)   It compares the numbers and letters entered by the participant
to the bingo faces previously stored in the memory of the device.
         (c)   It identifies a winning bingo pattern.
      (2)   The term does not include any device into which a coin, currency,
token, or an equivalent is inserted to activate play.
   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO.
      (1)   A form of bingo that consists of an electronic or digital
representation of instant bingo in which a participant wins a prize if the
participant’s electronic instant bingo ticket contains a combination of numbers
or symbols that was designated in advance as a winning combination, and to
which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Each deal has a predetermined, finite number of winning and
losing tickets and a predetermined prize amount and deal structure, provided
that there may be multiple winning combinations in each deal and multiple
winning tickets.
         (b)   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal has a unique
serial number that is not regenerated.
         (c)   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal is sold for
the same price.
         (d)   After a participant purchases an electronic instant bingo
ticket, the combination of numbers or symbols on the ticket is revealed to the
participant.
         (e)   The reveal of numbers or symbols on the ticket may incorporate
an entertainment or bonus theme, provided that the reveal does not include
spinning reels that resemble a slot machine.
         (f)   The reveal theme, if any, does not require additional
consideration or award any prize other than any predetermined prize associated
with the electronic instant bingo ticket.
      (2)   The term shall not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any game, entertainment, or bonus theme that replicates or
simulates any of the following:
            1.   The gambling games of keno, blackjack, roulette, poker, craps,
other casino-style table games;
            2.   Horse racing;
            3.   Gambling games offered in this state on slot machines or video
lottery terminals. As used in this division, “video lottery terminal” has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
         (b)   Any device operated by dropping one or more coins or tokens into
a slot and pulling a handle or pushing a button or touchpoint on a touchscreen
to activate one to three or more rotating reels marked into horizontal segments
by varying symbols, where the predetermined prize amount depends on how and how
many of the symbols line up when the rotating reels come to a rest;
         (c)   Any device that includes a coin or token slot, tray, or hopper
and the ability to dispense coins, cash, tokens, or anything of value other
than a credit ticket voucher.
   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO SYSTEM. Means both of the following:
      (1)   A mechanical, electronic, digital, or video device and associated
software to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   It is used by not more than one player at a time to play
electronic instant bingo on a single screen that is physically connected to the
device;
         (b)   It is located on the premises of the principal place of business
of a veteran’s or fraternal organization that holds a type II or type III bingo
license to conduct electronic instant bingo at that location issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08.
      (2)   Any associated equipment or software used to manage, monitor, or
document any aspect of electronic instant bingo.
   EXPENSES. The reasonable amount of gross profit actually expended for all of
the following:
      (1)   The purchase or lease of bingo supplies;
      (2)   The annual license fee required under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Bank fees and service charges for a bingo session or game account
described in R.C. § 2915.10;
      (4)   Audits and accounting services;
      (5)   Safes;
      (6)   Cash registers;
      (7)   Hiring security personnel;
      (8)   Advertising bingo;
      (9)   Renting premises in which to conduct a bingo session;
      (10)   Tables and chairs;
      (11)   Expenses for maintaining and operating a charitable organization’s
facilities, including but not limited to a post home, club house, lounge,
tavern, or canteen and any grounds attached to the post home, club house,
lounge, tavern, or canteen;
      (12)   Payment of real property taxes and assessments that are levied on
a premises on which bingo is conducted;
      (13)   Any other product or service directly related to the conduct of
bingo that is authorized in rules adopted by the Attorney General under R.C. §
2915.08(F)(1).
   FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. Any society, order, state headquarters, or
association within this state, except a college or high school fraternity, that
is not organized for profit, that is a branch, lodge, or chapter of a national
or state organization, that exists exclusively for the common business or
sodality of its members.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A book, totalizer, or other equipment used for recording bets;
      (2)   A ticket, token, or other device representing a chance, share, or
interest in a scheme of chance or evidencing a bet;
      (3)   A deck of cards, dice, gaming table, roulette wheel, slot machine,
or other apparatus designed for use in connection with a game of chance;
      (4)   Any equipment, device, apparatus, or paraphernalia specially
designed for gambling purposes;
      (5)   Bingo supplies sold or otherwise provided, or used, in violation of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   GAMBLING OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. Chapter 2915;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 or a violation of R.C. § 2915.06
as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or of the United States, of which gambling is an
element;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   GAME FLARE. The board or placard, or electronic representation of a board or
placard, that accompanies each deal of instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo tickets and that includes the following information for the game:
      (1)   The name of the game;
      (2)   The manufacturer’s name or distinctive logo;
      (3)   The form number;
      (4)   The ticket count;
      (5)   The prize structure, including the number of winning tickets by
denomination and the respective winning symbol or number combinations for the
winning tickets;
      (6)   The cost per play;
      (7)   The serial number of the game.
   GAME OF CHANCE. Poker, craps, roulette, or other game in which a player
gives anything of value in the hope of gain, the outcome of which is determined
largely by chance, but does not include bingo.
   GAME OF CHANCE CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. Any game of chance designed to produce
income for the person who conducts or operates the game of chance, but does not
include bingo.
   GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES. The annual gross receipts derived from the conduct of
bingo described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section
plus the annual net profit derived from the conduct of bingo described in
division (2) of the definition of “bingo” in this section.
   GROSS PROFIT. Gross receipts minus the amount actually expended for the
payment of prize awards.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. All money or assets, including admission fees, that a person
receives from bingo without the deduction of any amounts for prizes paid out or
for the expenses of conducting bingo. The term does not include any money
directly taken in from the sale of food or beverages by a charitable
organization conducting bingo, or by a bona fide auxiliary unit or society of a
charitable organization conducting bingo, provided all of the following apply:
      (1)   The auxiliary unit or society has been in existence as a bona fide
auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization for at least two years
prior to conducting bingo.
      (2)   The person who purchases the food or beverage receives nothing of
value except the food or beverage and items customarily received with the
purchase of that food or beverage.
      (3)   The food and beverages are sold at customary and reasonable prices.
   HISTORIC RAILROAD. All or a portion of the tracks and right-of-way of a
railroad that was owned and operated by a for profit common carrier in this
state at any time prior to January 1, 1950.
   INSTANT BINGO. A form of bingo that shall use folded or banded tickets or
paper cards with perforated break-open tabs, a face of which is covered or
otherwise hidden from view to conceal a number, letter, or symbol, or set of
numbers, letters, or symbols, some of which have been designated in advance as
prize winners, and may also include games in which some winners are determined
by the random selection of one or more bingo numbers by the use of a seal card
or bingo blower. “Instant bingo” also includes a punch board game. In all
“instant bingo” the prize amount and structure shall be predetermined. The term
does not include electronic instant bingo or any device that is activated by
the insertion of a coin, currency, token, or an equivalent, and that contains
as one of its components a video display monitor that is capable of displaying
numbers, letters, symbols, or characters in winning or losing combinations.
   INSTANT BINGO TICKET DISPENSER. A mechanical device that dispenses an
instant bingo ticket or card as the sole item of value dispensed and that has
the following characteristics:
      (1)   It is activated upon the insertion of United States currency.
      (2)   It performs no gaming functions.
      (3)   It does not contain a video display monitor or generate noise.
      (4)   It is not capable of displaying any numbers, letters, symbols, or
characters in winning or losing combinations.
      (5)   It does not simulate or display rolling or spinning reels.
      (6)   It is incapable of determining whether a dispensed bingo ticket or
card is a winning or non- winning ticket or card and requires a winning ticket
or card to be paid by a bingo game operator.
      (7)   It may provide accounting and security features to aid in
accounting for the instant bingo tickets or cards it dispenses.
      (8)   It is not part of an electronic network and is not interactive.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE (IRC). The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 100 Stat.
2085, 26 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person who assembles completed bingo supplies from raw
materials, other items, or subparts or who modifies, converts, adds to, or
removes parts from bingo supplies to further their promotion or sale.
   MERCHANDISE PRIZE. Any item of value, but shall not include any of the
following:
      (1)   Cash, gift cards, or any equivalent thereof;
      (2)   Plays on games of chance, state lottery tickets, or bingo;
      (3)   Firearms, tobacco, or alcoholic beverages; or
      (4)   A redeemable voucher that is redeemable for any of the items listed
in division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   NET PROFIT. Gross profit minus expenses.
   NET PROFIT FROM THE PROCEEDS OF THE SALE OF INSTANT BINGO OR ELECTRONIC
INSTANT BINGO. Gross profit minus the ordinary, necessary, and reasonable
expense expended for the purchase of bingo supplies for the purpose of
conducting instant bingo or electronic instant bingo, and, in the case of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conducted by a veteran’s, fraternal,
or sporting organization, minus the payment by that organization of real
property taxes and assessments levied on a premises on which instant bingo or
electronic instant bingo is conducted.
   PARTICIPANT. Any person who plays bingo.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.59 and includes any firm or any
other legal entity, however organized.
   POOL NOT CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. A scheme in which a participant gives a
valuable consideration for a chance to win a prize and the total amount of
consideration wagered is distributed to a participant or participants.
   PUNCH BOARD. A form of instant bingo that uses a board containing a number
of holes or receptacles of uniform size in which are placed, mechanically and
randomly, serially numbered slips of paper that may be punched or drawn from
the hole or receptacle. A player may punch or draw the numbered slips of paper
from the holes or receptacles and obtain the prize established for the game if
the number drawn corresponds to a winning number or, if the punch board
includes the use of a seal card, a potential winning number.
   RAFFLE. A form of bingo in which the one or more prizes are won by one or
more persons who have purchased a raffle ticket. The one or more winners of the
raffle are determined by drawing a ticket stub or other detachable section from
a receptacle containing ticket stubs or detachable sections corresponding to
all tickets sold for the raffle. The term does not include the drawing of a
ticket stub or other detachable section of a ticket purchased to attend a
professional sporting event if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The ticket stub or other detachable section is used to select the
winner of a free prize given away at the professional sporting event; and
      (2)   The cost of the ticket is the same as the cost of a ticket to the
professional sporting event on days when no free prize is given away.
   REDEEMABLE VOUCHER. Any ticket, token, coupon, receipt, or other noncash
representation of value.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION. Any church, body of communicants, or group that is
not organized or operated for profit and that gathers in common membership for
regular worship and religious observances.
   REVOKE. To void permanently all rights and privileges of the holder of a
license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SCHEME OF CHANCE.
      (1)   A slot machine unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3772, lottery
unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770, numbers game, pool conducted for
profit, or other scheme in which a participant gives a valuable consideration
for a chance to win a prize, but does not include bingo, a skill-based
amusement machine, or a pool not conducted for profit. “Scheme of chance”
includes the use of an electronic device to reveal the results of a game entry
if valuable consideration is paid, directly or indirectly, for a chance to win
a prize. Valuable consideration is deemed to be paid for a chance to win a
prize in the following instances:
         (a)   Less than 50% of the goods or services sold by a scheme of
chance operator in exchange for game entries are used or redeemed by
participants at any one location;
         (b)   Less than 50% of participants who purchase goods or services at
any one location do not accept, use, or redeem the goods or services sold or
purportedly sold;
         (c)   More than 50% of prizes at any one location are revealed to
participants through an electronic device simulating a game of chance or a
“casino game” as defined in R.C. § 3772.01;
         (d)   The good or service sold by a scheme of chance operator in
exchange for a game entry cannot be used or redeemed in the manner advertised;
         (e)   A participant pays more than fair market value for goods or
services offered by a scheme of chance operator in order to receive one or more
game entries;
         (f)   A participant may use the electronic device to purchase
additional game entries;
         (g)   A participant may purchase additional game entries by using
points or credits won as prizes while using the electronic device;
         (h)   A scheme of chance operator pays out in prize money more than
20% of the gross revenue received at one location; or
         (i)   A participant makes a purchase or exchange in order to obtain
any good or service that may be used to facilitate play on the electronic
device.
      (2)   As used in this division, “electronic device” means a mechanical,
video, digital, or electronic machine or device that is capable of displaying
information on a screen or other mechanism and that is owned, leased, or
otherwise possessed by any person conducting a scheme of chance, or by that
person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or contractors. “Electronic
device” does not include an electronic instant bingo system.
   SEAL CARD. A form of instant bingo that uses instant bingo tickets in
conjunction with a board or placard that contains one or more seals that, when
removed or opened, reveal predesignated winning numbers, letters, or symbols.
   SECURITY PERSONNEL. Includes any person who either is a Sheriff, deputy
sheriff, Marshal, deputy marshal, township constable, or member of an organized
police department of a municipal corporation or has successfully completed a
peace officer’s training course pursuant to R.C. §§ 109.71 through 109.79 and
who is hired to provide security for the premises on which bingo is conducted.
   SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINE.
      (1)   (a)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic device that
rewards the player or players, if at all, only with merchandise prizes or with
redeemable vouchers redeemable only for merchandise prizes, provided that with
respect to rewards for playing the game all of the following apply:
            1.   The wholesale value of a merchandise prize awarded as a result
of the single play of a machine does not exceed $10;
            2.   Redeemable vouchers awarded for any single play of a machine
are not redeemable for a merchandise prize with a wholesale value of more than
$10;
            3.   Redeemable vouchers are not redeemable for a merchandise prize
that has a wholesale value of more than $10 times the fewest number of single
plays necessary to accrue the redeemable vouchers required to obtain that
prize; and
            4.   Any redeemable vouchers or merchandise prizes are distributed
at the site of the skill-based amusement machine at the time of play.
         (b)   A card for the purchase of gasoline is a redeemable voucher for
purposes of division (1) of this definition even if the skill-based amusement
machine for the play of which the card is awarded is located at a place where
gasoline may not be legally distributed to the public or the card is not
redeemable at the location of, or at the time of playing, the skill-based
amusement machine.
      (2)   A device shall not be considered a skill-based amusement machine
and shall be considered a slot machine if it pays cash or one or more of the
following apply:
         (a)   The ability of a player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the number or ratio of prior wins to prior losses of players playing the game;
         (b)   Any reward of redeemable vouchers is not based solely on the
player achieving the object of the game or the player’s score;
         (c)   The outcome of the game, or the value of the redeemable voucher
or merchandise prize awarded for winning the game, can be controlled by a
source other than any player playing the game;
         (d)   The success of any player is or may be determined by a chance
event that cannot be altered by player actions;
         (e)   The ability of any player to succeed at the game is determined
by game features not visible or known to the player;
         (f)   The ability of the player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the exercise of a skill that no reasonable player could exercise.
      (3)   All of the following apply to any machine that is operated as
described in division (1) of this definition:
         (a)   As used in this definition of “skill-based amusement machine”,
GAME and PLAY mean one event from the initial activation of the machine until
the results of play are determined without payment of additional consideration.
An individual utilizing a machine that involves a single game, play, contest,
competition, or tournament may be awarded redeemable vouchers or merchandise
prizes based on the results of play.
         (b)   Advance play for a single game, play, contest, competition, or
tournament participation may be purchased. The cost of the contest,
competition, or tournament participation may be greater than a single non-
contest, competition, or tournament play.
         (c)   To the extent that the machine is used in a contest,
competition, or tournament, that contest, competition, or tournament has a
defined starting and ending date and is open to participants in competition for
scoring and ranking results toward the awarding of redeemable vouchers or
merchandise prizes that are stated prior to the start of the contest,
competition, or tournament.
      (4)   For purposes of division (1) of this definition, the mere presence
of a device, such as a pin- setting, ball-releasing, or scoring mechanism, that
does not contribute to or affect the outcome of the play of the game does not
make the device a skill-based amusement machine.
   SLOT MACHINE.
      (1)   Either of the following:
         (a)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player who gives the thing of value in the hope of gain;
         (b)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player to conduct bingo or a scheme or game of chance.
      (2)   The term does not include a skill-based amusement machine, an
instant bingo ticket dispenser, or an electronic instant bingo system.
   SPORTING ORGANIZATION. A hunting, fishing, or trapping organization, other
than a college or high school fraternity or sorority, that is not organized for
profit, that is affiliated with a state or national sporting organization,
including but not limited to the League of Ohio Sportsmen, and that has been in
continuous existence in this state for a period of three years.
   SUSPEND. To interrupt temporarily all rights and privileges of the holder of
a license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SWEEPSTAKES. Any game, contest, advertising scheme or plan, or other
promotion where consideration is not required for a person to enter to win or
become eligible to receive any prize, the determination of which is based upon
chance. “Sweepstakes” does not include bingo as authorized under R.C. Chapter
2915, pari-mutuel wagering as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3769, lotteries
conducted by the State Lottery Commission as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3770,
and casino gaming as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3772.
   SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE.
      (1)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic machine or device that
is owned, leased, or otherwise possessed by any person conducting a
sweepstakes, or by that person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or
contractors, that is intended to be used by a sweepstakes participant, and that
is capable of displaying information on a screen or other mechanism. A device
is a sweepstakes terminal device if any of the following apply:
         (a)   The device uses a simulated game terminal as a representation of
the prizes associated with the results of the sweepstakes entries.
         (b)   The device utilizes software such that the simulated game
influences or determines the winning of or value of the prize.
         (c)   The device selects prizes from a predetermined finite pool of
entries.
         (d)   The device utilizes a mechanism that reveals the content of a
predetermined sweepstakes entry.
         (e)   The device predetermines the prize results and stores those
results for delivery at the time the sweepstakes entry results are revealed.
         (f)   The device utilizes software to create a game result.
         (g)   The device reveals the prize incrementally, even though the
device does not influence the awarding of the prize or the value of any prize
awarded.
         (h)   The device determines and associates the prize with an entry or
entries at the time the sweepstakes is entered.
      (2)   As used in this definition and in §
134.02:
         ENTER. The act by which a person becomes eligible to receive any prize
offered in a sweepstakes.
         ENTRY. One event from the initial activation of the sweepstakes
terminal device until all the sweepstakes prize results from that activation
are revealed.
         PRIZE. Any gift, award, gratuity, good, service, credit, reward, or
any other thing of value that may be transferred to a person, whether
possession of the prize is actually transferred, or placed on an account or
other record as evidence of the intent to transfer the prize.
         SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE FACILITY. Any location in this state where
a sweepstakes terminal device is provided to a sweepstakes participant, except
as provided in §
134.02(G) and R.C. § 2915.02(G).
   VETERAN’S ORGANIZATION. Any individual post or state headquarters of a
national veteran’s association or an auxiliary unit of any individual post of a
national veteran’s association, which post, state headquarters, or auxiliary
unit is incorporated as a nonprofit corporation and either has received a
letter from the state headquarters of the national veteran’s association
indicating that the individual post or auxiliary unit is in good standing with
the national veteran’s association or has received a letter from the national
veteran’s association indicating that the state headquarters is in good
standing with the national veteran’s association. As used in this definition,
NATIONAL VETERAN’S ASSOCIATION means any veteran’s association that has been in
continuous existence as such for a period of at least five years and either is
incorporated by an act of the United States Congress or has a national dues-
paying membership of at least 5,000 persons.
   VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER’S ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteer
firefighters, as defined in R.C. § 146.01, that is organized and operated
exclusively to provide financial support for a volunteer fire department or a
volunteer fire company and that is recognized or ratified by a county,
municipal corporation, or township.
   VOLUNTEER RESCUE SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteers
organized to function as an emergency medical service organization, as defined
in R.C. § 4765.01.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for profit,
that is organized and operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or
to operate, athletic activities for persons who are 21 years of age or younger
by means of sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the support
of an athletic team, club, league, or association.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC PARK ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for
profit, that satisfies both of the following:
      (1)   It owns, operates, and maintains playing fields that satisfy both
of the following:
         (a)   The playing fields are used for athletic activities by one or
more organizations, not organized for profit, each of which is organized and
operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or to operate, athletic
activities for persons who are 18 years of age or younger by means of
sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the support of an
athletic team, club, league, or association.
         (b)   The playing fields are not used for any profit-making activity
at any time during the year.
      (2)   It uses the proceeds of bingo it conducts exclusively for the
operation, maintenance, and improvement of its playing fields of the type
described in division (1) of this definition.
(R.C. § 2915.01) (Prior Code, § 630.01)
§ 134.02 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST GAMBLING; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Engage in bookmaking, or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates bookmaking.
      (2)   Establish, promote, or operate or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (3)   Knowingly procure, transmit, exchange, or engage in conduct that
facilitates the procurement, transmission, or exchange of information for use
in establishing odds or determining winners in connection with bookmaking or
with any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (4)   Engage in betting or in playing any scheme or game of chance as a
substantial source of income or livelihood.
      (5)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
and either:
         (a)   Give to another person any item described in R.C. § 2915.01(VV)
(1), (VV)(2), (VV)(3), or (VV)(4) as a prize for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes; or
         (b)   Give to another person any merchandise prize, or a redeemable
voucher for a merchandise prize, the wholesale value of which is in excess of
$10 and which is awarded as a single entry for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes. Redeemable vouchers shall not be redeemable for a merchandise
prize that has a wholesale value of more than $10.
      (6)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
without first obtaining a current annual “certificate of registration” from the
Attorney General as required by R.C. § 2915.02(F).
      (7)   With purpose to violate division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
(A)(5), or (A)(6) of this section, acquire, possess, control, or operate any
gambling device.
   (B)   For purposes of division (A)(1) of this section, a person facilitates
bookmaking if the person in any way knowingly aids an illegal bookmaking
operation, including, without limitation, placing a bet with a person engaged
in or facilitating illegal bookmaking. For purposes of division (A)(2) of this
section, a person facilitates a game of chance conducted for profit or a scheme
of chance if the person in any way knowingly aids in the conduct or operation
of any such game or scheme, including, without limitation, playing any such
game or scheme.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit conduct in connection with gambling
expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Games of chance, if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The games of chance are not craps for money or roulette for
money.
         (b)   The games of chance are conducted by a charitable organization
that is and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a determination
letter that is currently in effect, stating that the organization is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)
(3).
         (c)   The games of chance are conducted at festivals of the charitable
organization that are conducted not more than a total of five days a calendar
year, and are conducted on premises owned by the charitable organization for a
period of no less than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the
games of chance, on premises leased from a governmental unit, or on premises
that are leased from a veteran’s or fraternal organization and that have been
owned by the lessor veteran’s or fraternal organization for a period of no less
than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the games of chance. A
charitable organization shall not lease premises from a veteran’s or fraternal
organization to conduct a festival described in this division, if the veteran’s
or fraternal organization already has leased the premises 12 times during the
preceding year to charitable organizations for that purpose. If a charitable
organization leases premises from a veteran’s or fraternal organization to
conduct a festival described in this division, the charitable organization
shall not pay a rental rate for the premises per day of the festival that
exceeds the rental rate per bingo session that a charitable organization may
pay under R.C. § 2915.09(B)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance when it leases premises from another charitable organization to
conduct bingo games.
         (d)   All of the money or assets received from the games of chance
after deduction only of prizes paid out during the conduct of the games of
chance are used by, given, donated or otherwise transferred to any organization
that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that is tax exempt under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(3).
         (e)   The games of chance are not conducted during or within ten hours
of a bingo game conducted for amusement purposes only pursuant to R.C. §
2915.12 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance. No person shall
receive any commission, wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other
form of compensation, directly or indirectly, for operating or assisting in the
operation of any game of chance.
      (2)   Any tag fishing tournament, as defined in R.C. § 1531.01, operated
under a permit issued under R.C. § 1533.92.
      (3)   Bingo conducted by a charitable organization that holds a license
issued under R.C. § 2915.08.
   (E)   Division (D) of this section shall not be construed to authorize the
sale, lease, or other temporary or permanent transfer of the right to conduct
games of chance, as granted by that division, by any charitable organization
that is granted that right.
   (F)   Any person desiring to conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a
sweepstakes with the use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes
terminal device facility shall first register with the Office of the Attorney
General and obtain an annual certificate of registration by providing a filing
fee of $200 and all information as required by rule adopted under R.C. §
2915.02(H). Not later than the tenth day of each month, each sweepstakes
terminal device operator shall file a sweepstakes terminal device monthly
report with the Attorney General and provide a filing fee of $50 and all
information required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H). All information
provided to the Attorney General under this division shall be available to law
enforcement upon request.
   (G)   (1)   A person may apply to the Attorney General, on a form prescribed
by the Attorney General, for a certificate of compliance that the person is not
operating a sweepstakes terminal device facility. The form shall require the
person to include the address of the business location where sweepstakes
terminal devices will be used and to make the following certifications:
         (a)   That the person will not use more than two sweepstakes terminal
devices at the business location;
         (b)   That the retail value of sweepstakes prizes to be awarded at the
business location using sweepstakes terminal devices during a reporting period
will be less than 3% of the gross revenue received at the business location
during the reporting period;
         (c)   That no other form of gaming except lottery ticket sales as
authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770 will be conducted at the business location
or in an adjoining area of the business location;
         (d)   That any sweepstakes terminal device at the business location
will not allow any deposit of any money, coin, or token, or the use of any
credit card, debit card, prepaid card, or any other method of similar payment
to be used, directly or indirectly, to participate in a sweepstakes;
         (e)   That notification of any prize will not take place on the same
day as a participant’s sweepstakes entry; and
         (f)   That the person consents to provide any other information to the
Attorney General as required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H).
      (2)   The filing fee for a certificate of compliance is $250. The
Attorney General may charge up to an additional $250 for reasonable expenses
resulting from any investigation related to an application for a certificate of
compliance.
      (3)   A certificate of compliance is effective for one year. The
certificate holder may reapply for a certificate of compliance. A person issued
a certificate of compliance shall file semiannual reports with the Attorney
General stating the number of sweepstakes terminal devices at the business
location and that the retail value of prizes awarded at the business location
using sweepstakes terminal devices is less than 3% of the gross revenue
received at the business location.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of gambling, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense, gambling is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
Notwithstanding this division, failing to file a sweepstakes terminal device
monthly report as required by division (F) of this section or the semiannual
report required by division (G) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2915.02(A) - (G), (K)) (Prior Code, § 630.02)
§ 134.03 OPERATING A GAMBLING HOUSE.
   (A)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of premises, shall:
      (1)   Use or occupy the premises for gambling in violation of R.C. §
2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   Recklessly permit the premises to be used or occupied for gambling
in violation of R.C. § 2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of operating a
gambling house, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a gambling offense, operating a gambling house is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Premises used or occupied in violation of this section constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.03) (Prior Code, § 630.03)
§ 134.04 PUBLIC GAMING.
   (A)   No person, while at a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall,
or other place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall
make a bet or play any game of chance or scheme of chance.
   (B)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other place
of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall recklessly permit
those premises to be used or occupied in violation of division (A) of this
section.
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) of this section do not prohibit conduct in
connection with gambling expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public gaming. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, public gaming is a minor misdemeanor. If
the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling offense, public
gaming is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (E)   Premises used or occupied in violation of division (B) of this section
constitute a nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.04) (Prior Code, § 630.04)
§ 134.05 CHEATING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome
of any of the following:
      (1)   The subject of a bet.
      (2)   A contest of knowledge, skill, or endurance that is not an athletic
or sporting event.
      (3)   A scheme or game of chance.
      (4)   Bingo.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Offer, give, solicit, or accept anything of value to corrupt the
outcome of an athletic or sporting event.
      (2)   Engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome of an athletic or
sporting event.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
cheating. Except as otherwise provided in this division, cheating is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the potential gain from the cheating is
$1,000 or more or if the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense or of any theft offense as defined in R.C. § 2913.01, cheating is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
corrupting sports. Corrupting sports is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.05) (Prior Code, § 630.05)
§ 134.06 REGULATIONS CONCERNING OPERATION OF LICENSED BINGO GAME.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo shall fail to do any of
the following:
      (1)   Own all of the equipment used to conduct bingo or lease that
equipment from a charitable organization that is licensed to conduct bingo, or
from the landlord of a premises where bingo is conducted, for a rental rate
that is not more than is customary and reasonable for that equipment;
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(3) of this section,
use all of the gross receipts from bingo for paying prizes, for reimbursement
of expenses for or for renting premises in which to conduct bingo, for
reimbursement of expenses for or for purchasing or leasing bingo supplies used
in conducting bingo, for reimbursement of expenses for or for hiring security
personnel, for reimbursement of expenses for or for advertising bingo, or for
reimbursement of other expenses or for other expenses listed in the definition
for “expenses” in R.C. § 2915.01, provided that the amount of the receipts so
spent is not more than is customary and reasonable for a similar purchase,
lease, hiring, advertising, or expense. If the building in which bingo is
conducted is owned by the charitable organization conducting bingo and the
bingo conducted includes a form of bingo described in division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01, the charitable organization may deduct
from the total amount of the gross receipts from each session a sum equal to
the lesser of $600 or 45% of the gross receipts from the bingo described in
that division as consideration for the use of the premises;
      (3)   Use, or give, donate, or otherwise transfer, all of the net profit
derived from bingo described in R.C. § 2915.01(O)(1) for a charitable purpose
listed in its license application and described in R.C. § 2915.01(V), or
distribute all of the net profit from the proceeds of the sale of instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo as stated in its license application and in
accordance with R.C. § 2915.101, as applicable.
   (B)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall fail to do
any of the following:
      (1)   Conduct the bingo game on premises that are owned by the charitable
organization, on premises that are owned by another charitable organization and
leased from that charitable organization for a rental rate not in excess of the
lesser of $650 per bingo session or 45% of the gross receipts of the bingo
session, on premises that are leased from a person other than a charitable
organization for a rental rate that is not more than is customary and
reasonable for premises that are similar in location, size, and quality but not
in excess of $450 per bingo session, or on premises that are owned by a person
other than a charitable organization, that are leased from that person by
another charitable organization, and that are subleased from that other
charitable organization by the charitable organization for a rental rate not in
excess of $450 per bingo session. No charitable organization is required to pay
property taxes or assessments on premises that the charitable organization
leases from another person to conduct bingo sessions. If the charitable
organization leases from a person other than a charitable organization the
premises on which it conducts bingo sessions, the lessor of the premises shall
provide only the premises to the organization and shall not provide the
organization with bingo game operators, security personnel, concessions or
concession operators, bingo supplies, or any other type of service. A
charitable organization shall not lease or sublease premises that it owns or
leases to more than three other charitable organizations per calendar week for
conducting bingo sessions on the premises. A person that is not a charitable
organization shall not lease premises that it owns, leases, or otherwise is
empowered to lease to more than three charitable organizations per calendar
week for conducting bingo sessions on the premises. In no case shall more than
nine bingo sessions be conducted on any premises in any calendar week;
      (2)   Display its license conspicuously at the premises where the bingo
session is conducted;
      (3)   Conduct the bingo session in accordance with division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (C)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for operating a bingo
session that is conducted by the charitable organization or for preparing,
selling, or serving food or beverages at the site of the bingo session, permit
any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to pay
compensation to any bingo game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or
beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable organization, or
permit any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to prepare,
sell, or serve food or beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable
organization, if the auxiliary unit or society pays any compensation to the
bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or serve the food or beverages;
      (2)   Pay consulting fees to any person for any services performed in
relation to the bingo session;
      (3)   Pay concession fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in the bingo session;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(4) of this section,
conduct more than three bingo sessions in any seven-day period. A volunteer
firefighter’s organization or a volunteer rescue service organization that
conducts not more than five bingo sessions in a calendar year may conduct more
than three bingo sessions in a seven-day period after notifying the Attorney
General when it will conduct the sessions;
      (5)   Pay out more than $6,000 in prizes for bingo games described in
R.C. § 2915.01(S)(1) during any bingo session that is conducted by the
charitable organization. “Prizes” does not include awards from the conduct of
instant bingo.
      (6)   Conduct a bingo session at any time during the eight-hour period
between 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m., at any time during, or within ten hours of, a
bingo game conducted for amusement only pursuant to R.C. § 2915.12 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, at any premises not specified on
its license, or on any day of the week or during any time period not specified
on its license. This division does not prohibit the sale of instant bingo
tickets beginning at 9:00 a.m. for a bingo session that begins at 10:00 a.m. If
circumstances make it impractical for the charitable organization to conduct a
bingo session at the premises, or on the day of the week or at the time
specified on its license or if a charitable organization wants to conduct bingo
sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than the day or time specified
on its license, the charitable organization may apply in writing to the
Attorney General for an amended license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08(J). A
charitable organization may apply twice in each calendar year for an amended
license to conduct bingo sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than
the day or time specified on its license. If the amended license is granted,
the organization may conduct bingo sessions at the premises, on the day of the
week, and at the time specified on its amended license;
      (7)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, is under the age of 18 to work as a bingo game operator;
      (8)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any
jurisdiction to be a bingo game operator;
      (9)   Permit the lessor of the premises on which the bingo session is
conducted, if the lessor is not a charitable organization, to provide the
charitable organization with bingo game operators, security personnel,
concessions, bingo supplies, or any other type of service;
      (10)   Purchase or lease bingo supplies from any person except a
distributor issued a license under R.C. § 2915.081;
      (11)   (a)   Use or permit the use of electronic bingo aids except under
the following circumstances:
            1.   For any single participant, not more than 90 bingo faces can
be played using an electronic bingo aid or aids.
            2.   The charitable organization shall provide a participant using
an electronic bingo aid with corresponding paper bingo cards or sheets.
            3.   The total price of bingo faces played with an electronic bingo
aid shall be equal to the total price of the same number of bingo faces played
with a paper bingo card or sheet sold at the same bingo session but without an
electronic bingo aid.
            4.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be part of an electronic
network other than a network that includes only bingo aids and devices that are
located on the premises at which the bingo is being conducted or be interactive
with any device not located on the premises at which the bingo is being
conducted.
            5.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to participate in bingo
that is conducted at a location other than the location at which the bingo
session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
            6.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to provide for the
input of numbers and letters announced by a bingo caller other than the bingo
caller who physically calls the numbers and letters at the location at which
the bingo session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
         (b)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 119 that govern the use of electronic bingo aids. The rules may include
a requirement that an electronic bingo aid be capable of being audited by the
Attorney General to verify the number of bingo cards or sheets played during
each bingo session.
      (12)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, to be under 18 years of age to play bingo described in division (1)
of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section,
no charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator, and no bingo
game operator shall receive or accept, any commission, wage, salary, reward,
tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation, directly or indirectly,
regardless of the source, for conducting bingo or providing other work or labor
at the site of bingo during a bingo session.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section, no
charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator any commission,
wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation,
directly or indirectly regardless of the source, for conducting instant bingo,
electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session at the site of
instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (D) of this section prohibits an employee
of a fraternal organization, veteran’s organization, or sporting organization
from selling instant bingo tickets or cards to the organization’s members or
invited guests, as long as no portion of the employee’s compensation is paid
from any receipts of bingo.
   (E)   Notwithstanding division (B)(1) of this section, a charitable
organization that, prior to December 6, 1977, has entered into written
agreements for the lease of premises it owns to another charitable organization
or other charitable organizations for the conducting of bingo sessions so that
more than two bingo sessions are conducted per calendar week on the premises,
and a person that is not a charitable organization and that, prior to December
6, 1977, has entered into written agreements for the lease of premises it owns
to charitable organizations for the conducting of more than two bingo sessions
per calendar week on the premises, may continue to lease the premises to those
charitable organizations, provided that no more than four sessions are
conducted per calendar week, that the lessor organization or person has
notified the Attorney General in writing of the organizations that will conduct
the sessions and the days of the week and the times of the day on which the
sessions will be conducted, that the initial lease entered into with each
organization that will conduct the sessions was filed with the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977, and that each organization that will conduct the
sessions was issued a license to conduct bingo games by the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977.
   (F)   This section does not prohibit a bingo licensed charitable
organization or a game operator from giving any person an instant bingo ticket
as a prize.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of
illegally conducting a bingo game, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D)
of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2),
(B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D) of this section, a violation of division
(A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Whoever violates division (C)(12)
of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C)(12) of this
section, a violation of division (C)(12) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.09) (Prior Code, § 630.06)
§ 134.07 RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo or a game of chance
pursuant to R.C. § 2915.02(D), or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall fail to maintain the following records for at least three
years from the date on which the bingo or game of chance is conducted:
      (1)   An itemized list of the gross receipts of each bingo session, each
game of instant bingo by serial number, each electronic instant bingo game by
serial number, each raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance, and
an itemized list of the gross profits of each game of instant bingo by serial
number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number;
      (2)   An itemized list of all expenses, other than prizes, that are
incurred in conducting bingo, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses;
      (3)   A list of all prizes awarded during each bingo session, each
raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance conducted by the
charitable organization, the total prizes awarded from each game of instant
bingo by serial number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number,
and the name, address, and social security number of all persons who are
winners of prizes of $600 or more in value;
      (4)   An itemized list of the recipients of the net profit of bingo or
game of chance, including the name and address of each recipient to whom the
money is distributed, and if the organization uses the net profit of bingo, or
the money or assets received from a game of chance, for any charitable or other
purpose set forth in R.C. § 2915.01(V), R.C. § 2915.02(D), or R.C. § 2915.101,
a list of each purpose and an itemized list of each expenditure for each
purpose;
      (5)   The number of persons who participate in any bingo session or game
of chance that is conducted by the charitable organization;
      (6)   A list of receipts from the sale of food and beverages by the
charitable organization or one of its auxiliary units or societies, if the
receipts were excluded from “gross receipts” under R.C. § 2915.01(T);
      (7)   An itemized list of all expenses incurred at each bingo session,
each raffle, each punch board game, or each game of instant bingo or electronic
instant bingo conducted by the charitable organization in the sale of food and
beverages by the charitable organization or by an auxiliary unit or society of
the charitable organization, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses.
   (B)   A charitable organization shall keep the records that it is required
to maintain pursuant to division (A) of this section at its principal place of
business in this state or at its headquarters in this state and shall notify
the Attorney General of the location at which those records are kept.
   (C)   The gross profit from each bingo session or game described in division
(1) or (2) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall be deposited
into a checking account devoted exclusively to the bingo session or game.
Payments for allowable expenses incurred in conducting the bingo session or
game and payments to recipients of some or all of the net profit of the bingo
session or game shall be made only by checks or electronic fund transfers drawn
on the bingo session or game account.
   (D)   Each charitable organization shall conduct and record an inventory of
all of its bingo supplies as of the first day of November of each year.
   (E)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C. Chapter
119 that establish standards of accounting, record keeping, and reporting to
ensure that gross receipts from bingo or games of chance are properly accounted
for.
   (F)   A distributor shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing to another person bingo supplies for use in this state.
The record shall include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name of the manufacturer from which the distributor purchased
the bingo supplies and the date of the purchase;
      (2)   The name and address of the charitable organization or other
distributor to which the bingo supplies were sold or otherwise provided;
      (3)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies;
      (4)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each charitable organization.
   (G)   A manufacturer shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing bingo supplies for use in this state. The record shall
include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name and address of the distributor to whom the bingo supplies
were sold or otherwise provided;
      (2)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies, including
serial numbers;
      (3)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each distributor.
   (H)   (1)   The Attorney General or any law enforcement agency may do all of
the following:
         (a)   Investigate any charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer or any officer, agent, trustee, member, or employee of the
organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         (b)   Examine the accounts and records of the charitable organization,
distributor, or manufacturer or of any officer, agent, trustee, member, or
employee of the organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         (c)   Conduct inspections, audits, and observations of bingo or games
of chance;
         (d)   Conduct inspections of the premises where bingo or games of
chance are conducted or where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed;
         (e)   Take any other necessary and reasonable action to determine if a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 has occurred
and to determine whether R.C. § 2915.11, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, has been complied with.
      (2)   If any law enforcement agency has reasonable grounds to believe
that a charitable organization, distributor, or manufacturer or an officer,
agent, trustee, member, or employee of the organization, distributor, or
manufacturer has violated any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
the law enforcement agency may proceed by action in the proper court to enforce
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, provided that the law enforcement agency
shall give written notice to the Attorney General when commencing an action as
described in this division.
   (I)   No person shall destroy, alter, conceal, withhold, or deny access to
any accounts or records of a charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer that have been requested for examination, or obstruct, impede, or
interfere with any inspection, audit, or observation of bingo or a game of
chance, of premises where bingo or a game of chance is conducted, or of
premises where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed, or refuse to
comply with any reasonable request of, or obstruct, impede, or interfere with
any other reasonable action undertaken by, the Attorney General or a law
enforcement agency pursuant to division (H) of this section.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (A) or (I) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.10) (Prior Code, § 630.07)
§ 134.08 REQUIREMENTS FOR BINGO GAME OPERATORS.
   (A)   No person shall be a bingo game operator unless the person is 18 years
of age or older.
   (B)   No person who has been convicted of a felony or a gambling offense in
any jurisdiction shall be a bingo game operator.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. Whoever violates division (B) of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.11) (Prior Code, § 630.08)
§ 134.09 BINGO GAMES FOR AMUSEMENT ONLY.
   (A)   Sections
134.06 through
134.13 and
134.15 do not apply to bingo games that are conducted for the purpose of
amusement only. A bingo game is conducted for the purpose of amusement only if
it complies with all of the requirements specified in either division (A)(1) or
(A)(2) of this section.
      (1)   (a)   The participants do not pay any money or any other thing of
value, including an admission fee or any fee, for bingo cards or sheets,
objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo, for the
privilege of participating in the bingo game, or to defray any costs of the
game, or pay tips or make donations during or immediately before or after the
bingo game.
         (b)   All prizes awarded during the course of the game are non-
monetary, and in the form of merchandise, goods, or entitlement to goods or
services only, and the total value of all prizes awarded during the game is
less than $100.
         (c)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity,
or other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         (d)   The bingo game is not conducted either during or within ten
hours of any of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.11 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
            2.   A scheme or game of chance, or bingo described in R.C. §
2915.01(O)(2).
         (e)   The number of players participating in the bingo game does not
exceed 50.
      (2)   (a)   The participants do not pay money or any other thing of value
as an admission fee, and no participant is charged more than $0.25 to purchase
a bingo card or sheet, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo.
         (b)   The total amount of money paid by all of the participants for
bingo cards or sheets, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo does not exceed $100.
         (c)   All of the money paid for bingo cards or sheets, objects to
cover spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo is used only to pay
winners monetary and nonmonetary prizes and to provide refreshments.
         (d)   The total value of all prizes awarded during the game does not
exceed $100.
         (e)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity,
or other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         (f)   The bingo game is not conducted during or within ten hours of
either of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.15 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   A scheme of chance or a game of chance, or bingo described in
R.C. § 2915.01(O)(2).
         (g)   All of the participants reside at the premises where the bingo
game is conducted.
         (h)   The bingo games are conducted on different days of the week and
not more than twice in a calendar week.
   (B)   The Attorney General or any local law enforcement agency may
investigate the conduct of a bingo game that purportedly is conducted for
purposes of amusement only if there is reason to believe that the purported
amusement bingo game does not comply with the requirements of either division
(A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section. A local law enforcement agency may proceed by
action in the proper court to enforce this section if the local law enforcement
agency gives written notice to the Attorney General when commencing the action.
(R.C. § 2915.12) (Prior Code, § 630.09)
§ 134.10 PROHIBITIONS WHERE INSTANT BINGO GAME IS CONDUCTED.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts instant bingo shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2915.09(A)(1), (A)
(2), and (A)(3), or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   Conduct instant bingo unless either of the following applies:
         (a)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), is
described in IRC § 501(c)(3), is a charitable organization as defined in R.C. §
2915.01, is in good standing in the state pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08, and is in
compliance with R.C. Chapter 1716;
         (b)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), is
described in IRC § 501(c)(7), (c)(8), (c)(10), or (c)(19) or is a veteran’s
organization described in IRC § 501(c)(4), and conducts instant bingo under
R.C. § 2915.13.
      (3)   Conduct instant bingo on any day, at any time, or at any premises
not specified on the organization’s license issued pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08;
      (4)   Permit any person whom the organization knows or should have known
has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction to be a
bingo game operator in the conduct of instant bingo;
      (5)   Purchase or lease supplies used to conduct instant bingo or punch
board games from any person except a distributor licensed under R.C. §
2915.081;
      (6)   Sell or provide any instant bingo ticket or card for a price
different from the price printed on it by the manufacturer on either the
instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare;
      (7)   Sell an instant bingo ticket or card to a person under 18 years of
age;
      (8)   Fail to keep unsold instant bingo tickets or cards for less than
three years;
      (9)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting
instant bingo that is conducted by the organization or for preparing, selling,
or serving food or beverages at the site of the instant bingo game, permit any
auxiliary unit or society of the organization to pay compensation to any bingo
game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or beverages at an instant
bingo game conducted by the organization, or permit any auxiliary unit or
society of the organization to prepare, sell, or serve food or beverages at an
instant bingo game conducted by the organization, if the auxiliary unit or
society pays any compensation to the bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or
serve the food or beverages;
      (10)   Pay fees to any person for any services performed in relation to
an instant bingo game, except as provided in R.C. § 2915.093(D);
      (11)   Pay fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in an instant bingo game;
      (12)   (a)   Allow instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold to bingo
game operators at a premises at which the organization sells instant bingo
tickets or cards or to be sold to employees of a D permit holder who are
working at a premises at which instant bingo tickets or cards are sold;
         (b)   Division (A)(12)(a) of this section does not prohibit a licensed
charitable organization or a bingo game operator from giving any person an
instant bingo ticket as a prize in place of a cash prize won by a participant
in an instant bingo game. In no case shall an instant bingo ticket or card be
sold or provided for a price different from the price printed on it by the
manufacturer on either the instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare.
      (13)   Fail to display its bingo license, and the serial numbers of the
deal of instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold, conspicuously at each
premises at which it sells instant bingo tickets or cards;
      (14)   Possess a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards that was not
purchased from a distributor licensed under R.C. § 2915.081 as reflected on an
invoice issued by the distributor that contains all of the information required
by R.C. § 2915.10(E);
      (15)   Fail, once it opens a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards, to
continue to sell the tickets or cards in that deal until the tickets or cards
with the top two highest tiers of prizes in that deal are sold;
      (16)   Possess bingo supplies that were not obtained in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (B)   A charitable organization may purchase, lease, or use instant bingo
ticket dispensers to sell instant bingo tickets or cards.
   (C)   Pursuant to R.C. § 2915.091(C), the Attorney General may adopt rules
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 119 that govern the conduct of instant bingo by
charitable organizations.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section or a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (A) of this section or of such a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.091) (Prior Code, § 630.10)
§ 134.11 RAFFLE DRAWINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) of this section, a person or entity
that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and is described
in IRC §§ 501(c)(3), 501(c)(4), 501(c)(6), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or
501(c)(19) may conduct a raffle to raise money for the person or entity and
does not need a license to conduct bingo in order to conduct a raffle drawing
that is not for profit.
      (2)   If a person or entity that is described in division (A)(1) of this
section, but that is not also described in IRC § 501(c)(3), conducts a raffle,
the person or entity shall distribute at least 50% of the net profit from the
raffle to a charitable purpose described in R.C. § 2915.01(V) or to a
department or agency of the federal government, the state, or any political
subdivision.
   (B)   A chamber of commerce may conduct not more than one raffle per year to
raise money for the chamber of commerce.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (A) or (B) of this section, no person
shall conduct a raffle drawing that is for profit or a raffle drawing that is
not for profit.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal
conduct of a raffle. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal
conduct of a raffle is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C) of this section,
illegal conduct of a raffle is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2915.092) (Prior Code, § 630.11)
§ 134.12 INSTANT BINGO OTHER THAN AT BINGO SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, RETAIL INCOME FROM ALL COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY
means the income that a person receives from the provision of goods, services,
or activities that are provided at the location where instant bingo other than
at a bingo session is conducted, including the sale of instant bingo tickets. A
religious organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §
501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), at not more than one location at which
it conducts its charitable programs, may include donations from its members and
guests as retail income.
   (B)   (1)   If a charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant
bingo other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08, the charitable instant bingo organization shall enter into a written
contract with the owner or lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is
conducted to allow the owner or lessor to assist in the conduct of instant
bingo other than at a bingo session, identify each location where the instant
bingo other than at a bingo session is being conducted, and identify the owner
or lessor of each location.
      (2)   A charitable instant bingo organization that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C. §
2915.08 is not required to enter into a written contract with the owner or
lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is conducted provided that
the owner or lessor is not assisting in the conduct of the instant bingo other
than at a bingo session and provided that the conduct of the instant bingo
other than at a bingo session at that location is not more than five days per
calendar year and not more than ten hours per day.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (F) of this section, no charitable
instant bingo organization shall conduct instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at a location where the primary source of retail income from all
commercial activity at that location is the sale of instant bingo tickets.
   (D)   (1)   The owner or lessor of a location that enters into a contract
pursuant to division (B) of this section shall pay the full gross profit to the
charitable instant bingo organization, in return for the deal of instant bingo
tickets. The owner or lessor may retain the money that the owner or lessor
receives for selling the instant bingo tickets, provided, however, that after
the deal has been sold, the owner or lessor shall pay to the charitable instant
bingo organization the value of any unredeemed instant bingo prizes remaining
in the deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (2)   The charitable instant bingo organization shall pay 6% of the total
gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets for the purpose of
reimbursing the owner or lessor for expenses described in this division.
      (3)   As used in this division, EXPENSES means those items provided for
in R.C. § 2915.01(GG)(4), (GG)(5), (GG)(6), (GG)(7), (GG)(8), (GG)(12), and
(GG)(13) and that percentage of the owner’s or lessor’s rent for the location
where instant bingo is conducted. Expenses, in the aggregate, shall not exceed
6% of the total gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (4)   As used in this division, FULL GROSS PROFIT means the amount by
which the total receipts of all instant bingo tickets, if the deal has been
sold in full, exceeds the amount that would be paid out if all prizes were
redeemed.
   (E)   A charitable instant bingo organization shall provide the Attorney
General with all of the following information:
      (1)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has terminated a
contract entered into pursuant to division (B) of this section with an owner or
lessor of a location;
      (2)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has entered into a
written contract pursuant to division (B) of this section with a new owner or
lessor of a location;
      (3)   That the charitable instant bingo organization is aware of conduct
by the owner or lessor of a location at which instant bingo is conducted that
is in violation of R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (F)   Division (C) of this section does not apply to a volunteer
firefighter’s organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under
IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session on the premises where the organization conducts
firefighter training, that has conducted instant bingo continuously for at
least five years prior to July 1, 2003, and that, during each of those five
years, had gross receipts of at least $1,500,000.
(R.C. § 2915.093)
   (G)   (1)   Subject to the requirements of R.C. §§ 2915.14 and 2915.15
concerning electronic instant bingo, a veteran’s organization, a fraternal
organization, or a sporting organization authorized to conduct a bingo session
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2915 may conduct instant bingo, electronic instant
bingo, or both other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08 if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to 12
hours during any day, provided that the sale does not begin earlier than 10:00
a.m. and ends not later than 2:00 a.m.
         (b)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to
its own premises and to its own members and invited guests.
         (c)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization is raising money for an organization that is described in IRC §
509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an
organization that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that
is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC
§ 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this state and executes a written
contract with that organization as required in division (G)(2) of this section.
      (2)   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo
pursuant to division (G)(1) of this section is raising money for another
organization that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is
either a governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal
place of business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good standing
in this state, the veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall execute a written contract with the organization that is
described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental
unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of business in this
state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good standing in this state in order
to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo. That contract shall
include a statement of the percentage of the net proceeds that the veteran’s,
fraternal, or sporting organization will be distributing to the organization
that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of
business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §
501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this
state.
      (3)   (a)   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or
sporting organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo pursuant to division (G)(1) of this section has been issued a liquor
permit under R.C. Chapter 4303, that permit may be subject to suspension,
revocation, or cancellation if the veteran’s organization, fraternal
organization, or sporting organization violates a provision of this chapter or
R.C. Chapter 2915.
         (b)   No veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that enters into a written contract pursuant to division (G)(2) of
this section shall violate any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
or permit, aid, or abet any other person in violating any provision of this
chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
      (4)   A veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall give all required proceeds earned from the conduct of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to the organization with which the
veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting organization has
entered into a written contract.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (G) of this section is guilty of illegal
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, illegal instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (G) of this section, illegal instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.13) (Prior Code, § 630.12)
§ 134.13 RESTRICTIONS ON OWNER OR LESSOR OF LOCATION AT INSTANT BINGO.
   (A)   No owner or lessor of a location shall assist a charitable instant
bingo organization in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at that location unless the owner or lessor has entered into a written
contract, as described in R.C. § 2915.093, with the charitable instant bingo
organization to assist in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session.
   (B)   The location of the lessor or owner shall be designated as a location
where the charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session.
   (C)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate any provision of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, or permit, aid, or abet any other person in
violating any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (D)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate the terms of the
contract.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty
of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C) or
(D) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If an owner or lessor of a location knowingly, intentionally, or
recklessly violates division (C) or (D) of this section, any license that the
owner or lessor holds for the retail sale of any goods on the owner’s or
lessor’s premises that is issued by the state or a political subdivision is
subject to suspension, revocation, or payment of a monetary penalty at the
request of the Attorney General.
(R.C. § 2915.094) (Prior Code, § 630.13)
§ 134.14 SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINES; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall give to another person any item described in division
(1), (2), (3), or (4) of the definition for “merchandise prize” in §
134.01 in exchange for a noncash prize, toy, or novelty received as a reward
for playing or operating a skill-based amusement machine or for a free or
reduced-price game won on a skill-based amusement machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of skill-based
amusement machine prohibited conduct. A violation of division (A) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree for each redemption of a prize
that is involved in the violation. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (A) of this section, a violation of that
division is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.06)
   (C)   Any regulation of skill-based amusement machines shall be governed by
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 and not by R.C. Chapter 1345.
(R.C. § 2915.061)
(Prior Code, § 630.14)
§ 134.15 ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No charitable organization shall conduct electronic instant bingo
unless all of the following are true:
      (1)   The organization is a veteran’s organization described in R.C. §
2915.01(J), or is a fraternal organization described in R.C. § 2915.01(L), and
the organization qualified as a veteran’s organization or fraternal
organization, as applicable, on or before June 30, 2021.
      (2)   The organization is a veteran’s organization described in IRC § 501
(c)(4) or is, and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the organization
is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), and is described in
IRC § 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or 501(c)(19).
      (3)   The organization has not conducted a raffle in violation of R.C. §
2915.092(B) using an electronic raffle machine, as described in Ohio Veterans
and Fraternal Charitable Coalition v. DeWine, Case No. 13-CV-13610 (C.P.
Franklin Co. February 23, 2018), at any time on or after January 1, 2022.
   (B)   No charitable organization that conducts electronic instant bingo
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Possess an electronic instant bingo system that was not obtained in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 2915 or with any rule adopted under R.C. Chapter
2915;
      (2)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on any day, at any time, or on any
premises not specified on the organization’s type II or type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Hold more than one valid license to conduct electronic instant
bingo at any one time;
      (4)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on more than one premises or on
any premises other than the charitable organization’s principal place of
business;
      (5)   Operate more than ten electronic bingo systems at the premises on
which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo under its
license;
      (6)   Fail to display both of the following conspicuously at the premises
on which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo:
         (a)   The charitable organization’s bingo license;
         (b)   The serial number of each deal of electronic instant bingo
tickets being sold.
      (7)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should have
known, to be under 18 years of age to play electronic instant bingo;
      (8)   Sell or provide to any person an electronic instant bingo ticket
for a price different from the price displayed on the game flare for that deal,
except that the charitable organization may give a participant who wins an
electronic instant bingo game an electronic instant bingo ticket as a prize in
place of a cash prize;
      (9)   Fail, once an electronic instant bingo deal is begun, to continue
to sell tickets in that deal until all prizes have been awarded;
      (10)   Permit any person whom the organization knows, or should have
known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction
to be a bingo game operator in the conduct of electronic instant bingo;
      (11)   Permit a bingo game operator to play electronic instant bingo;
      (12)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(12)(b) of this
section, pay compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting electronic
instant bingo.
         (b)   Division (B)(12)(a) of this section does not prohibit an
employee of a veteran’s organization or fraternal organization from redeeming
electronic instant bingo tickets or vouchers for the organization’s members or
invited guests, so long as no portion of the employee’s compensation is paid
from any bingo receipts.
      (13)   Pay consulting fees to any person in relation to electronic
instant bingo.
   (C)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or otherwise provide or offer to
provide an electronic instant bingo system to any person for use in this
municipality unless the electronic instant bingo system has been approved under
R.C. § 2915.15.
   (D)   Whoever knowingly violates division (A), (B), or (C) of this section
or a rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.14(D) is guilty of illegal electronic
instant bingo conduct. Illegal electronic instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or state law, or of a rule adopted
under R.C. § 2915.14(D), illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.14)
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
135.01   Definitions
   
135.02   Negligent homicide
   
135.03   Vehicular homicide; vehicular manslaughter; vehicular assault
   
135.04   Assault; negligent assault
   
135.05   Injury to persons by hunters
   
135.06   Menacing; aggravated menacing; menacing by stalking
   
135.07   Unlawful restraint
   
135.08   Unlawful collection of bodily substances
   
135.09   Coercion
   
135.10   Bigamy
   
135.11   Unlawful abortion; failure to perform viability testing
   
135.12   Abortion trafficking
   
135.13   Nonsupport of dependents
   
135.14   Endangering children
   
135.15   Interference with custody; interference with support orders
   
135.16   Domestic violence
   
135.17   Hazing prohibited
   
135.18   Contributing to unruliness or delinquency of a child
   
135.19   Failure to provide for functionally impaired person
   
135.20   Patient abuse or neglect; patient endangerment; exceptions; false
statements; retaliation
   
135.21   Interference with right of person to engage in housing transactions
because of race, religion, or the like
   
135.22   Ethnic intimidation
   
135.23   Violating a protection order, consent agreement, anti-stalking
protection order or order issued by a court of another state
   
135.24   Adulteration of food
   
135.25   Illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products; transaction scans
   
135.26   Nonsmoking areas in places of public assembly
   
135.27   Spreading contagion
   
135.28   Abuse of a corpse
   
135.29   Criminal child enticement
   
135.30   Minors’ curfew
   
135.31   Loitering
Statutory reference:
   Child care, misrepresentations by providers and failure to disclose death or
serious injuries, misdemeanors, see R.C. §§ 2919.223 et seq.
   Extortionate extension of credit, see R.C. §§ 2905.21 through 2905.24
   Failure to send child to school, see R.C. § 3321.38
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
   Reckless homicide, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.041
   Rights of victims of crimes, see R.C. Chapter 2930
§ 135.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of §§
135.01 through
135.06, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ANOTHER’S UNBORN or OTHER PERSON’S UNBORN. A member of the species Homo
sapiens who is or was carried in the womb of another during a period that
begins with fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth
occurs.
      UNLAWFUL TERMINATION OF ANOTHER’S PREGNANCY. Causing the death of an
unborn member of the species Homo sapiens who is or was carried in the womb of
another, as a result of injuries inflicted during the period that begins with
fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth occurs.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) of this section, in no case shall the
definitions of the terms “another’s unborn”, “other person’s unborn” and
“unlawful termination of another’s pregnancy” that are set forth in division
(A) of this section be applied or construed in any of the following manners:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(1) of this section, in
a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as prohibiting any
pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion with the consent of
the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman implied by law in a
medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise authorized by law to
consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant woman. An abortion that
violates the conditions described in the immediately preceding sentence may be
punished as any violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04,
2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.14, 2903.21 or
2903.22, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, as applicable. An
abortion that does not violate the conditions described in the second
immediately preceding sentence but that does violate R.C. § 2919.12, 2919.13
(B), 2919.15, 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of such section, as
applicable.
      (2)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
         (a)   Her delivery of a stillborn baby.
         (b)   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying.
         (c)   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human.
         (d)   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human.
         (e)   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
(R.C. § 2903.09) (Prior Code, § 636.001)
§ 135.02 NEGLIGENT HOMICIDE.
   (A)   No person shall negligently cause the death of another or the unlawful
termination of another’s pregnancy by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of negligent homicide, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2903.05) (Prior Code, § 636.01)
Statutory reference:
   Reckless homicide, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.041
§ 135.03 VEHICULAR HOMICIDE; VEHICULAR MANSLAUGHTER; VEHICULAR ASSAULT.
   (A)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle, motorcycle, snowmobile, locomotive, watercraft, or aircraft,
shall cause the death of another or the unlawful termination of another’s
pregnancy in any of the following ways:
      (1)   (a)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4511.19(A) or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
1547.11(A), or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         (c)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4561.15(A)(3), or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Recklessly;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a reckless operation offense, provided that this division
applies only if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is
unlawfully terminated is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s
commission of the reckless operation offense in the construction zone and does
not apply as described in division (D) of this section.
      (3)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Negligently;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this division applies only
if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is unlawfully terminated
is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s commission of the
speeding offense in the construction zone and does not apply as described in
division (D) of this section.
      (4)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of any provision
of any section contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor or of a
municipal ordinance that, regardless of the penalty set by ordinance for the
violation, is substantially equivalent to any provision of any section
contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of aggravated vehicular homicide, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) of this section is guilty of
vehicular homicide. Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
homicide is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular homicide committed in
violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving
under a suspension or cancellation imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other
provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was operating a motor vehicle or
motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege, and was not eligible for renewal of the offender’s driver’s license
or commercial driver’s license without examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of this section or any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault
offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class four suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of
vehicular manslaughter. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
vehicular manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the second degree. Vehicular
manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the first degree if, at the time of the
offense, the offender was driving under a suspension or cancellation imposed
under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was
operating a motor vehicle or motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege, and was not eligible for renewal
of the offender’s driver’s license or commercial driver’s license without
examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or any traffic-
related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class six suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6) or, if the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, any
traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense, or a traffic-
related murder, felonious assault, or attempted murder offense, a class four
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
   (C)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least 15 days on an
offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation of
division (A)(3)(b) of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
   (D)   Divisions (A)(2)(b) and (A)(3)(b) of this section do not apply in a
particular construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. §
2903.081 are erected in that construction zone in accordance with the
guidelines and design specifications established by the Director of
Transportation under R.C. § 5501.27. The failure to erect signs of the type
described in R.C. § 2903.081 in a particular construction zone in accordance
with those guidelines and design specifications does not limit or affect the
application of division (A)(1), (A)(2)(a), (A)(3)(a), or (A)(4) of this section
in that construction zone or the prosecution of any person who violates any of
those divisions in that construction zone.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section:
         CONSTRUCTION ZONE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
         RECKLESS OPERATION OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 4511.20 or a
municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to R.C. § 4511.20.
         SPEEDING OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 4511.21 or a municipal
ordinance pertaining to speed.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER, OR ASSAULT OFFENSE. Means a
violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in circumstances in which division (D) of that
section applies, a violation of R.C. § 2903.06 or 2903.08, or a violation of
R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.07, or 2903.08 as they existed prior to March 23, 2000.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED MURDER, FELONIOUS ASSAULT, OR ATTEMPTED MURDER
OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 in circumstances
in which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to commit the
violation, a violation of R.C. § 2903.11(A)(2) in circumstances in which the
deadly weapon used in the commission of the violation is a motor vehicle, or an
attempt to commit aggravated murder or murder in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 in
circumstances in which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to
attempt to commit the aggravated murder or murder.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, when a penalty or suspension is
enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a prior
or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the specified
law or the specified offense includes any violation of any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or current or former
law of this or another state or the United States.
(R.C. § 2903.06)
   (F)   Vehicular assault.
      (1)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle or motorcycle, shall cause serious physical harm to another
person or another’s unborn as the proximate result of committing, while
operating or participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in
a construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this division applies
only if the person to whom the serious physical harm is caused or to whose
unborn the serious physical harm is caused is in the construction zone at the
time of the offender’s commission of the speeding offense in the construction
zone and does not apply as described in division (F)(4) of this section.
      (2)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
assault committed in violation of division (F)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular assault committed in violation of
division (F)(1) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving under a
suspension imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio
Revised Code or if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (F)(1) of this section, R.C. § 2903.08, or
any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed, the court shall
impose upon the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least seven days
on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation
of division (F)(1) of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
      (4)   Division (F)(1) of this section does not apply in a particular
construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. § 2903.081 are
erected in that construction zone in accordance with the guidelines and design
specifications established by the Director of Transportation under R.C. §
5501.27.
      (5)   As used in this division (F):
         CONSTRUCTION ZONE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         SPEEDING OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER, OR ASSAULT OFFENSE. Has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
      (6)   For the purposes of this division (F), when a penalty or suspension
is enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a
prior or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the
specified law or the specified offense includes any violation of any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or
current or former law of another state or the United States.
(R.C. 2903.08(A)(3), (C)(3), (D)(3), (E) - (G))
Statutory reference:
   Court to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. §§ 4510.05 and 4510.07
   Vehicular assault and aggravated vehicular assault, felony offenses, see
R.C. § 2903.08
§ 135.04 ASSAULT; NEGLIGENT ASSAULT.
   (A)   Assault.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm
to another or to another’s unborn.
      (2)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to another
or to another’s unborn.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of assault. Except as provided in R.C. § 2903.13(C), assault is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to assault when
it is a misdemeanor also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification as
described in R.C. § 2941.1423 (victim of the offense was a woman whom the
defendant knew was pregnant at the time of the offense) that was included in
the indictment, count in the indictment, or information charging the offense,
the court shall sentence the offender to a mandatory jail term as provided in
R.C. § 2929.24(G).
(R.C. § 2903.13) (Prior Code, § 636.02)
   (B)   Negligent assault.
      (1)   No person shall negligently, by means of a deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, cause physical harm to another
or to another’s unborn.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
negligent assault, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 2903.14) (Prior Code, § 636.03)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated and felonious assault, see R.C. §§ 2903.11 and 2903.12
   Felony offenses: assaulting functionally impaired person, peace officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation,
firefighter, person performing emergency medical service, officer or employee
of a public children services agency or private child placing agency; assault
at a correctional institution; assault on school officials and school bus
drivers; health care professional, worker or security guard at a hospital under
certain circumstances; judge, magistrate, prosecutor or court official or
employee under certain circumstances, see R.C. § 2903.13(C)
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
   Persons who may seek relief under anti-stalking protection order; ex parte
orders, see R.C. § 2903.214
   Protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. § 2903.213
   Vehicular assault and aggravated vehicular assault, felony offenses, see
R.C. § 2903.08
§ 135.05 INJURY TO PERSONS BY HUNTERS.
   (A)   No person in the act of hunting, pursuing, taking, or killing a wild
animal shall act in a negligent, careless, or reckless manner so as to injure
persons.
(R.C. § 1533.171(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Violation, license revocation, see R.C. § 1533.171(B) through (E)
§ 135.06 MENACING; AGGRAVATED MENACING; MENACING BY STALKING.
   (A)   Menacing.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate
family. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate
family, the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of the
offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or other
organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of
menacing. Except as otherwise provided in this division (A)(2), menacing is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the victim of the offense is an officer or
employee of a public children services agency or a private child placing agency
and the offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or
anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties, menacing is a
misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that
prior offense was an officer or employee of a public children services agency
or private child placing agency, and that prior offense related to the
officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated performance of official
responsibilities or duties, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   As used in this division (A), ORGANIZATION includes an entity that
is a governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.22) (Prior Code, § 636.05)
   (B)   Aggravated menacing.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the
offender will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the
other person, such other person’s unborn, or a member of such other person’s
immediate family. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief
that the offender will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of
the other person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s
immediate family, the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of
the offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or
other organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
aggravated menacing. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(2),
aggravated menacing is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the victim of the
offense is an officer or employee of a public children services agency or a
private child placing agency and the offense relates to the officer’s or
employee’s performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities
or duties, aggravated menacing is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties,
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   As used in this division (B), ORGANIZATION includes an entity that
is a governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.21) (Prior Code, § 636.04)
   (C)   Menacing by stalking.
      (1)   (a)   No person by engaging in a pattern of conduct shall knowingly
cause another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
the other person or a family or household member of the other person or cause
mental distress to the other person or a family or household member of the
other person. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that
the offender will cause physical harm to the other person or the other person’s
family or household member or mental distress to the other person or the other
person’s family or household member, the other person’s belief or mental
distress may be based on words or conduct of the offender that are directed at
or identify a corporation, association, or other organization that employs the
other person or to which the other person belongs.
         (b)   No person, through the use of any form of written communication
or any electronic method of remotely transferring information, including but
not limited to any computer, computer network, computer program, computer
system, or telecommunication device, shall post a message or use any
intentionally written or verbal graphic gesture with purpose to do either of
the following:
            1.   Violate division (C)(1)(a) of this section;
            2.   Urge or incite another to commit a violation of division (C)
(1)(a) of this section.
         (c)   No person, with a sexual motivation, shall violate division (C)
(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this section.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of
menacing by stalking.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2)(b) of this
section, menacing by stalking is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   Menacing by stalking is a felony, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law, if any of the following applies:
            1.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 2903.211 or a violation of R.C. § 2911.211, or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to either of these offenses.
            2.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender made a threat of physical harm to or
against the victim, or as a result of an offense committed under division (C)
(1)(b) or (C)(1)(c) of this section, a third person induced by the offender’s
posted message made a threat of physical harm to or against the victim.
            3.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender trespassed on the land or premises
where the victim lives, is employed, or attends school, or as a result of an
offense committed under division (C)(1)(b) or (C)(1)(c) of this section, a
third person induced by the offender’s posted message trespassed on the land or
premises where the victim lives, is employed, or attends school.
            4.   The victim of the offense is a minor.
            5.   The offender has a history of violence towards the victim or
any other person or a history of other violent acts towards the victim or any
other person.
            6.   While committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a) of this
section or a violation of division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on conduct
in violation of division (C)(1)(a) of this section, the offender had a deadly
weapon on or about the offender’s person or under the offender’s control.
Division (C)(2)(b)6. of this section does not apply in determining the penalty
for a violation of division (C)(1)(b) of this section or a violation of
division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on conduct in violation of division
(C)(1)(b) of this section.
            7.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
the subject of a protection order issued under R.C. § 2903.213 or R.C. §
2903.214, regardless of whether or not the person to be protected under the
order is the victim of the offense or another person.
            8.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender caused serious physical harm to the
premises at which the victim resides, to the real property on which that
premises is located, or to any personal property located on that premises, or
as a result of an offense committed under division (C)(1)(b) of this section or
an offense committed under division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on a
violation of division (C)(1)(b) of this section, a third person induced by the
offender’s posted message caused serious physical harm to that premises, that
real property, or any personal property on that premises.
            9.   Prior to committing the offense, the offender had been
determined to represent a substantial risk of physical harm to others as
manifested by evidence of then-recent homicidal or other violent behavior,
evidence of then-recent threats that placed another in reasonable fear of
violent behavior and serious harm, or other evidence of then-present
dangerousness.
            10.   The victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a
public children services agency or a private child placing agency and the
offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated
performance of official responsibilities or duties.
            11.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties.
      (3)   R.C. § 2919.271 applies in relation to a defendant charged with a
violation of this section.
      (4)   As used in division (C) of this section:
         COMPUTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         COMPUTER NETWORK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         COMPUTER PROGRAM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         COMPUTER SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
         EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency
medical services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
         FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
            1.   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
person against whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this section is
committed:
               a.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse
of the person;
               b.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the person, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the person;
               c.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse,
or former spouse of the person, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
person.
            2.   The natural parent of any child of whom the person against
whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this section is committed is
the other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
         MENTAL DISTRESS. Means any of the following:
            1.   Any mental illness or condition that involves some temporary
substantial incapacity;
            2.   Any mental illness or condition that would normally require
psychiatric treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health
services, whether or not any person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health services.
         ORGANIZATION. Includes an entity that is a governmental employer.
         PATTERN OF CONDUCT. Means two or more actions or incidents closely
related in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any
of those actions or incidents, or two or more actions or incidents closely
related in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any
of those actions or incidents, directed at one or more persons employed by or
belonging to the same corporation, association, or other organization. Actions
or incidents that prevent, obstruct, or delay the performance by a public
official, firefighter, rescuer, emergency medical services person, or emergency
facility person of any authorized act within the public official’s,
firefighter’s, rescuer’s, emergency medical services person’s, or emergency
facility person’s official capacity, or the posting of messages, use of
intentionally written or verbal graphic gestures, or receipt of information or
data through the use of any form of written communication or an electronic
method of remotely transferring information, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer program, computer system, or
telecommunications device, may constitute a “pattern of conduct”.
         PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived
with the person against whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this
section is committed in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is
cohabiting with that person, or who otherwise has cohabited with the person
within five years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in
question.
         POST A MESSAGE. Means transferring, sending, posting, publishing,
disseminating, or otherwise communicating, or attempting to transfer, send,
post, publish, disseminate, or otherwise communicate, any message or
information, whether truthful or untruthful, about an individual, and whether
done under one’s own name, under the name of another, or while impersonating
another.
         PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
         SEXUAL MOTIVATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2971.01.
         TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         THIRD PERSON. Means, in relation to conduct as described in division
(C)(1)(b) of this section, an individual who is neither the offender nor the
victim of the conduct.
      (5)   The prosecution does not need to prove in a prosecution under
division (C) of this section that a person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health services in order to
show that the person was caused mental distress as described in division (2) of
the definition for “mental distress” in this section.
      (6)   (a)   Division (C) of this section does not apply to a person
solely because the person provided access or connection to or from an
electronic method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s
control, including having provided capabilities that are incidental to
providing access or connection to or from the electronic method of remotely
transferring the information, and that do not include the creation of the
content of the material that is the subject of the access or connection. In
addition, any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic
method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control
shall not be liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the
receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it believes
is or will be sent in violation of division (C) of this section.
         (b)   Division (C)(6)(a) of this section does not create an
affirmative duty for any person providing access or connection to or from an
electronic method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s
control to block the receipt or transmission through its service of any
information that it believes is or will be sent in violation of division (C) of
this section except as otherwise provided by law.
         (c)   Division (C)(6)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of division (C) of this section or who
knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
(R.C. § 2903.211) (Prior Code, § 636.045)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of corporations to seek protection orders in certain
circumstances, see R.C. § 2903.215
   Conditions of bail for violators, see R.C. § 2903.212
   Persons who may seek relief under anti-stalking protection order; ex parte
orders, see R.C. § 2903.214
   Protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. § 2903.213
§ 135.07 UNLAWFUL RESTRAINT.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly restrain
another of the other person’s liberty.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so and with a sexual motivation,
shall knowingly restrain another of the other person’s liberty.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful restraint, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, SEXUAL MOTIVATION has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2971.01.
(R.C. § 2905.03) (Prior Code, § 636.06)
§ 135.08 UNLAWFUL COLLECTION OF BODILY SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly collect any blood, urine, tissue, or other
bodily substance of another person without privilege or consent to do so.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a law
enforcement officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice
of a law enforcement officer, for purposes of a chemical test or tests of the
substance under R.C. § 1547.111(A)(1) or R.C. § 4511.191(A)(2) to determine the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the bodily substance;
         (b)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a peace
officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice of a peace
officer, for purposes of a test or tests of the substance as provided in R.C. §
4506.17(A) to determine the person’s alcohol concentration or the presence of
any controlled substance or metabolite of a controlled substance.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section shall not be construed as implying
that the persons identified in divisions (B)(1)(a) and (b) of this section do
not have privilege to collect the bodily substance of another person as
described in those divisions or as limiting the definition of “privilege” set
forth in R.C. § 2901.01.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of unlawful
collection of a bodily substance. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, unlawful collection of a bodily substance is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, unlawful collection of a bodily
substance is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.15) (Prior Code, § 636.27)
§ 135.09 COERCION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to coerce another into taking or refraining
from action concerning which the other person has a legal freedom of choice,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Threaten to commit any offense.
      (2)   Utter or threaten any slander against any person.
      (3)   Expose or threaten to expose any matter tending to subject any
person to hatred, contempt, or ridicule, or to damage any person’s personal or
business repute, or to impair any person’s credit.
      (4)   Institute or threaten criminal proceedings against any person.
      (5)   Take or withhold, or threaten to take or withhold official action,
or cause or threaten to cause official action to be taken or withheld.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(4) and (A)(5) of this section shall not be construed to
prohibit a prosecutor or court from doing any of the following in good faith
and in the interests of justice:
      (1)   Offering or agreeing to grant, or granting immunity from
prosecution pursuant to R.C. § 2945.44.
      (2)   In return for a plea of guilty to one or more offenses charged or
to one or more other or lesser offenses, or in return for the testimony of the
accused in a case to which the accused is not a party, offering or agreeing to
dismiss, or dismissing one or more charges pending against an accused, or
offering or agreeing to impose, or imposing a certain sentence or modification
of sentence.
      (3)   Imposing a community control sanction on certain conditions,
including without limitation requiring the offender to make restitution or
redress to the victim of the offense.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3), (A)
(4), or (A)(5) of this section that the actor’s conduct was a reasonable
response to the circumstances which occasioned it, and that the actor’s purpose
was limited to any of the following:
      (1)   Compelling another to refrain from misconduct or to desist from
further misconduct.
      (2)   Preventing or redressing a wrong or injustice.
      (3)   Preventing another from taking action for which the actor
reasonably believed the other person to be disqualified.
      (4)   Compelling another to take action which the actor reasonably
believed the other person to be under a duty to take.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of coercion, a misdemeanor of
the second degree.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      COMMUNITY CONTROL SANCTION has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      THREAT includes a direct threat and a threat by innuendo.
(R.C. § 2905.12) (Prior Code, § 636.08)
§ 135.10 BIGAMY.
   (A)   No married person shall marry another or continue to cohabit with such
other person in this municipality.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor’s spouse was continuously absent for five years immediately preceding the
purported subsequent marriage, and was not known by the actor to be alive
within that time.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of bigamy, a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
(R.C. § 2919.01)
§ 135.11 UNLAWFUL ABORTION; FAILURE TO PERFORM VIABILITY TESTING.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ABORTION. Means the purposeful termination of a human pregnancy by any
person, including the pregnant woman herself, with an intention other than to
produce a live birth or to remove a dead fetus or embryo.
(R.C. § 2919.11)
      EMANCIPATED. A minor shall be considered emancipated if the minor has
married, entered the armed services of the United States, become employed and
self-subsisting, or has otherwise become independent from the care and control
of her parent, guardian or custodian.
      UNEMANCIPATED. Means a woman who is unmarried and under 18 years of age
who has not entered the armed services of the United States, has not become
employed and self-subsisting, or has not otherwise become independent from the
care and control of her parent, guardian, or custodian.
   (B)   No person shall perform or induce an abortion without the informed
consent of the pregnant woman.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly perform or induce an abortion upon a
pregnant minor unless one of the following is the case:
      (1)   The attending physician has secured the informed written consent of
the minor and one parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   The minor is emancipated and the attending physician has received
her informed written consent;
      (3)   The minor has been authorized to consent to the abortion by a court
order issued pursuant to R.C. § 2919.121(C) and the attending physician has
received her informed written consent; or
      (4)    The court has given its consent in accordance with R.C. § 2919.121
(C) and the minor is having the abortion willingly.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly perform or induce an abortion upon a woman
who is pregnant, unmarried, under 18 years of age, and unemancipated unless at
least one of the circumstances enumerated in R.C. § 2919.12(B) applies.
   (E)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (D) of
this section that the pregnant woman provided the person who performed or
induced the abortion with false, misleading, or incorrect information about her
age, marital status, or emancipation, about the age of the brother or sister to
whom she requested notice to be given as a specified relative instead of one of
her parents, her guardian, or her custodian, or about the last known address of
either of her parents, her guardian, her custodian, or a specified brother,
sister, stepparent, or grandparent to whom she requested notice be given and
the person who performed or induced the abortion did not otherwise have
reasonable cause to believe the pregnant woman was under 18 years of age,
unmarried, or unemancipated, to believe that the age of the brother or sister
to whom she requested notice be given as a specified relative instead of one of
her parents, her guardian, or her custodian was not 21 years of age, or to
believe that the last known address of either of her parents, her guardian, her
custodian, or a specified brother, sister, stepparent, or grandparent to whom
she requested notice be given was incorrect.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
compliance with the requirements of this section was not possible because an
immediate threat of serious risk to the life or physical health of the pregnant
woman or pregnant minor from the continuation of her pregnancy created an
emergency necessitating the immediate performance or inducement of an abortion.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful abortion. A
violation of division (B), (C) or (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree on the first offense and a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is liable to the pregnant woman or
pregnant minor, and her parents, guardian, or custodian for civil, compensatory
and exemplary damages.
(R.C. §§ 2919.12, 2919.121)
   (H)   (1)   Division (C) of this section applies in lieu of division (D) of
this section whenever its operation is not enjoined. If division (C) of this
section is enjoined, division (D) of this section applies.
      (2)   If a person complies with the requirements of division (D) of this
section under the good faith belief that the application or enforcement of
division (C) of this section is subject to a restraining order or injunction,
good faith compliance shall constitute a complete defense to any civil,
criminal or professional disciplinary action brought under division (C) of this
section or R.C. § 2919.121.
      (3)   If a person complies with the requirements of division (C) of this
section under the good faith belief that it is not subject to a restraining
order or injunction, good faith compliance shall constitute a complete defense
to any civil, criminal or professional disciplinary action for failure to
comply with the requirements of division (D) of this section.
(R.C. § 2919.122)
   (I)   Failure to perform viability testing.
      (1)   Except in a medical emergency that prevents compliance with this
division, no physician shall perform or induce or attempt to perform or induce
an abortion on a pregnant woman after the beginning of the twentieth week of
gestation unless, prior to the performance or inducement of the abortion or the
attempt to perform or induce the abortion, the physician determines, in the
physician’s good faith medical judgment, that the unborn child is not viable,
and the physician makes that determination after performing a medical
examination of the pregnant woman and after performing or causing to be
performed those tests for assessing gestational age, weight, lung maturity, or
other tests that the physician, in that physician’s good faith medical
judgment, believes are necessary to determine whether an unborn child is
viable.
      (2)   Except in a medical emergency that prevents compliance with this
division, no physician shall perform or induce or attempt to perform or induce
an abortion on a pregnant woman after the beginning of the twentieth week of
gestation without first entering the determination made in division (I)(1) of
this section and the associated findings of the medical examination and tests
in the medical record of the pregnant woman.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (I) is guilty of failure to perform
viability testing, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (4)   The State Medical Board shall suspend a physician’s license to
practice medicine in this state for a period of not less than six months if the
physician violates this section.
(R.C. § 2919.18) (Prior Code, § 636.26)
Statutory reference:
   Judicial bypass, see R.C. § 2151.85
   Judicial consent and the right of a minor to consent, see R.C. § 2919.121(C)
   Notice or consent requirements for unmarried minors, see R.C. § 2919.12(B)
§ 135.12 ABORTION TRAFFICKING.
   (A)   No person shall experiment upon or sell the product of human
conception which is aborted. Experiment does not include autopsies pursuant to
R.C. §§ 313.13 and 2108.50.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of abortion trafficking, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2919.14)
§ 135.13 NONSUPPORT OF DEPENDENTS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide adequate support to:
      (1)   His or her spouse, as required by law;
      (2)   His or her legitimate or illegitimate child who is under age 18, or
mentally or physically disabled child who is under age 21;
      (3)   His or her aged or infirm parent or adoptive parent, who from lack
of ability and means is unable to provide adequately for his or her own
support.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide support as
established by a court order to, another person whom, by court order or decree,
the person:
         (a)   Is legally obligated to support; or
         (b)   Was legally obligated to support, and an amount for support:
            1.   Was due and owing prior to the date the person’s duty to pay
current support terminated; and
            2.   Remains unpaid.
      (2)   The period of limitation under R.C. § 2901.13 applicable to
division (B)(1)(b) of this section shall begin to run on the date the person’s
duty to pay current support terminates.
   (C)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to
a child or a ward of the juvenile court becoming a dependent child, as defined
in R.C. § 2151.04, or a neglected child, as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of failure to provide
adequate support under division (A) of this section or a charge of failure to
provide support established by a court order under division (B) of this section
that the accused was unable to provide adequate support or the established
support, but did provide the support that was within his or her ability and
means.
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3) of this
section that the parent abandoned the accused, or failed to support the accused
as required by law, while the accused was under age 18, or was mentally or
physically disabled and under age 21.
   (F)   It is not a defense to a charge under division (B) of this section
that the person whom a court has ordered the accused to support is being
adequately supported by someone other than the accused.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of nonsupport of dependents, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (A)(2) or (B) of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or if the
offender has failed to provide support under division (A)(2) or (B) of this
section for a total accumulated period of 26 weeks out of 104 consecutive
weeks, whether or not the 26 weeks were consecutive, then a violation of
division (A)(2) or (B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to a felony violation of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or
(B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender is guilty of nonsupport of dependents by reason of
failing to provide support to his or her child as required by a child support
order issued on or after April 15, 1985, pursuant to R.C. § 2151.23, 2151.231,
2151.232, 2151.33, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.31, 3115.401, or
former R.C. § 3115.31, the court, in addition to any other sentence imposed,
shall assess all court costs arising out of the charge against the person and
require the person to pay any reasonable attorney’s fees of any adverse party
other than the state, as determined by the court, that arose in relation to the
charge.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
contributing to the nonsupport of dependents, a misdemeanor of the first
degree. Each day of a violation of division (C) of this section is a separate
offense.
(R.C. § 2919.21) (Prior Code, § 636.09)
§ 135.14 ENDANGERING CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person, who is the parent, guardian, custodian, person having
custody or control, or person in loco parentis of a child under 18 years of age
or a mentally or physically disabled child under 21 years of age, shall create
a substantial risk to the health or safety of the child by violating a duty of
care, protection, or support. It is not a violation of a duty of care,
protection, or support under this division when the parent, guardian,
custodian, or person having custody or control of a child treats the physical
or mental illness or disability of the child by spiritual means through prayer
alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious body.
   (B)   No person shall do any of the following to a child under 18 years of
age or a mentally or physically disabled child under 21 years of age:
      (1)   Abuse the child.
      (2)   Torture or cruelly abuse the child.
      (3)   Administer corporal punishment or other physical disciplinary
measure, or physically restrain the child in a cruel manner or for a prolonged
period, which punishment, discipline or restraint is excessive under the
circumstances and creates a substantial risk of serious physical harm to the
child.
      (4)   Repeatedly administer unwarranted disciplinary measures to a child
when there is a substantial risk that such conduct, if continued, will
seriously impair or retard the child’s mental health or development.
      (5)   Entice, coerce, permit, encourage, compel, hire, employ, use, or
allow the child to act, model, or in any other way participate in, or be
photographed for, the production, presentation, dissemination, or advertisement
of any material or performance that the offender knows or reasonably should
know is obscene, is sexually oriented matter, or is nudity-oriented matter;
      (6)   Allow the child to be on the same parcel of real property and
within 100 feet of, or, in the case of more than one housing unit on the same
parcel of real property, in the same housing unit and within 100 feet of, any
act in violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 when the person knows that the
act is occurring, whether or not any person is prosecuted for or convicted of
the violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 that is the basis of the violation
of this division.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle, as defined by R.C. § 4511.01,
within the municipality and in violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, when one or more children under
18 years of age are in the vehicle. Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
a person may be convicted at the same trial or proceeding of a violation of
this division and a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that constitutes the basis of the charge of the
violation of this division. For purposes of R.C. §§ 4511.191 through 4511.197
and all related provisions of law, a person arrested for a violation of this
division shall be considered to be under arrest for operating a vehicle while
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or
for operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
      (2)   As used in division (C)(1) of this section:
         CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
         VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (D)   (1)   Division (B)(5) of this section does not apply to any material
or performance that is produced, presented, or disseminated for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, religious, governmental, judicial, or other
proper purpose, by or to a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist,
teacher, person pursuing bona fide studies for research, librarian, member of
the clergy, prosecutor, judge, or other person having a proper interest in the
material or performance.
      (2)   Mistake of age is not a defense to a charge under division (B)(5)
of this section.
      (3)   In a prosecution under division (B)(5) of this section, the trier
of fact may infer that an actor, model, or participant in the material or
performance involved is a juvenile if the material or performance, through its
title, text, visual representation, or otherwise, represents or depicts the
actor, model, or participant as a juvenile.
      (4)   As used in this division and division (B)(5) of this section:
         MATERIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         NUDITY-ORIENTED MATTER means any material or performance that shows a
minor in a state of nudity and that, taken as a whole by the average person
applying contemporary community standards, appeals to the prurient interest.
         OBSCENE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         PERFORMANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         SEXUALLY ORIENTED MATTER. Means any material or performance that shows
a minor participating or engaging in sexual activity, masturbation, or
bestiality.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of endangering children.
      (1)   If the offender violates division (A) or (B)(1) of this section,
endangering children is one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(1)(b), (E)(1)(c) or
(E)(1)(d), a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of an offense
under this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, or of any offense involving neglect, abandonment, or contributing to
the delinquency of or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided
in division (E)(1)(c) or (E)(1)(d) of this section, endangering children is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation is a violation of division (A) of this section
and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (d)   If the violation is a violation of division (B)(1) of this
section and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender violates division (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(5) or
(B)(6) of this section, endangering children is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the offender violates division (C) of this section, the offender
shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   Except as provided in (E)(3)(b) or (E)(3)(c), endangering
children in violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
         (b)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
or if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any
offense involving neglect, abandonment, or contributing to the delinquency of
or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided in division (E)(3)
(c) of this section, endangering children in violation of division (C) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
and if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.08, 2919.22(C) or former R.C. § 2903.07 as it
existed prior to March 23, 2000, or R.C. § 2903.04, in a case in which the
offender was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that
section, endangering children in violation of division (C) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (d)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other
sentence, penalty or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to
divisions (E)(3)(a), (E)(3)(b) or (E)(3)(c) of this section or pursuant to any
other provision of law, and in addition to any suspension of the offender’s
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege under R.C. Chapter 4506, 4509, 4510, or 4511, or any other
provision of law, the court also may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(7).
         (e)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other
sentence, penalty or sanction imposed upon the offender pursuant to division
(E)(3)(a), (E)(3)(b), (E)(3)(c) or (E)(3)(d) of this section or pursuant to any
other provision of law for the violation of division (C) of this section, if as
a part of the same trial or proceeding the offender also is convicted of or
pleads guilty to a separate charge charging the violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A),
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the
charge of the violation of division (C) of this section, the offender also
shall be sentenced in accordance with R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, for that violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (F)   (1)   If a person violates division (C) of this section and if, at the
time of the violation, there were two or more children under 18 years of age in
the motor vehicle involved in the violation, the offender may be convicted of a
violation of division (C) of this section for each of the children, but the
court may sentence the offender for only one of the violations.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation
of division (C) of this section but the person is not also convicted of and
does not also plead guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A),
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the
charge of the violation of division (C) of this section, both the following
apply:
            1.   For purposes of the provisions of R.C. § 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that set forth the penalties and
sanctions for a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the conviction of or plea of guilty to the violation of
division (C) of this section shall not constitute a violation of R.C. § 4511.19
(A), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            2.   For purposes of the provisions of law that refers to a
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and that is not described in
division (F)(2)(a)1. of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty to
the violation of division (C) of this section shall constitute a conviction or
plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (C) of this section and the person also is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the charge of the
violation of division (C) of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty
to the violation of division (C) of this section shall not constitute, for the
purposes of any provision of law that refers to a conviction of or a plea of
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, a conviction of or a plea of guilty to a violation of R.C.
§ 4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 2919.22(A) - (E), (H)) (Prior Code, § 636.11)
Statutory reference:
   Community service, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(F)
   License suspension, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(G)
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
§ 135.15 INTERFERENCE WITH CUSTODY; INTERFERENCE WITH SUPPORT ORDERS.
   (A)   Interference with custody.
      (1)   No person, knowing that he or she is without privilege to do so or
being reckless in that regard, shall entice, take, keep, or harbor a person
identified in division (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section from
the parent, guardian, or custodian of the person identified in division (A)(1)
(a), (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section:
         (a)   A child under the age of 18, or a mentally or physically
disabled child under the age of 21;
         (b)   A person committed by law to an institution for delinquent,
unruly, neglected, abused, or dependent children;
         (c)   A person committed by law to an institution for the mentally ill
or an institution for persons with intellectual disabilities.
      (2)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, or encourage a child or a
ward of the juvenile court who has been committed to the custody of any person,
department, or public or private institution to leave the custody of that
person, department, or institution without legal consent.
      (3)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of enticing or taking
under division (A)(1)(a) of this section that the actor reasonably believed
that his or her conduct was necessary to preserve the child’s health or safety.
It is an affirmative defense to a charge of keeping or harboring under division
(A)(1) of this section that the actor in good faith gave notice to law
enforcement or judicial authorities within a reasonable time after the child or
committed person came under his or her shelter, protection, or influence.
      (4)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with
custody.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this subdivision, a violation of
division (A)(1)(a) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the child who
is the subject of a violation of division (A)(1)(a) is removed from the state
or if the offender previously has been convicted of an offense under this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. If the child who is the subject of a violation of
division (A)(1)(a) suffers physical harm as a result of the violation, a
violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
         (b)   A violation of division (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (c)   A violation of division (A)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. Each day of a violation of division (A)(2) is a separate
offense.
(R.C. § 2919.23)
   (B)   Interference with support orders.
      (1)   No person, by using physical harassment or threats of violence
against another person, shall interfere with the other person’s initiation or
continuance of, or attempt to prevent the other person from initiating or
continuing, an action to issue or modify a support order under R.C. Chapter
3115, or under R.C. § 2151.23, 2151.231, 2151.232, 2151.33, 2151.36, 2151.361,
2151.49, 3105.18, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3109.19, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.07, or
3113.31.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of interfering with an
action to issue or modify a support order, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
violation of this division (B) or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, or R.C. § 3111.19, interfering with an action to issue or
modify a support order is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
(R.C. § 2919.231)
(Prior Code, § 636.12)
§ 135.16 DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm to a
family or household member.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to a family or
household member.
   (C)   No person, by threat of force, shall knowingly cause a family or
household member to believe that the offender will cause imminent physical harm
to the family or household member.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of domestic violence,
and the court shall sentence the offender as provided in divisions (D)(2) to
(D)(5) of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3), (D)(4) or (D)(5)
of this section, a violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree and a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(4) of this section, if
the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of domestic
violence, a violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or the United States that is substantially equivalent
to domestic violence, a violation of R.C. § 2903.14, 2909.06, 2909.07, 2911.12,
2911.211, or 2919.22 if the victim of the violation was a family or household
member at the time of the violation, a violation of an existing or former
municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or the United States that
is substantially equivalent to any of those sections if the victim of the
violation was a family or household member at the time of the commission of the
violation, or any offense of violence if the victim of the offense was a family
or household member at the time of the commission of the offense, a violation
of division (A) or (B) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law, and a violation of division (C) is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   If the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted
of two or more offenses of domestic violence or two or more violations or
offenses of the type described in division (D)(3) of this section involving a
person who was a family or household member at the time of the violations or
offenses, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of division (C) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) or (D)(4) of this
section, if the offender knew that the victim of the violation was pregnant at
the time of the violation, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of
division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no court or unit
of state or local government shall charge any fee, cost, deposit, or money in
connection with the filing of charges against a person alleging that the person
violated this section or a municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to this
section or in connection with the prosecution of any charges so filed.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
offender:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse as defined below, or a
former spouse of the offender;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the offender, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the offender;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the offender, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
offender.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the offender is the
other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived with
the offender in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting
with the offender, or who otherwise has cohabited with the offender within five
years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in question.
(R.C. § 2919.25) (Prior Code, § 636.17)
Statutory reference:
   Temporary protection orders, see R.C. § 2919.26
   Violation of protection order or consent agreement, factors to consider,
bail, see R.C. § 2919.251
§ 135.17 HAZING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      HAZING. Means doing any act or coercing another, including the victim, to
do any act of initiation into any student or other organization or any act to
continue or reinstate membership in or affiliation with any student or other
organization that causes or creates a substantial risk of causing mental or
physical harm to any person, including coercing another to consume alcohol or a
drug of abuse, as defined in R.C. § 3719.011.
      ORGANIZATION. Includes a national or international organization with
which a fraternity or sorority is affiliated.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other educational institution, public or private,
shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person associated with the
organization.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another
when the hazing includes coerced consumption of alcohol or drugs of abuse
resulting in serious physical harm to the other person.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other educational institution, public or private,
shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person associated with the
organization when the hazing includes coerced consumption of alcohol or drugs
of abuse resulting in serious physical harm to that person.
   (D)   Whoever violates divisions (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of
hazing. A violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the second degree. A violation of division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.31)
   (E)   Reckless failure to immediately report knowledge of hazing.
      (1)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other public or private educational institution,
who is acting in an official and professional capacity shall recklessly fail to
immediately report the knowledge of hazing to a law enforcement agency in the
county in which the victim of hazing resides or in which the hazing is
occurring or has occurred.
      (2)   A violation of division (E)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree, except that the violation is a misdemeanor of the first
degree if the hazing causes serious physical harm.
(R.C. § 2903.311(B), (C))
(Prior Code, § 636.19)
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability for hazing, see R.C. § 2307.44
§ 135.18 CONTRIBUTING TO UNRULINESS OR DELINQUENCY OF A CHILD.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      DELINQUENT CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
      UNRULY CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.022.
   (B)   No person, including a parent, guardian, or other custodian of a
child, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to a child or a
ward of the juvenile court becoming an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (2)   Act in a way tending to cause a child or a ward of the juvenile
court to become an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (3)   Act in a way that contributes to an adjudication of the child as a
delinquent child based on the child’s violation of a court order adjudicating
the child an unruly child for being an habitual truant;
      (4)   If the person is the parent, guardian, or custodian of a child who
has the duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950 to register, register a new
residence address, and periodically verify a residence address, and, if
applicable, to send a notice of intent to reside, and if the child is not
emancipated, as defined in R.C. § 2919.121, fail to ensure that the child
complies with those duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of contributing to the
unruliness or delinquency of a child, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each
day of violation of this section is a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2919.24) (Prior Code, § 636.125)
Statutory reference:
   Failure to send child to school, see R.C. § 3321.38
§ 135.19 FAILURE TO PROVIDE FOR FUNCTIONALLY IMPAIRED PERSON.
   (A)   No caretaker shall knowingly fail to provide a functionally impaired
person under his or her care with any treatment, care, goods, or service that
is necessary to maintain the health or safety of the functionally impaired
person when this failure results in physical harm or serious physical harm to
the functionally impaired person.
   (B)   No caretaker shall recklessly fail to provide a functionally impaired
person under his or her care with any treatment, care, goods, or service that
is necessary to maintain the health or safety of the functionally impaired
person when this failure results in serious physical harm to the functionally
impaired person.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
knowingly failing to provide for a functionally impaired person, a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the functionally impaired person under the offender’s
care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the violation of this
section, a violation of division (A) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
recklessly failing to provide for a functionally impaired person, a misdemeanor
of the second degree. If the functionally impaired person under the offender’s
care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the violation of this
section, a violation of division (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.16)
   (D)   As used in this section:
      CARETAKER. Means a person who assumes the duty to provide for the care
and protection of a functionally impaired person on a voluntary basis, by
contract, through receipt of payment for care and protection, as a result of a
family relationship, or by order of a court of competent jurisdiction. The term
does not include a person who owns, operates, or administers, or who is an
agent or employee of, a care facility, as defined in R.C. § 2903.33.
      FUNCTIONALLY IMPAIRED PERSON. Means any person who has a physical or
mental impairment that prevents the person from providing for his or her own
care or protection or whose infirmities caused by aging prevent the person from
providing for his or her own care or protection.
(R.C. § 2903.10) (Prior Code, § 636.25)
§ 135.20 PATIENT ABUSE OR NEGLECT; PATIENT ENDANGERMENT; EXCEPTIONS; FALSE
STATEMENTS; RETALIATION.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      ABUSE. Means knowingly causing physical harm or recklessly causing
serious physical harm to a person by physical contact with the person or by the
inappropriate use of a physical or chemical restraint, medication or isolation
on the person.
      CARE FACILITY. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any “home” as defined in R.C. § 3721.10.
         (b)   Any “residential facility” as defined in R.C. § 5119.34 or
5123.19.
         (c)   Any institution or facility operated or provided by the
Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services or by the Department of
Developmental Disabilities pursuant to R.C. §§ 5119.14 and 5123.03.
         (d)   Any unit of any hospital, as defined in R.C. § 3701.01, that
provided the same services as a nursing home, as defined in R.C. § 3721.01.
         (e)   Any institution, residence or facility that provides, for a
period of more than 24 hours, whether for consideration or not, accommodations
to one individual or two unrelated individuals who are dependent upon the
services of others.
      GROSS NEGLECT. Means knowingly failing to provide a person with any
treatment, care, goods or service that is necessary to maintain the health or
safety of the person when the failure results in serious physical harm to the
person.
      INAPPROPRIATE USE OF A PHYSICAL OR CHEMICAL RESTRAINT, MEDICATION OR
ISOLATION. Means the use of physical or chemical restraint, medication or
isolation as punishment, for staff convenience, excessively, as a substitute
for treatment, or in quantities that preclude habilitation and treatment.
      NEGLECT. Means recklessly failing to provide a person with any treatment,
care, goods or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of
the person when the failure results in serious physical harm to the person.
(R.C. § 2903.33)
   (B)   Patient abuse or neglect; spiritual treatment; defense.
      (1)   No person who owns, operates, or administers, or who is an agent or
employee of a care facility shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Commit abuse against a resident or patient of the facility.
         (b)   Commit gross neglect against a resident or patient of the
facility.
         (c)   Commit neglect against a resident or patient of the facility.
      (2)   (a)   A person who relies upon treatment by spiritual means through
prayer alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious
denomination, shall not be considered neglectful under division (B)(1)(c) of
this section for that reason alone.
         (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of gross neglect or
neglect under this section that the actor’s conduct was committed in good faith
solely because the actor was ordered to commit the conduct by a person with
supervisory authority over the actor.
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(a) is guilty of patient
abuse, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(b) is guilty of gross patient
neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of, or pleaded guilty to, any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, gross patient
neglect is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(c) is guilty of patient
neglect, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of, or pleaded guilty to, any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, gross patient
neglect is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.34)
   (C)   Patient endangerment; spiritual treatment; defense.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES CARETAKER. Means any developmental
disabilities employee or any person who assumes the duty to provide for the
care and protection of a person with a developmental disability on a voluntary
basis, by contract, through receipt of payment for care and protection, as a
result of a family relationship, or by order of a court of competent
jurisdiction. The phrase includes a person who is an employee of a care
facility and a person who is an employee of an entity under contract with a
provider. The phrase does not include a person who owns, operates, or
administers a care facility or who is an agent of a care facility unless that
person also personally provides care to a person with a developmental
disability.
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5123.50.
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5123.01.
      (2)   No developmental disabilities caretaker shall create a substantial
risk to the health or safety of a person with a developmental disability. A
developmental disabilities caretaker does not create a substantial risk to the
health or safety of a person with a developmental disability under this
division when the developmental disabilities caretaker treats a physical or
mental illness or defect of the person with a developmental disability by
spiritual means through prayer alone, in accordance with the tenets of a
recognized religious body.
      (3)   No person who owns, operates, or administers a care facility or who
is an agent of a care facility shall condone, or knowingly permit, any conduct
by a developmental disabilities caretaker who is employed by or under the
control of the owner, operator, administrator, or agent that is in violation of
division (C)(2) of this section and that involves a person with a developmental
disability who is under the care of the owner, operator, administrator, or
agent. A person who relies upon treatment by spiritual means through prayer
alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious denomination,
shall not be considered endangered under this division for that reason alone.
      (4)   (a)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(2) or (C)(3) of this section that the actor’s conduct was
committed in good faith solely because the actor was ordered to commit the
conduct by a person to whom one of the following applies:
            1.   The person has supervisory authority over the actor.
            2.   The person has authority over the actor’s conduct pursuant to
a contract for the provision of services.
         (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(3) of this section that the person who owns, operates, or
administers a care facility or who is an agent of a care facility and who is
charged with the violation is following the individual service plan for the
involved person with a developmental disability or that the admission,
discharge, and transfer rule set forth in the Ohio Administrative Code is being
followed.
         (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(3) of this section that the actor did not have readily available a
means to prevent either the harm to the person with a developmental disability
or the death of such a person and the actor took reasonable steps to summon
aid.
      (5)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(5)(b) or (C)(5)(c) of this
section, whoever violates division (C)(2) or (C)(3) of this section is guilty
of patient endangerment, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of, or pleaded
guilty to, a violation of this section, patient endangerment is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the person
with a developmental disability, patient endangerment is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.341)
   (D)   False statements.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly
swear or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, alleging a
violation of division (B) of this section when the statement is made with
purpose to incriminate another.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of filing a false
patient abuse or neglect complaint, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2903.35)
   (E)   Retaliation against person reporting patient abuse or neglect. No care
facility shall discharge or in any manner discriminate or retaliate against any
person solely because such person, in good faith, filed a complaint, affidavit,
or other document alleging a violation of division (B) of this section or a
violation of R.C. § 2903.34.
(R.C. § 2903.36)
Statutory reference:
   License revocation for felony violations, see R.C. § 2903.37
§ 135.21 INTERFERENCE WITH RIGHT OF PERSON TO ENGAGE IN HOUSING TRANSACTIONS
BECAUSE OF RACE, RELIGION, OR THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person, whether or not acting under color of law, shall by force or
threat of force willfully injure, intimidate, or interfere with, or attempt to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with any of the following:
      (1)   Any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial status,
as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin, military status as defined in
that section, disability as defined in that section, or ancestry and because
that person is or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying,
contracting, or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or
occupation of any housing accommodations, or applying for or participating in
any service, organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting housing accommodations.
      (2)   Any person because that person is or has been doing, or in order to
intimidate that person or any other person or any class of persons from doing
either of the following:
         (a)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin,
military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in that
section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations, or
facilities described in division (A)(1) of this section;
         (b)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
      (3)   Any person because that person is or has been, or in order to
discourage that person or any other person from, lawfully aiding or encouraging
other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin,
military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in that
section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations, or
facilities described in division (A)(1) of this section, or participating
lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity
to so participate.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2927.03) (Prior Code, § 636.24)
§ 135.22 ETHNIC INTIMIDATION.
   (A)   No person shall violate R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.22, 2909.06, or 2909.07,
or R.C. § 2917.21(A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5), by reason of the race, color,
religion, or national origin of another person or group of persons.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of ethnic intimidation. Ethnic
intimidation is an offense of the next higher degree than the offense the
commission of which is a necessary element of ethnic intimidation. In the case
of an offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree, ethnic intimidation is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.12) (Prior Code, § 636.23)
§ 135.23 VIOLATING A PROTECTION ORDER, CONSENT AGREEMENT, ANTI-STALKING
PROTECTION ORDER OR ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER STATE.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly violate the terms of any of the following:
      (1)   A protection order issued or consent agreement approved pursuant to
R.C. § 2919.26 or R.C. § 3113.31;
      (2)   A protection order issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213 or
2903.214;
      (3)   A protection order issued by a court of another state.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of violating a
protection order.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) or (B)(4) of this
section, violating a protection order is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Violating a protection order is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the offender previously has been convicted of, pleaded
guilty to, or been adjudicated a delinquent child for any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of a protection order issued or consent agreement
approved pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213, 2903.214, 2919.26, or 3113.31,
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance;
         (b)   Two or more violations of R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, or
2911.211, or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or
any combination of those offenses, that involved the same person who is the
subject of the protection order or consent agreement;
         (c)   One or more violations of this section, or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance.
      (4)   If the offender violates a protection order or consent agreement
while committing a felony offense, violating a protection order is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the protection order violated by the offender was an order
issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34 or 2903.214 that required electronic
monitoring of the offender pursuant to that section, the court may require in
addition to any other sentence imposed upon the offender that the offender be
electronically monitored for a period not exceeding five years by a law
enforcement agency designated by the court. If the court requires under this
division that the offender be electronically monitored, unless the court
determines that the offender is indigent, the court shall order that the
offender pay the costs of the installation of the electronic monitoring device
and the cost of monitoring the electronic monitoring device. If the court
determines that the offender is indigent and subject to the maximum amount
allowable and the rules promulgated by the Attorney General under R.C. §
2903.214, the costs of the installation of the electronic monitoring device and
the cost of monitoring the electronic monitoring device may be paid out of
funds from the Reparations Fund created pursuant to R.C. § 2743.191. The total
amount paid from the Reparations Fund created pursuant to R.C. § 2743.191 for
electronic monitoring under R.C. §§ 2151.34, 2903.214 and 2919.27 shall not
exceed $300,000 per year.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3) of this
section that the protection order issued by a court of another state does not
comply with the requirements specified in 18 U.S.C. § 2265(b) for a protection
order that must be accorded full faith and credit by a court of this state or
that it is not entitled to full faith and credit under 18 U.S.C. § 2265(c).
   (D)   In a prosecution for a violation of this section, it is not necessary
for the prosecution to prove that the protection order or consent agreement was
served on the defendant if the prosecution proves that the defendant was shown
the protection order or consent agreement or a copy of either or a judge,
magistrate, or law enforcement officer informed the defendant that a protection
order or consent agreement had been issued, and proves that the defendant
recklessly violated the terms of the order or agreement.
   (E)   As used in this section, PROTECTION ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER
STATE means an injunction or another order issued by a criminal court of
another state for the purpose of preventing violent or threatening acts or
harassment against, contact or communication with, or physical proximity to
another person including a temporary order, and means an injunction or order of
that nature issued by a civil court of another state, including a temporary
order and a final order issued in an independent action or as a pendente lite
order in a proceeding for other relief, if the court issued it in response to a
complaint, petition or motion filed by or on behalf of a person seeking
protection. The term does not include an order for support or for custody of a
child issued pursuant to the divorce and child custody laws of another state,
except to the extent that the order for support or for custody of a child is
entitled to full faith and credit under the laws of the United States.
(R.C. § 2919.27)
§ 135.24 ADULTERATION OF FOOD.
   (A)   No person shall do either of the following, knowing or having
reasonable cause to believe that any person may suffer physical harm or be
seriously inconvenienced or annoyed thereby:
      (1)   Place a pin, razor blade, glass, laxative, drug of abuse, or other
harmful or hazardous object or substance in any food or confection.
      (2)   Furnish to any person any food or confection which has been
adulterated in violation of division (A)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 3716.11)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 3716.99(C)) (Prior Code, § 636.16)
Statutory reference:
   Adulteration of food generally, see R.C. § 3715.59
§ 135.25 ILLEGAL DISTRIBUTION OF CIGARETTES, OTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS, OR
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS; TRANSACTION SCANS.
   (A)   Illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         AGE VERIFICATION. A service provided by an independent third party
(other than a manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes) that compares information available from a
commercially available database, or aggregate of databases, that regularly are
used by government and businesses for the purpose of age and identity
verification to personal information provided during an internet sale or other
remote method of sale to establish that the purchaser is 21 years of age or
older.
         ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT.
            1.   Subject to division 2. of this definition, an electronic
smoking device, vapor product, or any other product or device that consists of
or contains nicotine that can be ingested into the body by any means,
including, but not limited to, chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, or
inhaling.
            2.   The phrase does not include any of the following:
               a.   Any cigarette or other tobacco product;
               b.   Any product that is a “drug” as that term is defined in 21
U.S.C. § 321(g)(1);
               c.   Any product that is a “device” as that term is defined in
21 U.S.C. § 321(h);
               d.   Any product that is a “combination product” as described in
21 U.S.C. § 353(g).
         CIGARETTE. Includes clove cigarettes and hand-rolled cigarettes.
         DISTRIBUTE. Means to furnish, give, or provide cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to the ultimate consumer of the cigarettes, other tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes.
         ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE. Means any device that can be used to
deliver aerosolized or vaporized nicotine or any other substance to the person
inhaling from the device including an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic hookah, vaping pen, or electronic pipe. The phrase includes any
component, part, or accessory of such a device, whether or not sold separately,
and includes any substance intended to be aerosolized or vaporized during the
use of the device. The phrase does not include any product that is a drug,
device, or combination product, as those terms are defined or described in 21
U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g).
         PROOF OF AGE. Means a driver’s license, a commercial driver’s license,
a military identification card, a passport, or an identification card issued
under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows that a person is 18 years of age or
older.
         TOBACCO PRODUCT. Means any product that is made or derived from
tobacco or that contains any form of nicotine, if it is intended for human
consumption or is likely to be consumed, whether smoked, heated, chewed,
absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, or ingested by any other means, including, but
not limited to, a cigarette, an electronic smoking device, a cigar, pipe
tobacco, chewing tobacco, snuff, or snus. The phrase also means any component
or accessory used in the consumption of a tobacco product, such as filters,
rolling papers, pipes, blunt or hemp wraps, and liquids used in electronic
smoking devices, whether or not they contain nicotine. The phrase does not
include any product that is a drug, device, or combination product, as those
terms are defined or described in 21 U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g).
         VAPOR PRODUCT. Means a product, other than a cigarette or other
tobacco product as defined in R.C. Chapter 5743, that contains or is made or
derived from nicotine and that is intended and marketed for human consumption,
including by smoking, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing. The phrase includes any
component, part, or additive that is intended for use in an electronic smoking
device, a mechanical heating element, battery, or electronic circuit and is
used to deliver the product. The phrase does not include any product that is a
drug, device, or combination product, as those terms are defined or described
in 21 U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g). The phrase includes any product containing
nicotine, regardless of concentration.
         VENDING MACHINE. Has the same meaning as “coin machine” in R.C. §
2913.01.
      (2)   No manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes, no agent, employee, or representative of a
manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes, and no other person shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to
any person under 21 years of age;
         (b)   Give away, sell, or distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes in
any place that does not have posted in a conspicuous place a legibly printed
sign in letters at least one-half inch high stating that giving, selling, or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to a person under 21 years of age
is prohibited by law;
         (c)   Knowingly furnish any false information regarding the name, age,
or other identification of any person under 21 years of age with purpose to
obtain cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or
papers used to roll cigarettes for that person;
         (d)   Manufacture, sell, or distribute in this state any pack or other
container of cigarettes containing fewer than 20 cigarettes or any package of
roll-your-own tobacco containing less than six- tenths of one ounce of tobacco;
         (e)   Sell cigarettes or alternative nicotine products in a smaller
quantity than that placed in the pack or other container by the manufacturer;
         (f)   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute alternative nicotine
products, papers used to roll cigarettes, or tobacco products other than
cigarettes over the internet or through another remote method without age
verification.
      (3)   No person shall sell or offer to sell cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products by or from a vending machine, except
in the following locations:
         (a)   An area within a factory, business, office, or other place not
open to the general public;
         (b)   An area to which persons under 21 years of age are not generally
permitted access;
         (c)   Any other place not identified in division (A)(3)(a) or (A)(3)
(b) of this section, upon all of the following conditions:
            1.   The vending machine is located within the immediate vicinity,
plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place, or an
employee of that person, so that all cigarettes, other tobacco product, and
alternative nicotine product purchases from the vending machine will be readily
observed by the person who owns or operates the place or an employee of that
person. For the purpose of this section, a vending machine located in any
unmonitored area, including an unmonitored coatroom, restroom, hallway, or
outer waiting area, shall not be considered located within the immediate
vicinity, plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place,
or an employee of that person.
            2.   The vending machine is inaccessible to the public when the
place is closed.
            3.   A clearly visible notice is posted in the area where the
vending machine is located that states the following in letters that are
legibly printed and at least one-half inch high: “It is illegal for any person
under the age of 21 to purchase tobacco or alternative nicotine products.”
      (4)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under division
(A)(2)(a) of this section:
         (a)   The person under 21 years of age was accompanied by a parent,
spouse who is 21 years of age or older, or legal guardian of the person under
21 years of age.
         (b)   The person who gave, sold, or distributed cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to a person under 21 years of age under division (A)(2)(a) of this
section is a parent, spouse who is 21 years of age or older, or legal guardian
of the person under 21 years of age.
      (5)   It is not a violation of division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this
section for a person to give or otherwise distribute to a person under 21 years
of age cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or
papers used to roll cigarettes while the person under 21 years of age is
participating in a research protocol if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The parent, guardian, or legal custodian of the person under 21
years of age has consented in writing to the person under 21 years of age
participating in the research protocol.
         (b)   An institutional human subjects protection review board, or an
equivalent entity, has approved the research protocol.
         (c)   The person under 21 years of age is participating in the
research protocol at the facility or location specified in the research
protocol.
      (6)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(a), (A)(2)(b), (A)(2)(d),
(A)(2)(e), or (A)(2)(f) or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of illegal
distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal distribution
of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (A)(2)(a), (A)(2)(b), (A)(2)(d), (A)(2)(e), or (A)
(2)(f) or (A)(3) of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products is a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(c) of this section is guilty of
permitting a person under 21 years of age to use cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, permitting a person under 21 years of age to use cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of division (A)(2)(c) of this section or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, permitting a person under 21 years of age to use
cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (7)   Any cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes that are given, sold, or otherwise
distributed to a person under 21 years of age in violation of this section and
that are used, possessed, purchased, or received by a person under 21 years of
age in violation of R.C. § 2151.87 are subject to seizure and forfeiture as
contraband under R.C. Chapter 2981.
(R.C. § 2927.02)
   (B)   Transaction scan.
      (1)   As used in this division and division (C) of this section:
         CARD HOLDER. Means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products from a seller, agent, or employee.
         IDENTIFICATION CARD. Means an identification card issued under R.C. §§
4507.50 through 4507.52.
         SELLER. Means a seller of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products and includes any person whose gift of or other
distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products is subject to the prohibitions of division (A) of this section.
         TRANSACTION SCAN. Means the process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks, by means of a transaction scan device, the
validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card
that is presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
         TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Means any commercial device or combination of
devices used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card.
      (2)   (a)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away, or otherwise distributing
to the card holder cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products.
         (b)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (B)(2)(a) of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away, or otherwise distribute any cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products to the card holder.
         (c)   Division (B)(2)(a) of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card, if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device, as a condition for selling, giving away, or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products to the person presenting the document.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (B) and division (C) of this section.
      (4)   (a)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except for the following:
            1.   The name and date of birth of the person listed on the
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the
card holder;
            2.   The expiration date and identification number of the driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder.
         (b)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (B)(4)(a) of this section, except for
purposes of division (C) of this section.
         (c)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (C)(2)(a) of this section.
         (d)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (C) of this section
or another section of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (B) or division (C) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable local, state or federal laws or rules
governing the sale, giving away, or other distribution of cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(2)(b) or (B)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal tobacco product or alternative nicotine
product transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil
penalty of up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay
each collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the
County Treasury.
(R.C. § 2927.021)
   (C)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (A) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of cigarettes, other tobacco products,
or alternative nicotine products is an element of the alleged violation, if the
seller, agent, or employee raises and proves as an affirmative defense that all
of the following occurred:
         (a)   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products presented a driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or an identification card.
         (b)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that
the license or card was valid.
         (c)   The cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products were sold, given away, or otherwise distributed to the card holder in
reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and the completed
transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (C)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (A) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (A) of this
section. For purposes of division (C)(1)(c) of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         (a)   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away, or otherwise distributes cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products is 21 years of age or older;
         (b)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (C)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
deputy registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50
through 4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of
that issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2927.022)
   (D)   Shipment of tobacco products.
      (1)   As used in this division (D):
         AUTHORIZED RECIPIENT OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS means a person who is:
            1.   Licensed as a cigarette wholesale dealer under R.C. § 5743.15;
            2.   Licensed as a retail dealer as long as the person purchases
cigarettes with the appropriate tax stamp affixed;
            3.   An export warehouse proprietor as defined in § 5702 of the
Internal Revenue Code;
            4.   An operator of a customs bonded warehouse under 19 U.S.C. §
1311 or 19 U.S.C. § 1555;
            5.   An officer, employee, or agent of the federal government or of
this state acting in the person’s official capacity;
            6.   A department, agency, instrumentality, or political
subdivision of the federal government or of this state;
            7.   A person having a consent for consumer shipment issued by the
Tax Commissioner under R.C. § 5743.71.
         MOTOR CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01.
      (2)   The purpose of this division (D) is to prevent the sale of
cigarettes to minors and to ensure compliance with the Master Settlement
Agreement, as defined in R.C. § 1346.01.
      (3)   (a)   No person shall cause to be shipped any cigarettes to any
person in this municipality other than an authorized recipient of tobacco
products.
         (b)   No motor carrier or other person shall knowingly transport
cigarettes to any person in this municipality that the carrier or other person
reasonably believes is not an authorized recipient of tobacco products. If
cigarettes are transported to a home or residence, it shall be presumed that
the motor carrier or other person knew that the person to whom the cigarettes
were delivered was not an authorized recipient of tobacco products.
      (4)   No person engaged in the business of selling cigarettes who ships
or causes to be shipped cigarettes to any person in this municipality in any
container or wrapping other than the original container or wrapping of the
cigarettes shall fail to plainly and visibly mark the exterior of the container
or wrapping in which the cigarettes are shipped with the words “cigarettes”.
      (5)   A court shall impose a fine of up to $1,000 for each violation of
division (D)(3)(a), (D)(3)(b) or (D)(4) of this section.
(R.C. § 2927.023)
   (E)   Furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products.
      (1)   No person who is 18 years of age or older but younger than 21 years
of age shall knowingly furnish false information concerning that person’s name,
age, or other identification for the purpose of obtaining tobacco products.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E)(1) of this section is guilty of
furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, furnishing false information to obtain tobacco
products is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)(1) of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
(R.C. § 2927.024)
(Prior Code, § 636.22)
§ 135.26 NONSMOKING AREAS IN PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   As used in this section, PLACE OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY means:
      (1)   Enclosed theaters, except the lobby; opera houses; auditoriums;
classrooms; elevators; rooms in which persons are confined as a matter of
health care, including but not limited to a hospital room and a room in a
residential care facility serving as the residence of a person living in such
residential care facility.
      (2)   All buildings and other enclosed structures owned by the state, its
agencies, or political subdivisions, including but not limited to hospitals and
state institutions for the mentally ill and persons with intellectual
disabilities; university and college buildings, except rooms within those
buildings used primarily as the residences of students or other persons
affiliated with the university or college; office buildings; libraries;
museums; and vehicles used in public transportation. That portion of a building
or other enclosed structure that is owned by the state, a state agency, or a
political subdivision, and that is used primarily as a food service
establishment, is not a place of public assembly.
      (3)   Each portion of a building or enclosed structure that is not
included in division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is a place of public
assembly if it has a seating capacity of 50 or more persons and is available to
the public. Restaurants, food service establishments, dining rooms, cafes,
cafeterias, or other rooms used primarily for the service of food, as well as
bowling alleys and places licensed by the Ohio Division of Liquor Control to
sell intoxicating beverages for consumption on the premises, are not places of
public assembly.
   (B)   For the purpose of separating persons who smoke from persons who do
not smoke for the comfort and health of persons not smoking, in every place of
public assembly there shall be an area where smoking is not permitted, which
shall be designated a no smoking area, provided that not more than one-half of
the rooms in any health care facility in which persons are confined as a matter
of health care may be designated as smoking areas in their entirety. The
designation shall be made before the place of public assembly is made available
to the public. In places included in division (A)(1) of this section, the local
fire authority having jurisdiction shall designate the no smoking area. In
places included in division (A)(2) of this section that are owned by the state
or its agencies, the Ohio Director of Administrative Services shall designate
the area, and if the place is owned by a political subdivision, the Council
shall designate an officer who shall designate the area. In places included in
division (A)(3) of this section, the person having control of the operations of
the place of public assembly shall designate the no smoking area. In places
included in division (A)(2) of this section which are also included in division
(A)(1) of this section, the officer who has authority to designate the area in
places in division (A)(2) of this section shall designate the no smoking area.
A no smoking area may include the entire place of public assembly. Designations
shall be made by the placement of signs that are clearly visible and that state
“no smoking”. No person shall remove signs from areas designated as no smoking
areas.
   (C)   This section does not affect or modify the prohibition contained in
R.C. § 3313.751(B).
   (D)   No person shall smoke in any area designated as a no smoking area in
accordance with division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3791.031)
§ 135.27 SPREADING CONTAGION.
   (A)   No person, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that he or
she is suffering from a dangerous, contagious disease, shall knowingly fail to
take reasonable measures to prevent exposing himself or herself to other
persons, except when seeking medical aid.
   (B)   No person, having charge or care of a person whom he or she knows or
has reasonable cause to believe is suffering from a dangerous, contagious
disease, shall recklessly fail to take reasonable measures to protect others
from exposure to the contagion, and to inform health authorities of the
existence of the contagion.
   (C)   No person, having charge of a public conveyance or place of public
accommodation, amusement, resort, or trade, and knowing or having reasonable
cause to believe that persons using such conveyance or place have been or are
being exposed to a dangerous, contagious disease, shall negligently fail to
take reasonable measures to protect the public from exposure to the contagion,
and to inform health authorities of the existence of the contagion.
(R.C. § 3701.81)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second
degree.
(R.C. § 3701.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Contagion and quarantine, see R.C. §§ 3707.04 et seq.
   Power to prevent contagious diseases, see R.C. § 715.37
§ 135.28 ABUSE OF A CORPSE.
   (A)   No person, except as authorized by law, shall treat a human corpse in
a way that he or she knows would outrage reasonable family sensibilities.
   (B)   No person, except as authorized by law, shall treat a human corpse in
a way that would outrage reasonable community sensibilities.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of abuse of a
corpse, a misdemeanor of the second degree. Whoever violates division (B) of
this section is guilty of gross abuse of a corpse, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.01)
§ 135.29 CRIMINAL CHILD ENTICEMENT.
   (A)   No person, by any means and without privilege to do so, shall
knowingly solicit, coax, entice, or lure any child under 14 years of age to
accompany the person in any manner, including entering into any vehicle or onto
any vessel, whether or not the offender knows the age of the child, if both of
the following apply:
      (1)   The actor does not have the express or implied permission of the
parent, guardian, or other legal custodian of the child in undertaking the
activity.
      (2)   The actor is not a law enforcement officer, medic, firefighter, or
other person who regularly provides emergency services, and is not an employee
or agent of, or a volunteer acting under the direction of, any board of
education, or the actor is any such person, but at the time the actor
undertakes the activity, the actor is not acting within the scope of the
actor’s lawful duties in that capacity.
   (B)   No person, with a sexual motivation, shall violate division (A) of
this section.
   (C)   No person, for any unlawful purpose other than, or in addition to,
that proscribed by division (A) of this section, shall engage in any activity
described in division (A) of this section.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A) of this
section that the actor undertook the activity in response to a bona fide
emergency situation or that the actor undertook the activity in a reasonable
belief that it was necessary to preserve the health, safety, or welfare of the
child.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (A), (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of
criminal child enticement, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of this section, a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, R.C. §§ 2907.02 or 2907.03 or
former R.C. § 2907.12, or R.C. §§ 2905.01 or 2907.05 when the victim of that
prior offense was under 17 years of age at the time of the offense, criminal
child enticement is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      SEXUAL MOTIVATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2971.01.
      VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      VESSEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1547.01.
(R.C. § 2905.05) (Prior Code, § 636.075)
§ 135.30 MINORS’ CURFEW.
   (A)   No minor under the age of 18 years shall be upon the streets, alleys
or other public places or upon unsupervised or unenclosed lands or places of
amusement or entertainment, from 11:00 p.m. until 5:00 a.m. of the following
day of each weekday, and from 12:00 midnight until 5:00 a.m. on each Saturday,
and from 11:00 p.m. Saturday until 5:00 a.m. Sunday.
   (B)   No parent, guardian or other person having the care, custody or
control of any minor shall permit such minor to violate division (A) of this
section.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to minors under the age of 18 years on an
emergency errand or on legitimate business as directed by the parent, guardian,
custodian or some other person over 21 years of age who has been given
responsibility for such minor’s control and custody by the person legally
responsible for the discipline of the minor.
   (D)   Whoever, being a minor, violates any of the provisions of this section
shall be dealt with in accordance with Juvenile Court law and procedure.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 636.20) (Ord. 366, passed 7-3-1972)
§ 135.31 LOITERING.
   (A)   No person shall loiter or prowl in any public or private place at a
time, in a manner or under circumstances which warrant alarm for the safety of
persons or security of property in the surrounding area.
   (B)   Without limitation, the following circumstances may be considered in
determining whether such alarm is warranted:
      (1)   The flight of a person upon the appearance of a police officer;
      (2)   Attempted concealment by a person upon the appearance of a police
officer; or
      (3)   The systematic checking by a person of doors, windows or other
means of access to buildings, houses or vehicles.
   (C)   Unless flight by the actor or other circumstances make it
impracticable, a police officer shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under
this section, afford the actor an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would
otherwise be warranted, by requesting him or her to identify himself or herself
and explain his or her presence and conduct. No person shall be convicted of an
offense under this section if the police officer did not comply with the
preceding sentence, or if it appears at trial that the explanation given by the
actor was true, and if believed by the police officer at the time, would have
dispelled the alarm.
   (D)   For the purposes of this section, the following words and phrases
shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
      (1)   “Loitering” includes the following activities: lingering, hanging
around, delaying, sauntering and moving slowly about, where such conduct is not
due to physical defects or conditions.
      (2)   “Private place” means and includes places privately owned but open
to the public generally, such as shopping centers, retail stores,
transportation terminals, movie theaters, office buildings, restaurants and all
distinctly private places such as homes or private residences and apartment
houses.
      (3)   “Public place” means and includes public streets and alleyways,
public restrooms, public sidewalks, public parks, public buildings and
Municipal airports.
      (4)   “Surrounding area” means that area easily and immediately
accessible to the person under observation.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 636.21)
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
136.01   Definitions
   
136.02   Falsification
   
136.03   Compounding a crime
   
136.04   Failure to report a crime
   
136.05   Failure to aid a law enforcement officer
   
136.06   Obstructing official business
   
136.07   Obstructing justice
   
136.08   Resisting arrest
   
136.09   Having an unlawful interest in a public contract
   
136.10   Soliciting or receiving improper compensation
   
136.11   Dereliction of duty
   
136.12   Interfering with civil rights
   
136.13   Illegal conveyance of prohibited items onto grounds of a detention
facility or other specified governmental facilities
   
136.14   False report of child abuse or neglect
   
136.15   Assaulting police dog or horse, or assistance dog
   
136.16   Disclosure of confidential peace officer information
   
136.17   Intimidation of crime victim or witness
   
136.18   Using sham legal process
   
136.19   Making false allegation of peace officer misconduct
   
136.20   Misuse of 9-1-1 system
   
136.21   Failure to disclose personal information
   
136.22   Compliance with lawful order of police officer; fleeing
Statutory reference:
   Escape from detention, see R.C. § 2921.34
   Harassment by inmates by causing or attempting to cause contact with blood,
semen, urine, feces or other bodily substance; knowledge of AIDS, hepatitis or
tuberculosis infection; felony offenses, see R.C. § 2921.38
§ 136.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   CONTRIBUTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   DETENTION. Arrest; confinement in any vehicle subsequent to an arrest;
confinement in any public or private facility for custody of persons charged
with or convicted of crime in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent child or unruly child
in this state or another state or under the laws of the United States;
hospitalization, institutionalization, or confinement in any public or private
facility that is ordered pursuant to or under the authority of R.C. § 2945.37,
2945.371, 2945.38, 2945.39, 2945.40, 2945.401 or 2945.402; confinement in any
vehicle for transportation to or from any facility of any of those natures;
detention for extradition or deportation; except as provided in this division,
supervision by any employee of any facility of any of those natures that is
incidental to hospitalization, institutionalization, or confinement in the
facility but that occurs outside the facility; supervision by an employee of
the Department of Rehabilitation and Correction of a person on any type of
release from a state correctional institution; or confinement in any vehicle,
airplane, or place while being returned from outside of this state into this
state by a private person or entity pursuant to a contract entered into under
R.C. § 311.29(E) or R.C. § 5149.03(B). For a person confined in a county jail
who participates in a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30,
the term includes time spent at an assigned work site and going to and from the
work site.
   DETENTION FACILITY. Any public or private place used for the confinement of
a person charged with or convicted of any crime in this state or another state
or under the laws of the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent
child or an unruly child in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States.
   LEGISLATIVE CAMPAIGN FUND. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   OFFICIAL PROCEEDING. Any proceeding before a legislative, judicial,
administrative, or other governmental agency or official authorized to take
evidence under oath, and includes any proceeding before a referee, hearing
examiner, commissioner, notary, or other person taking testimony or a
deposition in connection with an official proceeding.
   PARTY OFFICIAL. Any person who holds an elective or appointive post in a
political party in the United States or this state, by virtue of which he or
she directs, conducts, or participates in directing or conducting party affairs
at any level of responsibility.
   POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   POLITICAL CONTRIBUTING ENTITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   POLITICAL PARTY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   PROVIDER AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
   PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Any elected or appointed officer, employee, or agent of the
state or any political subdivision thereof, whether in a temporary or permanent
capacity, and includes but is not limited to legislators, judges, and law
enforcement officers. The term does not include an employee, officer, or
governor-appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit
corporation formed under R.C. § 187.01.
   PUBLIC SERVANT.
      (1)   Any of the following:
         (a)   Any public official.
         (b)   Any person performing ad hoc a governmental function, including
but not limited to a juror, member of a temporary commission, master,
arbitrator, advisor, or consultant.
         (c)   A person who is a candidate for public office, whether or not he
or she is elected or appointed to the office for which he or she is a
candidate. A person is a candidate for purposes of this division if he or she
has been nominated according to law for election or appointment to public
office, or if he or she has filed a petition or petitions as required by law to
have his or her name placed on the ballot in a primary, general, or special
election, or if he or she campaigns as a write-in candidate in any primary,
general, or special election.
      (2)   The term does not include an employee, officer, or governor-
appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit corporation formed
under R.C. § 187.01.
   VALUABLE THING or VALUABLE BENEFIT. Includes but is not limited to a
contribution. This inclusion does not indicate or imply that a contribution was
not included in those terms before September 17, 1986.
(R.C. § 2921.01)
§ 136.02 FALSIFICATION.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly swear
or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, when any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The statement is made in any official proceeding.
      (2)   The statement is made with purpose to incriminate another.
      (3)   The statement is made with purpose to mislead a public official in
performing his or her official function.
      (4)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the payment of
unemployment compensation; Ohio Works First; prevention, retention and
contingency benefits and services; disability financial assistance; retirement
benefits or health care coverage from a state retirement system; economic
development assistance as defined in R.C. § 9.66; or other benefits
administered by a governmental agency or paid out of a public treasury.
      (5)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the issuance by a
governmental agency of a license, permit, authorization, certificate,
registration, release, or provider agreement.
      (6)   The statement is sworn or affirmed before a notary public or
another person empowered to administer oaths.
      (7)   The statement is in writing on or in connection with a report or
return that is required or authorized by law.
      (8)   The statement is in writing, and is made with purpose to induce
another to extend credit to or employ the offender, or to confer any degree,
diploma, certificate of attainment, award of excellence, or honor on the
offender, or to extend to or bestow upon the offender any other valuable
benefit or distinction, when the person to whom the statement is directed
relies upon it to his or her detriment.
      (9)   The statement is made with purpose to commit or facilitate the
commission of a theft offense.
      (10)   The statement is knowingly made to a probate court in connection
with any action, proceeding, or other matter within its jurisdiction, either
orally or in a written document, including but not limited to an application,
petition, complaint, or other pleading, or an inventory, account, or report.
      (11)   The statement is made on an account, form, record, stamp, label or
other writing that is required by law.
      (12)   The statement is made in connection with the purchase of a
firearm, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, and in conjunction with the furnishing
to the seller of the firearm of a fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit, a fictitious or altered identification card, or any
other document that contains false information about the purchaser’s identity.
      (13)   The statement is made in a document or instrument of writing that
purports to be a judgment, lien, or claim of indebtedness and is filed or
recorded with the Secretary of State, a county recorder, or the clerk of a
court of record.
      (14)   The statement is made in an application filed with a county
sheriff pursuant to R.C. § 2923.125 in order to obtain or renew a concealed
handgun license or is made in an affidavit submitted to a county sheriff to
obtain a concealed handgun license on a temporary emergency basis under R.C. §
2923.1213.
      (15)   The statement is required under R.C. § 5743.71 in connection with
the person’s purchase of cigarettes or tobacco products in a delivery sale.
   (B)   No person, in connection with the purchase of a firearm as defined in
R.C. § 2923.11, shall knowingly furnish to the seller of the firearm a
fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, a
fictitious or altered identification card, or any other document that contains
false information about the purchaser’s identity.
   (C)   No person, in an attempt to obtain a concealed handgun license under
R.C. § 2923.125, shall knowingly present to a sheriff a fictitious or altered
document that purports to be certification of the person’s competence in
handling a handgun as described in division (B)(3) of that section.
   (D)   It is no defense to a charge under division (A)(6) of this section
that the oath or affirmation was administered or taken in an irregular manner.
   (E)   If contradictory statements relating to the same fact are made by the
offender within the period of the statute of limitations for falsification, it
is not necessary for the prosecution to prove which statement was false, but
only that one or the other was false.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)
(5), (A)(6), (A)(7), (A)(8), (A)(10), (A)(11), (A)(13) or (A)(15) of this
section is guilty of falsification. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, falsification is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(9) of this section is guilty of
falsification in a theft offense. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, falsification in a theft offense is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the value of the property or services stolen is $1,000 or more,
falsification in a theft offense is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(12) or (B) of this section is guilty
of falsification to purchase a firearm, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (A)(14) or (C) of this section is guilty
of falsification to obtain a concealed handgun license, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section in removal
proceedings under R.C. § 319.26, 321.37, 507.13 or 733.78 is guilty of
falsification regarding a removal proceeding, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.13)
   (G)   (1)   No person who has knowingly failed to maintain proof of
financial responsibility in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101 shall produce any
document or present to a peace officer an electronic wireless communications
device that is displaying any text or images with the purpose to mislead a
peace officer upon the request of a peace officer for proof of financial
responsibility made in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101(D)(2).
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (G) is guilty of falsification, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4509.102)
(Prior Code, § 606.10)
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability for violations of this section, see R.C. § 2921.13(G)
§ 136.03 COMPOUNDING A CRIME.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly demand, accept, or agree to accept anything
of value in consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon a pending
criminal prosecution.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section when both
of the following apply:
      (1)   The pending prosecution involved is for a violation of R.C. §
2913.02, 2913.11, 2913.21(B)(2), or 2913.47, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, of which the actor under this section was the victim.
      (2)   The thing of value demanded, accepted, or agreed to be accepted, in
consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon the prosecution, did not
exceed an amount that the actor reasonably believed due him or her as
restitution for the loss caused him or her by the offense.
   (C)   When a prosecuting witness abandons or agrees to abandon a prosecution
under division (B) of this section, the abandonment or agreement in no way
binds the state to abandoning the prosecution.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of compounding a crime, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.21) (Prior Code, § 606.11)
§ 136.04 FAILURE TO REPORT A CRIME.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, no
person, knowing that a felony has been or is being committed, shall knowingly
fail to report the information to law enforcement authorities.
      (2)   No person, knowing that a violation of R.C. § 2913.04(B) has been
or is being committed or that the person has received information derived from
such a violation, shall knowingly fail to report the violation to law
enforcement authorities.
   (B)   Except for conditions that are within the scope of division (E) of
this section, no person giving aid to a sick or injured person shall
negligently fail to report to law enforcement authorities any gunshot or stab
wound treated or observed by the person, or any serious physical harm to
persons that the person knows or has reasonable cause to believe resulted from
an offense of violence.
   (C)   No person who discovers the body or acquires the first knowledge of
the death of a person shall fail to report the death immediately to a physician
or advanced practice registered nurse whom the person knows to be treating the
deceased for a condition from which death at such time would not be unexpected,
or to a law enforcement officer, an ambulance service, an emergency squad, or
the coroner in a political subdivision in which the body is discovered, the
death is believed to have occurred, or knowledge concerning the death is
obtained. For purposes of this division, “advanced practice registered nurse”
does not include a certified registered nurse anesthetist.
   (D)   No person shall fail to provide upon request of the person to whom a
report required by division (C) of this section was made, or to any law
enforcement officer who has reasonable cause to assert the authority to
investigate the circumstances surrounding the death, any facts within his or
her knowledge that may have a bearing on the investigation of the death.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section, BURN INJURY means any of the following:
         (a)   Second or third degree burns;
         (b)   Any burns to the upper respiratory tract or laryngeal edema due
to the inhalation of super-heated air;
         (c)   Any burn injury or wound that may result in death;
         (d)   Any physical harm to persons caused by or as the result of the
use of fireworks, novelties and trick noisemakers, and wire sparklers, as each
is defined by R.C. § 3743.01.
      (2)   No physician, nurse, physician assistant, or limited practitioner
who, outside a hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility, attends or
treats a person who has sustained a burn injury inflicted by an explosion or
other incendiary device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a
violent, malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury
immediately to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the
jurisdiction in which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local
law enforcement authorities.
      (3)   No manager, superintendent, or other person in charge of a
hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility in which a person is attended
or treated for any burn injury inflicted by an explosion or other incendiary
device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a violent,
malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury immediately
to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the jurisdiction in
which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local law enforcement
authorities.
      (4)   No person who is required to report any burn injury under division
(E)(2) or (E)(3) of this section shall fail to file, within three working days
after attending or treating the victim, a written report of the burn injury
with the office of the State Fire Marshal. The report shall be made on a form
provided by the State Fire Marshal.
      (5)   Anyone participating in the making of reports under division (E) of
this section or anyone participating in a judicial proceeding resulting from
the reports is immune from any civil or criminal liability that otherwise might
be incurred or imposed as a result of such actions. Notwithstanding R.C. §
4731.22, the physician-patient relationship or advanced practice registered
nurse-patient relationship is not a ground for excluding evidence regarding a
person’s burn injury or the cause of the burn injury in any judicial proceeding
resulting from a report submitted under division (E) of this section.
   (F)   (1)   Any doctor of medicine or osteopathic medicine, hospital intern
or resident, nurse, psychologist, social worker, independent social worker,
social work assistant, licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed
professional counselor, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage
and family therapist who knows or has reasonable cause to believe that a
patient or client has been the victim of domestic violence, as defined in R.C.
§ 3113.31, shall note that knowledge or belief and the basis for it in the
patient’s or client’s records.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4731.22, the physician-patient privilege or
advanced practice registered nurse-patient privilege shall not be a ground for
excluding any information regarding the report containing the knowledge or
belief noted under division (F)(1) of this section, and the information may be
admitted as evidence in accordance with the Rules of Evidence.
   (G)   Division (A) or (D) of this section does not require disclosure of
information, when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The information is privileged by reason of the relationship between
attorney and client; physician and patient; advanced practice registered nurse
and patient; licensed psychologist or licensed school psychologist and client;
licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed professional counselor,
independent social worker, social worker, independent marriage and family
therapist, or marriage and family therapist and client; member of the clergy,
rabbi, minister, or priest and any person communicating information
confidentially to the member of the clergy, rabbi, minister, or priest for a
religious counseling purpose of a professional character; husband and wife; or
a communications assistant and those who are a party to a telecommunications
relay service call.
      (2)   The information would tend to incriminate a member of the actor’s
immediate family.
      (3)   Disclosure of the information would amount to revealing a news
source, privileged under R.C. § 2739.04 or 2739.12.
      (4)   Disclosure of the information would amount to disclosure by a
member of the ordained clergy of an organized religious body of a confidential
communication made to him or her in his or her capacity as such by a person
seeking his or her aid or counsel.
      (5)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of his or her duties in connection with a bona fide program
of treatment or services for drug dependent persons or persons in danger of
drug dependence, which program is maintained or conducted by a hospital,
clinic, person, agency, or community addiction services provider whose alcohol
and drug addiction services are certified pursuant to R.C. § 5119.36.
      (6)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of his or her duties in connection with a bona fide program
for providing counseling services to victims of crimes that are violations of
R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.05, or to victims of felonious sexual penetration in
violation of former R.C. § 2907.12. As used in this division, “counseling
services” include services provided in an informal setting by a person who, by
education or experience, is competent to provide such services.
   (H)   No disclosure of information pursuant to this section gives rise to
any liability or recrimination for a breach of privilege or confidence.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of
failure to report a crime. Violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Violation of division (A)(2) or (B) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of
failure to report knowledge of a death, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (K)   (1)   Whoever negligently violates division (E) of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever knowingly violates division (E) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (L)   As used in this section, NURSE includes an advanced practice
registered nurse, registered nurse, and licensed practical nurse.
(R.C. § 2921.22) (Prior Code, § 606.12)
§ 136.05 FAILURE TO AID A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall negligently fail or refuse to aid a law enforcement
officer, when called upon for assistance in preventing or halting the
commission of an offense, or in apprehending or detaining an offender, when the
aid can be given without a substantial risk of physical harm to the person
giving it.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to aid a law
enforcement officer, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2921.23) (Prior Code, § 606.13)
§ 136.06 OBSTRUCTING OFFICIAL BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so and with purpose to prevent,
obstruct, or delay the performance by a public official of any authorized act
within the public official’s official capacity, shall do any act that hampers
or impedes a public official in the performance of the public official’s lawful
duties.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing official
business. Except as otherwise provided in this division, obstructing official
business is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If a violation of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, obstructing official business is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.31) (Prior Code, § 606.14)
§ 136.07 OBSTRUCTING JUSTICE.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to hinder the discovery, apprehension,
prosecution, conviction, or punishment of another for crime, or to assist
another to benefit from the commission of a crime, and no person, with purpose
to hinder the discovery, apprehension, prosecution, adjudication as a
delinquent child, or disposition of a child for an act that if committed by an
adult would be a crime or to assist a child to benefit from the commission of
an act that if committed by an adult would be a crime, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Harbor or conceal the other person or child.
      (2)   Provide the other person or child with money, transportation, a
weapon, a disguise, or other means of avoiding discovery or apprehension.
      (3)   Warn the other person or child of impending discovery or
apprehension.
      (4)   Destroy or conceal physical evidence of the crime or act, or induce
any person to withhold testimony or information or to elude legal process
summoning him or her to testify or supply evidence.
      (5)   Communicate false information to any person.
      (6)   Prevent or obstruct any person, by means of force, intimidation, or
deception, from performing any act to aid in the discovery, apprehension, or
prosecution of the other person or child.
   (B)   A person may be prosecuted for, and may be convicted of or adjudicated
a delinquent child for committing, a violation of division (A) of this section
regardless of whether the person or child aided ultimately is apprehended for,
is charged with, is convicted of, pleads guilty to, or is adjudicated a
delinquent child for committing the crime or act the person or child aided
committed. The crime or act the person or child aided committed shall be used
under division (C) of this section in determining the penalty for violation of
division (A) of this section, regardless of whether the person or child aided
ultimately is apprehended for, is charge with, is convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or is adjudicated a delinquent child for committing the crime or act the
person or child aided committed.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing justice.
      (1)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a misdemeanor or if
the act committed by the child aided would be a misdemeanor if committed by an
adult, obstructing justice is a misdemeanor of the same degree as the crime
committed by the person aided or a misdemeanor of the same degree that the act
committed by the child aided would be if committed by an adult.
      (2)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a felony or if the
act committed by the child aided would be a felony if committed by an adult, or
if the crime or act committed by the person or child aided is an act of
terrorism, obstructing justice is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      ACT OF TERRORISM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.21.
      ADULT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
      CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
      DELINQUENT CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
(R.C. § 2921.32) (Prior Code, § 606.15)
§ 136.08 RESISTING ARREST.
   (A)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of himself, herself or another.
   (B)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person and, during the course of or as a
result of the resistance or interference, cause physical harm to a law
enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person if either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The offender, during the course of or as a result of the resistance
or interference, recklessly causes physical harm to a law enforcement officer
by means of a deadly weapon; or
      (2)   The offender, during the course of the resistance or interference,
brandishes a deadly weapon.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of resisting arrest. A
violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, DEADLY WEAPON has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2923.11.
(R.C. § 2921.33) (Prior Code, § 606.16)
Statutory reference:
   Unlawful taking of deadly weapon from a law enforcement officer, felony
offense, see R.C. § 2911.01
§ 136.09 HAVING AN UNLAWFUL INTEREST IN A PUBLIC CONTRACT.
   (A)   No public official shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Authorize or employ the authority of the public official’s office
to secure authorization of any public contract in which the public official, a
member of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s
business associates has an interest.
      (2)   Authorize or employ the authority or influence of the public
official’s office to secure the investment of public funds in any share, bond,
mortgage, or other security with respect to which the public official, a member
of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates either has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any
brokerage, origination, or servicing fees.
      (3)   During the public official’s term of office or within one year
thereafter, occupy any position of profit in the prosecution of a public
contract authorized by the public official or by a legislative body,
commission, or board of which the public official was a member at the time of
authorization, unless the contract was let by competitive bidding to the lowest
and best bidder.
      (4)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
entered into by or for the use of the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality with which the public official is connected.
      (5)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
that is not let by competitive bidding when required by law, and that involves
more than $150.
   (B)   In the absence of bribery or a purpose to defraud, a public official,
member of a public official’s family, or any of a public official’s business
associates shall not be considered as having an interest in a public contract
or the investment of public funds, if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The interest of that person is limited to owning or controlling
shares of the corporation, or being a creditor of the corporation or other
organization, that is the contractor on the public contract involved, or that
is the issuer of the security in which public funds are invested.
      (2)   The shares owned or controlled by that person do not exceed 5% of
the outstanding shares of the corporation, and the amount due that person as
creditor does not exceed 5% of the total indebtedness of the corporation or
other organization.
      (3)   That person, prior to the time the public contract is entered into,
files with the political subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality
involved, an affidavit giving that person’s exact status in connection with the
corporation or other organization.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a public contract in which a public
official, member of a public official’s family, or one of a public official’s
business associates has an interest, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The subject of the public contract is necessary supplies or
services for the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved.
      (2)   The supplies or services are unobtainable elsewhere for the same or
lower cost, or are being furnished to the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality as part of a continuing course of dealing established
prior to the public official’s becoming associated with the political
subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality involved.
      (3)   The treatment accorded the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality is either preferential to or the same as that
accorded other customers or clients in similar transactions.
      (4)   The entire transaction is conducted at arm’s length, with full
knowledge by the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved, of the interest of the public official, member of the
public official’s family, or business associate, and the public official takes
no part in the deliberations or decision of the political subdivision or
governmental agency or instrumentality with respect to the public contract.
   (D)   Division (A)(4) of this section does not prohibit participation by a
public employee in any housing program funded by public moneys if the public
employee otherwise qualifies for the program and does not use the authority or
influence of the public employee’s office or employment to secure benefits from
the program and if the moneys are to be used on the primary residence of the
public employee. Such participation does not constitute an unlawful interest in
a public contract in violation of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having an unlawful interest
in a public contract. Violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Violation of division
(A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (F)   It is not a violation of this section for a prosecuting attorney to
appoint assistants and employees in accordance with R.C. §§ 309.06 and
2921.421, or for a chief legal officer of a municipality or an official
designated as prosecutor in a municipality to appoint assistants and employees
in accordance with R.C. §§ 733.621 and 2921.421, or for a township law director
appointed under R.C. § 504.15 to appoint assistants and employees in accordance
with R.C. §§ 504.151 and 2921.421.
   (G)   Any public contract in which a public official, a member of the public
official’s family, or any of the public official’s business associates has an
interest in violation of this section is void and unenforceable. Any contract
securing the investment of public funds in which a public official, a member of
the public official’
   (H)   As used in this section:
      CHIEF LEGAL OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 733.621.
      PUBLIC CONTRACT. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The purchase or acquisition, or a contract for the purchase or
acquisition, of property or services by or for the use of the state or any of
its political subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either,
including the employment of an individual by the state, any of its political
subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either.
         (b)   A contract for the design, construction, alteration, repair, or
maintenance of any public property.
(R.C. § 2921.42) (Prior Code, § 606.17)
Statutory reference:
   Assistants and employees of Prosecutors, Law Directors, and Solicitors, see
R.C. § 2921.421
§ 136.10 SOLICITING OR RECEIVING IMPROPER COMPENSATION.
   (A)   No public servant shall knowingly solicit or accept and no person
shall knowingly promise or give to a public servant either of the following:
      (1)   Any compensation, other than as allowed by R.C. § 102.03(G), (H),
(I), or other provisions of law, to perform the public servant’s official
duties, to perform any other act or service in the public servant’s public
capacity, for the general performance of the duties of the public servant’s
public office or public employment, or as a supplement to the public servant’s
public compensation.
      (2)   Additional or greater fees or costs than are allowed by law to
perform the public servant’s official duties.
   (B)   No public servant for the public servant’s own personal or business
use and no person for the person’s own personal or business use or for the
personal or business use of a public servant or party official, shall solicit
or accept anything of value in consideration of either of the following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of employment.
   (C)   No person for the benefit of a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity shall coerce any contribution in consideration of either of the
following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of employment.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of soliciting improper
compensation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   A public servant who is convicted of a violation of this section is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of trust
in this state for a period of seven years from the date of conviction.
   (F)   Divisions (A), (B), and (C) of this section do not prohibit any person
from making voluntary contributions to a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity or prohibit a political party, campaign committee, legislative campaign
fund, political action committee or political contributing entity from
accepting voluntary contributions.
(R.C. § 2921.43) (Prior Code, § 606.18)
§ 136.11 DERELICTION OF DUTY.
   (A)   No law enforcement officer shall negligently do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to serve a lawful warrant without delay.
      (2)   Fail to prevent or halt the commission of an offense or to
apprehend an offender, when it is in the law enforcement officer’s power to do
so alone or with available assistance.
   (B)   No law enforcement, ministerial, or judicial officer shall negligently
fail to perform a lawful duty in a criminal case or proceeding.
   (C)   No officer, having charge of a detention facility, shall negligently
do any of the following:
      (1)   Allow the detention facility to become littered or unsanitary.
      (2)   Fail to provide persons confined in the detention facility with
adequate food, clothing, bedding, shelter, and medical attention.
      (3)   Fail to control an unruly prisoner, or to prevent intimidation of
or physical harm to a prisoner by another.
      (4)   Allow a prisoner to escape.
      (5)   Fail to observe any lawful and reasonable regulation for the
management of the detention facility.
   (D)   No public official shall recklessly create a deficiency, incur a
liability, or expend a greater sum than is appropriated by the Legislative
Authority for the use in any one year of the department, agency, or institution
with which the public official is connected.
   (E)   No public servant shall recklessly fail to perform a duty expressly
imposed by law with respect to the public servant’s office, or recklessly do
any act expressly forbidden by law with respect to the public servant’s office.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of dereliction of duty, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   Except as otherwise provided by law, a public servant who is a county
treasurer; county auditor; township fiscal officer; city auditor; city
treasurer; village fiscal officer; village clerk-treasurer; village clerk; in
the case of a municipal corporation having a charter that designates an officer
who, by virtue of the charter, has duties and functions similar to those of the
city or village officers referred to in this section, the officer so designated
by the charter; school district treasurer; fiscal officer of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; treasurer of a science, technology,
engineering, and mathematics school established under R.C. Chapter 3326; or
fiscal officer of a college-preparatory boarding school established under R.C.
Chapter 3328 and is convicted of or pleads guilty to dereliction of duty is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of trust
in this state for four years following the date of conviction or of entry of
the plea, and is not entitled to hold any public office until any repayment or
restitution required by the court is satisfied.
   (H)   As used in this section, PUBLIC SERVANT includes the following:
      (1)   An officer or employee of a contractor as defined in R.C. § 9.08;
      (2)   A fiscal officer employed by the operator of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314 or by the operator of a college-preparatory
boarding school established under R.C. Chapter 3328.
(R.C. § 2921.44) (Prior Code, § 606.19)
§ 136.12 INTERFERING WITH CIVIL RIGHTS.
   (A)   No public servant, under color of the public servant’s office,
employment, or authority, shall knowingly deprive, or conspire or attempt to
deprive any person of a constitutional or statutory right.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interfering with civil
rights, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.45) (Prior Code, § 606.20)
Statutory reference:
   Restraining or confining pregnant children or pregnant women, see R.C. §
2152.75(B) and R.C. § 2901.10
§ 136.13 ILLEGAL CONVEYANCE OF PROHIBITED ITEMS ONTO GROUNDS OF A DETENTION
FACILITY OR OTHER SPECIFIED GOVERNMENTAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly convey, or attempt to convey, onto the
grounds of a detention facility or of an institution, office building, or other
place that is under the control of the Department of Mental Health and
Addiction Services, the Department of Developmental Disabilities, the
Department of Youth Services, or the Department of Rehabilitation and
Correction, any of the following items:
      (1)   Any deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance, as defined in R.C. §
2923.11, or any part of or ammunition for use in such deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   Any drug of abuse, as defined in R.C. § 3719.011.
      (3)   Any intoxicating liquor, as defined in R.C. § 4301.01, except for
small amounts of wine for sacramental purposes when the person engaging in the
specified conduct is a cleric, as defined in R.C. § 2317.02.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who conveys
or attempts to convey an item onto the grounds of a detention facility or of an
institution, office building, or other place under the control of the
Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services, the Department of
Developmental Disabilities, the Department of Youth Services, or the Department
of Rehabilitation and Correction, with written authorization of the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution, office building, or other
place and in accordance with the written rules of the detention facility or the
institution, office building, or other place.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, to a prisoner who is temporarily released from confinement
for a work assignment, or to any patient in an institution under the control of
the Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services or the Department of
Developmental Disabilities, any item listed in division (A).
   (D)   No person shall knowingly deliver or attempt to deliver cash to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment.
   (E)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment a cellular telephone, two-way radio, or other
electronic communications device.
   (F)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(1)
of this section that the weapon or dangerous ordnance in question was being
transported in a motor vehicle for any lawful purpose, that it was not on the
actor’s person, and if the weapon or dangerous ordnance was a firearm, that it
was unloaded and was being carried in a closed package, box or case or in a
compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (C) of this
section that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by law from delivering the
item to the confined person, the child, the prisoner, or the patient and that
either of the following applies:
         (a)   The actor was permitted by the written rules of the detention
facility or the institution, office building, or other place to deliver the
item to the confined person or the patient.
         (b)   The actor was given written authorization by the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution, office building, or other
place to deliver the item to the confined person or the patient.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any item listed in division
(A)(1) of this section is guilty of illegal conveyance of weapons onto the
grounds of a specified governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any drug of abuse is guilty
of illegal conveyance of drugs of abuse onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any intoxicating liquor is
guilty of illegal conveyance of intoxicating liquor onto the grounds of a
specified governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of cash onto the grounds of a detention facility, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (D) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, illegal conveyance of cash onto
the grounds of a detention facility is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
illegal conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a detention
facility is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.36)
   (H)   The person in charge of a detention facility shall, on the grounds of
the detention facility, have the same power as a peace officer, as defined in
R.C. § 2935.01, to arrest a person who violates this section.
(R.C. § 2921.37)
(Prior Code, § 612.12)
Statutory reference:
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122
   Conveyance, possession, or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance
in a courthouse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.123
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
§ 136.14 FALSE REPORT OF CHILD ABUSE OR NEGLECT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause another person to make a false
report under R.C. § 2151.421(B) alleging that any person has committed an act
or omission that resulted in a child being an abused child as defined in R.C. §
2151.031 or a neglected child as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or causing a false
report of child abuse or child neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.14) (Prior Code, § 606.105)
§ 136.15 ASSAULTING POLICE DOG OR HORSE, OR ASSISTANCE DOG.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
a police dog or horse in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in
the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical harm
is caused or attempted.
      (2)   The police dog or horse is not assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical
harm is caused or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge that the dog
or horse is a police dog or horse.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike a police dog or horse;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at a police dog or horse;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct a police dog or horse, or interfere with
or obstruct a law enforcement officer who is being assisted by a police dog or
horse, in a manner that does any of the following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the law enforcement officer’s control of
the police dog or horse;
         (b)   Deprives the law enforcement officer of control of the police
dog or horse;
         (c)   Releases the police dog or horse from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the police dog or horse without
the consent of the law enforcement officer, including placing food or any other
object or substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the police dog or horse to
assist a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to a police dog or horse;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger a police dog or horse that at the time of the conduct is
assisting a law enforcement officer in the performance of the officer’s duties
or that the person knows is a police dog or horse.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
an assistance dog in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The dog is assisting or serving a blind, deaf or hearing impaired,
or mobility impaired person at the time the physical harm is caused or
attempted.
      (2)   The dog is not assisting or serving a blind, deaf or hearing
impaired, or mobility impaired person at the time the physical harm is caused
or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge that the dog is an
assistance dog.
   (D)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike an assistance dog;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at an assistance dog;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct an assistance dog, or interfere with or
obstruct a blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired person who is
being assisted or served by an assistance dog, in a manner that does any of the
following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the assisted or served person’s control of
the dog;
         (b)   Deprives the assisted or served person of control of the dog;
         (c)   Releases the dog from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the dog without the consent of the
assisted or served person, including placing food or any other object or
substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the dog to assist the
assisted or served person;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to an assistance dog;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger an assistance dog that at the time of the conduct is
assisting or serving a blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired
person or that the person knows is an assistance dog.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
assaulting a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, assaulting a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. If the violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse
other than death or serious physical harm, assaulting a police dog or horse is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death, assaulting a police
dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
harassing a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided this division,
harassing a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse but does not
result in its death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing a police dog
or horse is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in
serous physical harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death,
harassing a police dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
assaulting an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog other than death or
serious physical harm, assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the violation results in serious physical harm to the
assistance dog or results in its death, assaulting an assistance dog is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
harassing an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
harassing an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog but does not result in
the death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing an assistance dog is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the assistance dog or results in its death, harassing an assistance dog
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   In addition to any other sanctions or penalty imposed for the
offense under this section, R.C. Chapter 2929 or any other provision of the
Ohio Revised Code or this code, whoever violates division (A), (B), (C), or (D)
of this section is responsible for the payment of all of the following:
         (a)   Any veterinary bill or bill for medication incurred as a result
of the violation by the Police Department regarding a violation of division (A)
or (B) of this section or by the blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility
impaired person assisted or served by the assistance dog regarding a violation
of division (C) or (D) of this section;
         (b)   The cost of any damaged equipment that results from the
violation;
         (c)   If the violation did not result in the death of the police dog
or horse or the assistance dog that was the subject of the violation and if, as
a result of that dog or horse being the subject of the violation, the dog or
horse needs further training or retraining to be able to continue in the
capacity of a police dog or horse or an assistance dog, the cost of any further
training or retraining of that dog or horse by a law enforcement officer or by
the blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired person assisted or
served by the assistance dog;
         (d)   If the violation resulted in the death of the assistance dog
that was the subject of the violation or resulted in serious physical harm to
the police dog or horse or the assistance dog that was the subject of the
violation to the extent that the dog or horse needs to be replaced on either a
temporary or a permanent basis, the cost of replacing that dog or horse and of
any further training of a new police dog or horse or a new assistance dog by a
law enforcement officer or by the blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility
impaired person assisted or served by the assistance dog, which replacement or
training is required because of the death of or the serious physical harm to
the dog or horse that was the subject of the violation.
   (F)   This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian whose conduct
is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4741.
   (G)   This section only applies to an offender who knows or should know at
the time of the violation that the police dog or horse or assistance dog that
is the subject of a violation under this section is a police dog or horse or an
assistance dog.
   (H)   As used in this section:
      ASSISTANCE DOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      BLIND. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      MOBILITY IMPAIRED PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      PHYSICAL HARM. Means any injury, illness, or other psychological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
      POLICE DOG OR HORSE. Means a dog or horse that has been trained and may
be used to assist law enforcement officers in the performance of their official
duties.
      SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death.
         (b)   Any physical harm that causes permanent maiming or that involves
some temporary, substantial maiming.
         (c)   Any physical harm that causes acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering.
(R.C. § 2921.321) (Prior Code, § 642.08)
§ 136.16 DISCLOSURE OF CONFIDENTIAL PEACE OFFICER INFORMATION.
   (A)   No officer or employee of a law enforcement agency or court, or of the
clerk’s office of any court, shall disclose during the pendency of any criminal
case the home address of any peace officer, parole officer, prosecuting
attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or youth
services employee who is a witness or arresting officer in the case.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not prohibit a peace officer, parole
officer, prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional
employee, or youth services employee from disclosing the peace officer’s,
parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant prosecuting attorney’s,
correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s own home address, and
does not apply to any person who discloses the home address of a peace officer,
parole officer, prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney,
correctional employee, or youth services employee pursuant to a court-ordered
disclosure under division (C) of this section.
   (C)   The court in which any criminal case is pending may order the
disclosure of the home address of any peace officer, parole officer,
prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or
youth services employee who is a witness or arresting officer in the case, if
the court determines after a written request for the disclosure that good cause
exists for disclosing the home address of the peace officer, parole officer,
prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or
youth services employee.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of disclosure
of confidential information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2921.24)
   (E)   No judge of a court of record, or Mayor presiding over a Mayor’s
Court, shall order a peace officer, parole officer, prosecuting attorney,
assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or youth services
employee who is a witness in a criminal case, to disclose the peace officer’s,
parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant prosecuting attorney’s,
correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s home address during the
peace officer’s, parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant
prosecuting attorney’s, correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s
examination in the case unless the judge or Mayor determines that the defendant
has a right to the disclosure.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
      CORRECTIONAL EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 149.43.
      YOUTH SERVICES EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 149.43.
(R.C. § 2921.25)
§ 136.17 INTIMIDATION OF CRIME VICTIM OR WITNESS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly attempt to intimidate or hinder the victim
of a crime or delinquent act in the filing or prosecution of criminal charges
or a delinquent child action or proceeding, and no person shall knowingly
attempt to intimidate a witness to a criminal or delinquent act by reason of
the person being a witness to that act.
   (B)   No person, knowingly and by force or by unlawful threat of harm to any
person or property or by unlawful threat to commit any offense or calumny
against any person, shall attempt to influence, intimidate, or hinder any of
the following persons:
      (1)   The victim of a crime or delinquent act in the filing or
prosecution of criminal charges or a delinquent child action or proceeding;
      (2)   A witness to a criminal or delinquent act by reason of the person
being a witness to that act;
      (3)   An attorney by reason of the attorney’s involvement in any criminal
or delinquent child action or proceeding.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who is
attempting to resolve a dispute pertaining to the alleged commission of a
criminal offense, either prior to or subsequent to the filing of a complaint,
indictment, or information by participating in the arbitration, mediation,
compromise, settlement or conciliation of that dispute pursuant to an
authorization for arbitration, mediation, compromise, settlement, or
conciliation of a dispute of that nature that is conferred by any of the
following:
      (1)   A section of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (2)   The Rules of Criminal Procedure, the Rules of Superintendence for
Municipal Courts and County Courts, the Rules of Superintendence for Courts of
Common Pleas, or another rule adopted by the Ohio Supreme Court in accordance
with Ohio Constitution, Article IV, Section 5.
      (3)   A local rule of court, including but not limited to a local rule of
court that relates to alternative dispute resolution or other case management
programs and that authorizes the referral of disputes pertaining to the alleged
commission of certain types of criminal offenses to appropriate and available
arbitration, mediation, compromise, settlement or other conciliation programs.
      (4)   The order of a judge of a municipal court, county court, or court
of common pleas.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of intimidation of an
attorney, victim or witness in a criminal case. A violation of division (A) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. A violation of division (B)
of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, WITNESS means any person who has or claims to
have knowledge concerning a fact or facts concerning a criminal or delinquent
act, whether or not criminal or delinquent child charges are actually filed.
(R.C. § 2921.04)
Statutory reference:
   Retaliation, felony offense, see R.C. § 2921.05
§ 136.18 USING SHAM LEGAL PROCESS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      LAWFULLY ISSUED. Means adopted, issued, or rendered in accordance with
the United States Constitution, the Constitution of a state, and the applicable
statutes, rules, regulations and ordinances of the United States, a state, and
the political subdivisions of a state.
      POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS. Means municipal corporations, townships,
counties, school districts, and all other bodies corporate and politic that are
organized under state law and are responsible for governmental activities only
in geographical areas smaller than that of a state.
      SHAM LEGAL PROCESS. Means an instrument that meets all of the following
conditions:
         (a)   It is not lawfully issued.
         (b)   It purports to do any of the following:
            1.   To be a summons, subpoena, judgment, or order of a court, a
law enforcement officer, or a legislative, executive or administrative body.
            2.   To assert jurisdiction over or determine the legal or
equitable status, rights, duties, powers, or privileges of any person or
property.
            3.   To require or authorize the search, seizure, indictment,
arrest, trial, or sentencing of any person or property.
         (c)   It is designed to make another person believe that it is
lawfully issued.
      STATE. Means a state of the United States, including without limitation
the state legislature, the highest court of the state that has statewide
jurisdiction, the offices of all elected state officers, and all departments,
boards, offices, commissions, agencies, institutions, and other
instrumentalities of the state. The term does not include the political
subdivisions of the state.
   (B)   No person shall, knowing the sham legal process to be a sham legal
process, do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly issue, display, deliver, distribute, or otherwise use
sham legal process.
      (2)   Knowingly use sham legal process to arrest, detain, search or seize
any person or the property of another person.
      (3)   Knowingly commit or facilitate the commission of an offense using
sham legal process.
      (4)   Knowingly commit a felony by using sham legal process.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(1) or (B)
(2) of this section that the use of sham legal process was for a lawful
purpose.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using sham legal process. A
violation of division (B)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. A violation of division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the purpose of a violation of
division (B)(3) of this section is to commit or facilitate the commission of a
felony, a violation of division (B)(3) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (B)(4) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.52(A) - (D)) (Prior Code, § 606.27)
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability, see R.C. § 2921.52(E)
§ 136.19 MAKING FALSE ALLEGATION OF PEACE OFFICER MISCONDUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2935.01.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly file a complaint against a peace officer
that alleges that the peace officer engaged in misconduct in the performance of
the officer’s duties if the person knows that the allegation is false.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of making a
false allegation of peace officer misconduct, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2921.15)
§ 136.20 MISUSE OF 9-1-1 SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, 9-1-1 SYSTEM means a system through which
individuals can request emergency service using the telephone number 9-1-1.
(R.C. § 128.01(A))
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use the telephone number of a 9-1-1 system
established under R.C. Chapter 128 to report an emergency if the person knows
that no emergency exists.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly use a 9-1-1 system for a purpose other than
obtaining emergency service.
   (D)   No person shall disclose or use any information concerning telephone
numbers, addresses, or names obtained from the database that serves the public
safety answering point of a 9-1-1 system established under R.C. Chapter 128,
except for any of the following purposes or under any of the following
circumstances:
      (1)   For the purpose of the 9-1-1 system;
      (2)   For the purpose of responding to an emergency call to an emergency
service provider;
      (3)   In the circumstance of the inadvertent disclosure of such
information due solely to technology of the wireless telephone network portion
of the 9-1-1 system not allowing access to the database to be restricted to 9-
1-1 specific answering lines at a public safety answering point;
      (4)   In the circumstance of access to a database being given by a
telephone company that is a wireless service provider to a public utility or
municipal utility in handling customer calls in times of public emergency or
service outages. The charge, terms, and conditions for the disclosure or use of
such information for the purpose of such access to a database shall be subject
to the jurisdiction of the Steering Committee;
      (5)   In the circumstance of access to a database given by a telephone
company that is a wireline service provider to a state and local government in
warning of a public emergency, as determined by the Steering Committee. The
charge, terms and conditions for the disclosure or use of that information for
the purpose of access to a database is subject to the jurisdiction of the
Steering Committee.
(R.C. § 128.32(E) - (G))
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 128.99(A), (B))
(Prior Code, § 606.29)
§ 136.21 FAILURE TO DISCLOSE PERSONAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   No person who is in a public place shall refuse to disclose the
person’s name, address, or date of birth, when requested by a law enforcement
officer who reasonably suspects either of the following:
      (1)   The person is committing, has committed, or is about to commit a
criminal offense.
      (2)   The person witnessed any of the following:
         (a)   An offense of violence that would constitute a felony under the
laws of this state;
         (b)   A felony offense that causes or results in, or creates a
substantial risk of, serious physical harm to another person or property;
         (c)   Any attempt or conspiracy to commit, or complicity in
committing, any offenses identified in division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this
section;
         (d)   Any conduct reasonably indicating that any offense identified in
division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this section or any attempt, conspiracy, or
complicity described in division (A)(2)(c) of this section has been, is being,
or is about to be committed.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of failure to
disclose one’s personal information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (C)   Nothing in division (A) of this section requires a person to answer
any questions beyond that person’
   (D)   It is not a violation of division (A) of this section to refuse to
answer a question that would reveal a person’s age or date of birth if age is
an element of the crime that the person is suspected of committing.
(R.C. § 2921.29)
   (E)   No person entering an airport, train station, port, or other similar
critical transportation infrastructure site shall refuse to show identification
when requested by a law enforcement officer when there is a threat to security
and the law enforcement officer is requiring identification of all persons
entering the site.
   (F)   A law enforcement officer may prevent any person who refuses to show
identification when asked under the circumstances described in division (E) of
this section from entering the critical transportation infrastructure site.
(R.C. § 2909.31)
(Prior Code, § 606.28)
§ 136.22 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWFUL ORDER OF POLICE OFFICER; FLEEING.
   (A)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any police officer invested with authority to direct, control or regulate
traffic.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle so as willfully to elude or
flee a police officer after receiving a visible or audible signal from a police
officer to bring the person’s motor vehicle to a stop.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to comply
with an order or signal of a police officer.
      (2)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (C)(4) and (C)(5) of this section,
a violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (C)(5) of this section, a violation
of division (B) of this section is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier of fact finds by proof
beyond a reasonable doubt that in committing the offense, the offender was
fleeing immediately after the commission of a felony.
      (5)   (a)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier
of fact finds any of the following by proof beyond a reasonable doubt:
            1.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender was a
proximate cause of serious physical harm to persons or property.
            2.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender caused a
substantial risk of serious physical harm to persons or property.
         (b)   If a police officer pursues an offender who is violating
division (B) of this section and division (C)(5)(a) of this section applies,
the sentencing court, in determining the seriousness of an offender’s conduct
for purposes of sentencing the offender for a violation of division (B) of this
section, shall consider, along with the factors set forth in R.C. §§ 2929.12
and 2929.13 that are required to be considered, all of the following:
            1.   The duration of the pursuit;
            2.   The distance of the pursuit;
            3.   The rate of speed at which the offender operated the motor
vehicle during the pursuit;
            4.   Whether the offender failed to stop for traffic lights or stop
signs during the pursuit;
            5.   The number of traffic lights or stop signs for which the
offender failed to stop during the pursuit;
            6.   Whether the offender operated the motor vehicle during the
pursuit without lighted lights during a time when lighted lights are required;
            7.   Whether the offender committed a moving violation during the
pursuit;
            8.   The number of moving violations the offender committed during
the pursuit;
            9.   Any other relevant factors indicating that the offender’s
conduct is more serious than conduct normally constituting the offense.
   (D)   In addition to any other sanction imposed for a violation of division
(A) of this section or a misdemeanor violation of division (B) of this section,
the court shall impose a class five suspension from the range specified in R.C.
§ 4510.02(A)(5). If the offender previously has been found guilty of an offense
under this section or under R.C. § 2921.331 or any other substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, in addition to any other sanction imposed for
the offense, the court shall impose a class one suspension as described in R.C.
§ 4510.02(A)(1). The court may grant limited driving privileges to the offender
on a suspension imposed for a misdemeanor violation of this section as set
forth in R.C. § 4510.021. No judge shall suspend any portion of the suspension
under a class one suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege
required by this division.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MOVING VIOLATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2743.70.
      POLICE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F)) (Prior Code, § 606.165)
CHAPTER 137: WEAPONS CONTROL
Section
   
137.01   Definitions
   
137.02   Carrying concealed weapons
   
137.03   Using weapons while intoxicated
   
137.04   Improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle
   
137.05   Possessing criminal tools
   
137.06   Failure to secure dangerous ordnance
   
137.07   Unlawful transactions in weapons
   
137.08   Underage purchase of firearm or handgun
   
137.09   Pointing and discharging firearms and other weapons
   
137.10   License or permit to possess dangerous ordnance
   
137.11   Possession of an object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school
safety zone
   
137.12   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention
   
137.13   Concealed handgun licenses: possession of a revoked or suspended
license; additional restrictions; posting of signs prohibiting possession
   
137.14   Defaced firearms
   
137.15   Exceptions to chapter
Statutory reference:
   Return of surrendered firearms by law enforcement, see R.C. § 2923.163
§ 137.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE DUTY. Has the same meaning as defined in 10 U.S.C. § 101.
   ALIEN REGISTRATION NUMBER. The number issued by the United States
Citizenship and Immigration Services Agency that is located on the alien’s
permanent resident card and may also be commonly referred to as the “USCIS
number” or the “alien number”.
   AUTOMATIC FIREARM. Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a
succession of cartridges with a single function of the trigger.
   BALLISTIC KNIFE. A knife with a detachable blade that is propelled by a
spring-operated mechanism.
   CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED HANDGUN.
      (1)   Means, subject to division (2) of this definition, a license or
temporary emergency license to carry a concealed handgun issued under R.C. §
2923.125 or R.C. § 2923.1213 or a license to carry a concealed handgun issued
by another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
      (2)   A reference in any provision of this Code to a concealed handgun
license issued under R.C. § 2923.125 or a license to carry a concealed handgun
issued under R.C. § 2923.125 means only a license of the type that is specified
in that section. A reference in any provision of this Code to a concealed
handgun license issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, a license to carry a concealed
handgun issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, or a license to carry a concealed
handgun on a temporary emergency basis means only a license of the type that is
specified in R.C. § 2923.1213. A reference in any provision of this Code to a
concealed handgun license issued by another state or a license to carry a
concealed handgun issued by another state means only a license issued by
another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
      (1)   Any of the following, except as provided in division (2) of this
definition:
         (a)   Any automatic or sawed-off firearm, zip-gun, or ballistic knife.
         (b)   Any explosive device or incendiary device.
         (c)   Nitroglycerin, nitrocellulose, nitrostarch, PETN, cyclonite,
TNT, picric acid, and other high explosives; amatol, tritonal, tetrytol,
pentolite, pecretol, cyclotol, and other high explosive compositions; plastic
explosives; dynamite, blasting gelatin, gelatin dynamite, sensitized ammonium
nitrate, liquid-oxygen blasting explosives, blasting powder, and other blasting
agents; and any other explosive substance having sufficient brisance or power
to be particularly suitable for use as a military explosive, or for use in
mining, quarrying, excavating, or demolitions.
         (d)   Any firearm, rocket launcher, mortar, artillery piece, grenade,
mine, bomb, torpedo, or similar weapon, designed and manufactured for military
purposes, and the ammunition for that weapon.
         (e)   Any firearm muffler or suppressor.
         (f)   Any combination of parts that is intended by the owner for use
in converting any firearm or other device into a dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   The term does not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any firearm, including a military weapon and the ammunition for
that weapon, and regardless of its actual age, that employs a percussion cap or
other obsolete ignition system, or that is designed and safe for use only with
black powder.
         (b)   Any pistol, rifle, or shotgun, designed or suitable for sporting
purposes, including a military weapon as issued or as modified, and the
ammunition for that weapon, unless the firearm is an automatic or sawed-off
firearm.
         (c)   Any cannon or other artillery piece that, regardless of its
actual age, is of a type in accepted use prior to 1887, has no mechanical,
hydraulic, pneumatic, or other system for absorbing recoil and returning the
tube into battery without displacing the carriage, and is designed and safe for
use only with black powder.
         (d)   Black powder, priming quills, and percussion caps possessed and
lawfully used to fire a cannon of a type defined in division (2)(c) of this
definition during displays, celebrations, organized matches or shoots, and
target practice, and smokeless and black powder, primers, and percussion caps
possessed and lawfully used as a propellant or ignition device in small-arms or
small-arms ammunition.
         (e)   Dangerous ordnance that is inoperable or inert and cannot
readily be rendered operable or activated, and that is kept as a trophy,
souvenir, curio, or museum piece.
         (f)   Any device that is expressly excepted from the definition of a
destructive device pursuant to the Gun Control Act of 1968, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)
(4), as amended, and regulations issued under that act.
         (g)   Any firearm with an overall length of at least 26 inches that is
approved for sale by the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and
Explosives under the Gun Control Act of 1968, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)
(3), but that is found by the Bureau not to be regulated under the National
Firearms Act, 68A Stat. 725 (1934), 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   DEADLY WEAPON. Any instrument, device, or thing capable of inflicting death,
and designed or specially adapted for use as a weapon, or possessed, carried,
or used as a weapon.
   EXPLOSIVE. Any chemical compound, mixture, or device, the primary or common
purpose of which is to function by explosion. The term includes all materials
that have been classified as division 1.1, division 1.2, division 1.3, or
division 1.4 explosives by the United States Department of Transportation in
its regulations and includes but is not limited to dynamite, black powder,
pellet powders, initiating explosives, blasting caps, electric blasting caps,
safety fuses, fuse igniters, squibs, cordeau detonant fuses, instantaneous
fuses, and igniter cords and igniters. The term does not include “fireworks”,
as defined in R.C. § 3743.01, or any substance or material otherwise meeting
the definition of explosive set forth in this section that is manufactured,
sold, possessed, transported, stored, or used in any activity described in R.C.
§ 3743.80, provided the activity is conducted in accordance with all applicable
laws, rules, and regulations, including but not limited to the provisions of
R.C. § 3743.80 and the rules of the Fire Marshal adopted pursuant to R.C. §
3737.82.
   EXPLOSIVE DEVICE. Any device designed or specially adapted to cause physical
harm to persons or property by means of an explosion, and consisting of an
explosive substance or agency and a means to detonate it. The term includes
without limitation any bomb, any explosive demolition device, any blasting cap
or detonator containing an explosive charge, and any pressure vessel that has
been knowingly tampered with or arranged so as to explode.
   FIREARM.
      (1)   Any deadly weapon capable of expelling or propelling one or more
projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible propellant. The term
includes an unloaded firearm, and any firearm that is inoperable but that can
readily be rendered operable.
      (2)   When determining whether a firearm is capable of expelling or
propelling one or more projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible
propellant, the trier of fact may rely upon circumstantial evidence, including
but not limited to the representations and actions of the individual exercising
control over the firearm.
   HANDGUN. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm that has a short stock and is designed to be held and
fired by the use of a single hand;
      (2)   Any combination of parts from which a firearm of a type described
in division (1) of this definition can be assembled.
   INCENDIARY DEVICE. Any firebomb, and any device designed or specially
adapted to cause physical harm to persons or property by means of fire, and
consisting of an incendiary substance or agent and a means to ignite it.
   MISDEMEANOR PUNISHABLE BY IMPRISONMENT FOR A TERM EXCEEDING ONE YEAR. The
phrase does not include any of the following:
      (1)   Any federal or state offense pertaining to antitrust violations,
unfair trade practices, restraints of trade, or other similar offenses relating
to the regulation of business practices;
      (2)   Any misdemeanor offense punishable by a term of imprisonment of two
years or less.
   SAWED-OFF FIREARM. A shotgun with a barrel less than 18 inches long, or a
rifle with a barrel less than 16 inches long, or a shotgun or rifle less than
26 inches long overall. “Sawed-off firearm” does not include any firearm with
an overall length of at least 26 inches that is approved for sale by the
Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives under the “Gun
Control Act of 1968", 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(3), but that is found
by the Bureau not to be regulated under the “National Firearms Act”, 68A Stat.
725 (1934), 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   SEMI-AUTOMATIC FIREARM. Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a
single cartridge and automatically chamber a succeeding cartridge ready to
fire, with a single function of the trigger.
   VALID CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or VALID LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED
HANDGUN. A concealed handgun license that is currently valid, that is not under
a suspension under R.C. § 2923.128(A)(1), under R.C. § 2923.1213, or under a
suspension provision of the state other than this state in which the license
was issued, and that has not been revoked under R.C. § 2923.128(B)(1), under
R.C. § 2923.1213, or under a revocation provision of the state other than this
state in which the license was issued.
   ZIP-GUN. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm of crude and extemporized manufacture.
      (2)   Any device, including without limitation a starter’s pistol, not
designed as a firearm, but that is specially adapted for use as a firearm.
      (3)   Any industrial tool, signaling device, or safety device, not
designed as a firearm, but that as designed is capable of use as such, when
possessed, carried, or used as a firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.11) (Prior Code, § 672.01)
§ 137.02 CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly carry or have, concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand, any of the following:
      (1)   A deadly weapon other than a handgun;
      (2)   A handgun other than a dangerous ordnance;
      (3)   A dangerous ordnance.
   (B)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license shall do any
of the following:
      (1)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose, and is
carrying a concealed handgun, fail to promptly inform any law enforcement
officer who approaches the person after the person has been stopped that the
person has been issued a concealed handgun license and that the person then is
carrying a concealed handgun;
      (2)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight at any time after any law enforcement officer begins approaching
the person while stopped and before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless
the failure is pursuant to and in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer;
      (3)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose, if the
person is carrying a concealed handgun, and if the person is approached by any
law enforcement officer while stopped, knowingly remove or attempt to remove
the loaded handgun from the holster, pocket, or other place in which the person
is carrying it, knowingly grasp or hold the loaded handgun, or knowingly have
contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with the person’s hands or
fingers at any time after the law enforcement officer begins approaching and
before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the person removes, attempts
to remove, grasps, holds, or has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to
and in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer;
      (4)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any
lawful order of any law enforcement officer given while the person is stopped,
including but not limited to a specific order to the person to keep the
person’s hands in plain sight.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or to a law enforcement officer, who is authorized to carry
concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry handguns and
is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry
handguns, and who is subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C.
§ 109.801, unless the appointing authority of the person has expressly
specified that the exemption provided in this division (C)(1)(b) does not apply
to the person;
         (c)   A person’s transportation or storage of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in a motor vehicle for any
lawful purpose if the firearm is not on the actor’s person;
         (d)   A person’s storage or possession of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in the actor’s own home for any
lawful purpose.
      (2)   Division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any person who,
at the time of the alleged carrying or possession of a handgun, either is
carrying a valid concealed handgun license or is an active duty member of the
armed forces of the United States and is carrying a valid military
identification card and documentation of successful completion of firearms
training that meets or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. §
2923.125(G)(1), unless the person knowingly is in a place described in R.C. §
2923.126(B).
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(1) of this
section of carrying or having control of a weapon other than a handgun and
other than a dangerous ordnance, that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by
law from having the weapon, and that any of the following applies:
      (1)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in or was going to or from the
actor’s lawful business or occupation, which business or occupation was of a
character or was necessarily carried on in a manner or at a time or place as to
render the actor particularly susceptible to criminal attack, such as would
justify a prudent person in going armed.
      (2)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in a lawful activity and had
reasonable cause to fear a criminal attack upon the actor, a member of the
actor’s family, or the actor’s home, such as would justify a prudent person in
going armed.
      (3)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for any
lawful purpose and while in the actor’s own home.
   (E)   No person who is charged with a violation of this section shall be
required to obtain a concealed handgun license as a condition for the dismissal
of the charge.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of carrying concealed
weapons. Except as otherwise provided in this division or divisions (F)(2), (F)
(6), and (F)(7) of this section, carrying concealed weapons in violation of
division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Except as
otherwise provided in this division or divisions (F)(2), (F)(6), and (F)(7) of
this section, if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance
or of any offense of violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is
either loaded or for which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the
weapon involved is dangerous ordnance, carrying concealed weapons in violation
of division (A) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in divisions (F)(2), (F)(6), and (F)(7)
of this section, if the offense is committed aboard an aircraft, or with
purpose to carry a concealed weapon aboard an aircraft, regardless of the
weapon involved, carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (A) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (F)(6) of this section, if a person
being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) of this section promptly
produces a valid concealed handgun license, and if at the time of the violation
the person was not knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B), the
officer shall not arrest the person for a violation of that division. If the
person is not able to promptly produce any concealed handgun license and if the
person is not in a place described in that section, the officer may arrest the
person for a violation of that division, and the offender shall be punished as
follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor if both of
the following apply:
            1.   Within ten days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license, which license was valid at the time of the arrest to
the law enforcement agency that employs the arresting officer.
            2.   At the time of the arrest, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         (b)   The offender shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
$500 if all of the following apply:
            1.   The offender previously had been issued a concealed handgun
license, and that license expired within the two years immediately preceding
the arrest.
            2.   Within 45 days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license to the law enforcement agency that employed the
arresting officer, and the offender waives in writing the offender’s right to a
speedy trial on the charge of the violation that is provided in R.C. § 2945.71.
            3.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
not knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         (c)   If divisions (F)(2)(a) and (F)(2)(b) and (F)(6) of this section
do not apply, the offender shall be punished under division (F)(1) or (F)(7) of
this section.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, carrying concealed
weapons in violation of division (B)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree, and, in addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a
violation of division (B)(1) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). If, at the time
of the stop of the offender for a law enforcement purpose that was the basis of
the violation, any law enforcement officer involved with the stop had actual
knowledge that the offender has been issued a concealed handgun license,
carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(1) of this section is a
minor misdemeanor, and the offender’s concealed handgun license shall not be
suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2).
      (4)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(2) or (B)
(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In
addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of division (B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2).
      (5)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(3) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (6)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) of
this section is an active duty m ember of the armed forces of the United States
and is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), and if at the time of the
violation the person was not knowingly in a place described in R.C. 2923.126
(B), the officer shall not arrest the person for a violation of that division.
If the person is not able to promptly produce a valid military identification
card and documentation of successful completion of firearms training that meets
or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) and if
the person is not in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B), the officer shall
issue a citation and the offender shall be assessed a civil penalty of not more
than $500. The citation shall be automatically dismissed and the civil penalty
shall not be assessed if both of the following apply:
         (a)   Within ten days after the issuance of the citation, the offender
presents a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), which were both valid at the time of the
issuance of the citation to the law enforcement agency that employs the citing
officer.
         (b)   At the time of the citation, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (7)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) of
this section is knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B)(5) and is
not authorized to carry a handgun or have a handgun concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand under that division, the penalty shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person
produces a valid concealed handgun license within ten days after the arrest and
has not previously been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a minor misdemeanor;
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (A)
(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division
(A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree;
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of
division (A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, or convicted of or pleaded guilty to any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is a
dangerous ordnance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   If a law enforcement officer stops a person to question the person
regarding a possible violation of this section, for a traffic stop, or for any
other law enforcement purpose, if the person surrenders a firearm to the
officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the officer,
and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this section
or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise prohibited by
law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not contraband, the officer
shall return the firearm to the person at the termination of the stop. If a
court orders a law enforcement officer to return a firearm to a person pursuant
to the requirement set forth in this division, R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, “deadly weapon” or “weapon” does not
include any knife, razor, or cutting instrument if the instrument was not used
as a weapon.
(R.C. § 2923.12) (Prior Code, § 672.02)
Statutory reference:
   Carrying concealed handguns, licensing through county sheriff, see R.C. §§
2923.124 et seq.
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122
   Conveyance, possession, or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance
in a courthouse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.123
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
   Possession of firearm in liquor permit premises, felony offense, see R.C. §
2923.121
§ 137.03 USING WEAPONS WHILE INTOXICATED.
   (A)   No person, while under the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse,
shall carry or use any firearm or dangerous ordnance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using weapons while
intoxicated, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.15) (Prior Code, § 672.03)
§ 137.04 IMPROPERLY HANDLING FIREARMS IN A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly discharge a firearm while in or on a motor
vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded firearm in a
motor vehicle in such a manner that the firearm is accessible to the operator
or any passenger without leaving the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a firearm in a motor
vehicle, unless the person may lawfully possess that firearm under applicable
law of this state or the United States, the firearm is unloaded, and the
firearm is carried in one of the following ways:
      (1)   In a closed package, box, or case.
      (2)   In a compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (3)   In plain sight and secured in a rack or holder made for the
purpose.
      (4)   If the firearm is at least 24 inches in overall length as measured
from the muzzle to the part of the stock furthest from the muzzle and if the
barrel is at least 18 inches in length, either in plain sight with the action
open or the weapon stripped, or, if the firearm is of a type on which the
action will not stay open or which cannot easily be stripped, in plain sight.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded handgun in a
motor vehicle if, at the time of that transportation or possession, any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them.
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains a concentration of alcohol, a listed controlled substance, or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance prohibited for persons operating a
vehicle, as specified in R.C. § 4511.19(A), regardless of whether the person at
the time of the transportation or possession as described in this division is
the operator of or a passenger in the motor vehicle.
   (E)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license or who is an
active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is carrying a
valid military identification card and documentation of successful completion
of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements described
in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), who is the driver or an occupant of a motor vehicle
that is stopped as a result of a traffic stop or a stop for another law
enforcement purpose or is the driver or an occupant of a commercial motor
vehicle that is stopped by an employee of the motor carrier enforcement unit
for the purposes defined in R.C. § 5503.34, and who is transporting or has a
loaded handgun in the motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle in any manner,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to promptly inform any law enforcement officer who approaches
the vehicle while stopped that the person has been issued a concealed handgun
license or is authorized to carry a concealed handgun as an active duty member
of the armed forces of the United States and that the person then possesses or
has a loaded handgun in the motor vehicle;
      (2)   Fail to promptly inform the employee of the unit who approaches the
vehicle while stopped that the person has been issued a concealed handgun
license or is authorized to carry a concealed handgun as an active duty member
of the armed forces of the United States and that the person then possesses or
has a loaded handgun in the commercial motor vehicle;
      (3)   Knowingly fail to remain in the motor vehicle while stopped, or
knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in plain sight at any time after any
law enforcement officer begins approaching the person while stopped and before
the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the failure is pursuant to and in
accordance with directions given by a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Knowingly have contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with
the person’s hands or fingers in the motor vehicle at any time after the law
enforcement officer begins approaching and before the law enforcement officer
leaves, unless the person has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to and
in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer.
      (5)   Knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any lawful order of any
law enforcement officer given while the motor vehicle is stopped, including but
not limited to a specific order to the person to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight.
   (F)   (1)   Divisions (A), (B), (C), and (E) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, when authorized to carry or have
loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles and acting within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry or have loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles, and who is
subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless
the appointing authority of the person has expressly specified that the
exemption provided in this division (F)(1)(b) does not apply to the person.
      (2)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following circumstances apply:
         (a)   The person discharges a firearm from a motor vehicle at a coyote
or groundhog, the discharge is not during the deer gun hunting season as set by
the Chief of the Division of Wildlife of the Department of Natural Resources,
and the discharge at the coyote or groundhog, but for the operation of this
section, is lawful.
         (b)   The motor vehicle from which the person discharges the firearm
is on real property that is located in an unincorporated area of a township and
that is either zoned for agriculture or is used for agriculture.
         (c)   The person owns the real property described in division (F)(2)
(b) of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that
real property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is
the spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real
property.
         (d)   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the
following manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, highway or other public or
private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including but not
limited to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (3)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following apply:
         (a)   The person possesses a valid all-purpose vehicle permit issued
under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of Wildlife.
         (b)   The person discharges a firearm at a wild quadruped or game bird
as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 during the open hunting season for the applicable
wild quadruped or game bird.
         (c)   The person discharges a firearm from a stationary all-purpose
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 from private or publicly owned lands or
from a motor vehicle that is parked on a road that is owned or administered by
the Division of Wildlife.
         (d)   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the
following manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, a highway, or other public or
private property that is used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including but not
limited to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (4)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following circumstances apply:
         (a)   At the time of the alleged violation of either of those
divisions, the person is the operator of or a passenger in a motor vehicle.
         (b)   The motor vehicle is on real property that is located in an
unincorporated area of a township and that is either zoned for agriculture or
is used for agriculture.
         (c)   The person owns the real property described in division (F)(4)
(b) of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that
real property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is
the spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real
property.
         (d)   The person, prior to arriving at the real property described in
division (F)(4)(b) of this section, did not transport or possess a firearm in
the motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (B) or (C) of this section
while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway or other public
or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking.
      (5)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person who
transports or possesses a handgun in a motor vehicle if, at the time of that
transportation or possession, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The person transporting or possessing the handgun is either
carrying a valid concealed handgun license or is an active duty member of the
armed forces of the United States and is carrying a valid military
identification card and documentation of successful completion of firearms
training that meets or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. §
2923.125(G)(1).
         (b)   The person transporting or possessing the handgun is not
knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (6)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person possesses a valid all-purpose vehicle permit issued
under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of Wildlife.
         (b)   The person is on or in an all-purpose vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 1531.01 or a motor vehicle during the open hunting season for a wild
quadruped or game bird.
         (c)   The person is on or in an all-purpose vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 1531.01 on private or publicly owned lands or on or in a motor vehicle that
is parked on a road that is owned or administered by the Division of Wildlife.
   (G)   (1)   The affirmative defenses authorized in R.C. § 2923.12(D)(1) and
(D)(2) are affirmative defenses to a charge under division (B) or (C) of this
section that involves a firearm other than a handgun.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B) or (C)
of this section of improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle that the
actor transported or had the firearm in the motor vehicle for any lawful
purpose and while the motor vehicle was on the actor’s own property, provided
that this affirmative defense is not available unless the person, immediately
prior to arriving at the actor’s own property, did not transport or possess the
firearm in a motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (B) or (C) of
this section while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway,
or other public or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic.
   (H)   (1)   No person who is charged with a violation of division (B), (C),
or (D) of this section shall be required to obtain a concealed handgun license
as a condition for the dismissal of the charge.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E) of this section as it
existed prior to September 30, 2011, and if the conduct that was the basis of
the violation no longer would be a violation of division (E) of this section on
or after September 30, 2011, the person may file an application under R.C. §
2953.37 requesting the expungement of the record of conviction.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty to,
or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) of this section as
the division existed prior to September 30, 2011, and if the conduct that was
the basis of the violation no longer would be a violation of division (B) or
(C) of this section on or after September 30, 2011, due to the application of
division (F)(5) of this section as it exists on and after September 30, 2011,
the person may file an application under R.C. § 2953.37 requesting the
expungement of the record of conviction.
   (I)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of improperly handling
firearms in a motor vehicle. Violation of division (A) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Violation of division (C)
of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of division
(D) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law
and, if the loaded handgun is concealed on the person’s person, it is also a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, a violation of division (E)(1) or (E)(2) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree, and, in addition to any other
penalty or sanction imposed for the violation, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). If at the time of
the stop of the offender for a traffic stop, for another law enforcement
purpose, or for a purpose defined in R.C. § 5503.34 that was the basis of the
violation any law enforcement officer involved with the stop or the employee of
the motor carrier enforcement unit who made the stop had actual knowledge of
the offender’s status as a licensee, a violation of division (E)(1) or (E)(2)
of this section is a minor misdemeanor, and the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall not be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). A violation
of division (E)(4) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. A violation of division (E)(3) or (E)(5) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)(3) or (E)(5) of
this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In addition to any other
penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation of division (E)(3) or
(E)(5) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun license shall be
suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). A violation of division (B) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (J)   If a law enforcement officer stops a motor vehicle for a traffic stop
or any other purpose, if any person in the motor vehicle surrenders a firearm
to the officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the
officer, and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this
section or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise
prohibited by law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not
contraband, the officer shall return the firearm to the person at the
termination of the stop. If a court orders a law enforcement officer to return
a firearm to a person pursuant to the requirement set forth in this division,
R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (K)   As used in this section:
      AGRICULTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 519.01.
      COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.25(A).
      HIGHWAY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      MOTOR CARRIER ENFORCEMENT UNIT. Means the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit
in the Department of Public Safety, Division of State Highway Patrol, that is
created by R.C. § 5503.34.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.01.
      STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      TENANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
      UNLOADED.
         (a)   With respect to a firearm other than a firearm described in
division (d) of this definition, means that no ammunition is in the firearm in
question, no magazine or speed loader containing ammunition is inserted into
the firearm, and one of the following applies:
            1.   There is no ammunition in a magazine or speed loader that is
in the vehicle in question and that may be used with the firearm in question.
            2.   Any magazine or speed loader that contains ammunition and that
may be used with the firearm in question is stored in a compartment within the
vehicle in question that cannot be accessed without leaving the vehicle or is
stored in a container that provides complete and separate enclosure.
         (b)   For the purposes of division (a)2. of this definition, a
“container that provides complete and separate enclosure” includes, but is not
limited to, any of the following:
            1.   A package, box, or case with multiple compartments, as long as
the loaded magazine or speed loader and the firearm in question either are in
separate compartments within the package, box, or case, or, if they are in the
same compartment, the magazine or speed loader is contained within a separate
enclosure in that compartment that does not contain the firearm and that closes
using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop closing mechanism, or other
fastener that must be opened to access the contents or the firearm is contained
within a separate enclosure of that nature in that compartment that does not
contain the magazine or speed loader;
            2.   A pocket or other enclosure on the person of the person in
question that closes using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop
closing mechanism, or other fastener that must be opened to access the
contents.
         (c)   For the purposes of divisions (a) and (b) of this definition,
ammunition held in stripper- clips or in en-bloc clips is not considered
ammunition that is loaded into a magazine or speed loader.
         (d)   “Unloaded” means, with respect to a firearm employing a
percussion cap, flintlock, or other obsolete ignition system, when the weapon
is uncapped or when the priming charge is removed from the pan.
   (L)   Divisions (a) and (b) of the definition of “unloaded” in division (K)
of this section do not affect the authority of a person who is carrying a valid
concealed handgun license to have one or more magazines or speed loaders
containing ammunition anywhere in a vehicle, without being transported as
described in those divisions, as long as no ammunition is in a firearm, other
than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as permitted under any other
provision of this chapter. A person who is carrying a valid concealed handgun
license may have one or more magazines or speed loaders containing ammunition
anywhere in a vehicle without further restriction, as long as no ammunition is
in a firearm, other than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as permitted
under any provision of this chapter.
(R.C. § 2923.16) (Prior Code, § 672.04)
Statutory reference:
   Return of surrendered firearms by law enforcement, see R.C. § 2923.163
§ 137.05 POSSESSING CRIMINAL TOOLS.
   (A)   No person shall possess or have under his or her control any
substance, device, instrument, or article, with purpose to use it criminally.
   (B)   Each of the following constitutes prima facie evidence of criminal
purpose:
      (1)   Possession or control of any dangerous ordnance, or the materials
or parts for making a dangerous ordnance, in the absence of circumstances
indicating the dangerous ordnance, materials or parts are intended for a
legitimate use.
      (2)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument, or
article designed or specially adapted for criminal use.
      (3)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument, or
article commonly used for criminal purposes, under circumstances indicating the
item is intended for criminal use.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing criminal tools.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, possessing criminal tools is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the circumstances indicate that the
substance, device, instrument, or article involved in the offense was intended
for use in the commission of a felony, possessing criminal tools is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.24) (Prior Code, § 672.13)
§ 137.06 FAILURE TO SECURE DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (A)   No person, in acquiring, possessing, carrying, or using any dangerous
ordnance, shall negligently fail to take proper precautions:
      (1)   To secure the dangerous ordnance against theft, or against its
acquisition or use by any unauthorized or incompetent person.
      (2)   To insure the safety of persons and property.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to a secure
dangerous ordnance, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.19) (Prior Code, § 672.06)
§ 137.07 UNLAWFUL TRANSACTIONS IN WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Recklessly sell, lend, give or furnish any firearm to any person
prohibited by R.C. § 2923.13 or 2923.15, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, from acquiring or using any firearm, or recklessly sell,
lend, give or furnish any dangerous ordnance to any person prohibited by R.C. §
2923.13, 2923.15 or 2923.17, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
from acquiring or using any dangerous ordnance;
      (2)   Possess any firearm or dangerous ordnance with purpose to dispose
of it in violation of division (A)(1) of this section;
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section,
knowingly solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a federally licensed firearms
dealer or private seller to transfer a firearm or ammunition to any person in a
manner prohibited by state or federal law;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section, with
an intent to deceive, knowingly provide materially false information to a
federally licensed firearms dealer or private seller;
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section,
knowingly procure, solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a person to act in
violation of division (A)(3) or (A)(4) of this section;
      (6)   When transferring any dangerous ordnance to another, negligently
fail to require the transferee to exhibit such identification, license, or
permit showing the transferee to be authorized to acquire dangerous ordnance
pursuant to R.C. § 2923.17, or negligently fail to take a complete record of
the transaction and forthwith forward a copy of the record to the sheriff of
the county or Safety Director or Police Chief of the municipality where the
transaction takes place;
      (7)   Knowingly fail to report to law enforcement authorities forthwith
the loss or theft of any firearm or dangerous ordnance in the person’s
possession and under his or her control.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(3), (A)(4), and (A)(5) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who is acting within the scope of the
officer’s duties;
      (2)   A person who is acting in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer described in division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful transactions in
weapons. A violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A
violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (A)(7) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      AMMUNITION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.401.
      FEDERALLY LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5502.63.
      MATERIALLY FALSE INFORMATION. Means information regarding the transfer of
a firearm or ammunition that portrays an illegal transaction as legal or a
legal transaction as illegal.
      PRIVATE SELLER. Means a person who sells, offers for sale, or transfers a
firearm or ammunition and who is not a federally licensed firearms dealer.
(R.C. § 2923.20) (Prior Code, § 672.07)
§ 137.08 UNDERAGE PURCHASE OF FIREARM OR HANDGUN.
   (A)   No person under 18 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a firearm.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a handgun; provided, that this division does not apply to the purchase or
attempted purchase of a handgun by a person 18 years of age or older and under
21 years of age if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is a law enforcement officer and has received firearms
training approved by the Ohio Peace Officer Training Council or equivalent
firearms training.
      (2)   The person is an active or reserve member of the armed services of
the United States or the Ohio National Guard, or was honorably discharged from
military service in the active or reserve armed services of the United States
or the Ohio National Guard, and the person has received firearms training from
the armed services or the national guard or equivalent firearms training.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of underage
purchase of a firearm, a delinquent act that would be a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law if it could be committed by an adult. Whoever
violates division (B) of this section is guilty of underage purchase of a
handgun, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.211) (Prior Code, § 672.085)
Statutory reference:
   Improperly furnishing firearms to a minor, felony, see R.C. § 2923.21
§ 137.09 POINTING AND DISCHARGING FIREARMS AND OTHER WEAPONS.
   (A)   Discharge of firearms on or near prohibited premises. No person shall
do any of the following:
      (1)   Without permission from the proper officials and subject to
division (B)(1) of this section, discharge a firearm upon or over a cemetery or
within 100 yards of a cemetery;
      (2)   Subject to division (B)(2) of this section, discharge of a firearm
on a lawn, park, pleasure ground, orchard, or other ground appurtenant to a
schoolhouse, church, or inhabited dwelling, the property of another, or a
charitable institution;
      (3)   Discharge a firearm upon or over a public road or highway.
   (B)   Application of division (A).
      (1)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
while on the person’s own land, discharges a firearm.
      (2)   Division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to a person who owns
any type of property described in that division and who, while on the person’s
own enclosure, discharges a firearm.
   (C)   Penalty for violation of division (A). Whoever violates division (A)
of this section is guilty of discharge of a firearm on or near prohibited
premises. A violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of division (A)(3) shall be
punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) of this section, a
violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   If the violation created a substantial risk of physical harm to any
person, caused serious physical harm to property, caused physical harm to any
person, or caused serious physical harm to any person, a violation of division
(A)(3) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.162) (Prior Code, § 672.095)
   (D)   Hunting near township park.
      (1)   No person shall hunt, shoot, or kill game within one-half mile of a
township park unless the Board of Township Park Commissioners has granted
permission to kill game not desired within the limits prohibited by this
division.
(R.C. § 3773.06)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 3773.99(A))
   (E)   Unlawful discharge. No person shall discharge any BB gun, air gun, or
firearm, or make use of any sling, bow and arrow, or crossbow, within the
corporate limits of the municipality.
   (F)   Unlawful pointing or aiming. No person shall, intentionally and
without malice, point or aim any BB gun, air gun, or firearm, or any sling, bow
and arrow, or crossbow at or toward another.
   (G)   Penalty for violations of division (E) or (F). Whoever violates
division (E) or (F) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
   (H)   Exceptions. This section shall not prohibit the firing of a military
salute or the firing of weapons by persons of the nation’s armed forces acting
under military authority, and shall not apply to law enforcement officials or
other government officials in the proper enforcement of the law, or to any
person in the proper exercise of the right of self defense, or to any person
otherwise lawfully permitted by proper federal, state or local authorities to
discharge a BB gun, air gun, or firearm, or to use a sling, bow and arrow, or
crossbow in a manner contrary to the provisions of this section. Division (E)
of this section does not extend to cases in which BB guns, air guns, or
firearms, or slings, bows and arrows, or crossbows are used in the confines of
structures or used within the confines of a person’s own property, provided
such use is under adult supervision and is approved by the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 672.09)
Statutory reference:
   Improperly discharging firearm at or into habitation or school safety zone,
felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.161
§ 137.10 LICENSE OR PERMIT TO POSSESS DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (A)   Upon application to the sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has the
applicant’s principal place of business, and upon payment of the fee specified
in division (B) of this section, a license or temporary permit shall be issued
to qualified applicants to acquire, possess, carry or use a dangerous ordnance
for the following purposes:
      (1)   Contractors, wreckers, quarriers, mine operators and other persons
regularly employing explosives in the course of a legitimate business, with
respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired, possessed, carried or
used in the course of such business.
      (2)   Farmers, with respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired,
possessed, carried or used for agricultural purposes on lands farmed by them.
      (3)   Scientists, engineers, and instructors, with respect to a dangerous
ordnance acquired, possessed, carried or used in the course of bona fide
research or instruction.
      (4)   Financial institutions and armored car company guards, with respect
to automatic firearms lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or used by any such
person while acting within the scope of the person’s duties.
      (5)   In the discretion of the issuing authority, any responsible person,
with respect to a dangerous ordnance lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or
used for a legitimate research, scientific, educational, industrial or other
proper purpose.
   (B)   Application for a license or temporary permit under this section shall
be in writing under oath to the sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has the
applicant’s principal place of business. The application shall be accompanied
by an application fee of $50 when the application is for a license, and an
application fee of $5 when the application is for a temporary permit. The fees
shall be paid into the General Revenue Fund of the county or municipality. The
application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, age, address, occupation and business address of the
applicant, if the applicant is a natural person, or the name, address, and
principal place of business of the applicant if the applicant is a corporation.
      (2)   A description of the dangerous ordnance for which a permit is
requested.
      (3)   A description of the places where and the manner in which the
dangerous ordnance is to be kept, carried, and used.
      (4)   A statement of the purposes for which the dangerous ordnance is to
be acquired, possessed, carried or used.
      (5)   Such other information as the issuing authority may require in
giving effect to this section.
   (C)   Upon investigation, the issuing authority shall issue a license or
temporary permit only if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The applicant is not otherwise prohibited by law from acquiring,
having, carrying or using a dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   The applicant is 21 years of age or over, if the applicant is a
natural person.
      (3)   It appears that the applicant has sufficient competence to safely
acquire, possess, carry or use the dangerous ordnance, and that proper
precautions will be taken to protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and
ensure the safety of persons and property.
      (4)   It appears that the dangerous ordnance will be lawfully acquired,
possessed, carried and used by the applicant for a legitimate purpose.
   (D)   The license or temporary permit shall identify the person to whom it
is issued, identify the dangerous ordnance involved and state the purposes for
which the license or temporary permit is issued, state the expiration date, if
any, and list such restrictions on the acquisition, possession, carriage, or
use of the dangerous ordnance as the issuing authority considers advisable to
protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and ensure the safety of persons
and property.
   (E)   A temporary permit shall be issued for the casual use of explosives
and explosive devices, and other consumable dangerous ordnance, and shall
expire within 30 days of its issuance. A license shall be issued for the
regular use of consumable dangerous ordnance, or for any non-consumable
dangerous ordnance, which license need not specify an expiration date, but the
issuing authority may specify such expiration date, not earlier than one year
from the date of issuance, as it considers advisable in view of the nature of
the dangerous ordnance and the purposes for which the license is issued.
   (F)   The dangerous ordnance specified in a license or temporary permit may
be obtained by the holder anywhere in the state. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.18(F),
the holder of a license may use such dangerous ordnance anywhere in the state.
The holder of a temporary permit may use such dangerous ordnance only within
the territorial jurisdiction of the issuing authority.
   (G)   The issuing authority shall forward to the State Fire Marshal a copy
of each license or temporary permit issued pursuant to this section, and a copy
of each record of a transaction in a dangerous ordnance and of each report of a
lost or stolen dangerous ordnance, given to the local law enforcement authority
as required by R.C. § 2923.20(A)(6) and (A)(7) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. The State Fire Marshal will keep a permanent file of all
licenses and temporary permits issued pursuant to this section, and of all
records of transactions in, and losses or thefts of a dangerous ordnance
forwarded by local law enforcement authorities pursuant to this section.
(R.C. § 2923.18) (Prior Code, § 672.05)
§ 137.11 POSSESSION OF AN OBJECT INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM A FIREARM IN A SCHOOL
SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly possess an object in a school safety zone if
both of the following apply:
      (1)   The object is indistinguishable from a firearm, whether or not the
object is capable of being fired.
      (2)   The person indicates that the person possesses the object and that
it is a firearm, or the person knowingly displays or brandishes the object and
indicates that it is a firearm.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States who is authorized to carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance
and is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   A law enforcement officer who is authorized to carry deadly
weapons or dangerous ordnance;
         (c)   A security officer employed by a board of education or governing
body of a school during the time that the security officer is on duty pursuant
to that contract of employment;
         (d)   1.   Any person not described in divisions (B)(1)(a) to (B)(1)
(c) of this section who has written authorization from the board of education
or governing body of a school to convey deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance
into a school safety zone or to possess a deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance
in a school safety zone and who conveys or possesses the deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance in accordance with that authorization, provided both of the
following apply:
               a.   Either the person has successfully completed the
curriculum, instruction, and training established under R.C. § 5502.703, or the
person has received a certificate of having satisfactorily completed an
approved basic peace officer training program or is a law enforcement officer;
               b.   The board or governing body has notified the public, by
whatever means the affected school regularly communicates with the public, that
the board or governing body has authorized one or more persons to go armed
within a school operated by the board or governing authority.
            2.   A district board or school governing body that authorizes a
person under division (B)(1)(d) of this section shall require that person to
submit to an annual criminal records check conducted in the same manner as R.C.
§ 3319.39 or R.C. § 3319.391.
         (e)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance, and who is subject to and in
compliance with the requirements of R.C. Â§ 109.801, unless the appointing
authority of the person has expressly specified that the exemption provided in
division (B)(1)(e) of this section does not apply to the person.
      (2)   This section does not apply to premises upon which home schooling
is conducted. This section also does not apply to a school administrator,
teacher or employee who possesses an object that is indistinguishable from a
firearm for legitimate school purposes during the course of employment, a
student who uses an object that is indistinguishable from a firearm under the
direction of a school administrator, teacher or employee, or any other person
who, with the express prior approval of a school administrator, possesses an
object that is indistinguishable from a firearm for a legitimate purpose,
including the use of the object in a ceremonial activity, a play, re-enactment
or other dramatic presentation, school safety training, or a ROTC activity or
another similar use of the object.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if, at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession of the
handgun, all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person does not enter into a school building or onto school
premises and is not at a school activity.
         (b)   The person is carrying a valid concealed handgun license or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         (c)   The person is in the school safety zone in accordance with 18
U.S.C. § 922(q)(2)(B).
         (d)   The person is not knowingly in a place described in R.C. §
2923.126(B)(1) or (B)(3) through (B)(8).
      (4)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession of the handgun
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is carrying a valid concealed handgun license or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         (b)   The person leaves the handgun in a motor vehicle.
         (c)   The handgun does not leave the motor vehicle.
         (d)   If the person exits the motor vehicle, the person locks the
motor vehicle.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal possession of an
object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, illegal possession of an object
indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of this section, illegal possession of an object indistinguishable from a
firearm in a school safety zone is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to any other penalty imposed upon a person who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section, and subject to
division (D)(2) of this section, if the offender has not attained 19 years of
age, regardless of whether the offender is attending or is enrolled in a school
operated by a board of education or for which the State Board of Education
prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07, the court shall impose upon
the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s probationary driver’s
license, restricted license, driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, or probationary commercial driver’s license that
then is in effect from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4) and shall
deny the offender the issuance of any permit or license of that type during the
period of the suspension. If the offender is not a resident of this state, the
court shall impose a class four suspension of the nonresident operating
privilege of the offender from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (2)   If the offender shows good cause why the court should not suspend
one of the types of licenses, permits or privileges specified in division (D)
(1) of this section or deny the issuance of one of the temporary instruction
permits specified in division (D)(1) of this section, the court in its
discretion may choose not to impose the suspension, revocation or denial
required in division (D)(1) of this section, but the court, in its discretion,
instead may require the offender to perform community service for a number of
hours determined by the court.
   (E)   As used in this section, OBJECT THAT IS INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM A
FIREARM means an object made, constructed or altered so that, to a reasonable
person without specialized training in firearms, the object appears to be a
firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.122(C) - (G)) (Prior Code, § 672.15)
Statutory reference:
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance in a school
safety zone, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122(A) and (B)
§ 137.12 POSSESSION OF DEADLY WEAPON WHILE UNDER DETENTION.
   (A)   As used in this section, DETENTION and DETENTION FACILITY have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 2921.01.
   (B)   No person under detention at a detention facility shall possess a
deadly weapon.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possession of a deadly
weapon while under detention.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) of this section,
possession of a deadly weapon while under detention is a felony to be
prosecuted under state law.
      (2)   If the offender, at the time of the commission of the offense, was
under detention as an alleged or adjudicated delinquent child or unruly child
and if at the time the offender commits the act for which the offender was
under detention it would not be a felony if committed by an adult, possession
of a deadly weapon while under detention is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.131) (Prior Code, § 672.025)
Statutory reference:
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offenses, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
§ 137.13 CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSES: POSSESSION OF A REVOKED OR SUSPENDED
LICENSE; ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS; POSTING OF SIGNS PROHIBITING POSSESSION.
   (A)   Possession of a revoked or suspended concealed handgun license.
      (1)   No person, except in the performance of official duties, shall
possess a concealed handgun license that was issued and that has been revoked
or suspended.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of possessing a
revoked or suspended concealed handgun license, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 2923.1211(B), (C))
   (B)   Additional restrictions. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.126:
      (1)   (a)   A concealed handgun license that is issued under R.C. §
2923.125 shall expire five years after the date of issuance. A licensee who has
been issued a license under that section shall be granted a grace period of 30
days after the licensee’s license expires during which the licensee’s license
remains valid. Except as provided in divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) of this
section, a licensee who has been issued a concealed handgun license under R.C.
§ 2923.125 or 2923.1213 may carry a concealed handgun anywhere in this state if
the licensee also carries a valid license when the licensee is in actual
possession of a concealed handgun. The licensee shall give notice of any change
in the licensee’s residence address to the sheriff who issued the license
within 45 days after that change.
         (b)   If a licensee is the driver or an occupant of a motor vehicle
that is stopped as the result of a traffic stop or a stop for another law
enforcement purpose and if the licensee is transporting or has a loaded handgun
in the motor vehicle at that time, the licensee shall promptly inform any law
enforcement officer who approaches the vehicle while stopped that the licensee
has been issued a concealed handgun license and that the licensee currently
possesses or has a loaded handgun; the licensee shall not knowingly disregard
or fail to comply with lawful orders of a law enforcement officer given while
the motor vehicle is stopped, knowingly fail to remain in the motor vehicle
while stopped, or knowingly fail to keep the licensee’s hands in plain sight
after any law enforcement officer begins approaching the licensee while stopped
and before the officer leaves, unless directed otherwise by a law enforcement
officer; and the licensee shall not knowingly have contact with the loaded
handgun by touching it with the licensee’s hands or fingers, in any manner in
violation of R.C. § 2923.16(E), after any law enforcement officer begins
approaching the licensee while stopped and before the officer leaves.
Additionally, if a licensee is the driver or an occupant of a commercial motor
vehicle that is stopped by an employee of the motor carrier enforcement unit
for the purposes defined in R.C. § 5503.34 and if the licensee is transporting
or has a loaded handgun in the commercial motor vehicle at that time, the
licensee shall promptly inform the employee of the unit who approaches the
vehicle while stopped that the licensee has been issued a concealed handgun
license and that the licensee currently possesses or has a loaded handgun.
         (c)   If a licensee is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and if
the licensee is carrying a concealed handgun at the time the officer
approaches, the licensee shall promptly inform any law enforcement officer who
approaches the licensee while stopped that the licensee has been issued a
concealed handgun license and that the licensee currently is carrying a
concealed handgun; the licensee shall not knowingly disregard or fail to comply
with lawful orders of a law enforcement officer given while the licensee is
stopped or knowingly fail to keep the licensee’s hands in plain sight after any
law enforcement officer begins approaching the licensee while stopped and
before the officer leaves, unless directed otherwise by a law enforcement
officer; and the licensee shall not knowingly remove, attempt to remove, grasp,
or hold the loaded handgun or knowingly have contact with the loaded handgun by
touching it with the licensee’s hands or fingers, in any manner in violation of
R.C. § 2923.12(B), after any law enforcement officer begins approaching the
licensee while stopped and before the officer leaves.
      (2)   A valid concealed handgun license does not authorize the licensee
to carry a concealed handgun in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.12(B)
or in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.16. A valid license does not
authorize the licensee to carry a concealed handgun into any of the following
places:
         (a)   A police station, sheriff’s office, or state highway patrol
station, premises controlled by the bureau of criminal identification and
investigation; a state correctional institution, jail, workhouse, or other
detention facility; any area of an airport passenger terminal that is beyond a
passenger or property screening checkpoint or to which access is restricted
through security measures by the airport authority or a public agency; or an
institution that is maintained, operated, managed, and governed pursuant to
R.C. § 5119.14(A) or R.C. § 5123.03(A)(1);
         (b)   A school safety zone if the licensee’s carrying the concealed
handgun is in violation of R.C. § 2923.122;
         (c)   A courthouse or another building or structure in which a
courtroom is located if the licensee’s carrying the concealed handgun is in
violation of R.C. § 2923.123;
         (d)   Any premises or open air arena for which a D permit has been
issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 if the licensee’s carrying the concealed handgun
is in violation of R.C. § 2923.121;
         (e)   Any premises owned or leased by any public or private college,
university, or other institution of higher education, unless the handgun is in
a locked motor vehicle or the licensee is in the immediate process of placing
the handgun in a locked motor vehicle or unless the licensee is carrying the
concealed handgun pursuant to a written policy, rule, or other authorization
that is adopted by the institution’s board of trustees or other governing body
and that authorizes specific individuals or classes of individuals to carry a
concealed handgun on the premises;
         (f)   Any church, synagogue, mosque, or other place of worship, unless
the church, synagogue, mosque, or other place of worship posts or permits
otherwise;
         (g)   Any building that is a government facility of this state or a
political subdivision of this state and that is not a building that is used
primarily as a shelter, restroom, parking facility for motor vehicles, or rest
facility and is not a courthouse or other building or structure in which a
courtroom is located that is subject to division (B)(2)(c) of this section,
unless the governing body with authority over the building has enacted a
statute, ordinance, or policy that permits a licensee to carry a concealed
handgun into the building;
         (h)   A place in which federal law prohibits the carrying of handguns.
      (3)   (a)   Nothing in this division (B) shall negate or restrict a rule,
policy, or practice of a private employer that is not a private college,
university, or other institution of higher education concerning or prohibiting
the presence of firearms on the private employer’s premises or property,
including motor vehicles owned by the private employer. Nothing in this
division (B) shall require a private employer of that nature to adopt a rule,
policy, or practice concerning or prohibiting the presence of firearms on the
private employer’s premises or property, including motor vehicles owned by the
private employer.
         (b)   1.   A private employer shall be immune from liability in a
civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the
premises or property of the private employer, including motor vehicles owned by
the private employer, unless the private employer acted with malicious purpose.
A private employer is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to
the private employer’s decision to permit a licensee to bring, or prohibit a
licensee from bringing, a handgun onto the premises or property of the private
employer.
            2.   A political subdivision shall be immune from liability in a
civil action, to the extent and in the manner provided in R.C. Chapter 2744,
for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused
by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto any premises or property
owned, leased, or otherwise under the control of the political subdivision. As
used in this division, POLITICAL SUBDIVISION has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2744.01.
            3.    An institution of higher education shall be immune from
liability in a civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or
property that allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a
handgun onto the premises of the institution, including motor vehicles owned by
the institution, unless the institution acted with malicious purpose. An
institution of higher education is immune from liability in a civil action for
any injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by
or related to the institution’s decision to permit a licensee or class of
licensees to bring a handgun onto the premises of the institution.
            4.   A nonprofit corporation shall be immune from liability in a
civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the
premises of the nonprofit corporation, including any motor vehicle owned by the
nonprofit corporation, or to any event organized by the nonprofit corporation,
unless the nonprofit corporation acted with malicious purpose. A nonprofit
corporation is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury, death,
or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to the
nonprofit corporation’s decision to permit a licensee to bring a handgun onto
the premises of the nonprofit corporation or to any event organized by the
nonprofit corporation.
         (c)   1.   a.   Except as provided in division (B)(3)(c)2. of this
section and R.C. § 2923.1214, the owner or person in control of private land or
premises, and a private person or entity leasing land or premises owned by the
state, the United States, or a political subdivision of the state or the United
States, may post a sign in a conspicuous location on that land or on those
premises prohibiting persons from carrying firearms or concealed firearms on or
onto that land or those premises. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, a person who knowingly violates a posted prohibition of that nature
is guilty of criminal trespass in violation of R.C. § 2911.21(A)(4) and is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If a person knowingly violates a
posted prohibition of that nature and the posted land or premises primarily was
a parking lot or other parking facility, the person is not guilty of criminal
trespass under R.C. § 2911.21 or under any other criminal law of this state or
criminal law, ordinance, or resolution of a political subdivision of this
state, and instead is subject only to a civil cause of action for trespass
based on the violation.
               b.   If a person knowingly violates a posted prohibition of the
nature described in this division and the posted land or premises is a child
day-care center, type A family day-care home, or type B family day-care home,
unless the person is a licensee who resides in a type A family day-care home or
type B family day-care home, the person is guilty of aggravated trespass in
violation of R.C. § 2911.211. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the person
previously has been convicted of a violation of this division or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is
dangerous ordnance, the offender is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
            2.   A landlord may not prohibit or restrict a tenant who is a
licensee and who on or after September 9, 2008 enters into a rental agreement
with the landlord for the use of residential premises, and the tenant’s guest
while the tenant is present, from lawfully carrying or possessing a handgun on
those residential premises.
            3.   As used in division (B)(3)(c) of this section:
               LANDLORD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
               RENTAL AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
               RESIDENTIAL PREMISES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01,
except the term does not include a dwelling unit that is owned or operated by a
college or university.
               TENANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
      (4)   A person who holds a valid concealed handgun license issued by
another state that is recognized by the Attorney General pursuant to a
reciprocity agreement entered into pursuant to R.C. § 109.69 or a person who
holds a valid concealed handgun license under the circumstances described in
R.C. § 109.69(B) has the same right to carry a concealed handgun in this state
as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license under R.C. § 2923.125
and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a person who carries a
license issued under that section.
      (5)   (a)   A peace officer has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125, provided that the officer when carrying a concealed
handgun under authority of this division is carrying validating identification.
For purposes of reciprocity with other states, a peace officer shall be
considered to be a licensee in this state.
         (b)   An active duty member of the armed forces of the United States
who is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions as
specified in this division (B).
         (c)   A tactical medical professional who is qualified to carry
firearms while on duty under R.C. § 109.771 has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125.
      (6)   (a)   A qualified retired peace officer who possesses a retired
peace officer identification card issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this
section and a valid firearms requalification certification issued pursuant to
division (B)(6)(c) of this section has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a
person who carries a license issued under that section. For purposes of
reciprocity with other states, a qualified retired peace officer who possesses
a retired peace officer identification card issued pursuant to division (B)(6)
(b) of this section and a valid firearms requalification certification issued
pursuant to division (B)(6)(c) of this section shall be considered to be a
licensee in this state.
         (b)   1.   Each public agency of this state or of a political
subdivision of this state that is served by one or more peace officers shall
issue a retired peace officer identification card to any person who retired
from service as a peace officer with that agency, if the issuance is in
accordance with the agency’s policies and procedures and if the person, with
respect to the person’s service with that agency, satisfies all of the
following:
               a.   The person retired in good standing from service as a peace
officer with the public agency, and the retirement was not for reasons of
mental instability.
               b.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was authorized to engage in or supervise the prevention,
detection, investigation, or prosecution of, or the incarceration of any person
for, any violation of law and the person had statutory powers of arrest.
               c.   At the time of the person’s retirement as a peace officer
with that agency, the person was trained and qualified to carry firearms in the
performance of the peace officer’s duties.
               d.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was regularly employed as a peace officer for an aggregate
of 15 years or more, or, in the alternative, the person retired from service as
a peace officer with that agency, after completing any applicable probationary
period of that service, due to a service-connected disability, as determined by
the agency.
            2.   A retired peace officer identification card issued to a person
under division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section shall identify the person by name,
contain a photograph of the person, identify the public agency of this state or
of the political subdivision of this state from which the person retired as a
peace officer and that is issuing the identification card, and specify that the
person retired in good standing from service as a peace officer with the
issuing public agency and satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)
(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(B)1.d. of this section. In addition to the required content
specified in this division, a retired peace officer identification card issued
to a person under division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section may include the firearms
requalification certification described in division (B)(6)(c) of this section,
and if the identification card includes that certification, the identification
card shall serve as the firearms requalification certification for the retired
peace officer. If the issuing public agency issues credentials to active law
enforcement officers who serve the agency, the agency may comply with division
(B)(6)(b)1. of this section by issuing the same credentials to persons who
retired from service as a peace officer with the agency and who satisfy the
criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section,
provided that the credentials so issued to retired peace officers are stamped
with the word “RETIRED”.
            3.   A public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of
this state may charge persons who retired from service as a peace officer with
the agency a reasonable fee for issuing to the person a retired peace officer
identification card pursuant to division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section.
         (c)   1.   If a person retired from service as a peace officer with a
public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of this state and the
person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)
(b)1.d. of this section, the public agency may provide the retired peace
officer with the opportunity to attend a firearms requalification program that
is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required under R.C. §
109.801. The retired peace officer may be required to pay the cost of the
course.
            2.   If a retired peace officer who satisfies the criteria set
forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section attends a
firearms requalification program that is approved for purposes of firearms
requalification required under R.C. § 109.801, the retired peace officer’s
successful completion of the firearms requalification program requalifies the
retired peace officer for purposes of division (B)(6) of this section for five
years from the date on which the program was successfully completed, and the
requalification is valid during that five-year period. If a retired peace
officer who satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)
(6)(b)1.d. of this section satisfactorily completes such a firearms
requalification program, the retired peace officer shall be issued a firearms
requalification certification that identifies the retired peace officer by
name, identifies the entity that taught the program, specifies that the retired
peace officer successfully completed the program, specifies the date on which
the course was successfully completed, and specifies that the requalification
is valid for five years from that date of successful completion. The firearms
requalification certification for a retired peace officer may be included in
the retired peace officer identification card issued to the retired peace
officer under division (B)(6)(b) of this section.
            3.   A retired peace officer who attends a firearms requalification
program that is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required
under R.C. § 109.801 may be required to pay the cost of the program.
      (7)   As used in division (B) of this section:
         GOVERNING BODY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 154.01.
         GOVERNMENT FACILITY OF THIS STATE OR A POLITICAL SUBDIVISION OF THIS
STATE. Means any of the following:
            1.   A building or part of a building that is owned or leased by
the government of this state or a political subdivision of this state and where
employees of the government of this state or the political subdivision
regularly are present for the purpose of performing their official duties as
employees of the state or political subdivision;
            2.   The office of a deputy registrar serving pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 4503 that is used to perform deputy registrar functions.
         NONPROFIT CORPORATION. Means any private organization that is exempt
from federal income taxation pursuant to subsection 501(a) and described in
subsection 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         QUALIFIED RETIRED PEACE OFFICER. Means a person who satisfies all of
the following:
            1.   The person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)
(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section.
            2.   The person is not under the influence of alcohol or another
intoxicating or hallucinatory drug or substance.
            3.   The person is not prohibited by federal law from receiving
firearms.
         RETIRED PEACE OFFICER IDENTIFICATION CARD. Means an identification
card that is issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this section to a person
who is a retired peace officer.
         TACTICAL MEDICAL PROFESSIONAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
109.71.
         VALIDATING IDENTIFICATION. Means photographic identification issued by
the agency for which an individual serves as a peace officer that identifies
the individual as a peace officer of the agency.
(R.C. § 2923.126)
   (C)   Posting of signs prohibiting possession. Each person, board, or entity
that owns or controls any place or premises identified in R.C. § 2923.126(B) as
a place into which a valid license does not authorize the licensee to carry a
concealed handgun, or a designee of such a person, board, or entity, shall post
in the following one or more conspicuous locations in the premises a sign that
contains a statement in substantially the following form: “Unless otherwise
authorized by law, pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code, no person shall knowingly
possess, have under the person’s control, convey, or attempt to convey a deadly
weapon or dangerous ordnance onto these premises.”
(R.C. § 2923.1212)
(Prior Code, § 672.16)
§ 137.14 DEFACED FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Change, alter, remove, or obliterate the name of the manufacturer,
model, manufacturer’s serial number, or other mark of identification on a
firearm.
      (2)   Possess a firearm knowing or having reasonable cause to believe
that the name of the manufacturer, model, manufacturer’s serial number, or
other mark of identification on the firearm has been changed, altered, removed,
or obliterated.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of
defacing identification marks of a firearm. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, defacing identification marks of a firearm is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A)(1) of this section, defacing
identification marks of a firearm is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of
possessing a defaced firearm. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
possessing a defaced firearm is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (A)(2) of this section, possessing a defaced firearm is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any firearm on which no
manufacturer’s serial number was inscribed at the time of its manufacture.
(R.C. § 2923.201) (Prior Code, § 672.17)
§ 137.15 EXCEPTIONS TO CHAPTER.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prohibit the firing of a military
salute or the firing of weapons by members of the Armed Forces acting under
military authority, nor shall this chapter apply to law enforcement officers in
the proper enforcement of the law, nor to any person in the proper exercise of
the right of self-defense.
(Prior Code, § 672.12) (Ord. 260, passed 4-1-1957)
CHAPTER 138: DRUG OFFENSES
Section
   
138.01   Definitions
   
138.02   Trafficking in controlled substances; gift of marihuana
   
138.03   Drug possession offenses
   
138.04   Possessing drug abuse instruments
   
138.05   Permitting drug abuse
   
138.06   Illegal cultivation of marihuana
   
138.07   Abusing harmful intoxicants
   
138.08   Illegal dispensing of drug samples
   
138.09   Federal prosecution bar to municipal prosecution
   
138.10   Nitrous oxide: improper dispensing or distribution; possession in a
motor vehicle
   
138.11   Laboratory report required
   
138.12   Counterfeit controlled substances
   
138.13   Use, possession, or sale of drug paraphernalia
   
138.14   Controlled substance or prescription labels
   
138.15   Possession, sale and disposal of hypodermics
   
138.16   Controlled substance schedules
   
138.17   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates
   
138.18   Sale of pseudoephedrine
   
138.19   Sale of pure caffeine product
   
138.20   Sale of dextromethorphan
Statutory reference:
   Administration of epinephrine, exemption from prosecution, see R.C. §
2925.64
   Controlled substances, regulation of pharmacists and other professionals,
see R.C. Chapters 3719 and 4729
   Conviction of professionally licensed persons to be reported to licensing
board, see R.C. § 2925.38
   Criminal and civil forfeiture of property for felony drug abuse offenses,
see R.C. Chapter 2981
   Destruction of chemicals used to produce methamphetamine; preservation of
samples, see R.C. § 2925.52
   Tampering with drugs, felony offense, see R.C. § 2925.24
§ 138.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words,
terms and phrases and their derivatives used in this chapter which are not
defined in this section shall have the meanings given to them in the Ohio
Revised Code.
   ADMINISTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   ADULTERATE. To cause a drug to be adulterated as described in R.C. §
3715.63.
   BULK AMOUNT. Of a controlled substance means any of the following:
      (1)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in
Schedule I, Schedule II, or Schedule III, with the exception of any controlled
substance analog, marihuana, cocaine, L.S.D., heroin, any fentanyl-related
compound, and hashish and except as provided in division (2), (5), or (6) of
this definition, whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams or 25 unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule I opiate or opium derivative;
         (b)   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams of a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of raw or gum
opium;
         (c)   An amount equal to or exceeding 30 grams or ten unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule I hallucinogen other than tetrahydrocannabinol or lysergic acid
amide, or a Schedule I stimulant or depressant;
         (d)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II opiate or opium
derivative;
         (e)   An amount equal to or exceeding five grams or ten unit doses of
a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount
of phencyclidine;
         (f)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II stimulant that is in
a final dosage form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal
drug abuse control laws, as defined in this section, that is or contains any
amount of a Schedule II depressant substance or a Schedule II hallucinogenic
substance;
         (g)   An amount equal to or exceeding three grams of a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule
II stimulant, or any of its salts or isomers, that is not in a final dosage
form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal drug abuse
control laws;
      (2)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III or IV substance other than an anabolic
steroid or a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (3)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (4)   An amount equal to or exceeding 250 milliliters or 250 grams of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule V substance;
      (5)   An amount equal to or exceeding 200 solid dosage units, 16 grams,
or 16 milliliters of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III anabolic steroid;
      (6)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is a
combination of a fentanyl- related compound and any other compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
if the defendant is charged with a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 and the
sentencing provisions set forth in R.C. § 2925.11(C)(10)(b) and (C)(11) will
not apply regarding the defendant and the violation, the bulk amount of the
controlled substance for purposes of the violation is the amount specified in
division (1), (2), (3), (4), or (5) of this definition for the other Schedule
III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is combined with the
fentanyl-related compound.
   CERTIFIED GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE. A duly constituted and organized committee of
the Ohio State Bar Association or of one or more local bar associations of the
state that complies with the criteria set forth in Rule V, Section 6 of the
Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   COCAINE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A cocaine salt, isomer, or derivative, a salt of a cocaine isomer
or derivative, or the base form of cocaine.
      (2)   Coca leaves or a salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of coca
leaves, including ecgonine, a salt, isomer, or derivative of ecgonine, or a
salt of an isomer or derivative of ecgonine.
      (3)   A salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of a substance
identified in division (1) or (2) of this definition that is chemically
equivalent to or identical with any of those substances, except that the
substances shall not include decocainized coca leaves or extraction of coca
leaves if the extractions do not contain cocaine or ecgonine.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A JUVENILE. An offense is “committed in the
vicinity of a juvenile” if the offender commits the offense within 100 feet of
a juvenile or within the view of a juvenile, regardless of whether the offender
knows the age of the juvenile, whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed within 100 feet of or within view of the juvenile, or whether the
juvenile actually views the commission of the offense.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. An offense is “committed in the
vicinity of a school” if the offender commits the offense on school premises,
in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the boundaries of any school
premises, regardless of whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed on school premises, in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the
boundaries of any school premises.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE ANALOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any drug that bears, or whose container or label bears, a
trademark, trade name, or other identifying mark used without authorization of
the owner of rights to the trademark, trade name, or identifying mark.
      (2)   Any unmarked or unlabeled substance that is represented to be a
controlled substance manufactured, processed, packed, or distributed by a
person other than the person that manufactured, processed, packed, or
distributed it.
      (3)   Any substance that is represented to be a controlled substance but
is not a controlled substance or is a different controlled substance.
      (4)   Any substance other than a controlled substance that a reasonable
person would believe to be a controlled substance because of its similarity in
shape, size, and color, or its markings, labeling, packaging, distribution, or
the price for which it is sold or offered for sale.
   CULTIVATE. Includes planting, watering, fertilizing or tilling.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DECEPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   DISCIPLINARY COUNSEL. The disciplinary counsel appointed by the Board of
Commissioners on Grievances and Discipline of the Ohio Supreme Court under the
Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   DISPENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DISTRIBUTE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2913.02(A) that constitutes theft of drugs,
or any violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, 2925.04, 2925.041, 2925.05,
2925.06, 2925.11, 2925.12, 2925.13, 2925.22, 2925.23, 2925.24, 2925.31,
2925.32, 2925.36, or 2925.37.
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state or of the United States, that is substantially equivalent to
any section listed in division (1) of this definition.
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state, or of the United States, of which planting, cultivating,
harvesting, processing, making, manufacturing, producing, shipping,
transporting, delivering, acquiring, possessing, storing, distributing,
dispensing, selling, inducing another to use, administering to another, using,
or otherwise dealing with a controlled substance is an element.
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing or attempting to commit, any offense under division (1), (2), or (3)
of this definition.
   DRUG DEPENDENT PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   FELONY DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any drug abuse offense that would constitute a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States.
   FENTANYL-RELATED COMPOUND. Any of the following:
      (1)   Fentanyl;
      (2)   Alpha-methylfentanyl (–[1-(alpha-methyl-beta-phenyl)ethyl-4-
piperidyl] propionanilide; 1- (1-methyl-2-phenylethyl)-4-(N-propanilido)
piperidine);
      (3)   Alpha-methylthiofentanyl (–[1-methyl-2-(2-thienyl)ethyl-4-
piperidinyl]-N- phenylpropanamide);
      (4)   Beta-hydroxyfentanyl (–[1-(2-hydroxy-2-phenethyl-4-piperidinyl]-N-
phenylpropanamide);
      (5)   Beta-hydroxy-3-methylfentanyl (other name: N-[1-(2-hydroxy-2-
phenethyl)-3-methyl-4- piperidinyl]-N-phenylpropanamide);
      (6)   3-methylfentanyl (–[3-methyl-1-(2-phenylethyl)-4-piperidyl]-N-
phenylpropanamide);
      (7)   3-methylthiofentanyl (–[3-methyl-1-[2-(thienyl)ethyl]-4-
piperidinyl]-– phenylpropanamide);
      (8)   Para-fluorofentanyl (–(4-fluorophenyl)-N-[1-(2-phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]propanamide;
      (9)   Thiofentanyl (–phenyl-N-[1-(2-thienyl)ethyl-4-piperidinyl]-
propanamide;
      (10)   Alfentanil;
      (11)   Carfentanil;
      (12)   Remifentanil;
      (13)   Sufentanil;
      (14)   Acetyl-alpha-methylfentanyl (–[1-(1-methyl-2-phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]-N- phenylacetamide); and
      (15)   Any compound that meets all of the following fentanyl
pharmacophore requirements to bind at the mu receptor, as identified by a
report from an established forensic laboratory, including acetylfentanyl,
furanylfentanyl, valerylfentanyl, butyrylfentanyl, isobutyrylfentanyl, 4-
methoxybutyrylfentanyl, para-fluorobutyrylfentanyl, acrylfentanyl, and ortho-
fluorofentanyl:
         (a)   A chemical scaffold consisting of both of the following:
            1.   A five, six, or seven member ring structure containing a
nitrogen, whether or not further substituted;
            2.   An attached nitrogen to the ring, whether or not that nitrogen
is enclosed in a ring structure, including an attached aromatic ring or other
lipophilic group to that nitrogen.
         (b)   A polar functional group attached to the chemical scaffold,
including but not limited to a hydroxyl, ketone, amide, or ester;
         (c)   An alkyl or aryl substitution off the ring nitrogen of the
chemical scaffold; and
         (d)   The compound has not been approved for medical use by the United
States food and drug administration.
   HARMFUL INTOXICANT. Does not include beer or intoxicating liquor, but means
any of the following:
      (1)   Any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance the gas, fumes, or
vapor of which when inhaled can induce intoxication, excitement, giddiness,
irrational behavior, depression, stupefaction, paralysis, unconsciousness,
asphyxiation, or other harmful physiological effects, and includes but is not
limited to any of the following:
         (a)   Any volatile organic solvent, plastic cement, model cement,
fingernail polish remover, lacquer thinner, cleaning fluid, gasoline, or other
preparation containing a volatile organic solvent.
         (b)   Any aerosol propellant.
         (c)   Any fluorocarbon refrigerant.
         (d)   Any anesthetic gas.
      (2)   Gamma Butyrolactone;
      (3)   1,4 Butanediol.
   HASHISH.
      (1)   A resin or a preparation of a resin to which both of the following
apply:
         (a)   It is contained in or derived from any part of the plant of the
genus cannabis, whether in solid form or in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form.
         (b)   It has a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of more than
0.3%.
      (2)   The term does not include a hemp byproduct in the possession of a
licensed hemp processor under R.C. Chapter 928, provided that the hemp
byproduct is being produced, stored, and disposed of in accordance with rules
adopted under R.C. § 928.03.
   HYPODERMIC. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   JUVENILE. A person under 18 years of age.
   LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   L.S.D. Lysergic acid diethylamide.
   MAJOR DRUG OFFENDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANUFACTURE. To plant, cultivate, harvest, process, make, prepare, or
otherwise engage in any part of the production of a drug, by propagation,
extraction, chemical synthesis, or compounding, or any combination of the same,
and includes packaging, repackaging, labeling, and other activities incident to
production.
   MANUFACTURER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   MARIHUANA. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01, except that it does
not include hashish.
   METHAMPHETAMINE. Methamphetamine, any salt, isomer, or salt of an isomer of
methamphetamine, or any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance containing
methamphetamine or any salt, isomer, or salt of an isomer of methamphetamine.
   MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. Either of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996,
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it exists on and after July 1,
1996, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that is a misdemeanor
or a felony of the fifth degree.
   OFFICIAL WRITTEN ORDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PHARMACIST. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PHARMACY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   POSSESS or POSSESSION. Having control over a thing or substance but may not
be inferred solely from mere access to the thing or substance through ownership
or occupation of the premises upon which the thing or substance is found.
   PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   PRESUMPTION FOR A PRISON TERM or PRESUMPTION THAT A PRISON TERM SHALL BE
IMPOSED. A presumption as described in R.C. § 2929.13(D) that a prison term is
a necessary sanction for a felony in order to comply with the purposes and
principles of sentencing under R.C. § 2929.11.
   PROFESSIONAL LICENSE. Any license, permit, certificate, registration,
qualification, admission, temporary license, temporary permit, temporary
certificate, or temporary registration that is described in R.C. § 2925.01(W)
(1) through (W)(37) and that qualifies a person as a professionally licensed
person.
   PROFESSIONALLY LICENSED PERSON. Any of the following:
      (1)   A person who has received a certificate or temporary certificate as
a certified public accountant or who has registered as a public accountant
under R.C. Chapter 4701 and who holds an Ohio permit issued under that chapter;
      (2)   A person who holds a certificate of qualification to practice
architecture issued or renewed and registered under R.C. Chapter 4703;
      (3)   A person who is registered as a landscape architect under R.C.
Chapter 4703 or who holds a permit as a landscape architect issued under that
chapter;
      (4)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4707;
      (5)   A person who has been issued a certificate of registration as a
registered barber under R.C. Chapter 4709;
      (6)   A person licensed and regulated to engage in the business of a debt
pooling company by a legislative authority, under authority of R.C. Chapter
4710;
      (7)   A person who has been issued a cosmetologist’s license, hair
designer’s license, manicurist’s license, esthetician’s license, natural hair
stylist’s license, advanced cosmetologist’s license, advanced hair designer’s
license, advanced manicurist’s license, advanced esthetician’s license,
advanced natural hair stylist’s license, cosmetology instructor’s license, hair
design instructor’s license, manicurist instructor’s license, esthetics
instructor’s license, natural hair style instructor’s license, independent
contractor’s license, or tanning facility permit under R.C. Chapter 4713;
      (8)   A person who has been issued a license to practice dentistry, a
general anesthesia permit, a conscious sedation permit, a limited resident’s
license, a limited teaching license, a dental hygienist’s license, or a dental
hygienist’s teacher’s certificate under R.C. Chapter 4715;
      (9)   A person who has been issued an embalmer’s license, a funeral
director’s license, a funeral home license, or a crematory license, or who has
been registered for an embalmer’s or funeral director’s apprenticeship under
R.C. Chapter 4717;
      (10)   A person who has been licensed as a registered nurse or practical
nurse, or who has been issued a certificate for the practice of nurse-midwifery
under R.C. Chapter 4723;
      (11)   A person who has been licensed to practice optometry or to engage
in optical dispensing under R.C. Chapter 4725;
      (12)   A person licensed to act as a pawnbroker under R.C. Chapter 4727;
      (13)   A person licensed to act as a precious metals dealer under R.C.
Chapter 4728;
      (14)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a pharmacist or
pharmacy intern or registered under that chapter as a registered pharmacy
technician, certified pharmacy technician, or pharmacy technician trainee;
      (15)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a manufacturer of
dangerous drugs, outsourcing facility, third-party logistics provider,
repackager of dangerous drugs, wholesale distributor of dangerous drugs, or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
      (16)   A person who is authorized to practice as a physician assistant
under R.C. Chapter 4730;
      (17)   A person who has been issued a license to practice medicine and
surgery, osteopathic medicine and surgery, or podiatric medicine and surgery
under R.C. Chapter 4731 or has been issued a certificate to practice a limited
branch of medicine under that chapter;
      (18)   A person licensed as a psychologist or school psychologist under
R.C. Chapter 4732;
      (19)   A person registered to practice the profession of engineering or
surveying under R.C. Chapter 4733;
      (20)   A person who has been issued a license to practice chiropractic
under R.C. Chapter 4734;
      (21)   A person licensed to act as a real estate broker or real estate
salesperson under R.C. Chapter 4735;
      (22)   A person registered as a registered environmental health
specialist under R.C. Chapter 4736;
      (23)   A person licensed to operate or maintain a junkyard under R.C.
Chapter 4737;
      (24)   A person who has been issued a motor vehicle salvage dealer’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4738;
      (25)   A person who has been licensed to act as a steam engineer under
R.C. Chapter 4739;
      (26)   A person who has been issued a license or temporary permit to
practice veterinary medicine or any of its branches, or who is registered as a
graduate animal technician under R.C. Chapter 4741;
      (27)   A person who has been issued a hearing aid dealer’s or fitter’s
license or trainee permit under R.C. Chapter 4747;
      (28)   A person who has been issued a class A, class B, or class C
license or who has been registered as an investigator or security guard
employee under R.C. Chapter 4749;
      (29)   A person licensed to practice as a nursing home administrator
under R.C. Chapter 4751;
      (30)   A person licensed to practice as a speech-language pathologist or
audiologist under R.C. Chapter 4753;
      (31)   A person issued a license as an occupational therapist or physical
therapist under R.C. Chapter 4755;
      (32)   A person who is licensed as a licensed professional clinical
counselor, licensed professional counselor, social worker, independent social
worker, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage and family
therapist, or registered as a social work assistant under R.C. Chapter 4757;
      (33)   A person issued a license to practice dietetics under R.C. Chapter
4759;
      (34)   A person who has been issued a license or limited permit to
practice respiratory therapy under R.C. Chapter 4761;
      (35)   A person who has been issued a real estate appraiser certificate
under R.C. Chapter 4763;
      (36)   A person who has been issued a home inspector license under R.C.
Chapter 4764;
      (37)   A person who has been admitted to the bar by order of the Ohio
Supreme Court in compliance with its prescribed and published rules.
   PUBLIC PREMISES. Any hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other
place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort.
   SALE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   SAMPLE DRUG. A drug or pharmaceutical preparation that would be hazardous to
health or safety if used without the supervision of a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs, or a drug of abuse, and that, at
one time, had been placed in a container plainly marked as a sample by a
manufacturer.
   SCHEDULE I, SCHEDULE II, SCHEDULE III, SCHEDULE IV or SCHEDULE V. Have the
same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   SCHOOL. Any school operated by a board of education, any community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or any nonpublic school for which the
State Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted at the time a criminal offense is
committed.
   SCHOOL BUILDING. Any building in which any of the instruction,
extracurricular activities, or training provided by a school is conducted,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted in the school building at the time a
criminal offense is committed.
   SCHOOL PREMISES. Either of the following:
      (1)   The parcel of real property on which any school is situated,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted on the premises at the time a
criminal offense is committed.
      (2)   Any other parcel of real property that is owned or leased by a
board of education of a school, the governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or the governing body of a nonpublic
school for which the State Board of Education prescribes minimum standards
under R.C. § 3301.07 and on which some of the instruction, extracurricular
activities, or training of the school is conducted, whether or not any
instruction, extracurricular activities, or training provided by the school is
being conducted on the parcel of real property at the time a criminal offense
is committed.
   STANDARD PHARMACEUTICAL REFERENCE MANUAL. The current edition, with
cumulative changes if any, of references that are approved by the State Board
of Pharmacy.
   UNIT DOSE. An amount or unit or a compound, mixture, or preparation
containing a controlled substance that is separately identifiable and in a form
that indicates that it is the amount or unit by which the controlled substance
is separately administered to or taken by an individual.
   WHOLESALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
(R.C.§ 2925.01) (Prior Code, § 624.01)
§ 138.02 TRAFFICKING IN CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES; GIFT OF MARIHUANA.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Sell or offer to sell a controlled substance or a controlled
substance analog;
      (2)   Prepare for shipment, ship, transport, deliver, prepare for
distribution, or distribute a controlled substance or a controlled substance
analog, when the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
controlled substance or a controlled substance analog is intended for sale or
resale by the offender or another person.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
and 4741.
      (2)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration.
      (3)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses, or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the “Federal Food, Drug
and Cosmetic Act” (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended), and is sold, offered
for sale, prescribed, dispensed, or administered for that purpose in accordance
with that Act.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of the
following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) of this
section, trafficking in controlled substances is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the offense
involves a gift of 20 grams or less of marihuana, trafficking in marihuana is a
minor misdemeanor upon a first offense and a misdemeanor of the third degree
upon a subsequent offense. If the offense involves a gift of 20 grams or less
of marihuana and if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, trafficking in marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and marihuana, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of trafficking in marihuana and shall be
punished under division (C)(2) of this section. The offender is not guilty of
trafficking in a fentanyl-related compound and shall not be charged with,
convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.03(C)(9) for trafficking in a
fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of trafficking in a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.03(C)(9).
   (D)   As used in this section, “drug” includes any substance that is
represented to be a drug.
(R.C. § 2925.03(A) - (C), (I)) (Prior Code, § 624.02)
Statutory reference:
   Felony drug trafficking offenses, see R.C. § 2925.03(C)
§ 138.03 DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly obtain, possess, or use a controlled
substance or a controlled substance analog.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
and 4741.
         (b)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration.
         (c)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses, or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act, and is sold, offered for sale, prescribed, dispensed, or
administered for that purpose in accordance with that Act.
         (d)   Any person who obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs if the prescription was issued for a legitimate medical purpose and not
altered, forged, or obtained through deception or commission of a theft
offense. As used in this division (B)(1)(d), “deception” and “theft offense”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (2)   (a)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section:
            COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 5119.01.
            COMMUNITY CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meanings as in R.C. §
2929.01
            DRUG TREATMENT PROGRAM. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 2929.01.
            HEALTH CARE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2919.16.
            MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. A violation of this section or R.C.
§ 2925.11 that is a misdemeanor or a felony of the fifth degree.
            PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
            POST-RELEASE CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2967.28.
            PUBLIC AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2930.01.
            QUALIFIED INDIVIDUAL. A person who is not on community control or
post-release control and is a person acting in good faith who seeks or obtains
medical assistance for another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a
person who experiences a drug overdose and who seeks medical assistance for
that overdose, or a person who is the subject of another person seeking or
obtaining medical assistance for that overdose as described in division (B)(2)
(b) of this section.
            SEEK OR OBTAIN MEDICAL ASSISTANCE. Includes, but is not limited to
making a 9-1-1 call, contacting in person or by telephone call an on-duty peace
officer, or transporting or presenting a person to a health care facility.
         (b)   Subject to division (B)(2)(f) of this section, a qualified
individual shall not be arrested, charged, prosecuted, convicted, or penalized
pursuant to this chapter for a minor drug possession offense if all of the
following apply:
            1.   The evidence of the obtaining, possession, or use of the
controlled substance or controlled substance analog that would be the basis of
the offense was obtained as a result of the qualified individual seeking the
medical assistance or experiencing an overdose and needing medical assistance.
            2.   Subject to division (B)(2)(g) of this section, within 30 days
after seeking or obtaining the medical assistance, the qualified individual
seeks and obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment from a
community addiction services provider or a properly credentialed addiction
treatment professional.
            3.   Subject to division (B)(2)(g) of this section, the qualified
individual who obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment under
division (B)(2)(b)2. of this section, upon the request of any prosecuting
attorney, submits documentation to the prosecuting attorney that verifies that
the qualified individual satisfied the requirements of that division. The
documentation shall be limited to the date and time of the screening obtained
and referral received.
         (c)   If a person is found to be in violation of any community control
sanction and if the violation is a result of either of the following, the court
shall first consider ordering the person’s participation or continued
participation in a drug treatment program or mitigating the penalty specified
in R.C. § 2929.13, 2929.15, or 2929.25, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, whichever is applicable, after which the court has the
discretion either to order the person’s participation or continued
participation in a drug treatment program or to impose the penalty with the
mitigating factor specified in any of those applicable sections:
            1.   Seeking or obtaining medical assistance in good faith for
another person who is experiencing a drug overdose;
            2.   Experiencing a drug overdose and seeking medical assistance
for that overdose or being the subject of another person seeking or obtaining
medical assistance for that overdose as described in division (B)(2)(b) of this
section.
         (d)   If a person is found to be in violation of any post-release
control sanction and if the violation is a result of either of the following,
the court or the parole board shall first consider ordering the person’s
participation or continued participation in a drug treatment program or
mitigating the penalty specified in R.C. § 2929.141 or 2967.28, whichever is
applicable, after which the court or the parole board has the discretion either
to order the person’s participation or continued participation in a drug
treatment program or to impose the penalty with the mitigating factor specified
in either of those applicable sections:
            1.   Seeking or obtaining medical assistance in good faith for
another person who is experiencing a drug overdose;
            2.   Experiencing a drug overdose and seeking medical assistance
for that emergency or being the subject of another person seeking or obtaining
medical assistance for that overdose as described in division (B)(2)(b) of this
section.
         (e)   Nothing in division (B)(2)(b) of this section shall be construed
to do any of the following:
            1.   Limit the admissibility of any evidence in connection with the
investigation or prosecution of a crime with regards to a defendant who does
not qualify for the protections of division (B)(2)(b) of this section or with
regards to any crime other than a minor drug possession offense committed by a
person who qualifies for protection pursuant to division (B)(2)(b) of this
section for a minor drug possession offense;
            2.   Limit any seizure of evidence or contraband otherwise
permitted by law;
            3.   Limit or abridge the authority of a peace officer to detain or
take into custody a person in the course of an investigation or to effectuate
an arrest for any offense except as provided in that division;
            4.   Limit, modify, or remove any immunity from liability available
pursuant to law in effect prior to September 13, 2016 to any public agency or
to an employee of any public agency.
         (f)   Division (B)(2)(b) of this section does not apply to any person
who twice previously has been granted an immunity under division (B)(2)(b) of
this section. No person shall be granted an immunity under division (B)(2)(b)
of this section more than two times.
         (g)   Nothing in this section shall compel any qualified individual to
disclose protected health information in a way that conflicts with the
requirements of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of
1996, 104 Pub. L. No. 191, 110 Stat. 2021, 42 U.S.C. §§ 1320d et seq., as
amended, and regulations promulgated by the United States Department of Health
and Human Services to implement the act or the requirements of 42 C.F.R. Part
2.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of one of the
following:
      (1)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana or hashish, whoever violates division (A) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of drugs.
The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2)(b) of this
section, possession of drugs is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the
offender previously has been convicted of a drug abuse offense, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds the bulk
amount, possession of drugs is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is marihuana or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing marihuana other than hashish,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of
marihuana. The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
of this section, possession of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 100 grams
but is less than 200 grams, possession of marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
possession of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (4)   If the drug involved in the violation is hashish or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing hashish, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of hashish. The penalty
for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(4)(b) or (C)(4)(c)
of this section, possession of hashish is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds five grams
but is less than ten grams of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds one
gram but is less than two grams of hashish in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of hashish is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds ten grams
of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds two grams of hashish in a
liquid concentrate, liquid extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of
hashish is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and marihuana, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(5)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of marihuana and shall be
punished as provided in division (C)(3) of this section. Except as otherwise
provided in division (C)(5)(b) of this section, the offender is not guilty of
possession of a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall
not be charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
      (6)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and any Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is
not a fentanyl-related compound, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(6)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of drugs and shall be punished as
provided in division (C)(2) of this section. Except as otherwise provided in
division (C)(6)(b) of this section, the offender is not guilty of possession of
a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall not be
charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
   (D)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
   (E)   (1)   In addition to any prison term or jail term authorized or
required by division (C) of this section and R.C. §§ 2929.13, 2929.14, 2929.22,
2929.24, and 2929.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
in addition to any other sanction that is imposed for the offense under this
section, R.C. §§ 2929.11 through 2929.18, or R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court that sentences
an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (A)
of this section may suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit for not more than five years. However, if the offender
pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another state or the
United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the violation,
the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or permit for not more than five years.
      (2)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
   (F)   (1)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
      (2)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (F) of this section, the
sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.11) (Prior Code, § 624.03)
Statutory reference:
   Felony drug possession offenses, see R.C. § 2925.11(C)
§ 138.04 POSSESSING DRUG ABUSE INSTRUMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make, obtain, possess, or use any
instrument, article, or thing the customary and primary purpose of which is for
the administration or use of a dangerous drug, other than marihuana, when the
instrument involved is a hypodermic or syringe, whether or not of crude or
extemporized manufacture or assembly, and the instrument, article, or thing
involved has been used by the offender to unlawfully administer or use a
dangerous drug, other than marihuana, or to prepare a dangerous drug, other
than marihuana, for unlawful administration or use.
   (B)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct was in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719,
4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing drug abuse
instruments, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, violation of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (D)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.12) (Prior Code, § 624.04)
§ 138.05 PERMITTING DRUG ABUSE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner, operator, or person in charge of a
locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, shall knowingly permit the vehicle to be used for the commission of a
felony drug abuse offense.
   (B)   No person, who is the owner, lessee, or occupant, or who has custody,
control, or supervision of premises, or real estate, including vacant land,
shall knowingly permit his or her premises, or real estate, including vacant
land, to be used for the commission of a felony drug abuse offense by another
person.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting drug abuse.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, permitting
drug abuse is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Permitting drug abuse is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the felony drug abuse offense in question is a
violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, or 2925.04, or if the felony drug abuse
offense in question is a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 and the offender had
actual knowledge, at the time the offender permitted the vehicle, premises, or
real estate to be used as described in division (A) or (B) of this section,
that the person who assembled or possessed the chemicals in question in
violation of R.C. § 2925.041 had assembled or possessed them with the intent to
manufacture a controlled substance in Schedule I or Schedule II in violation of
R.C. § 2925.04.
   (D)   Any premises or real estate that is permitted to be used in violation
of division (B) of this section constitutes a nuisance subject to abatement
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2925.13(A) - (C), (F)) (Prior Code, § 624.05)
§ 138.06 ILLEGAL CULTIVATION OF MARIHUANA.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cultivate marihuana.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person listed in R.C. § 2925.03(B)
(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, to
the extent and under the circumstances described in that division.
   (C)   Whoever commits a violation of division (A) of this section is guilty
of illegal cultivation of marihuana.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in the following divisions, illegal
cultivation of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor or, if the offense was
committed in the vicinity of a school or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 100 grams but
is less than 200 grams, illegal cultivation of marihuana is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree or, if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school
or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (3)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
illegal cultivation of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
(R.C. § 2925.04(A), (B), (C)(5), (G)) (Prior Code, § 624.025)
Statutory reference:
   Illegal manufacturing of controlled substances, felony, see R.C. § 2925.04
   Sale or use of drugs not approved by Food and Drug Administration, felony,
see R.C. § 2925.09
§ 138.07 ABUSING HARMFUL INTOXICANTS.
   (A)   Except for lawful research, clinical, medical, dental, or veterinary
purposes, no person, with purpose to induce intoxication or similar
physiological effects, shall obtain, possess, or use a harmful intoxicant.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of abusing harmful
intoxicants, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, abusing harmful intoxicants is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to the September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (C)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.31) (Prior Code, § 624.07)
§ 138.08 ILLEGAL DISPENSING OF DRUG SAMPLES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly furnish a sample drug to another person.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to manufacturers,
wholesalers, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, licensed health professionals
authorized to prescribe drugs, and other persons whose conduct is in accordance
with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4725, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal dispensing of
drug samples.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the offense is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the offense is a dangerous drug or a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule
IV or Schedule V, or is marihuana, the penalty for the offense shall be
determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in the following division, illegal
dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         (b)   If the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2925.36(A) - (C)) (Prior Code, § 624.08)
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see R.C. § 2925.36(C)(2)
§ 138.09 FEDERAL PROSECUTION BAR TO MUNICIPAL PROSECUTION.
   No person shall be prosecuted for a violation of this chapter if the person
has been acquitted or convicted under the federal drug abuse control laws of
the same act or omission which, it is alleged, constitutes a violation of this
chapter.
(R.C. §§ 2925.50, 3719.19) (Prior Code, § 624.11)
§ 138.10 NITROUS OXIDE: IMPROPER DISPENSING OR DISTRIBUTION; POSSESSION IN A
MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Improper dispensing or distribution.
      (1)   No person who dispenses or distributes nitrous oxide in cartridges
shall fail to comply with either of the following:
         (a)   The record-keeping requirements established under division (A)
(3) of this section.
         (b)   The labeling and transaction identification requirements
established under division (A)(4) of this section.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(1)(b) of this section is
guilty of improperly dispensing or distributing nitrous oxide, a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
      (3)   Beginning July 1, 2001, a person who dispenses or distributes
nitrous oxide shall record each transaction involving the dispensing or
distribution of the nitrous oxide on a separate card. The person shall require
the purchaser to sign the card and provide a complete residence address. The
person dispensing or distributing the nitrous oxide shall sign and date the
card. The person shall retain the card recording a transaction for one year
from the date of the transaction. The person shall maintain the cards at the
person’s business address and make them available during normal business hours
for inspection and copying by officers or employees of the State Board of
Pharmacy or of other law enforcement agencies that are authorized to
investigate violations of this code, R.C. Chapters 2925, 3719, or 4729, or
federal drug abuse control laws. The cards used to record each transaction
shall inform the purchaser of the following:
         (a)   That nitrous oxide cartridges are to be used only for purposes
of preparing food;
         (b)   That inhalation of nitrous oxide can have dangerous health
effects; and
         (c)   That it is a violation of state law to distribute or dispense
cartridges of nitrous oxide to any person under age 21, punishable as a felony
of the fifth degree.
      (4)   (a)   Each cartridge of nitrous oxide dispensed or distributed in
this municipality shall bear the following printed warning: “Nitrous oxide
cartridges are to be used only for purposes of preparing food. Nitrous oxide
cartridges may not be sold to persons under age 21. Do not inhale contents.
Misuse can be dangerous to your health.”
         (b)   Each time a person dispenses or distributes one or more
cartridges of nitrous oxide, the person shall mark the packaging containing the
cartridges with a label or other device that identifies the person who
dispensed or distributed the nitrous oxide and the person’s business address.
(R.C. § 2925.32(B)(4), (D)(2), (F), (G)) (Prior Code, § 624.073)
   (B)   Possession in a motor vehicle.
      (1)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE, STREET and HIGHWAY have the
same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      (2)   Unless authorized by this code or by state law, no person shall
possess an open cartridge of nitrous oxide in either of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   While operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on
a street, highway, or other public or private property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking.
         (b)   While being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on a street,
highway, or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular traffic or parking.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of possessing nitrous
oxide in a motor vehicle, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (4)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for
possessing nitrous oxide in a motor vehicle, the court may suspend for not more
than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit.
(R.C. § 2925.33) (Prior Code, § 624.076)
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking in harmful intoxicants, see R.C. § 2925.32
§ 138.11 LABORATORY REPORT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of this chapter or
R.C. Chapters 2925 or 3719, a laboratory report from the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation or a laboratory operated by another law
enforcement agency, or a laboratory established by or under the authority of an
institution of higher education that has its main campus in this state and that
is accredited by the Association of American Universities or the North Central
Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, primarily for the purpose of
providing scientific service to law enforcement agencies, and signed by the
person performing the analysis, stating that the substance that is the basis of
the alleged offense has been weighed and analyzed and stating the findings as
to the content, weight, and identity of the substance and that it contains any
amount of a controlled substance and the number and description of unit
dosages, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity, and weight or the
existence and number of unit dosages of the substance. In any criminal
prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 or a violation of this chapter,
R.C. Chapter 2925 or R.C. Chapter 3719 that is based on the possession of
chemicals sufficient to produce a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance
included in Schedule I, II, III, IV, or V, a laboratory report from the Bureau
or from any laboratory that is operated or established as described in this
division that is signed by the person performing the analysis, stating that the
substances that are the basis of the alleged offense have been weighed and
analyzed and stating the findings as to the content, weight, and identity of
each of the substances, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity, and
weight of the substances.
      (2)   Attached to that report shall be a copy of a notarized statement by
the signer of the report giving the name of the signer and stating that the
signer is an employee of the laboratory issuing the report and that performing
the analysis is a part of the signer’s regular duties, and giving an outline of
the signer’s education, training, and experience for performing an analysis of
materials included under this section. The signer shall attest that
scientifically accepted tests were performed with due caution, and that the
evidence was handled in accordance with established and accepted procedures
while in the custody of the laboratory.
   (B)   The prosecuting attorney shall serve a copy of the report on the
attorney of record for the accused, or on the accused if the accused has no
attorney, prior to any proceeding in which the report is to be used against the
accused other than at a preliminary hearing or grand jury proceeding where the
report may be used without having been previously served upon the accused.
   (C)   The report shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents,
identity, and weight or the existence and number of unit dosages of the
substance if the accused or the accused’s attorney demands the testimony of the
person signing the report, by serving the demand upon the prosecuting attorney,
within seven days from the accused or the accused’s attorney’s receipt of the
report. The time may be extended by a trial judge in the interests of justice.
   (D)   Any report issued for use under this section shall contain notice of
the right of the accused to demand, and the manner in which the accused shall
demand, the testimony of the person signing the report.
   (E)   Any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C.
Chapters 2925 or 3719 is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a portion of the substance that is, or of each of the
substances that are, the basis of the alleged violation preserved for the
benefit of independent analysis performed by a laboratory analyst employed by
the accused person, or, if the accused is indigent, by a qualified laboratory
analyst appointed by the court. Such portion shall be a representative sample
of the entire substance that is, or of each of the substances that are, the
basis of the alleged violation and shall be of sufficient size, in the opinion
of the court, to permit the accused’s analyst to make a thorough scientific
analysis concerning the identity of the substance or substances. The
prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused’s analyst with the sample
portion at least 14 days prior to trial, unless the trial is to be held in a
court not of record or unless the accused person is charged with a minor
misdemeanor, in which case the prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused’s
analyst with the sample portion at least three days prior to trial. If the
prosecuting attorney determines that such a sample portion cannot be preserved
and given to the accused’s analyst, the prosecuting attorney shall so inform
the accused person, or the accused’s attorney. In such a circumstance, the
accused person is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have the accused’s privately employed or court appointed analyst
present at an analysis of the substance that is, or the substances that are,
the basis of the alleged violation, and, upon further written request, to
receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the analysis
and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at conclusions, findings, or
opinions concerning the identity of the substance or substances subject to the
analysis.
   (F)   In addition to the rights provided under division (E) of this section,
any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C. Chapters 2925
or 3719 that involves a bulk amount of a controlled substance, or any multiple
thereof, or who is accused of a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, other than a minor misdemeanor violation, that
involves marihuana, is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a laboratory analyst of the accused’s choice, or, if the
accused is indigent, a qualified laboratory analyst appointed by the court,
present at a measurement or weighing of the substance that is the basis of the
alleged violation. Also, the accused person is entitled, upon further written
request, to receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the
measurement or weighing and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at
conclusions, findings, or opinions concerning the weight, volume, or number of
unit doses of the substance subject to the measurement or weighing.
(R.C. § 2925.51)
   (G)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required under
R.C. §§ 2929.18 and 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required
under any provision of law, the court imposing sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a drug abuse offense may order the offender to
pay to the state, municipal, or county law enforcement agencies that handled
the investigation and prosecution all of the costs that the state, municipal
corporation, or county reasonably incurred in having tests performed under this
section or R.C. § 2925.51 or in any other manner on any substance that was the
basis of, or involved in, the offense to determine whether the substance
contained any amount of a controlled substance if the results of the tests
indicate that the substance tested contained any controlled substance. No court
shall order an offender under this section to pay the costs of tests performed
on a substance if the results of the tests do not indicate that the substance
tested contained any controlled substance. The court shall hold a hearing to
determine the amount of costs to be imposed under this section. The court may
hold the hearing as part of the sentencing hearing for the offender.
(R.C. § 2925.511)
(Prior Code, § 624.10)
§ 138.12 COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly possess any counterfeit controlled
substance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be guilty of
possession of counterfeit controlled substances, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2925.37(A), (G)) (Prior Code, § 624.15)
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking and other felony counterfeit controlled substance offenses, see
R.C. § 2925.37(H) - (M)
§ 138.13 USE, POSSESSION, OR SALE OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   As used in this section, DRUG PARAPHERNALIA means any equipment,
product, or material of any kind that is used by the offender, intended by the
offender for use, or designed for use, in propagating, cultivating, growing,
harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing,
preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing,
concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the
human body, a controlled substance in violation of this chapter. The term
includes but is not limited to any of the following equipment, products, or
materials that are used by the offender, intended by the offender for use, or
designed by the offender for use, in any of the following manners:
      (1)   A kit for propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting any
species of a plant that is a controlled substance or from which a controlled
substance can be derived.
      (2)   A kit for manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, or preparing a controlled substance.
      (3)   Any object, instrument, or device for manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, or preparing methamphetamine.
      (4)   An isomerization device for increasing the potency of any species
of a plant that is a controlled substance.
      (5)   Testing equipment for identifying, or analyzing the strength,
effectiveness, or purity of, a controlled substance.
      (6)   A scale or balance for weighing or measuring a controlled
substance.
      (7)   A diluent or adulterant, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose, or lactose, for cutting a controlled substance.
      (8)   A separation gin or sifter for removing twigs and seeds from, or
otherwise cleaning or refining, marihuana.
      (9)   A blender, bowl, container, spoon, or mixing device for compounding
a controlled substance.
      (10)   A capsule, balloon, envelope, or container for packaging small
quantities of a controlled substance.
      (11)   A container or device for storing or concealing a controlled
substance.
      (12)   A hypodermic syringe, needle, or instrument for parenterally
injecting a controlled substance into the human body.
      (13)   An object, instrument, or device for ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing into the human body, marihuana, cocaine, hashish, or
hashish oil, such as a metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or
ceramic pipe, with or without a screen, permanent screen, hashish head, or
punctured metal bowl; water pipe; carburetion tube or device; smoking or
carburetion mask; roach clip or similar object used to hold burning material,
such as a marihuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be
held in the hand; miniature cocaine spoon, or cocaine vial; chamber pipe;
carburetor pipe; electric pipe; air driver pipe; chillum; bong; or ice pipe or
chiller.
   (B)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, the following:
      (1)   Any statement by the owner or by anyone in control of the
equipment, product, or material, concerning its use.
      (2)   The proximity in time or space of the equipment, product, or
material, or of the act relating to the equipment, product, or material, to a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2925.
      (3)   The proximity of the equipment, product, or material to any
controlled substance.
      (4)   The existence of any residue of a controlled substance on the
equipment, product, or material.
      (5)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of the owner, or of
anyone in control, of the equipment, product, or material, to deliver it to any
person whom he or she knows intends to use the equipment, product, or material
to facilitate a violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter
2925. A finding that the owner or anyone in control of the equipment, product,
or material is not guilty of a violation of any other provision of this chapter
or R.C. Chapter 2925 does not prevent a finding that the equipment, product, or
material was intended or designed by the offender for use as drug
paraphernalia.
      (6)   Any oral or written instruction provided with the equipment,
product, or material concerning its use.
      (7)   Any descriptive material accompanying the equipment, product, or
material and explaining or depicting its use.
      (8)   National or local advertising concerning the use of the equipment,
product, or material.
      (9)   The manner and circumstances in which the equipment, product, or
material is displayed for sale.
      (10)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of the sales of the
equipment, product, or material to the total sales of the business enterprise.
      (11)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses of the equipment,
product, or material in the community.
      (12)   Expert testimony concerning the use of the equipment, product, or
material.
   (C)   (1)   Subject to division (D)(2) of this section, no person shall
knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, drug paraphernalia.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly sell, or possess or manufacture with
purpose to sell, drug paraphernalia, if he or she knows or reasonably should
know that the equipment, product, or material will be used as drug
paraphernalia.
      (3)   No person shall place an advertisement in any newspaper, magazine,
handbill, or other publication that is published and printed and circulates
primarily within this state, if he or she knows that the purpose of the
advertisement is to promote the illegal sale in this municipality or in this
state of the equipment, product, or material that the offender intended or
designed for use as drug paraphernalia.
   (D)   (1)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741. This section shall not be construed to
prohibit the possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. §
3719.172.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a person’s use,
or possession with purpose to use, any drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a
product, or material of any kind that is used by the person, intended by the
person for use, or designed for use in storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body
marihuana.
   (E)   Notwithstanding R.C. Chapter 2981, any drug paraphernalia that was
used, possessed, sold, or manufactured in violation of this section shall be
seized, after a conviction for that violation, shall be forfeited, and upon
forfeiture shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 2981.12(B).
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (F)(3) of this section, whoever
violates division (C)(2) of this section is guilty of dealing in drug
paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C)(2) of this section by selling drug
paraphernalia to a juvenile is guilty of selling drug paraphernalia to
juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (C)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal advertising of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (G)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.14)
   (H)   Illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia.
      (1)   As used in this division (H), DRUG PARAPHERNALIA has the same
meaning as in division (A) of this section.
      (2)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, all factors identified in division (B) of this
section.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, any
drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a product, or material of any kind that
is used by the person, intended by the person for use, or designed for use in
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body marihuana.
      (4)   This division (H) does not apply to any person identified in
division (D)(1) of this section, and it shall not be construed to prohibit the
possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. § 3719.172.
      (5)   Division (E) of this section applies with respect to any drug
paraphernalia that was used or possessed in violation of this section.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (H)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia, a minor misdemeanor.
      (7)   (a)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender
for a violation division (H) of this section, the court may suspend for not
more than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit. However, if the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a
violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance
or the law of another state or the United States arising out of the same set of
circumstances as the violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the
offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction
imposed for a violation of division (H) of this section, the court immediately
shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
         (b)   1.   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under division (H)
of this section prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the
sentencing court requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an
offender who pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another
state or the United States that arose out of the same set of circumstances as
the violation for which the offender’s license or permit was suspended under
division (H) of this section shall not file such a motion.
            2.   Upon the filing of a motion under division (H)(7)(b) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.141)
(Prior Code, § 624.14)
§ 138.14 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE OR PRESCRIPTION LABELS.
   (A)   Whenever a manufacturer sells a controlled substance, and whenever a
wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility sells a controlled substance in
a package the wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility has prepared, the
manufacturer or the wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility, as the
case may be, shall securely affix to each package in which the controlled
substance is contained a label showing in legible English the name and address
of the vendor and the quantity, kind, and form of controlled substance
contained therein. No person, except a pharmacist for the purpose of dispensing
a controlled substance upon a prescription shall alter, deface, or remove any
label so affixed. As used in this division, “repackager” and “outsourcing
facility” have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   (B)   No person shall alter, deface or remove any label affixed pursuant to
R.C. § 3719.08 as long as any of the original contents remain.
(R.C. § 3719.08(A), (E))
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, or R.C. § 3719.07 or 3719.08, or a drug abuse offense, a violation of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
violation involves the sale, offer to sell, or possession of a Schedule I or II
controlled substance, with the exception of marihuana, and if the offender, as
a result of the violation, is a major drug offender, then R.C. § 3719.99(D)
applies.
(R.C. § 3719.99(C))
(Prior Code, § 624.13)
§ 138.15 POSSESSION, SALE AND DISPOSAL OF HYPODERMICS.
   (A)   Possession of a hypodermic is authorized for the following:
      (1)   A manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in hypodermics, or
medication packaged in hypodermics, and any authorized agent of employee of
that manufacturer, distributor or dealer, in the regular course of business;
      (2)   A terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, in the regular course of
business;
      (3)   A person authorized to administer injections, in the regular course
of the person’s profession or employment;
      (4)   A person, when the hypodermic in his possession was lawfully
obtained and is kept and used for the purpose of self-administration of insulin
or other drug prescribed for the treatment of disease by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs;
      (5)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for legal research, clinical,
educational or medicinal purposes;
      (6)   A farmer, for the lawful administration of a drug to an animal;
      (7)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for lawful professional,
mechanical, trade or craft purposes.
   (B)   No manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in, hypodermics or
medication packaged in hypodermics, or their authorized agents or employees,
and no terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, shall display any hypodermic
for sale. No person authorized to possess a hypodermic pursuant to division (A)
of this section shall negligently fail to take reasonable precautions to
prevent any hypodermic in the person’s possession from theft or acquisition by
any unauthorized person.
(R.C. § 3719.172(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (B) of this section, R.C. § 3719.05, 3719.06,
3719.13, 3719.172(B), or 3719.31, or a drug abuse offense, a violation of
division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 3719.99(E))
(Prior Code, § 624.09)
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see R.C. § 3719.172(C) and (D)
§ 138.16 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE SCHEDULES.
   Controlled Substance Schedules I, II, III, IV, and V, as established in R.C.
§ 3719.41 and amended by R.C. §§ 3719.43 and 3719.44, are hereby adopted by
reference, and shall be treated as if set forth in full herein.
(Prior Code, § 624.12)
§ 138.17 UNLAWFUL FURNISHING OF PRESCRIPTION TO ENABLE PERSONS TO BE ISSUED
HANDICAPPED PARKING PLACARDS OR LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No physician or chiropractor shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Furnish a person with a prescription in order to enable the person
to be issued a removable windshield placard, temporary removable windshield
placard, or license plates under R.C. § 4503.44, knowing that the person does
not meet any of the criteria contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
      (2)   Furnish a person with a prescription described in division (A)(1)
of this section and knowingly misstate on the prescription the length of time
the physician or chiropractor expects the person to have the disability that
limits or impairs the person’s ability to walk in order to enable the person to
retain a placard issued under R.C. § 4503.44 for a period of time longer than
that which would be estimated by a similar practitioner under the same or
similar circumstances.
(R.C. §§ 4731.481, 4734.161)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. §§ 4731.99(F), 4734.99(B))
§ 138.18 SALE OF PSEUDOEPHEDRINE.
   (A)   Unlawful purchases.
      (1)   As used in divisions (A), (B), (C) and (D) of this section:
         CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by humans
and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only pursuant to a
prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or
salts of optical isomers.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale
to the general public.
         SINGLE-INGREDIENT PREPARATION. A compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 4729.01.
      (2)   (a)   1.   No individual shall knowingly purchase, receive, or
otherwise acquire an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
that is greater than either of the following unless the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product is dispensed by a pharmacist pursuant to a valid
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist and the licensed health professional
authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The limits specified in divisions (A)(2)(a)1.a. and (A)(2)
(a)1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine or
base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The limits do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         (b)   It is not a violation of division (B)(1) of this section for an
individual to receive or accept more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product specified in division (A)(2)(a)1.a. or (A)(2)(a)1.b. of
this section if the individual is an employee of a retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   (a)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly purchase,
receive, or otherwise acquire a pseudoephedrine product, or ephedrine product
unless the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product is dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist
and the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741.
         (b)   Division (A)(3)(a) of this section does not apply to an
individual under 18 years of age who purchases, receives, or otherwise acquires
a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product from any of the following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to that individual and whose conduct is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of that individual who provides the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person, as authorized by that individual’s parent or
guardian, who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            4.   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs who
provides the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to that individual if
the individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs and the individual receives or accepts from the retailer or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (4)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly show or give
false information concerning the individual’s name, age, or other
identification for the purpose of purchasing, receiving, or otherwise acquiring
a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
      (5)   No individual shall knowingly fail to comply with the requirements
of R.C. § 3715.051(B).
      (6)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawful purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (A)(3)(a) of this section is guilty of
underage purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of using
false information to purchase a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the first degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (9)   Whoever violates division (A)(5) of this section is guilty of
improper purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2925.55)
   (B)   Unlawful retail sales.
      (1)   (a)   1.   Except as provided in division (B)(1)(b) of this
section, no retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee
of a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall knowingly sell,
offer to sell, hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide to any individual
an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (B)(1)(a)1.a. and
(B)(1)(a)1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine
or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         (b)   1.   Division (B)(1)(a) of this section does not apply to any
quantity of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs if the conduct of the pharmacist and
the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741.
            2.   It is not a violation of division (B)(1)(a) of this section
for a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee of either
to provide to an individual more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product specified in division (B)(1)(a)1.a. or (B)(1)(a)1.b. of this
section under either of the following circumstances:
               a.   The individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product in a sealed container in
connection with manufacturing, warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging,
loading, or unloading of the product;
               b.   A stop-sale alert is generated after the submission of
information to the national precursor log exchange under the conditions
described in R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this section, no
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee of a
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall sell, offer to sell,
hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual who is under 18 years of age.
         (b)   Division (B)(2)(a) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age and whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of an individual under 18 years of age
who provides a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person who, as authorized by the individual’s parent or
guardian, dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age;
            4.   The provision by a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, or employee of either of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
in a sealed container to an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs who is under 18 years of age in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.051(A) or R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (4)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.052(A)(1).
      (5)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(2)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to a minor, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of
improper sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a misdemeanor
of the second degree.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of
failing to submit information to the national precursor log exchange, a
misdemeanor for which the offender shall be fined not more than $1,000 per
violation.
(R.C. § 2925.56)
   (C)   Transaction scans.
      (1)   As used in this division and division (D) of this section:
         CARD HOLDER. Means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive any pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product from the seller, agent, or employee.
         IDENTIFICATION CARD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2927.021.
         SELLER. Means a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs.
         TRANSACTION SCAN. Means the process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks by means of a transaction scan device the validity
of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card that is
presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving any pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product.
         TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2927.021.
      (2)   (a)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away, or otherwise distributing
to the card holder a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
         (b)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (C)(2)(a) of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away, or otherwise distribute any
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the card holder.
         (c)   Division (C)(2)(a) of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller as a condition for selling, giving away, or
otherwise distributing a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the
person presenting the document from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or an identification card if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (C) and division (D) of this section.
      (4)   (a)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except the following:
            1.   The name, address, and date of birth of the person listed on
the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by
a card holder;
            2.   The expiration date, identification number, and issuing agency
of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by a card holder.
         (b)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (C)(4)(a) of this section except for
purposes of division (D) of this section, R.C. § 2925.58, or R.C. § 3715.052(A)
(1).
         (c)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (C)(2)(a) of this section.
         (d)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (D) of this section
or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (C) or division (D) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable state or federal laws or rules governing the
sale, giving away, or other distribution of pseudoephedrine products or
ephedrine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (C)(2)(b) or (C)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil penalty of
up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay each
collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the County
Treasury.
(R.C. § 2925.57)
   (D)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (B) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of a pseudoephedrine product is an
element of the alleged violation if the seller, agent, or employee raises and
proves as an affirmative defense that all of the following occurred:
         (a)   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive a
pseudoephedrine product presented a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
an identification card.
         (b)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that
the license or card was valid.
         (c)   The pseudoephedrine product was sold, given away, or otherwise
distributed to the card holder in reasonable reliance upon the identification
presented and the completed transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (D)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (B) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (B) of this
section. For purposes of division (D)(1)(c) of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         (a)   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away, or otherwise distributes a pseudoephedrine product is
18 years of age or older;
         (b)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (D)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
deputy registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50
through 4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of
that issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2925.58)
   (E)   Retailer’s duties.
      (1)   As used in divisions (E) and (F) of this section:
         CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by humans
and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only pursuant to a
prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         DRUG. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. An officer or employee of any agency or
authority of the United States, a state, a territory, a political subdivision
of a state or territory, or an Indian tribe, who is empowered by the law to
investigate or conduct an official inquiry into a potential violation of law or
prosecute or otherwise conduct a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding
arising from an alleged violation of law.
         LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         NATIONAL PRECURSOR LOG EXCHANGE or EXCHANGE. The electronic system for
tracking sales of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products on a national
basis that is administered by the National Association of Drug Diversion
Investigators or a successor organization.
         PHARMACIST. A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 to engage in the
practice of pharmacy.
         PHARMACY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PRESCRIBER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PROOF OF AGE. A driver’s license, a commercial driver’s license, a
military identification card, a passport, or an identification card issued
under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows a person is 18 years of age or
older.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or
salts of optical isomers.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale
to the general public.
         SINGLE-INGREDIENT PREPARATION. A compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         STOP-SALE ALERT. A notification sent from the national precursor log
exchange to a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs indicating
that the completion of a sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
would result in a violation of R.C. § 2925.56(A)(1) or federal law.
         TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meanings as in
R.C. § 4729.01.
         WHOLESALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
      (2)   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs that sells,
offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers, or otherwise provides a
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the public shall do all of the
following:
         (a)   Segregate pseudoephedrine products or ephedrine products from
other merchandise so that no member of the public may procure or purchase such
products without the direct assistance of a pharmacist or other authorized
employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
         (b)   With regard to each time a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product is sold or otherwise provided without a valid prescription:
            1.   Determine, by examination of a valid proof of age, that the
purchaser or recipient is at least 18 years of age;
            2.   a.   Using any information available, including information
from the national precursor log exchange if the information is accessible, make
a reasonable attempt to ensure that no individual purchases or receives an
amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
                  i.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single
day;
                  ii.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
               b.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (E)(2)(b)2.a.i.
and (E)(2)(b)2.a.ii. of this section apply to the total amount of base
pseudoephedrine or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product, respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s
overall weight.
         (c)   Maintain a log book of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product purchases, in accordance with R.C. § 3715.051;
         (d)   If required to comply with section R.C. § 3715.052, submit the
information specified in divisions (A)(1)(a) to (A)(1)(d) of that section to
the national precursor log exchange.
      (3)   Prescriptions, orders, and records maintained pursuant to this
section and stocks of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products shall be
open for inspection to federal, state, county, and municipal officers, and
employees of the State Board of Pharmacy whose duty it is to enforce the laws
of this state or of the United States relating to controlled substances. Such
prescriptions, orders, records, and stocks shall be open for inspection by the
State Medical Board and its employees for purposes of enforcing R.C. Chapter
4731.
(R.C. § 3715.05)
   (F)   Theft or loss; reporting requirements.
      (1)   Each retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy,
prescriber, or wholesaler that sells, offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers,
or otherwise provides any pseudoephedrine product and that discovers the theft
or loss of any pseudoephedrine product in an amount of more than nine grams per
incident of theft or loss shall notify all of the following upon discovery of
the theft or loss:
         (a)   The State Board of Pharmacy, by telephone immediately upon
discovery of the theft or loss;
         (b)   Law enforcement authorities. If the incident is a theft and the
theft constitutes a felony, the retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, pharmacy, prescriber, or wholesaler shall report the theft to the law
enforcement authorities in accordance with R.C. § 2921.22.
      (2)   Within 30 days after making a report by telephone to the State
Board of Pharmacy pursuant to division (F)(1)(a) of this section, a retailer,
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy, prescriber, or wholesaler
shall send a written report to the State Board of Pharmacy.
      (3)   The reports required under this section shall identify the product
that was stolen or lost, the amount of the product stolen or lost, and the date
and time of discovery of the theft or loss.
(R.C. § 3715.06)
(Prior Code, § 624.16)
§ 138.19 SALE OF PURE CAFFEINE PRODUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section, PURE CAFFEINE PRODUCT means:
      (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) of this section, a product that consists
solely or primarily of caffeine and is manufactured into a crystalline, liquid,
or powdered form.
      (2)   The phrase does not include any of the following that contains
caffeine and is formulated, manufactured, and labeled in accordance with the
laws and regulations enforced by the United States Food and Drug
Administration:
         (a)   Coffee, tea, any soft drink, any energy drink, or any other
caffeine-containing beverage;
         (b)   Any energy product.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, no person shall
knowingly sell or offer for sale a pure caffeine product.
   (C)   Division (B) of this section does not prohibit a person from selling
or offering for sale any product manufactured in a unit-dose form such as a
pill, tablet, or caplet, but only if each unit dose of the product contains not
more than 250 milligrams of caffeine.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits either of the following:
      (1)   Possession of a product described in division (C) of this section;
      (2)   Possession of a pure caffeine product by any of the following:
         (a)   A food processing establishment, as defined in R.C. § 3715.021;
         (b)   A manufacturer of a drug that is available without a
prescription;
         (c)   A laboratory that holds a current, valid category III terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs license issued by the state board of pharmacy
under R.C. § 4729.54;
         (d)   A laboratory of any agency or department of this state that
performs testing, analysis, and other laboratory services on behalf of the
state;
         (e)   A postal or delivery service that transports or delivers a pure
caffeine product to an entity specified in divisions (D)(2)(a) to (D)(2)(d) of
this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegal
sale of pure caffeine, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor
of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 2925.34)
§ 138.20 SALE OF DEXTROMETHORPHAN.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      DEXTROMETHORPHAN. Means the dextrorotatory isomer of 3-methoxy-N-
methylmorphinan, including its salts, but not including its racemic or
levorotatory forms.
      EVIDENCE OF MAJORITY AND IDENTITY. Means a document issued by the federal
government or a state, county, or municipal government, or a subdivision or
agency of any of the foregoing, including a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, an identification card issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52, a
military identification card, or any other form of identification that bears
the name, date of birth, description, and picture of the person identified.
      RETAILER. Means a place of business that offers consumer products for
sale to the general public, including a terminal distributor of dangerous drugs
that is licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 and operated as a pharmacy.
   (B)   No retailer or employee of a retailer shall knowingly supply, deliver,
give, or otherwise provide a drug, material, compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance containing any quantity of dextromethorphan through the sale of any
product to a person under 18 years of age, unless the person has been issued a
prescription for the product being purchased.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) of this section, the person making the
sale of a product containing dextromethorphan shall require and obtain evidence
of majority and identity from the purchaser, unless from the purchaser’s
outward appearance the person making the sale would reasonably presume the
purchaser to be 25 years of age or older. Proof that the person making the sale
demanded, was shown, and acted in reasonable reliance on the purchaser’s
evidence of majority and identity is a defense to any charge of a violation of
division (B) of this section.
   (D)   A retailer or employee of a retailer is not liable for damages in a
civil action for injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly
arises from an act or omission associated with a failure to prevent the sale of
a product containing dextromethorphan to a person under 18 years of age, unless
the act or omission constitutes willful or wanton misconduct.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegally
selling dextromethorphan, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2925.62)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING AND HOUSING CODE
      
151.   LOCAL BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
152.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
154.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING AND HOUSING CODE
Section
Ohio Basic Building Code
   
150.001   Adopted
   
150.002   Purposes of Code
   
150.003   Application
   
150.004   Enforcement
   
150.005   File and distribution copies
   
150.006   Conflict of laws
Preble County Building Code
   
150.020   Adoption by reference
   
150.021   Enforcement by County Building Inspector
   
150.022   Permit fees
   
150.023   Nonliability of Building Inspector
   
150.024   Amendments
   
150.025   Appeals
   
150.026   File copies
International One and Two Family Dwelling Code
   
150.040   Adopted
   
150.041   Purpose
   
150.042   File and distribution copies
   
150.043   Conflict of laws
Residential Code of Ohio
   
150.055   Code adopted
   
150.056   Enforcement
   
150.057   Schedule of fees
   
150.058   Relief of liability
   
150.059   Mayor and Fiscal Officer authorized
National Electric Code
   
150.070   Adopted
   
150.071   Purpose
   
150.072   File and distribution copies
Property Maintenance Code
   
150.085   Purpose
   
150.086   Definitions
   
150.087   Interpretation
   
150.088   Nuisances
   
150.089   Structural defects
   
150.090   Maintenance after property damage
   
150.091   Closing of vacant structures
   
150.092   Fences and walls
   
150.093   Notices and orders
   
150.094   Permits required
   
150.095   Abatement expenses
   
150.096   Administrative liability
   
150.097   Emergency nuisance abatement
   
150.098   Separability
   
150.099   Authority of Property Maintenance Officer
 
   
150.999   Penalty
OHIO BASIC BUILDING CODE
§ 150.001 ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to R.C. § 731.231, there is hereby adopted by and for the
village the Ohio Basic Building Code, (residential: 2019 RCC, 2017 NFTA 70,
2018 IECC, 2018 IFGC, 2017 OPC; commercial: 2017 OBC-OMC-OPC, 2017 NSP 70, 2012
IECC; 2016 NFP 72, 2015 IFGC), as adopted by the Ohio Board of Building
Standards, Department of Industrial Relations, and as published in Division
4101:2 of the Ohio Administrative Code (O.A.C.), save and except such portions
as may be hereinafter amended or deleted.
   (B)   The BOCA National Building Code, promulgated by Building Officials and
Code Administrators International, Inc., being particularly the thirteenth
edition (1996) thereof, and the International Mechanical Code, promulgated by
the International Code Council, Inc. (ICC), being particularly the 1998 edition
thereof, as amended by Chapters 4101:2-1 through 4101:2-15 of the Ohio
Administrative Code, are hereby incorporated in this subchapter as fully as if
set forth at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 1404.01)
§ 150.002 PURPOSES OF CODE.
   The purposes of the Ohio Basic Building Code, as adopted in §
150.001, are to:
   (A)   Provide uniform standards and requirements for the erection,
construction, repair, alteration and maintenance of buildings, including
construction of industrialized units. Such standards shall relate to the
conservation of energy, safety and sanitation of buildings for their intended
use and occupancy;
   (B)   Formulate such standards and requirements, so far as is practical, in
terms of performance objectives, so as to make adequate performance for the use
intended the test of acceptability;
   (C)   Permit, to the fullest extent feasible, the use of materials and
technical methods, devices and improvements, including the use of
industrialized units that tend to reduce the cost of construction and erection
without affecting minimum requirements for the health, safety and security of
the occupants or users of buildings or industrialized units and without
preferential treatment of types or classes of materials or products or methods
of construction; and
   (D)   Encourage, so far as may be practical, the standardization of
construction practices, methods, equipment, material and techniques, including
methods employed to produce industrialized units.
(O.A.C. 4101:2-1-05) (Prior Code, § 1404.02)
§ 150.003 APPLICATION.
   The Ohio Basic Building Code, as adopted herein, applies to all buildings,
except as follows:
   (A)   Single-family, two-family and three-family dwelling houses which are
not constructed of industrialized units, except where the context specifies
mandatory applicability;
   (B)   Buildings owned by and used for a function of the United States
government;
   (C)   Existing buildings where their location, parts, equipment and other
items do not constitute a serious hazard;
   (D)   Buildings constructed in accordance with plans which have been
approved prior to the effective date of OBBC;
   (E)   Buildings or structures which are incident to the use for agricultural
purposes of the land on which such buildings or structures are located,
provided such buildings or structures are not used in the business of retail
trade (see R.C. §§ 3781.06 and 3781.061);
   (F)   Agricultural labor camps as defined in R.C. § 3733.41;
   (G)   Single-family, two-family and three-family detached dwelling houses
for which applications have been submitted to the Ohio Director of Human
Services pursuant to R.C. § 5104.03 for the purposes of operating type A family
day-care homes, as defined in R.C. § 5104.01; and
   (H)   Buildings or structures which are designed, constructed and maintained
in accordance with federal standards and regulations and are used primarily for
federal and state military purposes where the U.S. Secretary of Defense,
pursuant to 10 U.S.C. §§ 18233(a)(1), (a)(5) and (a)(6) and 18237, has:
      (1)   Acquired, by purchase, lease or transfer, and constructs, expands,
rehabilitates or corrects and equips such buildings or structures as he or she
determines to be necessary to carry out the purposes of 10 U.S.C. § 1803;
      (2)   Contributed to the state amounts for the acquisition, construction,
expansion, rehabilitation and conversion by the state of such additional
buildings or structures as he or she determines to be required because of the
failure of existing facilities to meet the purposes of 10 U.S.C. § 1803; or
      (3)   Contributed to the state such amounts for the construction,
alteration or rehabilitation of arms storage rooms as he or she determines to
be required to meet a change in U.S. Department of Defense standards related to
the safekeeping of arms.
(O.A.C. 4101:2-1-09) (Prior Code, § 1404.03)
§ 150.004 ENFORCEMENT.
   The County Building Department is hereby authorized to enforce the Ohio
Basic Building Code, as adopted in § 1404.01, within the territorial boundaries
of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1404.04)
§ 150.005 FILE AND DISTRIBUTION COPIES.
   At least one copy of the Code adopted in § 1404.01 is on file with the
Village Fiscal Officer for inspection by the public. At least one copy of such
Codes is also on file in the County Law Library. In addition, the Village
Fiscal Officer shall keep copies of such Codes available for distribution to
the public, at cost.
(Prior Code, § 1404.05)
§ 150.006 CONFLICT OF LAWS.
   (A)   Whenever a provision of the Ohio Basic Building Code, as adopted in §
150.001, conflicts with a provision of the Ohio Fire Code or any other order,
standard or rule of the Ohio Department of Commerce, Division of State Fire
Marshal, the provision of the Ohio Basic Building Code shall control.
(O.A.C. 4101:2-1-04(B))
   (B)   Whenever a provision of the Ohio Basic Building Code, as adopted in §
150.001, conflicts with a provision of any other standard technical code
adopted by the municipality, other than as provided in division (A) of this
section, or any ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation of Council, the
stricter standard shall control.
   (C)   When a special provision is made in a use group classification of the
Ohio Basic Building Code and is inconsistent with a general provision of the
Ohio Basic Building Code relating to buildings generally, the special provision
governs, unless it appears that the provisions are cumulative.
(O.A.C. 4101:2-1-07) (Prior Code, § 1404.06)
PREBLE COUNTY BUILDING CODE
§ 150.020 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The specifications and all other terms and conditions of the Preble County
Building Code are hereby adopted for application in the Village of West
Alexandria, Ohio, together with such amendments as are set forth in succeeding
sections of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1406.01) (Res. 1991-06, passed 10-10-1991)
§ 150.021 ENFORCEMENT BY COUNTY BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Preble County Building Inspector is hereby authorized to enforce the
Preble County Building Code within the limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1406.02) (Res. 1991-06, passed 10-10-1991)
§ 150.022 PERMIT FEES.
   The schedule of fees for building permits, as provided in the Preble County
Building Code, is hereby adopted and such fees are payable in the manner set
forth in the Code.
(Prior Code, § 1406.03) (Res. 1991-06, passed 10-10-1991)
§ 150.023 NONLIABILITY OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Preble County Building Inspector is hereby relieved of any liability
arising from the performance of his or her duties as set forth in the Preble
County Building Code while performing such duties in the village.
(Prior Code, § 1406.04) (Res. 1991-06, passed 10-10-1991)
§ 150.024 AMENDMENTS.
   Title IV of the Preble County Building Code (Natural Light and Ventilation)
shall be amended to read as follows.
   (A)   Section 400. Lot coverage.
      The area occupied by a dwelling on any lot shall not exceed:
      (1)   On interior lots, approximately 45%.
      (2)   On corner lots, approximately 50%.
      (3)   When computing lot coverage, the area of a one-story garage located
on the same lot with a dwelling may be deducted from the “building area”, but
not to exceed 200 square feet.
      (4)   Commercial or mercantile structures to be built in business areas
may utilize the full area of the lot, provided that fire walls are erected on
all lot lines according to the standards of the Ohio State Building Code.
   (B)   Section 401. Building setbacks.
      This section, as set forth in the Preble County Building Code, shall be
deleted in its entirety as being inapplicable to the requirements of the
Village of West Alexandria, Ohio, and the following regulations shall apply.
      (1)   Dwellings to be erected on streets that have been dedicated and
built on prior to the date of this subchapter shall conform to the setback
lines of the now established residences.
      (2)   On streets or plats accepted subsequent to the date of this
subchapter, no building shall be located on any lot nearer than 30 feet from
the front lot line or nearer than 30 feet from a side street lot line.
      (3)   No dwelling shall be erected nearer than five feet from any side
interior lot line.
      (4)   No building shall be erected nearer than 30 feet from a rear lot
line, except that a garage may be erected, the eaves of which may not be nearer
than two feet from any interior side or rear lot line.
      (5)   All dwellings shall be erected on tracts of land with direct lot
line access to dedicated and improved village streets (minimum frontage of 50
feet is required). No dwelling shall be erected on tracts of land with lot line
access to an alley only.
      (6)   No dwellings shall be erected on tracts of land less than 7,500
square feet.
      (7)   Only one dwelling structure may be erected on any single tract of
land within the corporate limits of the Village of West Alexandria.
   (C)   Section 403. Minimum required square feet for trailer or cabin.
      This section as set forth in the Preble County Building Code shall be
deleted in its entirety and shall be replaced as follows:
         No cabin or trailer shall be built or used as a place of residence or
as accommodations for overnight guests within the corporate limits of the
Village of West Alexandria.
   (D)   Section 403.1. Plans and drawings.
      (1)   Drawings shall include elevations of all sides, floor plans of all
levels, and construction details such as footer, trusses, and wall sections.
Plans for a 400 square feet minimum attached garage or a detached two car
garage with one 16-feet minimum wide or two eight-feet minimum wide overhead
doors shall accompany house plans submitted for approval.
      (2)   A plot plan drawn to scale shall be provided. It shall show the
placement and dimensions of the proposed structure and any existing structures
including overhangs, rakes, and any other projections. Also, dimensions of
driveway must be shown. Driveways must be a minimum of five feet from the
property line.
   (E)   Section 403.2. Roofs.
      (1)   A 16-inch overhang and a ten-inch gable rake are required for all
roofs with 4/12 pitch or 5/12 pitch. A 12-inch overhang and a ten-inch gable
rake are required for all roofs with 6/12 pitch or greater. A 4/12 pitch is the
minimum allowed for roofs over all living areas. Attached roofs over non-living
areas must be at a minimum of 4/12 pitch. Variances may be granted by the
Planning Commission for architectural style(s).
      (2)   Flat roofs are prohibited.
      (3)   Gutters shall be installed on any house or garage (attached or
detached) prior to final inspection. Gutters are not included in overhang
requirements.
   (F)   Section 403.3. Exterior finish.
      (1)   Exterior finishes may either be wood, brick, brick veneer, stone,
aluminum or vinyl siding.
      (2)   Concrete block is prohibited.
   (g)   Section 403.4. Modular homes, etc.
      (1)   Sectional, modular or manufactured homes, or other similar housing
units with attached steel frame or steel substructure is prohibited within the
village.
(Prior Code, § 1406.05) (Res. 1991-06, passed 10-10-1991; Ord. 733, passed 11-
2-2007)
§ 150.025 APPEALS.
   Any alleged cases of hardship arising from or through the provisions as set
forth in this subchapter may, upon ten days notice in writing, addressed to the
Council of the Village of West Alexandria, Ohio, and the Preble County Building
Commissioner, be granted a hearing for relief and disposition before a joint
committee consisting of the Village Council and the Preble County Building
Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 1406.06) (Res. 1991-06, passed 10-10-1991)
§ 150.026 FILE COPIES.
   Copies of the Preble County Building Code, with the resolution of adoption
and amendments applicable to its use within the corporate limits of the Village
of West Alexandria, Ohio, shall be on file for public inspection at the office
of the Village Fiscal Officer.
(Prior Code, § 1406.07) (Res. 1991-06, passed 10-10-1991)
INTERNATIONAL ONE AND TWO FAMILY DWELLING CODE
Editor’s note:
   This subchapter, previously titled “CABO One and Two Family Dwelling Code”,
was re-titled “International One and Two Family Dwelling Code”, upon the
adoption of the 1998 edition of such Code as part of the 1998 updating and
revision of these Codified Ordinances.
§ 150.040 ADOPTED.
   Pursuant to R.C. § 731.231, there is hereby adopted by and for the village
the International One and Two Family Dwelling Code, prepared and promulgated by
the International Code Council, save and except such portions thereof as may be
hereinafter amended or deleted.
(Prior Code, § 1408.01)
§ 150.041 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the International One and Two Family Dwelling Code, as
adopted in §
150.040, is to provide minimum standards for the protection of life, limb,
health, property, environment and for the safety and welfare of the consumer,
general public and the owners and occupants of residential buildings regulated
by such Code.
(Prior Code, § 1408.02)
§ 150.042 FILE AND DISTRIBUTION COPIES.
   At least one copy of the International One and Two Family Dwelling Code, as
adopted in §
150.040, is on file with the Village Fiscal Officer for inspection by the
public. At least one copy is also on file in the County Law Library. In
addition, the Village Fiscal Officer has copies available for distribution to
the public, at cost.
(Prior Code, § 1408.03)
§ 150.043 CONFLICT OF LAWS.
   In the event of a conflict between any of the provisions of the
International One and Two Family Dwelling Code, as adopted in §
150.040, and a provision of any other standard technical code adopted by the
village, the stricter standard shall prevail. In the event of a conflict
between any of the provisions of the International One and Two Family Dwelling
Code and any local ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation, the local
ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation shall control.
(Prior Code, § 1408.04)
RESIDENTIAL CODE OF OHIO
§ 150.055 CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Village of West Alexandria, Ohio, hereby adopts by reference the
Residential Code of Ohio aka Residential Code of Ohio for One, Two, and Three
Family Dwellings and/or the Preble County Building Code to regulate the
construction and maintenance of all structures within the guidelines of the
Codes within the village.
   (B)   Any regulations contained in the Codes shall be additional to other
regulations contained under other ordinances and/or other applicable law.
   (C)   The adoption by reference shall include all future amendments or
changes in the Codes.
(Prior Code, § 1410.01) (Ord. 718, passed 5-5-2006)
§ 150.056 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Preble County Building Regulations Department and/or the Preble County
Building Regulations Director is hereby authorized to enforce the Codes within
the village.
(Prior Code, § 1410.02) (Ord. 718, passed 5-5-2006)
§ 150.057 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   The schedule of fees for building and/or other permits contained in the
Codes are hereby adopted and are payable in their entirety to the Preble County
Building Regulations Department and/or the Preble County Building Regulations
Director.
(Prior Code, § 1410.03) (Ord. 718, passed 5-5-2006)
§ 150.058 RELIEF OF LIABILITY.
   The Preble County Building Regulations Department and/or the Preble County
Building Regulations Director is hereby relieved of any liability arising from
the performance of its or his or her duties as set forth in the Codes while
performing them within the village.
(Prior Code, § 1410.04) (Ord. 718, passed 5-5-2006)
§ 150.059 MAYOR AND FISCAL OFFICER AUTHORIZED.
   The Mayor and Fiscal Officer are authorized to sign any contract to carry
out the terms of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1410.05) (Ord. 718, passed 5-5-2006)
NATIONAL ELECTRIC CODE
§ 150.070 ADOPTED.
   Pursuant to R.C. § 731.231, there is hereby adopted by the village the
National Electrical Code, designated NFPA No. 70-1999 and sponsored by the
National Fire Protection Association.
(Prior Code, § 1412.01)
§ 150.071 PURPOSE.
   Adoption of the National Electrical Code shall serve the purpose of
establishing a code for the village containing rules and regulations governing
electrical materials and installations in dwelling units of one-, two- and
three-family dwellings and mobile homes, multi-family dwellings, commercial and
industrial occupancy.
(Prior Code, § 1412.02)
§ 150.072 FILE AND DISTRIBUTION COPIES.
   At least one copy of the National Electrical Code shall be on file with the
Village Fiscal Officer for inspection by the public. At least one copy shall
also be on file in the County Law Library. In addition, the Fiscal Officer of
Council shall have copies available for distribution to the public, at cost.
(Prior Code, § 1412.03)
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 150.085 PURPOSE.
   The condition of all premises and the exterior of all buildings and
structures shall be maintained at a level in keeping with the standards of the
village. The purpose of this subchapter shall be the elimination and prevention
of blighting effects and hazards to health, safety, and welfare of the public
citizens of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1416.01) (Ord. 699, passed 9-2-2003)
§ 150.086 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Where
terms are not defined under the provisions of this subchapter, they shall have
ascribed to them their ordinarily accepted meanings or meanings as the context
may imply. Where questions arise as to the meaning of terms not defined, the
Property Maintenance Officer shall determine the implied meaning. For further
amplification and clarity of interpretation, the following rules of word use
shall apply: words used in the present tense shall include the future; words
used in the singular number shall include the plural number; and the plural the
singular.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure, whether temporary or permanent, the use of
which is incidental and secondary to that of a principal building and which is
located on the same premises.
   BUILDING or STRUCTURE. Includes the word PREMISES.
   DETERIORATION. Refers to a diminution of quality, character or value of a
structure because of lack of maintenance. The DETERIORATION, if left unchecked,
can lead to dilapidation. DETERIORATION is frequently the result of inadequate
paint protection, faulty roofing, faulty gutters and downspouts, deteriorating
screening, loose doors and windows, access by or infestation by vermin,
blockage of drains, inadequate structural support systems and the like.
   DILAPIDATION. Refers to structures evidencing a state of ruin, decay or
disrepair. The severity of DILAPIDATION shall be judged by examination of major
structural components like foundations, bearing walls, floor joints, rafters
and roofs, and by examination of minor structural components like windows,
doors, siding, roofing and guttering. The sources of DILAPIDATION will not
necessarily be included within the preceding lists of structural components.
The term implies a hazard to life or property.
   LOT. Includes the words ZONING LOT, PIECE, PARCEL and PLOT.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   OWNER. The owner of record of the premises of fee or lesser estate therein,
a mortgagee, vendee in possession, land contract purchaser, assignee of the
rents, receiver, executor, administrator, trustee or lessee, as determined by
an examination of the public records of the county, or any other person, firm
or corporation in control of a building or their duly authorized agents.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, including all buildings or
structures thereon, and including the area known as the parkway or tree lawn,
situated between the sidewalk and the street on the front, side, or rear lot
line adjoining the street and extending along the front, back or sides of such
a lot, plot or parcel of land.
   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE OFFICER. Refers to the Village Administrator or his or
her designee for Property Maintenance Code enforcement activity. The term may
also refer to representatives of the Preble County Department of Health when
personnel are acting on behalf of the village.
   REFUSE AND WASTE. Unused or discarded matter and material having no
substantial market value, and which includes, among other items: rubbish,
refuse, debris and similar matter including, but not limited to, rubble,
asphalt, concrete, plaster, tile, rocks, bricks, soil, building materials,
crates, cartons, containers, boxes, machinery, or parts, scrap metal and
inoperative motor vehicles and parts, trimmings from plants and trees, cans,
bottles and barrels.
   SHALL. Is mandatory and not discretionary.
   STRUCTURE. An assembly of materials forming a construction or occupancy or
use including among others: buildings, stadiums, gospel and circus tents,
reviewing stands, platforms, observation towers, radio towers, water tanks,
swimming pools and their enclosures, domes such as plastic, geodesic, air-
supported and the like, open sheds, coal bins, shelters, fences and display
signs.
(Prior Code, § 1416.02) (Ord. 699, passed 9-2-2003)
§ 150.087 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. The provisions of this subchapter shall be held
to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety,
morals and general welfare. In the event provisions of this subchapter impose
the same requirement or obligation upon more than one person, each person shall
be equally responsible for the performance of the requirement or obligation.
   (B)   More restrictive requirement to govern. Where the conditions imposed
by any provision of this subchapter, upon the use or maintenance of land or
buildings, are either more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable
conditions imposed by any other provision of this subchapter or any other
regulation, the regulations, laws, ordinances and the like, which are more
restrictive or which impose higher standards or requirements shall govern.
   (C)   Status of private agreements. This subchapter is not intended to
repeal or interfere with any easement, covenant or other private agreement,
provided that where the regulations of this subchapter are more restrictive or
impose higher standards or requirements than the easements, covenants or other
private agreements, the requirements of this subchapter shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 1416.03) (Ord. 699, passed 9-2-2003)
§ 150.088 NUISANCES.
   The following conditions, acts and items are declared to be nuisances: it
being expressly understood that all other definitions of nuisances under this
Property Maintenance Code Chapter or any other chapter of the codified
ordinances in the village shall be equally considered to be a nuisance:
   (A)   Fire hazards. Dry or dead shrubs, dead trees, combustible refuse and
waste, or any material upon either public or private property which by reason
of its size, location, or manner or growth constitutes a fire hazard to a
building, improvement, crop or other property, or which, when dry, will in
reasonable probability constitute a fire hazard;
   (B)   Polluted water. A swimming pool, pond or other body of water, which is
abandoned, unattended, unfiltered or not otherwise maintained, resulting in the
water becoming polluted by bacterial growth, algae, remains of insects, remains
of deceased animals, reptiles, rubbish, refuse, debris, or any other foreign
matter or material which because of its nature or location constitutes an
unhealthy, unsafe or unsightly condition;
   (C)   Refuse and waste. Refuse and waste matter which, by reason of its
location and character, is unsightly and interferes with the reasonable
enjoyment of property by neighbors, detrimentally affects property values in
the surrounding neighborhood or community, or which would materially interfere
with the prevention or suppression of fire upon the premises;
   (D)   Improper motor vehicle and machinery storage. Inoperative, abandoned,
wrecked or dismantled motor vehicles and machinery, or any other machinery or
motor vehicle, or any parts, determined by municipal authorities to be a danger
or hazard to the general health of the public, or having a blighting effect on
the welfare of the public, stored outside a completely enclosed structure or
visible from either the street, alley, or neighboring properties. This
definition also includes an inoperable, dismantled, partly dismantled or
wrecked motor vehicle, or parts, or any motor vehicle which is of no value
except for salvage or junk purposes, or any motor vehicle which is unlicensed
or not currently licensed for a period of seven days or more;
   (E)   Inadequate property maintenance. It is hereby declared a public
nuisance for any person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge or
possession of any premises in this village to maintain the premises in a manner
that any of the following conditions are found to exist:
      (1)   Buildings which are abandoned, dilapidated, improperly secured,
partially destroyed or left in a state of partial construction;
      (2)   Buildings whose exterior structure has inadequate protective
treatment, painting or other protective covering resulting in or leading to dry
rot, warping, termite infestation, deterioration, dilapidation or any blighting
effects;
      (3)   Broken windows constituting hazardous conditions or inviting
trespassers or malicious mischief;
      (4)   Noxious weeds, as determined by the State Director of Agriculture
pursuant to the authority granted him or her by R.C. § 907.10(B)(2), or other
vegetation, including grasses, which is eight inches or more in height, or any
weed or vegetation growth causing a hazardous condition to pedestrian or
vehicular traffic, or which is likely to harbor rats, vermin or other pests;
      (5)   Dead trees or litter which, for purposes herein, shall include
garbage waste, peelings of vegetables or fruits, rubbish, ashes, cans, bottles,
wire, paper, cartons, boxes, parts of automobiles, wagons, furniture, glass,
oil of an unsightly or unsanitary nature, or anything else of an unsightly or
unsanitary nature;
      (6)   Attractive nuisances, dangerous to children or other persons, in
the form of abandoned or broken equipment, hazardous pools, ponds or
excavations, or neglected machinery;
      (7)   Broken or discarded furniture or household equipment in visible
yard areas;
      (8)   Clothesline in front yards;
      (9)   Garbage cans stored in front yards and visible from public streets,
except when set out temporarily for garbage pick-up;
      (10)   Packing boxes or crates or other debris stored in visible yard
areas;
      (11)   Property, such as building exteriors, which is maintained in a
condition as to become so defective, unsightly or in such condition of
deterioration or disrepair that the same will probably cause diminution in
values of surrounding property or is materially detrimental to proximal
properties or improvements. This includes, but is not limited to, the keeping,
disposing or scattering over the premises of lumber, junk, trash, debris;
abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment such as automobiles, or
parts thereof, furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans or containers;
or any device, decoration, design, fence or structure which is unsightly by
reason of condition or inappropriate location; and
      (12)   Materials used to build, maintain or repair structures shall be
like the materials used similarly elsewhere on the structure so as not to
create a patchwork appearance. Intermediate construction materials, such as
asphaltic-coated papers for roofing or Masonite for siding, shall not be
submitted for permanent construction materials customarily utilized in new
finished construction.
   (F)   No person shall create, permit, or maintain a public nuisance as
described in this section.
(Prior Code, § 1416.04) (Ord. 699, passed 9-2-2003)
§ 150.089 STRUCTURAL DEFECTS.
   Any building, structure or paved area exhibiting any of the following
conditions or defects to a significant degree shall be deemed a nuisance and
shall be altered or repaired so as to abate the nuisance.
   (A)   Whenever any exterior door, aisle, passageway, stairway or other means
of exit is not of sufficient width or size, or is not so arranged as to provide
safe and adequate means of exit, in case of fire or panic, for all persons
housed or assembled therein who would be required to, or might use such door,
aisle, passageway, stairway or other means of exit;
   (B)   Whenever any portion has been damaged by earthquake, wind, flood or by
any other cause, in such a manner that the structural strength or stability is
appreciably less than the minimum code requirements for a new building or
similar structure;
   (C)   Whenever any portion, member or appurtenance is likely to fall, become
detached or dislodged, or to collapse, and thereby injure person or persons or
damage property;
   (D)   Whenever any building, portion or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior is not of sufficient strength or stability or is
not anchored, attached, or fastened in place as to be capable of resisting the
working stresses permitted in applicable building codes;
   (E)   Whenever any portion has settled to an extent that walls or other
structural portions have materially less resistance to winds or design forces
than is required in the case of new construction;
   (F)   Whenever the buildings or structure, or any portion, because of
dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction, or because of the
removal or movement of some portion of the ground necessary for the purpose of
supporting the building or portion thereof, or some other cause, is likely to
partially or completely collapse, or some portion of the foundation or
underpinning is likely to fail or give way;
   (G)   Whenever, for any reason, a building or structure, or any portion, is
manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is used;
   (H)   Whenever a building or structure has been so damaged by fire, wind,
earthquake, flood, or other cause, or has become so dilapidated or
deteriorated, as to become an attractive nuisance;
   (I)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of dilapidation, decay, damage or faulty
construction or arrangement, or otherwise, is unsanitary, unfit for human
habitation, or is in a condition that is likely to cause sickness or disease,
when so determined by the Property Maintenance Officer, or is likely to work
injury to the health, safety, or general welfare of those living within or
nearby;
   (J)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, has light, air and sanitation facilities inadequate to
protect the health, safety, or general welfare of persons living within;
   (K)   Whenever any building or structure, by reason of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, electric wiring, gas connections,
heating apparatus or other cause, is in a condition as to be a fire hazard and
is so situated as to endanger life or other buildings or property in the
vicinity or provide a ready fuel supply to augment the spread and intensity of
fire arising from any cause; and
   (L)   Any sidewalk or driveway which is debilitated, broken, damaged or
raised to a degree as to be injurious to persons using the driveway or
sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 1416.05) (Ord. 699, passed 9-2-2003)
§ 150.090 MAINTENANCE AFTER PROPERTY DAMAGE.
   (A)   Within 30 days or any other reasonable time as determined by the
Property Maintenance Officer, due to the severity of the damage to any real
property, whichever time period is longer, the owner or person or persons
having possession or control of real property shall be responsible for
providing the following:
      (1)   Contract for the demolition and removal of any aspects of the
premises not to be repaired or restored, and also for the removal of debris in
connection therewith;
      (2)   Contract for repair and restoration of damaged areas and the
removal of debris in connection therewith; and
      (3)   Arrange for dates of performance under contracts which will result
in the work being completed within 60 days from the contract date, except to
the extent that delay is caused by weather, strikes, acts of God or other
events beyond the control of the owner and contractor.
   (B)   Any damaged property posing an immediate threat to the general public
health and safety because of property damage shall be closed securely or as
necessary, rendered safe through additional support to prevent collapse or
threat to life and property.
   (C)   In addition to other remedies provided by law, failure to comply with
provisions of this section may result in the village taking action to remove,
repair, or secure structures pursuant to authority derived from R.C. 3929.86.
(Prior Code, § 1416.06) (Ord. 699, passed 9-2-2003)
§ 150.091 CLOSING OF VACANT STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Structures which are vacant or unfit for human habitation, occupancy,
or use, but not in danger of structural collapse, may be ordered closed by the
Property Maintenance Officer. The order for closure shall be conveyed to the
owner of the property at the address most recently on file with the County
Auditor’s office, or to the person or persons having control of the real estate
or via a placard of condemnation posted on the premises. Having received the
order for closure, structures shall be secured with sturdy plywood, or other
materials approved by the Property Maintenance Officer within the time
specified in the order.
   (B)   Vacant or condemned structures, with or without a closure order from
the village, shall have at least one “no trespassing” sign posted on a
prominent place on each outside wall.
   (C)   Plywood or other approved materials, used to close up vacant or
condemned structures shall be painted a color compatible with the color of the
structure to which the materials are attached.
(Prior Code, § 1416.07) (Ord. 699, passed 9-2-2003)
§ 150.092 FENCES AND WALLS.
   (A)   All fences, walls or similar structures shall be anchored firmly to
the ground, shall be constructed in a workmanlike manner, and shall be
maintained in a manner that fences, walls or similar structures shall always be
in a state of good structural repair. All wooden and metal fences shall be
treated periodically with chemicals and paint as will retard deterioration.
   (B)   Fences, walls and similar structures not in a state of good structural
repair shall be rehabilitated or removed as necessary.
(Prior Code, § 1416.08) (Ord. 699, passed 9-2-2003)
§ 150.093 NOTICES AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Notice. Whenever the Property Maintenance Officer determines that
there has been a violation of this subchapter or has reasonable grounds to
believe that a violation has occurred, or whenever any structure or equipment
has been condemned under the provisions of this subchapter, the Property
Maintenance Officer or other designee of the village shall give notice to the
owner or person or persons responsible for the property in the manner
prescribed. If the property has been condemned in whole or in part, the
Property Maintenance Officer or his or her designee shall give notice to the
owner or to the occupants of the intention of the village to placard and to
vacate the property, or to order equipment out of service.
   (B)   Form. All notices as set forth shall be in writing and shall include
the following:
      (1)   A description of the real estate which is sufficient for necessary
identification;
      (2)   A statement of the reason or reasons why the notice is being
issued, including specific references to the ordinance or ordinances so
violated; and
      (3)   A correction order allowing a reasonable time for any necessary
repairs and improvements which will bring the dwelling unit or structure or
equipment into compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Service. Service shall be deemed to be properly served upon any owner
or person in possession of any property in violation of this subchapter if a
copy is delivered to that person or owner personally; or by leaving the notice
at the usual place of abode in the presence of someone in the family of
suitable age and discretion who shall be informed of the contents; or by
certified or registered mail addressed to the owner or person in possession at
their last known address with return receipt requested; or if the certified
mail or registered letter is returned with receipt showing that it has not been
delivered, by posting a copy in a conspicuous place in or about the structure
affected by the notice, and publishing the notice in a local newspaper of
general circulation at least once a week for two consecutive weeks.
   (D)   Service on occupants. When a condemnation order is served on an
occupant other than the owner or person responsible for the compliance, a
reasonable time to vacate the property after noncompliance shall be stated.
Owners or persons responsible for compliance must vacate at the time set for
correction of defects if there is a failure of compliance.
(Prior Code, § 1416.09) (Ord. 699, passed 9-2-2003)
§ 150.094 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Remodeling, rehabilitation and new construction activities shall
require the same permits from the village, county or other authorizing source,
and the payment of the same fees, as would be required on a new structure or
undeveloped premises. This requirement shall pertain to structural and building
support systems and shall not pertain to superficial structural embellishments
like siding, roofing, and the like.
   (B)   Whenever it comes to the attention of the Property Maintenance Officer
that work is being performed contrary to this subchapter, a stop-work order
shall be promptly issued to the owner of premises involved, the agent of the
owner, or the person doing the work. The Property Maintenance Officer shall
also post a placard at the site of the work informing the public and all
concerned that work at the site has been stopped by official order. The order
shall be written and state the conditions under which the work may be resumed.
The order shall also direct the performance of the work as may be necessary to
remove any violations of the codified ordinances. A stop-work order shall not
obviate the need for nuisance abatement in accord with schedules specified
elsewhere in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1416.10) (Ord. 699, passed 9-2-2003)
§ 150.095 ABATEMENT EXPENSES.
   The village shall keep an itemized account of those expenses it incurs to
abate nuisances on behalf of a private property owner or tenant. The total cost
incurred for administration, labor, personnel, materials and equipment may
either be collected through civil litigation directed against the property
owner or may be certified by the Village Fiscal Officer to the County Auditor,
and by the Auditor placed upon the tax duplicate to be a lien upon the
duplicate and to be collected as other taxes and returned to the village, with
the effect that the total cost of the work constitutes a lien on the property
which has priority ahead of any and all mortgages on the premises. The
collection proceedings or certification to the Auditor shall only be initiated
by the village after property owners, or others with an interest in the
property, have been offered at least 30 days to remit full payment for charges
incurred.
(Prior Code, § 1416.11) (Ord. 699, passed 9-2-2003)
§ 150.096 ADMINISTRATIVE LIABILITY.
   No officer, agent or employee or the village shall be personally liable for
any damage resulting from any official determination, order or action required
or permitted in the discharge of duties under the provisions of this
subchapter. The village shall defend and indemnify the Property Maintenance
Officer and any other employee or official specifically designated and
authorized to make official determinations, orders and actions, against any
judgments or liabilities that may arise as a result of official action taken by
them in the discharge of their duties under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1416.12) (Ord. 699, passed 9-2-2003)
§ 150.097 EMERGENCY NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   When the conditions which constitute a nuisance pose an immediate threat to
the public health, safety or welfare, the Property Maintenance Officer may
require correction of the nuisance situation within seven days after serving
proper notice on the owners or persons in possession of the property.
(Prior Code, § 1416.13) (Ord. 699, passed 9-2-2003)
§ 150.098 SEPARABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of Council that the several
provisions of this subchapter are separable in accordance with the following.
   (A)   Invalidation provision. If any court of competent jurisdiction shall
adjudge any provision of this subchapter to be invalid, the judgment shall not
affect any other provision of this subchapter not specifically included in the
judgment.
   (B)   Application to particular property. If any court of competent
jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the application of any provision of this
subchapter to a particular property, building, or other structure, the judgment
shall not affect the application not specifically included in the judgment.
(Prior Code, § 1416.14) (Ord. 699, passed 9-2-2003)
§ 150.099 AUTHORITY OF PROPERTY MAINTENANCE OFFICER.
   (A)   The Property Maintenance Officer shall bear responsibility for
interpretation of this subchapter and the issuance of all notices pursuant
thereto.
   (B)   Determinations of the Property Maintenance Officer in conjunction with
administration of this subchapter are final, subject only to a contrary order
from a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   The Property Maintenance Officer shall provide quarterly reports to
the Village Council regarding actions taken by the Property Maintenance Officer
to enforce the Property Maintenance Code.
   (D)   (1)   A Property Maintenance Officer designated by the Village
Administrator pursuant to §
150.086 shall receive an annual stipend of $3,500.
      (2)   This provision does not apply when the Village Administrator or the
representatives of the Preble County Department of Health are carrying out the
functions of the Property Maintenance Officer.
(Prior Code, § 1416.15) (Ord. 699, passed 9-2-2003; Ord. 919, passed 10-18-
2021)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions
of §§
150.001 through
150.006, including any provision of the Ohio Basic Building Code adopted in §
150.001, is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than
$100. Unless otherwise provided, a separate offense shall be deemed committed
each day during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
      (2)   The application of the penalty provided in division (A)(1) of this
section shall not be deemed to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited
conditions or the application of any other equitable remedy.
(Prior Code, § 1404.99)
   (C)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of the
International One and Two Family Dwelling Code, as adopted in §
150.040, is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than
$100. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which
a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 1408.99)
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions
of the National Electrical Code, as adopted in §
150.070 shall be fined not more than $100. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
      (2)   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent
the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Prior Code, § 1412.99)
   (E)   (1)   Failure to comply with the provisions of §§
150.085 through
150.099 shall be punishable as a minor misdemeanor. Whoever violates or fails
to comply with any of the provisions of these sections shall be fined not less
than $10 nor more than $100.
      (2)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on
which a violation of §§
150.085 through
150.099 occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 1416.99)
(Ord. 699, passed 9-2-2003)
CHAPTER 151: LOCAL BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Moving of Buildings
   
151.01   Hours of street occupation; permit required
   
151.02   Warning lights; obstruction
Satellite Antennas
   
151.15   Authority of Council
   
151.16   Definitions
   
151.17   Location, design and construction specifications
   
151.18   Appeals
Storage of Building Materials
   
151.30   Hours of street occupation; permit required
   
151.31   Warning lights; obstruction of streets
Manufactured Homes
   
151.45   Manufactured homes
 
   
151.99   Penalty
MOVING OF BUILDINGS
§ 151.01 HOURS OF STREET OCCUPATION; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall use or occupy any portion of any street or alley in
the village for the purpose of moving a building at any time other than between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. without first obtaining a permit to do so.
   (B)   Such permits shall be issued by the Mayor, at his or her discretion,
on application therefor. Such permits shall specify to whom they are issued,
for what purpose, the length of time they are to be effective, the street or
alley to be used and the portion thereof which may be occupied.
(Prior Code, § 1420.01) (Ord. 12, passed 5-25-1908)
§ 151.02 WARNING LIGHTS; OBSTRUCTION.
   No person using a portion of a street or alley for the purpose of moving a
building shall fail to place danger signals or red or amber lights around such
building at night, nor fail to take such other precautions as are necessary to
prevent accident or injury to any person using such street or alley. No person
shall obstruct a sidewalk or gutter on any street in the course of moving a
building.
(Prior Code, § 1420.02) (Ord. 12, passed 5-25-1908)
SATELLITE ANTENNAS
§ 151.15 AUTHORITY OF COUNCIL.
   Council has the right and duty to regulate the installation of dish-type
satellite signal-receiving antennas in the village.
(Prior Code, § 1422.01) (Ord. 487, passed 4-7-1986)
§ 151.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISH. The part of a satellite signal receiving antenna characteristically
shaped like a saucer or dish.
   DISH-TYPE SATELLITE SIGNAL-RECEIVING ANTENNAS also referred to as EARTH
STATIONS. One, or a combination of two or more, of the following:
      (1)   A signal-receiving device (antenna, dish antenna or dish-type
antenna), the purpose of which is to receive communications or other signals
from satellites in earth orbit and other extraterrestrial sources;
      (2)   A low-noise amplifier (L.N.A.) which is situated at the focal point
of the receiving component, the purpose of which is to magnify, store, transfer
and/or transmit electronic or light signals; and/or
      (3)   A coaxial cable, the purpose of which is to carry or transmit such
signals to a receiver.
   GROUNDING ROD. A metal pole permanently positioned in the earth to serve as
an electrical conductor through which electrical current may safely pass and
dissipate.
   RECEIVER. A television set or radio receiver.
(Prior Code, § 1422.02) (Ord. 487, passed 4-7-1986)
§ 151.17 LOCATION, DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Ground-mounted.
      (1)   No ground-mounted earth station, including its concrete base slab
or other substructure, shall be constructed less than six feet from any
property line or easement.
      (2)   A ground-mounted earth station shall not exceed a grade level of 15
feet.
      (3)   All structural supports shall be of a durable material.
      (4)   Wiring between a ground-mounted earth station and a receiver shall
be placed at least four inches beneath the surface of the ground.
      (5)   Such earth stations shall be designed to withstand a wind force of
75 mph without the use of supporting guy wires.
      (6)   Any driving motor shall be limited to 110v maximum power design and
be encased in protective guards.
      (7)   A ground-mounted earth station shall be bonded to a grounding rod.
   (B)   Roof-mounted.
      (1)   Roof-mounted earth stations shall be mounted directly upon the roof
of a primary or accessory structure and shall not be mounted upon appurtenances
such as chimneys, towers, trees, poles or spires.
      (2)   A roof-mounted earth station shall not exceed a height of more than
12 feet above the roof upon which it is mounted.
      (3)   A roof-mounted earth station shall be designed to withstand a wind
force of 85 mph without the use of guy wires.
      (4)   Any driving motor shall be limited to 110v maximum power design and
be encased in protective guards.
      (5)   A roof-mounted earth station must be bonded to a grounding rod.
(Prior Code, § 1422.03) (Ord. 487, passed 4-7-1986)
§ 151.18 APPEALS.
   Appeals from any of the provisions of this subchapter shall be made to
Council.
(Prior Code, § 1422.04) (Ord. 487, passed 4-4-1986)
STORAGE OF BUILDING MATERIALS
§ 151.30 HOURS OF STREET OCCUPATION; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall use or occupy any portion of any street or alley in
the village for the purpose of placing any mortar bed or piling, wood, timber
or other building materials or materials of any kind, at any time other than
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., without first obtaining a permit
to do so.
   (B)   (1)   Such permits shall be issued by the Mayor, at his or her
discretion, on application therefor.
      (2)   Such permits shall specify to whom they are issued, for what
purpose, the length of time they are to be effective, the street or alley to be
used and the portion thereof which may be occupied.
(Prior Code, § 1424.01) (Ord. 12, passed 5-25-1908)
§ 151.31 WARNING LIGHTS; OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS.
   (A)   No person using a portion of a street or alley for the purpose of
storing materials shall fail to place danger signals or red or amber lights
around such materials at night, nor fail to take such other precautions as are
necessary to prevent accident or injury to any person using such street or
alley.
   (B)   No person shall obstruct a sidewalk or gutter on any street in the
course of storing materials.
(Prior Code, § 1424.02) (Ord. 12, passed 5-25-1908)
MANUFACTURED HOMES
§ 151.45 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   The Mayor and Fiscal Officer are hereby authorized to enter into an
agreement with the Preble County Building Department (through the County
Commissioners of Preble County, Ohio), for the enforcement of the Ohio
Manufactured Homes Installation Standards resulting from R.C. Chapter 4781 and
O.A.C. Chapter 4781.
(Prior Code, § 1426.01) (Ord. 722, passed 2-5-2007)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §§
151.01 and
151.02 shall be fined not more than $100.
      (2)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 1420.99)
   (C)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of §§
151.15 through
151.18 shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a violation or
noncompliance occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 1422.99)
   (D)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §§
151.30 and
151.31 shall be fined not more than $100. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 1424.99)
(Ord. 487, passed 4-4-1986)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions and Definitions
   
152.001   Short title
   
152.002   Definitions
   
152.003   Conditions
   
152.004   Fees
   
152.005   Resubdivisions
   
152.006   Separability
Platting Procedures
   
152.020   Preliminary plat
   
152.021   Final plat
   
152.022   Procedure; minor subdivisions
Documents Required - Major Subdivisions
   
152.035   Compliance generally; scaled drawing requirements
   
152.036   Documents required for preliminary plat approval
   
152.037   Documents required for final plat approval
Subdivision Design Requirements
   
152.050   Generally
   
152.051   Streets
   
152.052   Alleys
   
152.053   Blocks
   
152.054   Lots
   
152.055   Public sites and open spaces
   
152.056   Stormwater systems
Improvement Requirements
   
152.070   Generally
   
152.071   Guarantees
   
152.072   Noncompletion; remedy of village
   
152.073   Utilities; water; streets
   
152.074   Street name signs; landscaping
   
152.075   Variances
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS AND DEFINITIONS
§ 152.001 SHORT TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known and cited as the “Subdivision Regulations
for the Platting of Land in the Village of West Alexandria”, or just the
“subdivision regulations” or “these regulations”.
(Prior Code, § 1210.01)
§ 152.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A strip of land dedicated to public use which provides secondary
access for vehicular service to the rear or side of abutting properties.
   BUFFER LOT. A lot on a plat across the end of a street proposed to be
extended by future platting or a lot along the length of a street where only
part of the width has been dedicated, retained by the owner but conditionally
dedicated on the plat for street purposes when the street is extended or
widened.
   BUILDING LINE or SETBACK LINE. A line within a lot parallel to the front,
side and rear lot line and set back from such lot lines a sufficient distance
to provide the required yard space, thus delineating the buildable area of the
lot.
   COMMISSION. The Village Planning Commission.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN or MASTER PLAN. A plan, which may consist of several
maps, data and other descriptive matter, for the physical development of the
village and which has been adopted by the Commission to indicate the general
locations for major streets, parks, schools, public building sites and other
similar information.
   CROSSWALKWAY. A right-of-way, dedicated to public use, which crosses a block
to facilitate pedestrian access to adjacent streets and properties.
   CUL-DE-SAC (COURT). A short street having one open end and being permanently
terminated by a vehicular turn-around.
   DEDICATION. The designating of land by its owner for any public use.
   EASEMENT. A right-of-way granted by a property owner for limited use of
private property for specific public or semipublic purposes.
   GREENBELTS or BUFFER PARKS. A strip or parcel of land, privately restricted
or publicly dedicated as open space, located between a residential development
and other incompatible use for the purpose of protecting and enhancing the
residential environment.
   LOT. A parcel of land identified and intended as a unit of transfer of
ownership or development. Such parcel of land must be of sufficient size to
meet minimum zoning requirements and shall have frontage on an improved public
street or an improved private street.
      (1)   LOT DEPTH. A distance measured in the mean direction of the
sidelines of the lot from the mid-point of the front lot line to the mid-point
of the rear lot line.
      (2)   LOT WIDTH. A mean horizontal distance between the side lines
measured at right angles to the depth.
   PARCEL. A unit of land other than a lot, under one ownership.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the village.
   PLAT. A map of a subdivision.
      (1)   FINAL PLAT. A map of all or part of the subdivision prepared and
certified by a registered engineer or land surveyor in accordance with the
requirements of the regulations of the municipality.
      (2)   PRELIMINARY PLAT. A preliminary map showing the proposed layout of
a subdivision in sufficient detail to allow review by the Commission.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. A firm, corporation, copartnership, municipal authority or
public agency providing gas, electricity, water, steam, telephone, telegraph,
storm sewers, sanitary sewers, transportation or other services of a similar
nature.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land used or intended to be used for pedestrian,
vehicular and utility line circulation and access for the general public. Such
strip of land is the total area between the boundary lines of a street, alley
or easement and not reserved for the exclusive right of any individual property
owner.
   SKETCH PLAN. An informal plan or sketch showing the existing features of a
site and its surroundings and the general layout of a proposed subdivision.
   SIGHT DISTANCE. The minimum extent of an unobstructed vision, on a
horizontal plane, along a street from a point five feet above the centerline of
a street.
   STREET. A public way or right-of-way dedicated to public use which provides
for vehicular and pedestrian access to abutting properties.
      (1)   HALF-STREET. A street having a lesser right-of-way width than
required for a street of full width as required under these regulations.
      (2)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A minor street which is parallel and
adjacent to a major street or thoroughfare which provides access to abutting
properties and protection from through traffic.
   SUBDIVIDER. A person, firm, corporation or association or other legal entity
engaged in the subdividing of land.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. The division of any parcel of land shown as a
unit or as contiguous units on the last preceding tax roll into two or more
parcels, sites or lots, any one of which is less than five acres, for the
purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership, provided that
the division or partition of land into parcels of more than five acres not
involving any new streets or easements of access, and the sale or exchange of
parcels between adjoining lot owners, which sale or exchange does not create
additional building sites, shall be exempted; or the improvement of one or more
parcels of land for residential, commercial or industrial structures or groups
of structures involving the division or allocation of land for the opening,
widening or extension of any street or streets, except private streets serving
industrial structures; or the division or allocation of land as open spaces for
common use by owners, occupants or lease holders or as easements for the
extension and maintenance of public sewer, water, storm drainage or other
public facilities.
      (2)   MINOR SUBDIVISION. The division of a lot or parcel of land along an
existing public street into not more than five lots or parcels not establishing
a new street or way.
      (3)   MULTI-FAMILY SUBDIVISION. A subdivision in which more than 50% of
the buildings or structures are intended for occupancy by two or more families.
   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS or THESE REGULATIONS. Ordinance 371, passed February
5, 1973, as amended, codified herein as
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances.
   SUPERBLOCK. A residential block of exceptionally large size in both
dimensions with access to interior lots by culs-de-sac or loop streets and
providing one or more open spaces.
   VILLAGE. The incorporated municipality of West Alexandria, Ohio.
   VILLAGE ENGINEER. Such person designated as the Village Engineer of the
village.
   ZONING REGULATIONS. The zoning regulations for the village, including any
amendments thereto.
(Prior Code, § 1210.02) (Ord. 371, passed 2-5-1973)
§ 152.003 CONDITIONS.
   In granting variances and modifications of these regulations, the Planning
Commission may require such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure the
objectives of the standards or requirements so varied or modified.
(Prior Code, § 1210.03) (Ord. 371, passed 2-5-1973)
§ 152.004 FEES.
   A filing fee paid to the Fiscal Officer of $50 for the first acre or
fractional part thereof and $5 for each additional acre or fractional part
thereof for preliminary plats and a like amount for final plats shall be
required.
(Prior Code, § 1210.04) (Ord. 371, passed 2-5-1973)
§ 152.005 RESUBDIVISIONS.
   Whenever a subdivision which received approval prior to the effective date
of these regulations (Ordinance 371, passed February 5, 1973) is resubdivided,
and the width, lot lines or the area of one or more lots or the direction and
location of any street are altered or modified, the resubdivision shall be
submitted to the Planning Commission for approval prior to its recording.
(Prior Code, § 1210.05) (Ord. 371, passed 2-5-1973)
§ 152.006 SEPARABILITY.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of these regulations is
for any reason held to be unconstitutional, void or invalid, the validity of
the remaining portions shall not be affected thereby.
(Prior Code, § 1210.06) (Ord. 371, passed 2-5-1973)
PLATTING PROCEDURES
§ 152.020 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Application procedure; approval; major subdivisions.
      (1)   No person proposing to make or have made a subdivision within the
territorial jurisdiction of these regulations shall enter into any contract for
the sale of, or shall offer to sell, any subdivisions or any part thereof, or
shall proceed with any construction work on such proposed subdivision,
including grading, until he or she has obtained from the Planning Commission
tentative approval of the preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision.
      (2)   Before preparing and submitting the preliminary plat to the
Commission, it is suggested that the subdivider or his or her engineer consult
with the Commission while the plat is in sketch form, to ascertain the location
of proposed highways, primary or secondary thoroughfares, parkways, parks,
playgrounds and other planned developments.
   (B)   Written request for approval. The subdivider shall submit a written
request to the Commission for preliminary plat approval. This request shall be
submitted at least 15 days prior to the regular monthly meeting of the
Commission at which consideration of the plat is desired and shall be
accompanied by the following graphic material and written data:
      (1)   One key map to adequately locate the property to be subdivided and
its relationship to surrounding areas; and
      (2)   Ten copies of the preliminary plat in accordance with the
specifications and requirements of §
152.035.
   (C)   Review. Upon the receipt of the application for preliminary plat
approval, the Commission staff shall check the graphic and written data for
completeness and conformance to these regulations and the Major Street Plan and
other applicable sections of the Comprehensive Plan. If complete, the plat
shall be accepted for processing and the Commission shall distribute two copies
of the plat to the Village Engineer, or in the case of plats outside the
corporate limits of the village to the County Engineer, two copies to the
Superintendent of Schools of the Twin Valley Local School District, two copies
to the Village Administrator and one copy to each of the local utility
companies.
   (D)   Conformance; consultations.
      (1)   The Engineer shall examine and check the plat for general
engineering and conformance to required public improvements. In the case of
plats outside the corporate limits of the village, the County Engineer shall
check on matters within his or her jurisdiction and refer to the County Health
Officer, when appropriate, for approval, in accordance with rules and
regulations adopted by the County Commissioners, of improvements proposed to be
installed. The Superintendent shall be consulted regarding the potential
effects of the proposed subdivision upon the school system and whether or not
there is need for new school sites within, or in the vicinity of, the proposed
plat. The various utility companies shall indicate the availability or
nonavailability of utilities and the suitability of any proposed utility
easements. All agencies contacted shall, within seven days of receipt of the
preliminary plat, be requested to return one print of such plat to the
Commission with their approval, comments or recommended changes noted thereon.
      (2)   Referrals to, recommendations and requirements of village
officials, such as the Engineer and Village Administrator, on subdivisions
within the corporate limits of the village, shall be made to, and be the
responsibility of, the County Engineer and county parks officials on
subdivisions outside of the corporate limits of the village.
   (E)   Modifications. The Commission shall approve, modify or disapprove the
preliminary plat at the next meeting. However, a further period of time may
ensue if the applicant consents to such an extension of time. Approval of the
preliminary plat by the Commission shall always be subject to the following
conditions and modifications:
      (1)   A recommendation from the Engineer concerning the adequacy or
inadequacy of the proposed street improvements, water and sewer systems or any
other public improvements proposed by the subdivider shall be considered.
      (2)   The approval of the Commission shall be noted on two copies of the
preliminary plat along with any modifications or conditions of approval. One
copy shall be returned to the subdivider and the other retained by the
Commission.
      (3)   Approval shall be effective for a maximum period of 12 months
unless, upon application of the subdivider, the Commission grants an extension.
If the final plat has not been officially submitted for processing within this
limit the subdivider must resubmit the proposed subdivision and proceed through
the preliminary plat stages in accordance with these regulations.
      (4)   Approval of the preliminary plat by the Commission is an expression
of approval of the general street and lot layout and of the proposed
improvements to be provided, and is subject to any conditions or modifications
placed upon the plat by the Commission. Preliminary plat approval does not
guarantee approval of the final plat nor does it constitute any public
acceptance of streets, alleys or any other public ways or open spaces.
   (F)   Disapproval.
      (1)   The Commission shall disapprove the preliminary plat if it is not
in accordance with the provisions of these regulations or if the proposed
improvements are not approved by the appropriate public agencies.
      (2)   If the Commission disapproves the preliminary plat the Commission
shall so advise the subdivider in writing and note the reasons for such
disapproval in its meeting minutes.
(Prior Code, § 1212.01) (Ord. 371, passed 2-5-1973)
§ 152.021 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Application procedure; approval; major subdivisions. The final plat
shall conform substantially to the preliminary plat as approved by the Planning
Commission. If desired by the subdivider, the final plat may constitute only
that portion of the approved preliminary plat which he or she proposes to
record and develop at the time. The final plat shall conform to the
requirements of §
152.037.
   (B)   Written request. The subdivider shall submit a written application for
approval of the plat along with a reproducible copy and five black line or blue
print copies of the final plat and two copies of the final construction plans
to the Commission. All covenants, deed restrictions, reservations, grants and
easements should accompany the final plat in a form suitable for recording.
Such application shall be submitted not less than 15 days prior to the regular
monthly meeting of the Commission at which the application is to be considered.
   (C)   Review. Prior to consideration of the final plat application by the
Commission, the Village Engineer shall review the plat and the accompanying
construction plans to determine its conformance to engineering specifications
and improvement plans proposed in the preliminary plat. The Commission staff
shall also review the final plat application and determine its conformance or
nonconformance with the lot layout, street design and other proposals contained
in the approval or disapproval of the plat in writing to the Commission for its
consideration.
   (D)   Date for decision. The Commission shall review the final plat and
approve or disapprove the plat within 30 days from the date of the regular
meeting at which the plat is presented for its review.
      (1)   Prior to approval, the Commission shall ascertain that satisfactory
arrangements have been made by the subdivider as outlined in §§
152.070 and
152.071 to provide for the financing and inspection of required
public improvements.
      (2)   If approved, the Commission shall indicate such approval of the
final plat by the signature of its Chairperson or Secretary.
      (3)   Approval of the final plat by the Commission shall not indicate
public acceptance of any lands, rights-of-way or easements shown on the plat.
      (4)   The Commission shall then transmit the reproducible copy and four
prints of the final plat along with the certificate of title to Council or, in
the case of a subdivision outside the corporate limits of the village, to the
County Commissioners, for such action as may be necessary on any proposed
dedication. Thereupon, Council or the County Commissioners, as the case may be,
shall transmit the reproducible copy and three approved prints thereof to the
Commission for the subdivider, the Engineer and, where appropriate, the County
Engineer.
   (5)   If the Commission disapproves the final plat it shall forward a
written report to the subdivider stating the reasons for such disapproval.
(Prior Code, § 1212.02) (Ord. 371, passed 2-5-1973)
§ 152.022 PROCEDURE; MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Jurisdiction. After the effective date of these subdivision
regulations (Ordinance 371, passed February 5, 1973), no lot or parcel of land
divided or split into five or less lots or parcels and lying within the
boundaries of the Major Street Plan of the village, as adopted or amended, may
be recorded by the County Recorder unless the deed recording such lot split or
subdivision has affixed or imprinted thereon a statement of approval signed by
the Chairperson or the Secretary of the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Written request; date; sketch plan. The owner or his or her designated
agent shall submit a written request to the Commission for a minor subdivision
preliminary plat approval. This request shall be submitted at least ten days
prior to the regular monthly meeting of the Commission at which consideration
of the plat is desired and shall be accompanied by a sketch plan of the
proposed lot split or minor subdivision. The drawing may be a simple pencil
sketch drawn to scale showing the existing and proposed layout of lots and
containing enough information so that an accurate analysis can be made as to
conformance or nonconformance with these or other regulations adopted by the
village.
   (C)   Planning Commission approval. Upon receipt of the request and
accompanying sketch plan, the Commission shall ascertain whether the proposed
minor subdivision is or is not in conformance with these subdivision
regulations or the zoning regulations. At its next regular meeting, following
ten days or more after receipt of the request, the Commission shall either
approve or disapprove the proposal and shall notify the applicant of its
decision in writing. If disapproved, the Commission shall state the reasons for
such disapproval. If approved, the Chairperson of the Commission shall thereby
be authorized to place an official stamp of approval on such deeds of
conveyance that the applicant may submit that conform to such preliminary plat.
(Prior Code, § 1212.03) (Ord. 371, passed 2-5-1973)
DOCUMENTS REQUIRED - MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS
§ 152.035 COMPLIANCE GENERALLY; SCALED DRAWING REQUIREMENTS.
   The preliminary plat shall not be accepted for processing unless all the
data and documents included in §
152.036 are provided. By these requirements it is not intended that detailed
engineering surveys or other precise field work shall be required to prepare
the preliminary plat. Information and proposals shown on the plat, however,
should be as accurate a scaled drawing as can be obtained from existing plat
records, legal property descriptions, recent air photos, village engineering
records and other like sources of information.
(Prior Code, § 1214.01) (Ord. 371, passed 2-5-1973)
§ 152.036 DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL.
   The following documents shall accompany any written request for preliminary
plat approval:
   (A)   Preliminary plat drawing; identification.
      (1)   The proposed name of the subdivision;
      (2)   The location by section, town and range, or other legal
description;
      (3)   Data, northpoint and graphic scale (one inch = 100 feet);
      (4)   The name and address of the developer and plat designer;
      (5)   Site data, including approximate acreage, number of lots, average
lot size, acreage in parks or other space, and the like; and
      (6)   Preliminary plat restrictions or convenants, if any.
   (B)   Delineation of existing conditions.
      (1)   Boundary lines, lot lines and identification of adjacent tracts of
subdivided and unsubdivided land, indicating property ownership of all
unplatted tracts;
      (2)   All existing streets and alleys within or adjacent to the proposed
plat, including names, right-of-way width and pavement width;
      (3)   The location of all railroad and utility right-of-way easements,
parks and other open spaces, permanent buildings and structures and section or
corporation lines within or adjacent to the proposed plat;
      (4)   The location and size of existing sewers, water lines, culverts,
fire hydrants and other underground or aboveground utilities within or adjacent
to the tract;
      (5)   The location of all watercourses, highwater elevations in the
vicinity of rivers and lakes, marshes, rock outcroppings, wooded areas,
isolated preservable trees and other physical conditions influencing plat
design; and
      (6)   An indication of ground forms, preferably contours at two-foot
intervals, with United States Geodetic Survey (U.S.G.S.), bench mark notations.
   (C)   Delineation of proposed development.
      (1)   The boundary line of the proposed plat indicated by a heavy solid
line with linear and angular dimensions;
      (2)   The layout of proposed streets, their proposed names, rights-of-way
and paving width;
      (3)   Right-of-way widths for proposed alleys, crosswalkways and
easements;
      (4)   The layout of proposed lots including lot lines, lot numbers and
dimensions of each lot;
      (5)   Proposed minimum building setback lines;
      (6)   The location of proposed parks, playgrounds, school sites,
greenbelts or other open spaces to be dedicated or reserved for public use;
      (7)   Sites, if any, for multi-family dwellings, shopping centers,
churches, industry or other nonpublic uses exclusive of single-family
dwellings; and
      (8)   The proposed street tree planting plan or other landscaping
proposals, showing the location, size and type of plant material.
   (D)   Delineation of preliminary engineering plan.
      (1)   Two copies of preliminary sketches for construction and
improvements showing the following:
         (a)   Plan.
            1.   Nature of curves (degrees of curvature);
            2.   Curb lines, sidewalks;
            3.   Location and size of proposed water, sewer and drainage
facilities, direction of flow and location of tie-in to existing sewers, if
engineering is to be designed by other than the Village Engineer;
            4.   Drainage of surface water shown to the street or to catch
basins (shown by arrows);
            5.   Proposed topography; and
            6.   Type of soil and location of test borings (as required by the
Village Engineer).
         (b)   Profile.
            1.   Existing elevation of all streets, centerlines and right-of-
way lines both left and right (one foot, plus or minus, accuracy);
            2.   Rough proposed grades and elevations of all street centerlines
and right-of-way lines;
            3.   Stationing of all street centerlines (scaled measure); and
            4.   Rough grades and elevations of all proposed sewers, drainage
and catch basins (no sizes).
      (2)   These prints shall be analyzed and comments as to their sufficiency
and eventual problems shall be noted thereon by the Village Engineer. One copy
shall be returned to the designer for his or her consideration along with a
written report, a copy of which shall be forwarded to the Planning Commission.
One copy shall be kept in the Village Engineer’s files for future reference.
(Prior Code, § 1214.02) (Ord. 371, passed 2-5-1973)
§ 152.037 DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR FINAL PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   Documents and contents. Five black line or blue prints of the final or
record plat of the subdivision, or of any part of a larger subdivision, shall
be submitted to the Planning Commission for approval, along with a reproducible
copy on cloth, mylar or similar durable material at a scale of 100 feet or less
to the inch, and shall clearly show the following features and contain the
following information:
      (1)   All plat boundary lines, with lengths of courses to hundredths of a
foot and bearings to half minutes, shall be shown. These boundaries shall be
determined by an accurate survey in the field, which shall be balanced and
closed. The error of closure shall not exceed one to 10,000. The exact location
and the width along the property line of all existing or recorded streets
intersecting or paralleling the boundaries of the tract shall also be shown.
      (2)   True bearings and distances to the nearest established street
bounds, section lines or other official monuments, which monuments shall be
located or accurately described on the plat shall be shown. Section lines and
corporation lines shall be accurately monument-marked and located on the plat,
and their names shall be printed on them.
      (3)   The location, size and material of all survey monuments shall be
shown.
      (4)   The exact layout, including:
         (a)   Street and alley lines, their names, bearings, angles of
intersection and widths, including widths along the line of any obliquely
intersecting street;
         (b)   The length of all arcs, radii, points of curvature and tangent
bearings;
         (c)   All easements of rights-of-way when provided for or owned by
public services; the limitation of the easement rights shall be definitely
stated on the plat; and
         (d)   All lot lines, with dimensions in feet and hundredths and with
bearings and angles to minutes if other than right angles to the street and
alley lines.
      (5)   Lots shall be numbered in numerical order. In tracts containing
more than one block the blocks shall be lettered in alphabetical order. In case
there is a resubdivision of lots in any block such resubdivided lots shall be
numbered numerically beginning with the number following the highest lot number
in the block.
      (6)   The accurate outline of all property which is offered for
dedication for public use and of all property that may be reserved by covenant
in the deed for the common use of the property owners in the subdivision, with
the purposes indicated thereon shall be shown.
      (7)   Setback building lines and any other setback lines or street lines
established by public authority and those stipulated in the deed restrictions
shall be shown.
      (8)   Private restrictions, if any shall be shown, such as:
         (a)   Boundaries of each type of use restriction; or
         (b)   Other private restrictions for each definitely restricted
section of the subdivision.
      (9)   The name of the subdivision and the name or number of the largest
subdivision or tract of which the tract now subdivided forms a part shall be
given.
      (10)   The names and locations of adjoining subdivisions and the location
and ownership of adjoining unsubdivided property shall be given.
      (11)   The names and addresses of the owner of record, the subdivider and
of the engineer or surveyor shall be given.
      (12)   The northpoint, scale and date shall be given.
      (13)   A statement that any lot transferred will have a minimum width and
area substantially the same as those shown on the plat and that only one
principal building will be permitted on any such lot shall be included.
      (14)   Certification by a registered professional engineer or surveyor
shall be included, to the effect that:
         (a)   The plat represents a survey made by him or her and that all
monuments indicated thereon actually exist and that their location, size and
material are correctly shown; and
         (b)   That all requirements of these regulations have been fully
complied with.
      (15)   An acknowledgment by the owner or owners of his, her or their
adoption of the plat and dedication of streets and other public areas shall be
included.
   (B)   Final construction plans. A complete set of final construction plans
consisting of profiles, cross-sections, specifications, cost estimates and
other supporting data shall be prepared by the subdivider’s engineer, subject
to approval by the Village Engineer, for all public improvements contemplated
by the subdivider and required by these regulations.
   (C)   Landscaping plans. A complete set of final landscaping plans showing
the location and species of street trees, plantings, park dedications or
reservation, specifications, cost estimates and other supporting data shall be
prepared by the subdivider’s landscape architect or designer, subject to
approval by the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 1214.03) (Ord. 371, passed 2-5-1973)
SUBDIVISION DESIGN REQUIREMENTS
§ 152.050 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The proposed subdivision and its ultimate use shall be in conformance
with the Comprehensive Plan as adopted.
   (B)   Land which the Planning Commission has found to be unsuitable for
subdivision development due to flooding, poor drainage, soil conditions or
other features which are likely to be harmful to the health, safety and welfare
of future residents shall not be subdivided unless satisfactory methods of
correction are formulated by the subdivider and approved by the Commission.
   (C)   The Commission shall consider plats designed for special development
of group housing, new concepts of solar orientation, superblock arrangements or
other methods of site design which may require modification or adjustment of
these regulations, provided that such plats do not have an unfavorable effect
upon the development of adjacent properties.
   (D)   All telephone and electrical utility lines shall be placed
underground.
   (E)   Variations, exceptions and/or modifications of these design
requirements may be made by the Commission in specific cases where it is deemed
that hardship, not caused by the developer, unusual topographical conditions or
other unique conditions, justify such variance.
(Prior Code, § 1216.01) (Ord. 371, passed 2-5-1973)
§ 152.051 STREETS.
   (A)   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of all
streets shall conform to the Major Street Plan as adopted by the Planning
Commission and shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned
streets, to topographic conditions, to public convenience and safety and in
their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served by
such streets.
   (B)   Public right-of-way widths shall be as shown on the Major Street Plan
and, unless otherwise indicated on the Major Street Plan, shall not be less
than the following:
Classification Right-of-Way Width (in ft.)
Classification                                      Right-of-Way Width (in ft.)
(1) Major streets as shown on the Major Street Plan 300
Expressways                                         300
Major streets                                       80 (min. CF-CG)
Neighborhood collector streets                      70 (min. CF-CG)
(2) Local streets                                   60 (40 CF-CG)
(3) Marginal access streets                         50
(4) Alleys                                          20
(5) Crosswalkways                                   10
(6) Utility easements                               12
Short culs-de-sac or loop streets may also be approved with 50-foot width after
proper analysis by the Commission.
 
      (7)   Property lines at street intersections shall be provided with a
radius of not less than 15 feet. If, because of certain exceptional conditions,
a modification is granted permitting an angle of intersection less than 75
degrees or greater than 105 degrees then the minimum radii shall be increased
or decreased respectively.
      (8)   Additional street right-of-way width may be required to assure
adequate access, circulation and parking in subdivisions within high density
residential areas, commercial areas and industrial areas.
      (9)   Where a proposed subdivision abuts or contains an existing street
of inadequate right-of-way width, additional right-of-way width for the
existing street may be required in conformance with the above standards.
   (C)   Local streets shall be so arranged as to discourage their use by
through traffic. Curvelinear street design is recommended for residential
streets to discourage excessive vehicular speeds and to provide attractive
vistas.
   (D)   The street arrangement in a subdivision shall provide for the
continuation of existing streets in surrounding areas and for suitable access
to adjoining unplatted areas at points not more than 1,320 feet apart (one-
fourth mile).
   (E)   Where a proposed subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed
major street or highway, as defined in the Major Street Plan, the Commission
may require marginal access streets, reverse frontage lots containing a ten-
foot nonaccess reservation with approved screen planting along the rear
property line or such other treatment as may be necessary for the adequate
protection of residential properties and to afford separation of through and
local traffic.
   (F)   Intersections on major streets or thoroughfares shall be located not
less than 800 feet apart measured from centerline to centerline.
   (G)   When a tentative layout, including streets or the general area or
neighborhood, has been made, approved and adopted by the Commission, the
proposed subdivision shall be in general conformance thereto.
   (H)   Where a proposed subdivision abuts or contains a railroad right-of-
way, expressway or other limited access highway, the Commission may require a
street approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-of-way at a
distance suitable for the appropriate use of the intervening land. Such
distances shall also be determined with due regard for the requirements of
approach grades for future bridges or grade separations.
   (I)   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 125 feet shall be
prohibited.
   (J)   There shall be no private streets, lanes or any other public way
platted in any subdivision except under the special design considerations
mentioned under §
152.050(C).
   (K)   Half streets shall be prohibited except where absolutely essential to
the reasonable development of a tract in conformance with these regulations and
where satisfactory assurance for dedication of the remaining part of the street
is provided. Whenever a tract to be subdivided borders on an existing half or
partial street, the other part of the street shall be dedicated within such
tract.
   (L)   Dead-end streets are prohibited except those designed as permanent
culs-de-sac or those required for future access to adjacent unplatted property.
Temporary turn-around arrangements for dead-end streets which will be extended
in the future may be required by the Commission.
   (M)   Cul-de-sac streets shall be no longer than 600 feet and shall contain
at the closed end a turn-around having an outside road pavement diameter of 80
feet and a street property line diameter of 100 feet. Special consideration
will be given longer cul-de-sacs under unusual topographic conditions.
   (N)   Street grades shall not be greater than 5% or less than 0.5%.
   (O)   To ensure adequate sight distance, horizontal curves shall have the
following minimum centerline radii:
 
Classification                 Minimum Centerline Radii (in ft.)
Local streets                  150
Neighborhood collector streets 300
Major streets                  500
Major thoroughfares            750
A tangent at least 100 feet long shall be provided between curves on
neighborhood collector streets and at least 250 feet long on major streets and
thoroughfares.
 
   (P)   Streets shall intersect one another at right angles or as nearly at
right angles as conditions permit. No street shall intersect another at an
angle of less than 60 degrees.
      (1)   “T” intersections of local streets are to be encouraged.
      (2)   Multiple intersections involving the junction of more than two
streets shall be prohibited.
      (3)   Local streets intersecting a tangent section of centerline not less
than 50 feet in length shall be permitted.
   (Q)   No street names shall be used which will duplicate or be confused with
the names of existing streets within the area of jurisdiction of these
regulations. Street and subdivision names and house numbers shall be subject to
the approval of the Commission.
   (R)   New streets that are a continuation of, or in alignment with, an
existing or platted street shall bear the same name as such existing or platted
street.
(Prior Code, § 1216.02) (Ord. 371, passed 2-5-1973)
§ 152.052 ALLEYS.
   (A)   Alleys shall be prohibited in subdivisions within single-family or
two-family districts unless warranted by special or unique conditions.
   (B)   Alleys shall be provided for subdivisions where the intended use is
for multiple dwellings or business, commercial or industrial purposes. The
Planning Commission may waive this requirement where other definite provision
is made for service access, off-street loading and parking.
   (C)   Dead-end alleys are prohibited unless they are unavoidable because of
special physical conditions. If permitted, dead-end alleys shall be provided
with adequate turnaround facilities for service trucks, as determined by the
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 1216.03) (Ord. 371, passed 2-5-1973)
§ 152.053 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Block length shall be no longer than 1,320 feet nor less than 500 feet
unless special physical conditions justify a departure from these standards.
   (B)   Block width shall be sufficient to provide for a development of two
tiers of lots between streets except in cases where lots back to a major street
or thoroughfare under the conditions specified in §
152.051(E).
   (C)   Where a proposed subdivision abuts or contains a major street or
thoroughfare as shown on the Major Street Plan the long dimension of the block
should parallel the major street or thoroughfare.
   (D)   Blocks designated for multiple dwellings or business, commercial or
industrial use may be specifically designed for such purposes with spaces set
aside for off-street parking and loading facilities as specified in the zoning
regulations.
   (E)   A public dedication of ten feet in width may be required for a
pedestrian walkway through a block over 900 feet in length or where necessary
in the judgment of the Planning Commission to provide for safe and convenient
access to schools, parks, shopping centers or other community facilities.
(Prior Code, § 1216.04) (Ord. 371, passed 2-5-1973)
§ 152.054 LOTS.
   (A)   The lot size, width, depth, shape and orientation shall be appropriate
for the location and contemplated use of the subdivision but in no case shall
any of the lot dimensions, building setback lines or lot area requirements be
less than the minimum specified in the zoning regulations for the particular
district in which the subdivision is located.
   (B)   The minimum lot depth for residential lots shall be 100 feet and 135
feet on major streets except as provided in §
152.050(E).
   (C)   The general depth-to-width ratio of lots shall not exceed two and one-
half to one.
   (D)   Every lot shall abut upon and have permanent access to a public
street. However, in subdivisions designed under conditions specified in §
152.050(C) this requirement may be modified or waived by the Planning
Commission.
   (E)   Side lot lines shall be at approximately right angles or radial to the
street right-of-way line.
   (F)   (1)   Utility easements may be required on rear of side lot lines as
specified by the Commission. Such easements shall be at least 12 feet in width
with six feet being taken from the abutting lots on both sides of the
centerline of the easements.
      (2)   Additional easements may be required along drainage channels or
watercourses in such width as may be determined by the Village Engineer.
   (G)   Corner residential lots shall have extra width sufficient to maintain
building setback lines as specified in the zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1216.05) (Ord. 371, passed 2-5-1973)
§ 152.055 PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES.
   (A)   Where a proposed neighborhood park, playground, recreation area,
school site or other public use as shown on the Comprehensive Plan is located
in whole or in part in a subdivision, the Planning Commission may require the
dedication of such public area in an amount up to 5% of the gross area of the
proposed subdivision as a condition of approval of that subdivision.
   (B)   Any lands contemplated for public use shall be reserved from the plat
by the subdivider for a period of not longer than two years. If Council or the
Board of Education of the Twin Valley Local School District fails to purchase
the site or to make arrangements satisfactory to the subdivider for acquisition
of the site the subdivider may replat the reserved site into lots.
   (C)   Dedication of greenbelts or buffer parks may be required by the
Commission in areas where they are desirable to separate and protect
residential subdivisions from adjacent commercial developments, express
highways, major streets and railroad rights-of-way.
   (D)   Dedication or reservation of other public open spaces may be required
where deemed necessary by the Commission for preservation of historic sites and
scenic areas or for a particular type of development proposed in the
subdivision but not anticipated in the Comprehensive Plan.
(Prior Code, § 1216.06) (Ord. 371, passed 2-5-1973)
§ 152.056 STORMWATER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Future land developments in the village shall have stormwater systems,
including run-off storage detention and/or retention facilities as necessary,
designed in accordance with the following criteria.
      (1)   The post-development peak rate of run-off from a storm of ten-year
frequency (of 24 hours duration), and all more frequent storms occurring on the
site development area under consideration, shall be controlled, prior to its
release to its off-site outlet, so as not to exceed the peak rate of run-off
from a two-year frequency storm (of 24 hours duration) occurring on the same
area under pre-development conditions.
      (2)   The post-development peak rate of run-off from storms of less
frequent occurrence than the ten-year storm, up to the 100-year storm, shall be
controlled, prior to its release to its off-site outlet, so as not to exceed
the peak rates of run-off from equivalent size storms under pre-development
conditions.
   (B)   The review and approval by the village of design calculations for the
stormwater system shall be required as a part of the approval of the overall
development proposal. The approval process shall be undertaken by the Planning
Commission.
   (C)   The village may require land developers to grant the village
appropriate easements for access and maintenance purposes as a part of the
approval process. Further, the village may require land developers to allow the
village the ability to maintain the stormwater systems during the post-
development period.
(Prior Code, § 1216.07) (Ord. 634, passed 3-16-1998)
IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS
§ 152.070 GENERALLY.
   (A)   General procedures. Prior to submission of the final plat for
approval, two complete sets of preliminary construction plans showing
contemplated improvements for the required streets, utilities and other
facilities required by these regulations are to be on file with the Village
Engineer. Before approving or disapproving the final plat, the Planning
Commission shall require a written statement regarding the adequacy or
inadequacy of construction plans and improvements as proposed by the
subdivider.
   (B)   Inspection. Before approving a final plat and the accompanying
construction plans for public improvements, the Commission shall require
satisfactory evidence that agreement has been reached between the subdivider
and the Village Engineer in providing for the inspection of the various public
improvements as they are constructed.
(Prior Code, § 1218.01) (Ord. 371, passed 2-5-1973)
§ 152.071 GUARANTEES.
   In lieu of the actual installation of required public improvements, the
subdivider shall provide a financial guarantee of performance in one or a
combination of the following arrangements subject to the review of Council.
   (A)   Performance bond. A performance or surety bond to cover the cost of
the contemplated improvements as certified by the Village Engineer and parks
official shall be filed with the Fiscal Officer. Such bond shall specify the
time period in which the improvements are to be completed and shall be with an
acceptable bonding company authorized to do business in Ohio by the Secretary
of State.
   (B) Escrow fund.
      (1)   A cash deposit, certified check or surety bond sufficient to cover
the cost of the contemplated improvements as certified by the Village Engineer
and parks official shall be deposited with the Fiscal Officer. The escrow
deposit shall be for the estimated time period necessary to complete the
required public improvements.
      (2)   In the case of either cash deposits or certified checks, an
agreement between Council and the subdivider may provide for progressive
payments out of the cash deposit or reduction of the certified check or surety
bond to the extent of the estimated cost of the completed portion of the public
improvements as certified by the Village Engineer.
   (C)   Contractual arrangements. The subdivider may enter into a contract
with the village for the completion of the required public improvements.
(Prior Code, § 1218.02) (Ord. 371, passed 2-5-1973)
§ 152.072 NONCOMPLETION; REMEDY OF VILLAGE.
   In case the subdivider fails to complete the required public improvement
work within such time period as required by the conditions of the guarantees as
outlined in §
152.071, the village shall proceed to have such work completed and reimburse
itself for the cost thereof by appropriating the cash deposit, certified check
or surety bond or shall take the necessary steps to require performance by the
bonding company.
(Prior Code, § 1218.03) (Ord. 371, passed 2-5-1973)
§ 152.073 UTILITIES; WATER; STREETS.
   (A)   Every subdivision shall be required to provide complete public
utilities, including water, sanitary sewer, storm sewer and full street
improvements, including street paving, curbs and gutters, street trees and
sidewalks.
   (B)   The minimum standards for required public improvements shall be as
follows.
      (1)   Water. A public water system containing a six-inch minimum supply
line, fire hydrants, valves and other water system appurtenances shall be
constructed in conformance with the requirements of the Village Engineer.
      (2)   Sanitary sewer.
         (a)   A public sanitary sewer containing an eight-inch minimum size
pipe shall be constructed and the sewer size and grade and other appurtenances
of the system shall be constructed in conformance with the requirements of the
Village Engineer.
         (b)   Where a public sanitary main is not reasonably accessible
outside of the village limits, in the opinion of the Planning Commission,
proper provisions shall be made for the disposal of sanitary wastes by one or
the other of the following methods, as the case may be.
            1.   In the case of a subdivision in which the average size of lots
is less than one-half acre, the subdivision shall be provided with a complete
sewer system, including a lateral connection for each lot and a community
sewage treatment plant of a type meeting the approval of the County Engineer.
The right of the county to charge the actual cost of operating and maintaining
such treatment plant shall be filed with the final or record plat and
incorporated in each deed.
            2.   In the case of a subdivision in which the average size of lots
is one-half acre or more in area and where the County Engineer deems it
appropriate, based on soil and other conditions as determined by percolation
and other tests, private restrictions shall be filed with the final or record
plat and incorporated in each deed calling for the installation on each lot of
an individual sewage disposal system meeting fully the requirements of the
officials having jurisdiction.
      (3)   Storm sewer. A storm drainage system, including necessary storm
sewers, drain inlets, manholes, culverts and other necessary appurtenances
shall be required and constructed in conformance with the requirements of the
Village Engineer.
            1.   All natural water drainage ways shall be preserved at their
natural gradient unless otherwise determined by the Commission upon
recommendation from the Village Engineer.
            2.   All lots shall be finish graded so that all storm waters may
drain therefrom.
      (4)   Streets. Full street improvements, including adequate subgrade
preparation, hard surfacing, curbs and gutters shall be required in every
subdivision in conformance with the construction standards of the Village
Engineer. The minimum standards for such street improvement shall be as
follows.
            1.   Street surfacing. The finished roadway surfacing shall be
either asphaltic or bituminous aggregate, concrete or portland cement concrete
installed in conformance with the specifications of the Village Engineer.
            2.   Street surfacing width.
               a.   Minimum street surfacing widths shall be as follows:
 
Minor streets                  300 feet plus (to backs of curbs)
Neighborhood collector streets 38 feet (to backs of curbs)
Major streets                  52 feet (to backs of curbs)
 
               b.   In cases of low-density residential developments which have
lot widths of 75 feet or over, or cul-de-sac and loop street development, the
minor street paving width may be lowered to 24 feet where, in the judgment of
the Commission, this width will be sufficient to accommodate the anticipated
traffic volumes of the overall neighborhood. Added street pavement width may be
required by the Commission for minor streets which are designed to serve high-
density residential developments and commercial or industrial subdivisions.
            3.   Curbs and gutters. Curbs and gutters of a type approved by the
Village Engineer shall be provided for all minor, neighborhood collector and
major streets within each subdivision.
            4.   Street islands and boulevards. Where the subdivider proposes
boulevard streets and/or street islands in his or her street layout, the
subdivider shall make suitable plans for landscaping such areas. All the
landscaping plans shall be approved as to height, size and type of plant
material by Council.
      (5)   Sidewalks and crosswalks. Each subdivision shall provide concrete
sidewalks five feet in width on both sides of the street in accordance with the
Village Engineer’s specifications. The Commission may reduce the requirement to
four feet where, in its judgment, such improvement will adequately serve the
pedestrian needs of the subdivision. In subdivisions containing lots 100 feet
in width or more, the Commission may reduce this requirement to one sidewalk
where, in its judgment, such improvement will adequately serve the pedestrian
needs of the subdivision and the surrounding neighborhood. Crosswalkways, where
required, shall have a five-foot paving width centered within the required ten
feet public right-of-way.
      (6)   Alleys. Alleys, where permitted, shall be paved in concrete or
other bituminous material to their full right-of-way width under specifications
approved by the Village Engineer.
      (7)   Street trees. Street trees shall be required in each subdivision of
a type, size and location as specified by Council.
      (8)   Monuments. Monuments shall be placed at all block corners, angle
points, points of curves in streets and at such other points as required by the
Village Engineer.
      (9)   Street lights. Street lights shall be installed and financed by or
through the village or the county, as the case may be, at street intersections
and at such other locations as may be required to maintain minimum standards of
public safety.
(Prior Code, § 1218.04) (Ord. 371, passed 2-5-1973)
§ 152.074 STREET NAME SIGNS; LANDSCAPING.
   (a)   The subdivider shall install the standard street name signs at each
intersection. He or she may elect to install such signs at each street
intersection which are of a character or design that reflects the particular
characteristics of the subdivision. Such special signing arrangements may be
approved by the Planning Commission.
   (b)   Landscape planting, louvered fences for screening or other suitable
landscape treatment may be made by the subdivider within required greenbelts,
buffer parks or other open spaces where he or she desires to protect his or her
development from the detrimental effects of adjacent expressways, major
streets, railroads or other land improvement plans and shall be approved by
Council after review by the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 1218.05) (Ord. 371, passed 2-5-1973)
§ 152.075 VARIANCES.
   Where the Planning Commission finds that strict compliance with the minimum
improvement requirements specified in this chapter result in extraordinary
hardship or unreasonable costs being imposed upon a particular subdivision, it
may vary these improvement requirements by a vote of 80% of the Commission so
that substantial justice may be done and the public interest secured.
(Prior Code, § 1218.06) (Ord. 371, passed 2-5-1973)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of
these subdivision regulations shall be fined not more than $100. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
   (B)   The application of the penalty provided in division (A) of this
section shall not prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Prior Code, § 1210.99)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Objectives
   
153.001   Statutory authorization
   
153.002   Findings of fact
   
153.003   Statement of purpose
   
153.004   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
153.005   Definitions
General Provisions
   
153.020   Lands to which these regulations apply
   
153.021   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
153.022   Compliance
   
153.023   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.024   Interpretation
   
153.025   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
153.026   Severability
Administration
   
153.040   Establishment of development permit
   
153.041   Exemption from filing a development permit
   
153.042   Designation of the Flood Damage Prevention Regulations Administrator
   
153.043   Duties and responsibilities of West Alexandria Zoning Inspector
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.055   General standards
   
153.056   Specific standards
   
153.057   Floodways
Variance Procedure
   
153.070   Appeal Board
   
153.071   Conditions for variances
Flood Prone Areas
   
153.085   Purpose and intent
   
153.086   Council assurances and actions
 
   
153.999   Penalty
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
§ 153.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   Article XVIII, Section 3, of the Ohio Constitution grants municipalities the
legal authority to adopt land use and control measures for promoting the
health, safety, and general welfare of its citizens. Therefore, the Village of
West Alexandria, Ohio, herein adopts these flood damage prevention regulations
pursuant to the authority and other applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 1230.01) (Ord. 672, passed 12-18-2000)
§ 153.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the Village of West Alexandria, Ohio, are
subject to periodic inundation which may result in loss of life and property,
health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   Uses that are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise
protected from flood damage also contribute to the flood loss.
(Prior Code, § 1230.02) (Ord. 672, passed 12-18-2000)
§ 153.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of these regulations to promote the public health, safety
and general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the proper use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to protect property and
minimize future flood blight areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Prior Code, § 1230.03) (Ord. 672, passed 12-18-2000)
§ 153.004 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, these regulations include methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety
and property due to water hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural flood plains, stream channels
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood
waters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, excavating and other
development which may increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas.
(Prior Code, § 1230.04) (Ord. 672, passed 12-18-2000)
§ 153.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure on the same lot with, and of a nature
customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal structure.
   APPEAL. A request for review of the West Alexandria Zoning Inspector’s
interpretation of any provision of these regulations or a request for a
variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH zone on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance of flooding to an
average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel does not
exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow may
be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the flood plain subject to a 1% or
greater chance of flooding in any given year. AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD are
designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency as Zone A, AE, AH, AO,
A1-30 and A99.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. The BASE FLOOD may also be referred to as the 100-year flood.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA). The agency with the overall
responsibility for administering the National Flood insurance Program.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development has delineated the areas of special flood hazard.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report in which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development has
provided flood profiles, floodway boundaries and the water surface elevations
of the base flood.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION or FPE. The base elevation plus one foot of
freeboard. In areas where no base elevations exist from any authoritative
source, the flood protection elevation can be historical flood elevations, or
base flood elevations determined and/or approved by the Floodplain
Administrator.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for the purpose of flood plain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams, and the
hydrologic effect of urbanization in a watershed.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listings on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on the State of Ohio’s inventory of historic
places maintained by the Ohio Historic Preservation Office; or
      (4)   Individually listed on the inventory of historic places maintained
by the Village of West Alexandria, Ohio, whose historic preservation program
has been certified by the Ohio Historic Preservation Office, if applicable.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a basement area,
is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such enclosure is
built in accordance with the applicable design requirements specified in these
regulations for enclosures below the LOWEST FLOOR.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided
into two or more manufactured home lots for rent. This definition shall exclude
any manufactured home park as defined in R.C. § 4781.01, for which the Ohio
Public Health Council has exclusive rule making power.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two or more manufactured home lots for sale. This definition shall
exclude any manufactured home park as defined in R.C. § 3733.01, for which the
Ohio Public Health Council has exclusive rule making power.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the initial effective date of the Village of West Alexandria,
Ohio’s Flood Insurance Rate Map, and includes any subsequent improvements to
such structures.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation
of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of
excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and
filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor
does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or
the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of a building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, manufactured home, or gas or liquid
storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means flood related damage sustained by a structure on
two separate occasions during a ten year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified prior to the application for a development permit by
the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions;
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure; or
      (3)   Any improvement to a structure which is considered new
construction.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the standards of these regulations
consistent with the variance conditions herein.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1230.05) (Ord. 672, passed 12-18-2000; Ord. 751, passed 12-14-
2009)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.020 LANDS TO WHICH THESE REGULATIONS APPLY.
   These regulations shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within
the jurisdiction of the Village of West Alexandria, Ohio, as identified by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development referenced in §
153.021, including any additional areas of special flood hazard annexed by the
Village of West Alexandria, Ohio.
(Prior Code, § 1231.01) (Ord. 672, passed 12-18-2000)
§ 153.021 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard have been identified by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled
Flood Insurance Study Preble County, Ohio and Incorporated Areas effective
March 2, 2010. This study, with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Map Preble
County, Ohio and Incorporated Areas effective March 2, 2010, and any revisions
thereto, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of these
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1231.02) (Ord. 672, passed 12-18-2000; Ord. 753, passed 12-14-
2009; Ord. 755, passed 2-23-2010)
§ 153.022 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, erected, constructed,
reconstructed, repaired, extended, converted, enlarged or altered without full
compliance with the terms of these regulations and all other applicable
regulations which apply to uses within the scope of jurisdiction of these
regulations, unless specifically exempted from filing for a development permit
as stated in §
153.041, Exemption from Filing a Development Permit.
(Prior Code, § 1231.03) (Ord. 672, passed 12-18-2000)
§ 153.023 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   These regulations are not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where these
regulations and another regulation, easement, covenant or deed restriction
conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall
prevail.
(Prior Code, § 1231.04) (Ord. 672, passed 12-18-2000)
§ 153.024 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In the interpretation and application of these regulations, all
provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3) Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (B)   Where a provision of these regulations may be in conflict with a state
law, such state law shall take precedence over these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1231.05) (Ord. 672, passed 12-18-2000)
§ 153.025 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by these regulations are considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and are based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. These regulations do
not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. These regulations
shall not create liability on the part of the Village of West Alexandria, Ohio,
any officer or employee thereof, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency,
for any flood damage that results from reliance on these regulations or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 1231.06) (Ord. 672, passed 12-18-2000)
§ 153.026 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any section or provision of these regulations be declared by the
courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the regulations as a whole, or any part thereof other than the part
so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Prior Code, § 1231.07) (Ord. 672, passed 12-18-2000)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.040 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be obtained from the West Alexandria Zoning
Inspector before construction or development begins within any area of special
flood hazard established in §
153.021, Basis for Establishing the Areas of Special Flood Hazard. Application
for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished by the West
Alexandria Zoning Inspector and may include, but not be limited to: site
specific topographic plans drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions and elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities and the location of
the foregoing.
   (B)   The following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor,
including basement, of all proposed structures located in areas of special
flood hazard where base flood elevation data are utilized from any source;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
nonresidential structure will be floodproofed in accordance with §
153.056(B) where base flood elevation data are utilized from any source;
      (3)   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria in §
153.056(B) where base flood elevation data are utilized from any source;
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of the proposed development and certification by a
registered professional engineer that the flood carrying capacity of the
watercourse will not be diminished; and
      (5)   Certification by a registered professional engineer, architect or
surveyor of the structure’s as-built lowest floor or floodproofed elevation.
(Prior Code, § 1232.01) (Ord. 672, passed 12-18-2000)
§ 153.041 EXEMPTION FROM FILING A DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   An application for a development permit shall not be required for
maintenance work such as roofing, painting and basement sealing, or for small
nonstructural development activities (except for filling and grading) valued at
less than $1,000. Any proposed action exempt from filing for a development
permit is also exempt from the standards of these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1232.02) (Ord. 672, passed 12-18-2000)
§ 153.042 DESIGNATION OF THE FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION REGULATIONS ADMINISTRATOR.
   The West Alexandria Zoning Inspector is hereby appointed to administer and
implement these regulations by granting or denying development permit
applications in accordance with its provisions.
(Prior Code, § 1232.03) (Ord. 672, passed 12-18-2000)
§ 153.043 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF WEST ALEXANDRIA ZONING INSPECTOR.
   The duties and responsibilities of the West Alexandria Zoning Inspector
shall include but are not limited to:
   (A)   Permit review.
      (1)   Review all development permit applications to determine that the
permit requirements of these regulations have been satisfied.
      (2)   Review all development permit applications to assure that all
necessary permits have been received from those federal, state or local
governmental agencies from which prior approval is required. The applicant
shall be responsible for obtaining such permits as required including permits
issued by the Department of the Army under § 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act,
being 33 U.S.C. §§ 403 et seq. and § 404 of the Clean Water Act, being 33
U.S.C. §§ 1345 et seq.
      (3)   Review all development permit applications to determine if the
proposed development is located within a designated floodway. Floodways are
delineated in the Flood Boundary and Floodway Map or the Flood Insurance Rate
Map of the Flood Insurance Study. Floodways may also be delineated in other
sources of flood information. If the proposed development is located within a
designated floodway, assure that the encroachment provision of §
153.057(A) is met.
      (4)   Inspect all development projects before, during and after
construction to ensure proper elevation of the structure and to ensure
compliance with all provisions of these regulations.
   (B)   Use of other base flood elevation and floodway data.
      (1)   Areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data have
not been provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in accordance with
§
153.021, Basis for Establishing the Areas of Special Flood Hazard, are
designated as Zone A on the Flood Insurance Rate Map.
      (2)   Within these areas, the West Alexandria Zoning Inspector shall
obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway
data available from a federal, state or other source, including data obtained
under §
153.056(F), Specific Standards, Subdivisions and Large Developments, in order
to administer §
153.056(A), Specific Standards, Residential Construction; §
153.056(B), Specific Standards, Nonresidential Construction; and where floodway
data are available, administer §
153.057, Floodways.
   (C)   Information to be obtained and maintained by the West Alexandria
Zoning Inspector.
      Where base flood elevation data are utilized within areas of special
flood hazard on the Village of West Alexandria’s Flood Insurance Rate Map,
regardless of the source of such data, the West Alexandria Zoning Inspector
shall:
      (1)   Obtain and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest floor, including basement, of all new or substantially
improved structures, and record whether or not such structures contain an
enclosure below the lowest floor;
      (2)   For all new or substantially-improved floodproofed nonresidential
structures:
         (a)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which the structure was floodproofed;
         (b)   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in §
153.040(B)(3); and
         (c)   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of these regulations, including base flood elevation data, Flood
Insurance Rate Maps and Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps, variance
documentation, conditional letters of map revision, letters of map revision,
letters of map amendment, and as-built elevations.
   (D)   Alteration of watercourses.
      (1)   (a)   Notify adjacent communities, the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers, and the Ohio Department of Natural Resources, Division of Water,
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
         (b)   A watercourse is considered to be altered if any changes occurs
within its banks.
      (2)   Maintain engineering documentation required in §
153.040(B)(4) that the flood carrying capacity of the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse will not be diminished.
      (3)   Require that necessary maintenance will be provided for the altered
or relocated portion of the watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity
will not be diminished.
   (E)   Interpretation of flood boundaries.
      (1)   Make interpretations, where needed, as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions).
      (2)   Where a map boundary and field elevations disagree, the elevations
delineated in the flood elevation profile from the Flood Insurance Study shall
prevail.
      (3)   The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a
reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §§
153.070 and
153.071, Variance Procedure.
   (F)   Alteration of community boundaries.
      (1)   Upon occurrence, notify FEMA in writing whenever the boundaries of
the Village of West Alexandria have been modified by annexation or the
community has assumed authority over an area, or no longer has authority to
adopt and enforce flood plain management regulations for a particular area.
      (2)   In order that the Village of West Alexandria’s Flood Insurance Rate
Map accurately represent the Village of West Alexandria’s boundaries, include
within such notification a copy of a map of the Village of West Alexandria
suitable for reproduction, clearly delineating the new corporate limits or the
new area for which the Village of West Alexandria has assumed or relinquished
flood plain management regulatory authority.
      (3)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
elevated so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
(Prior Code, § 1232.04) (Ord. 672, passed 12-18-2000)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 153.055 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   The following standards apply in all areas of special flood hazard including
those where base flood elevation data have been provided. Where a structure,
including its foundation members, is elevated on fill to or above the base
flood level, the requirements for division (A), Anchoring, and division (B),
Construction Materials and Methods, are satisfied.
   (A)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   All manufactured homes, not otherwise regulated under the Ohio
Revised Code pertaining to manufactured home parks, shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy. Methods
of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame
ties to ground anchors.
   (B)   Construction materials and methods.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (C)   Utilities. The following standards apply to all water supply, sanitary
sewerage and waste disposal systems not otherwise regulated by state or local
law:
      (1)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems;
      (2)   New and replacement sanitary sewerage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
      (3)   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (D)   Subdivision proposals.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals, including manufactured home
subdivisions, shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage;
      (2)   All subdivision proposals, including manufactured home
subdivisions, shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (3)   All subdivision proposals, including manufactured home
subdivisions, shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood
damage; and
      (4)   All subdivision proposals, including manufactured home
subdivisions, shall meet the specific standards of §
153.056(F), Subdivisions and Large Developments.
   (E)   Standards in areas of special flood hazard without base flood
elevation data. In all areas of special flood hazard identified as Zone A on
the Flood Insurance Rate Map where base flood elevation data are not available
from any source, including §
153.021, the following provision shall apply: new construction and substantial
improvement of any residential (including manufactured homes), commercial,
industrial or other nonresidential structure shall have the lowest floor,
including basement, elevated to the flood of record or at least two feet above
the highest adjacent natural grade, whichever is greater.
(Prior Code, § 1233.01)
§ 153.056 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data have
been provided as set forth in §
153.021, Basis for Establishing the Areas of Special Flood Hazard; §
153.043(B), Use of Other Base Flood Elevation and Floodway Data; or division
(F) of this section, Subdivisions and Large Developments, the following
additional provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
the flood protection elevation.
      (2)   In AO zones, new construction and substantial improvements shall
have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the highest adjacent
grade at least as high as the depth number on the village’s Flood Insurance
Rate Map, or at least two feet if no depth number is specified, and adequate
drainage paths shall be provided around structures on slopes, to guide
floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated to or above the level of the base flood
elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, shall:
         (a)   Be floodproofed so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water to the level of the base
flood elevation. In order to be eligible for lower flood insurance rates, the
structure should be floodproofed at least one foot above the base flood
elevation;
         (b)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
         (c)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting the standards of this division (B)(1) of this
section. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set forth in §
153.040(B)(3).
      (2)   In AO, zones new construction and substantial improvements shall
either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the highest
adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number on the village’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (at least two feet if no depth number is specified); or be
floodproofed to that level consistent with the floodproofing standards of
divisions (B)(1)(a), (B)(1)(b) and (B)(1)(c) of this section, and adequate
drainage paths shall be provided around structures on slopes, to guide
floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
   (C)   Accessory structures.
      (1)   A relief to the elevation or dry floodproofing standards may be
granted for accessory structures (e.g., sheds, detached garages) containing no
more than 576 square feet and a value of no more than $1,000. Such structures
must meet the encroachment provisions of §
153.057, Floodways, and the following additional standards:
         (a)   They shall not be used for human habitation;
         (b)   They shall be constructed of flood-resistant materials;
         (c)   They shall be constructed and placed on the building site so as
to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of flood waters;
         (d)   They shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
         (e)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment
shall be elevated or floodproofed to or above the level of the base flood
elevation; and
         (f)   They shall meet the opening requirements of division (E) of this
section.
   (D)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   The following standards shall apply to all new and substantially
improved manufactured homes not subject to the manufactured home park
requirements of R.C. § 4781.01:
         (a)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored in accordance with §
153.055(A)(2); and
         (b)   Manufactured homes shall be elevated on a permanent foundation
that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the flood
elevation.
      (2)   These standards shall also apply to all recreational vehicles that
are either:
         (a)   Located on sites for 180 days or more; or
         (b)   Are not fully licensed and ready for highway use.
   (E)   Enclosures below the lowest floor.
      (1)   The following standards apply to all new and substantially improved
residential and nonresidential non-basement structures which are elevated to
the base flood elevation using pilings, columns, posts or solid foundation
perimeter walls with openings sufficient to allow unimpeded movement of flood
waters. Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are useable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement and which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters.
      (2)   Designs for meeting this requirement must:
         (a)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect;
or
         (b)   Must meet or exceed the following criteria:
            1.   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided; and
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (F)   Subdivisions and large developments. In all areas of special flood
hazard where base flood elevation data have not been provided in accordance
with §
153.021, Basis for Establishing the Areas of Special Flood Hazard or §
153.043(B), Use of Other Base Flood Elevation and Floodway Data, the following
standards apply to all subdivision proposals, including manufactured home
subdivisions, and other proposed developments containing at least 50 lots or
five acres (whichever is less):
      (1)   The applicant shall provide base flood elevation data performed in
accordance with standard engineering practices; and
      (2)   If division (F)(1) of this section is satisfied, all new
construction and substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable
flood hazard reduction provisions of §
153.055, General Standards, and §
153.056, Specific Standards.
(Prior Code, § 1233.02) (Ord. 672, passed 12-18-2000; Ord. 752, passed 12-14-
2009)
§ 153.057 FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Areas with floodways.
      (1)   The Flood Insurance Study referenced in §
153.021 identifies a segment within areas of special flood hazard known as a
floodway. Floodways may also be delineated in other sources of flood
information as specified in §
153.043(B). The floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of
flood waters which carry debris, projectiles and cause erosion.
      (2)   The following provisions apply within all delineated floodway
areas:
         (a)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development unless a hydrologic and
hydraulic analysis performed in accordance with standard engineering practices
demonstrates that the proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in
flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge; and
         (b)   If division (A)(2)(a) of this section is satisfied, all new
construction and substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable
flood hazard reduction provisions of §
153.056, Specific Standards; and
         (c)   Any encroachment within the floodway that would result in an
increase in base flood elevations can only be allowed upon the prior approval
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Such requests must be submitted by
the West Alexandria Zoning Inspector to the Federal Emergency Management Agency
and must meet the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program.
   (B)   Areas without floodways. In all areas of special flood hazard where
the Flood Insurance Study provides base flood elevation data as set forth in §
153.021, but no floodways have been designated, the following provisions apply:
      (1)   New construction, substantial improvements or other development
(including fill) shall only be permitted if it is demonstrated that the
cumulative effect of any proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, shall not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point; and
      (2)   If division (B)(1) of this section is satisfied, all new
construction and substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable
flood hazard reduction provisions of §§
153.055 through
153.057, Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction.
(Prior Code, § 1233.03) (Ord. 672, passed 12-18-2000)
VARIANCE PROCEDURE
§ 153.070 APPEAL BOARD.
   (A)   The West Alexandria Planning Commission as established by the Village
of West Alexandria shall hear and decide appeals and requests for variances
from the requirements of these regulations.
   (B)   The West Alexandria Planning Commission shall hear and decide appeals
when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or
determination made by the West Alexandria Zoning Inspector in the enforcement
or administration of these regulations.
   (C)   Those aggrieved by the decision of the West Alexandria Planning
Commission or any taxpayer, may appeal such decision to the Preble County,
Ohio, Court of Common Pleas, as provided in R.C. Chapter 2506.
   (D)   In passing upon such applications, the West Alexandria Planning
Commission shall consider and make findings of fact on all evaluations, all
relevant factors, standards specified in other sections of these regulations
and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (6)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
flood plain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   Upon consideration of the factors of division (D) of this section and
the purposes of these regulations, the West Alexandria Planning Commission may
attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to
further the purposes of these regulations.
   (F)   The West Alexandria Zoning Inspector shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency upon request.
(Prior Code, § 1234.01) (Ord. 672, passed 12-18-2000)
§ 153.071 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances may only be issued where due to physical characteristics of
the property compliance with the requirements of these regulations creates an
exceptional hardship. Increased cost or inconvenience of meeting the
requirements of these regulations do not constitute an exceptional hardship.
   (B)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (C)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (D)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing §
153.070(D) have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-
half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   (F)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant;
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights beyond that which is allowed in these regulations,
additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, nuisances,
fraud on or victimization of the public as identified in §
153.070(D), or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances; and
      (4)   A determination that the structure or other development is
protected by methods to minimize flood damages.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation and the cost of flood insurance will
be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest floor
elevation.
(Prior Code, § 1234.02) (Ord. 672, passed 12-18-2000)
FLOOD PRONE AREAS
§ 153.085 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Certain areas of the Village of West Alexandria, Ohio, are subject to
periodic flooding, causing serious damages to properties within these areas.
   (B)   Relief is available in the form of federally subsidized flood
insurance as authorized by the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq.
   (C)   It is the intent of the Council of the Village of West Alexandria,
Ohio, to require the recognition and evaluation of flood hazards in all
official actions relating to land use in areas having these hazards.
   (D)   This body has the legal authority to adopt land use and control
measures to reduce future flood losses pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code.
(Prior Code, § 1235.01) (Res. 2000-14, passed 12-18-2000)
§ 153.086 COUNCIL ASSURANCES AND ACTIONS.
   The West Alexandria Council hereby (all the following):
   (A)   Assures the Federal Emergency Management Agency that it will enact as
necessary, and maintain in force in those areas having flood hazards, adequate
land use and control measures with effective enforcement provisions consistent
with the criteria set forth in § 60.3 of the National Flood Insurance Program
Regulations, being 44 C.F.R. § 60.3.
   (B)   Vests the West Alexandria Zoning Inspector with the responsibility,
authority and means to:
      (1)   Assist the Administrator, at his or her request, in his or her
delineation of the limits of the area having special flood hazards;
      (2)   Provide such information as the Administrator may request
concerning present uses and occupancy of the flood plain areas;
      (3)   Cooperate with federal, state and local agencies and private firms
which undertake to study, survey, map and identify flood plain areas, and
cooperate with neighboring communities with respect to management of adjoining
flood plain areas in order to prevent aggravation of existing hazards;
      (4)   Submit on the anniversary date of the community’s initial
eligibility an annual report to the Administrator on the progress made during
the past year within the community in the development and implementation of
flood plain management measures; and/or
      (5)   Upon occurrence, notify the Administrator in writing whenever the
boundaries of the community have been modified by annexation or the community
has otherwise assumed or no longer has authority to adopt and enforce flood
plain management regulations for a particular area. In order that all Flood
Hazard Boundary Maps and Flood Insurance Rate maps accurately represent the
community’s boundaries, include within such notification a copy of a map of the
community suitable for reproduction, clearly delineating the new corporate
limits or new area for which the community has assumed or relinquished flood
plain management regulatory authority.
   (C)   Appoints the West Alexandria Zoning Inspector to maintain for public
inspection and to furnish upon request, for the determination of applicable
flood insurance risk premium rates within all areas having special flood
hazards identified on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or Flood Insurance Rate Map,
any certificates of floodproofing, and information on the elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) of the level of the lowest floor (including
basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, and whether or not
such structures contain a basement, and if the structure has been floodproofed
the elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the structure was
floodproofed.
   (D)   Agrees to take such other official action as may be reasonably
necessary to carry out the objectives of the program.
(Prior Code, § 1235.02) (Res. 2000-14, passed 12-18-2000)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of these regulations or failure to comply
with any of their requirements shall constitute a minor misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any person who violates these regulations or fails to comply with any
of their requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with conditions) shall upon conviction thereof be
fined a maximum of $100 per violation.
   (C)   Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
   (D)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Village of West Alexandria
from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation.
   (E)   The Village of West Alexandria may prosecute any violation of these
regulations in accordance with the penalties stated herein.
(Prior Code, § 1231.99) (Ord. 672, passed 12-18-2000)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Authority and title
   
154.002   Purpose
   
154.003   Area of jurisdiction
   
154.004   Interpretation and standards
   
154.005   Separability
   
154.006   Applicability of regulations
Definitions
   
154.020   Construction of language
   
154.021   Definitions
Village Zoning Inspector
   
154.035   Appointment
   
154.036   Duties
Village Planning Commission
   
154.050   Establishment
   
154.051   Meetings
   
154.052   Amendment recommendation actions
   
154.053   Appeal and conditional use actions
   
154.054   Duties
Village Council
   
154.065   No interpretation powers
   
154.066   Duties
Zoning Certificate
   
154.080   Zoning certificate required
   
154.081   Application for zoning certificate
   
154.082   Processing zoning certificate application
   
154.083   Required coordination with ODOT
Conditional Use Permits
   
154.095   Conditional use permit required
   
154.096   Application for conditional use permit
   
154.097   Processing of conditional use applications
   
154.098   Approval of conditional uses
   
154.099   Conditional use standards
   
154.100   Expiration of conditional use permits
Appeals and Variances
   
154.115   Appeals
   
154.116   Stay of proceedings
   
154.117   Variances
   
154.118   Application
   
154.119   Standards for granting variances
   
154.120   Granting of variances
   
154.121   Processing appeals and variances
Amendments and Zoning District Changes
   
154.135   Necessity of amendments
   
154.136   Initiation of amendments
   
154.137   Application for amendment
   
154.138   Required sign
   
154.139   Coordination with other jurisdictions
   
154.140   Required coordination with ODOT
   
154.141   Recommendation of Village Planning Commission to Village Council
   
154.142   Village Council public hearing
   
154.143   Notice of Village Council public hearing
   
154.144   Action by Village Council
   
154.145   Effective date
   
154.146   Referendum
Procedure for Approval of Planned Development Districts
   
154.160   Required approval procedure
   
154.161   Pre-application meetings
   
154.162   Contents of application for approval of preliminary plan
   
154.163   Review and action on preliminary plan by Village Planning Commission
   
154.164   Final plan
   
154.165   Contents of application for approval of final plan
   
154.166   Approval process of final plan
   
154.167   Supplementary conditions and safeguards
Establishment of Zoning Districts
   
154.180   Establishment of zoning districts
   
154.181   Residential zoning districts
   
154.182   Business zoning districts
   
154.183   Industrial zoning districts
   
154.184   Other zoning districts
Official Zoning District Map
   
154.195   Incorporation into zoning regulations
   
154.196   Identification of zoning map
   
154.197   Final authority
Revitalization District
   
154.210   Adoption of district by reference
Interpretation of Zoning District Boundaries
   
154.225   Location of zoning district boundaries
   
154.226   Conflict regarding boundaries
Table of Development Standards
   
154.240   Residential district development standards
   
154.241   Residential floor area requirements
   
154.242   Nonresidential development standards
R-1A Single-Family Residential District
   
154.255   Statement of intent
   
154.256   Permitted principal uses
   
154.257   Accessory uses
   
154.258   Conditional uses
   
154.259   Development standards
R-1B Single-Family Residential District and R-1C Single-Family Residential
District
   
154.270   Statement of intent
   
154.271   Permitted principal uses
   
154.272   Accessory uses
   
154.273   Conditional uses
   
154.274   Development standards
R-2 Residential District Regulations
   
154.285   Statement of intent
   
154.286   Permitted principal uses
   
154.287   Accessory uses
   
154.288   Conditional uses
   
154.289   Development standards
R-3 Multi-Family Residential District
   
154.300   Statement of intent
   
154.301   Permitted principal uses
   
154.302   Accessory uses
   
154.303   Conditional uses
   
154.304   Development standards
B-1 General Business District
   
154.315   Statement of intent
   
154.316   Permitted principal uses
   
154.317   Accessory uses
   
154.318   Conditional uses
   
154.319   Development standards
B-2 Neighborhood Business District
   
154.330   Statement of intent
   
154.331   Permitted principal uses
   
154.332   Accessory uses
   
154.333   Conditional uses
   
154.334   Development standards
B-3 Central Business District
   
154.345   Statement of intent
   
154.346   Permitted principal uses
   
154.347   Accessory uses
   
154.348   Conditional uses
   
154.349   Development standards
I-1 Light Industrial District
   
154.360   Statement of intent
   
154.361   Permitted principal uses
   
154.362   Accessory uses
   
154.363   Conditional uses
   
154.364   Development standards
PD-1 Residential Planned Unit Development District
   
154.375   Statement of intent
   
154.376   Permitted principal uses
   
154.377   Accessory uses
PD-2 Business Planned Unit Development District
   
154.390   Statement of intent
   
154.391   Permitted principal uses
   
154.392   Accessory uses
PD-3 Industrial Planned Unit Development District
   
154.405   Statement of intent
   
154.406   Permitted principal uses
   
154.407   Accessory uses
AG Agricultural Conservation District
   
154.420   Statement of intent
   
154.421   Permitted principal uses
   
154.422   Accessory uses
   
154.423   Conditional uses
   
154.424   Development standards
FP Flood Plain Overlay District
   
154.435   Purpose
   
154.436   Boundaries of Flood Plain Overlay District
   
154.437   Relationship between Flood Plain Overlay District and other zoning
districts
Supplementary Regulations
   
154.450   Applicability of supplementary regulations
   
154.451   Required street frontage and setbacks
   
154.452   Principal buildings per lot
   
154.453   Modification of dimensional requirements
   
154.454   Projections into required yards
   
154.455   Minimum floor elevation
   
154.456   Septic tanks or wells
   
154.457   External effects
   
154.458   Outdoor storage and waste disposal
   
154.459   Landscaping and buffering
   
154.460   Regulations for temporary uses
   
154.461   Height of fences
   
154.462   Buildings accessory to dwellings
   
154.463   Private swimming pools
   
154.464   Row houses and zero lot line dwellings
   
154.465   Use, parking, and storage of trucks, recreational vehicles and mobile
homes
   
154.466   Home occupations
   
154.467   Ground satellite stations
   
154.468   Radio, television, and telephone towers and antennas
   
154.469   Junk vehicles
   
154.470   Essential services
   
154.471   Removal of soil, sand or other materials
   
154.472   Day care centers
   
154.473   Bed and breakfast operations and boarding houses
   
154.474   Elementary and junior high schools, churches, and other places of
worship, nursing homes, and funeral homes
   
154.475   Hospitals, high schools, colleges, universities, and technical
schools
   
154.476   Group homes and residential treatment facilities
   
154.477   Recreation facilities
   
154.478   Cemeteries
   
154.479   Animal and poultry husbandry
   
154.480   Farm markets
   
154.481   Animal hospital/kennel/veterinarian
   
154.482   Conversion of dwellings into offices or retail facilities
   
154.483   Outdoor sales
   
154.484   Drive-through retail
   
154.485   Auto repair, service stations, and fuel pumps
   
154.486   Auto sales, hotels and motels, and parking garages
   
154.487   Adult entertainment facilities
Nonconforming Uses
   
154.500   Statement of intent; extension or enlargement of uses
   
154.501   Pre-existing unlawful uses
   
154.502   Maintenance and repair
   
154.503   Termination and reversion
   
154.504   Nonconforming lots of record
Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
154.515   Off-street parking and loading spaces required
   
154.516   Handicapped parking requirements
   
154.517   Off-street parking space development standards
   
154.518   Use of parking areas
   
154.519   Number of parking spaces required
   
154.520   Loading space requirements
Signs
   
154.535   Purposes
   
154.536   Definitions
   
154.537   Design standards
   
154.538   Regulations applicable to signs in all districts
   
154.539   Signs in residential districts
   
154.540   Signs in business districts
   
154.541   Signs in industrial districts
   
154.542   Signs in other districts
   
154.543   Maintenance of signs
   
154.544   Abandoned signs
   
154.545   Nonconforming signs
   
154.546   Existing signs
   
154.547   Unsafe and unlawful signs
   
154.548   Signs on undeveloped property
   
154.549   Billboards
   
154.550   Application for sign permit
   
154.551   Permit fees and bonds
Fee Schedule
   
154.565   Adoption
   
154.566   Fee schedule
   
154.567   Payment
Violation and Enforcement
   
154.580   Violation
   
154.581   Remedies
   
154.582   Inspections
   
154.583   Notice of violation
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 AUTHORITY AND TITLE.
   (A)   Authority. The provisions of these zoning regulations are adopted
under authority granted to the Village Council of West Alexandria, Ohio by the
Legislature of the State of Ohio under R.C. Chapter 713.
   (B)   Title. This part, including the Official Zoning District Map made a
part hereof, shall be known as the “Village of West Alexandria Zoning
Regulations” and is referenced hereinafter as these zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1240.01) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.002 PURPOSE.
   These zoning regulations are adopted for the following purposes, among
others:
   (A)   To protect the public health, safety, convenience, comfort, prosperity
and general welfare of the present and future inhabitants of the Village of
West Alexandria;
   (B)   To promote the orderly development of residential, business,
industrial, recreational and public areas within the Village of West Alexandria
in accordance with a plan;
   (C)   To protect the quality of life within the Village of West Alexandria
through the protection of the environment, the prevention of nuisances and the
provision of adequate light, air and convenience of access to property;
   (D)   To achieve such timing, density and distribution of land development
and use as will prevent environmental pollution and the overloading of public
service systems within the Village of West Alexandria;
   (E)   To achieve an accessibility, design, and density of land development
and use as will secure safety from fire, floods, and other dangers within the
Village of West Alexandria; and
   (F)   To ensure the compatibility of land uses which are either adjacent or
in close proximity to each other.
(Prior Code, § 1240.02) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.003 AREA OF JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Incorporated area. The provisions of these zoning regulations shall
apply to all land within the incorporated area of the Village of West
Alexandria, Ohio.
   (B)   Newly annexed area. The provisions of these zoning regulations shall
not apply to any newly annexed land to the Village of West Alexandria until an
ordinance is passed establishing the zoning district or districts for such
land. Until such ordinance is passed, such property shall be subject to the
existing Preble County Zoning Resolution or township zoning resolution, as
applicable.
   (C)   Planning Commission to initiate rezoning of annexed area. Within 30
days of the annexation, the Village Planning Commission shall recommend a
zoning district map amendment to establish the zoning district classification
of such land. Action shall be taken by the Village Council regarding the
classification of annexed land within 60 days of its receipt of the amendment
from the Village Planning Commission.
   (D)   Development prohibited prior to rezoning. On land hereafter annexed to
or consolidated with the Village of West Alexandria, no building or structure
shall be erected, enlarged or moved and no change in the use of land or
existing buildings of structures shall be made until an ordinance designating
the zoning district classification of such annexed land is duly adopted by
Village Council.
(Prior Code, § 1240.03) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.004 INTERPRETATION AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of these zoning regulations shall be held to be minimum
requirements, adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety,
convenience, comfort, prosperity and general welfare.
   (B)   Most restrictive shall govern. Whenever the requirements of these
zoning regulations are at variance with the requirements of any other lawfully
adopted rules, regulations, ordinances, resolutions or private deed
restrictions or private covenant, the most restrictive, or that imposing the
higher standards, shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 1240.04) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.005 SEPARABILITY.
   Should any section, paragraph, clause, sentence, item, phrase or provision
of these zoning regulations be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to
be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of
these zoning regulations as a whole or any part thereof, other than the part so
declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Prior Code, § 1240.05) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.006 APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS.
   Except as herein provided, no building or structure shall be erected,
converted, enlarged, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered, nor shall
any building, structure or land be used, nor shall any excavation or fill be
made;
   (A)   Except for any purpose expressly permitted or conditionally permitted
in the zoning district in which such building or structure or land is located;
   (B)   Except in conformance to the minimum development standards established
for the zoning district in which such building or structure or use is located;
   (C)   Except in conformance to the supplementary regulations within these
zoning regulations pertaining to such building or structure or use;
   (D)   Except in conformance to the off-street parking, loading and waiting
space regulations of the district in which such building or structure or use is
located;
   (E)   Except in conformance to the sign regulations of the district in which
such building or structure or use is located; and
   (F)   Except in conformance to the nonconforming use, structure, and lot
regulations of these zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1240.06) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
DEFINITIONS
§ 154.020 CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE.
   For the purpose of these zoning regulations, certain terms or words shall be
interpreted as follows.
   (A)   Words used in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural
the singular.
   (B)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
   (C)   The word SHALL is mandatory and not discretionary.
   (D)   The word MAY is permissive.
   (E)   The phrase USED FOR shall include the phrases ARRANGED FOR, DESIGNED
FOR, INTENDED FOR, MAINTAINED FOR and OCCUPIED FOR.
   (F)   The word PERSON includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company or corporation as well as an individual.
   (G)   The word DWELLING includes the word RESIDENCE.
(Prior Code, § 1242.01) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.021 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure incidental and subordinate to
the principal use and/or structure on the lot and serving a purpose customarily
incidental and subordinate to the use of the principal building.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY. A facility having a significant portion of its
function as adult entertainment which includes the following listed categories.
      (1)   ADULT BOOK/VIDEO STORE. An establishment having as a substantial or
significant portion of its stock in trade, books, magazines, periodicals and/or
video tapes which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting or relating to “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas”, as herein defined, or an establishment with a segment or
section devoted primarily to the sale or display of such material.
      (2)   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS.
         (a)   Any establishment involved in the sale of services or products
characterized by the exposure or presentation of “specified anatomical areas”
or physical contact of live males or females, and which is characterized by
salacious conduct appealing to prurient interest for the observation or
participation in by patrons.
         (b)   Services or products included within the scope of adult
entertainment business are photography, dancing, reading, massage and similar
functions which utilize activities as specified above.
      (3)   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A facility with a capacity for
less than 50 persons, used for presenting material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”, for observation
by patrons therein.
      (4)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A facility with a capacity of 50 or
more persons, used for presenting material distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas”, for observation by patrons
therein.
      (5)   ADULT PARAPHERNALIA STORE. An establishment having as a substantial
or significant portion of its stock in trade, mechanical and/or non-mechanical
devices which are distinguished or characterized by their intended use for
sexual arousal and/or massage of “specific anatomical areas”, as herein
defined, or an establishment with a segment or section devoted to the sale or
display of such devices.
      (6)   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS.
         (a)   Any establishment having a fixed place of business where
massages are administered for pay.
         (b)   This definition shall not be construed to include a hospital,
nursing home, medical clinic or the office of a physician, surgeon,
chiropractor, osteopath or physical therapist duly licensed by the State of
Ohio, nor barber shops or beauty salons in which massages are administered only
to the scalp, the face, the neck or the shoulder.
   AGRICULTURE. Shall be interpreted the same as defined and used in R.C.
Chapter 519, § 519.01; provided however, that as used in these zoning
regulations, AGRICULTURE shall not include:
      (1)   The keeping, caring and harboring of household pets, not exceeding
a total of six such pets; or
      (2)   The cultivating of land for a household garden, the harvest from
which is to be utilized solely for the personal consumption of the residents,
or immediate family thereof, of the lot or land upon which the garden is
located and not otherwise sold or commercially distributed.
   ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members (bearing wall, beams,
columns, girders and the like) of a building or structure; or movement of a
building or structure from one location to another.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR STATION. A building, lot, or both, in or upon which the
business of general motor vehicle repair and service is conducted, to include
engine rebuilding, rebuilding or reconditioning of motor vehicles, body repair,
and painting and undercoating of automobiles, but excluding a junk yard as
defined in this chapter.
   AUTOMOBILE SALES OR RENTAL. A building, lot, or both used for the display,
sale, or rental of new or used motor vehicles in operable condition and where
repair service is incidental.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION.
      (1)   A building, lot, or both, having pumps and underground storage
tanks at which fuels, oils or accessories for the use of motor vehicles are
dispensed, sold, or offered for retail sale, and where mechanical repair
service may be incidental to the dispensing of such items.
      (2)   The storage of junk or inoperable vehicles shall not be included in
this definition.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation above sea level of the 100-year flood as
shown in the Flood Insurance Study, Preble County, Ohio.
   BASEMENT. Floor space in a building partially or wholly underground, but
having more than one-half of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the
average grade of the adjoining ground. (See Illustration.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1fa9dabcf92dcde311316e32a7f8ee1f45e628ae/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4319.png]
 
   BEDROOM. A separate room within a dwelling unit for sleeping purposes
containing a minimum of 80 square feet of habitable floor area.
   BILLBOARD. See SIGN.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by poles, columns, or walls
which is designed for the shelter, support or enclosure of persons, animals,
chattels or property of any kind.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the average elevation of the
finished grade at the front of the building to:
      (1)   The highest point of a flat roof;
      (2)   The deck line of a mansard roof;
      (3)   The average height between the eaves and ridge for gable, hip and
gambrel roofs; or
      (4)   The average height between high and low points for a shed roof.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1fa9dabcf92dcde311316e32a7f8ee1f45e628ae/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4321.png]
 
   CEMETERY. Land used or intended to be used for the burial of animal or human
dead and dedicated for cemetery purposes, including crematories, mausoleums and
mortuaries if operated in connection with and within the boundaries of such
cemetery.
   CLUB. A premises owned or operated by a person or persons for a civic,
social, cultural, religious, literary, political, recreational or like
activity, hut not primarily for profit or to render a service which is
customarily carried on as a business.
   COMMERCIAL RECREATION FACILITY. Any commercial activity conducted indoors or
outdoors which is related to the recreation field, such as bowling alleys,
skating rinks, indoor tennis courts, indoor motion picture theaters, drive-in
theaters, community swimming pools, miniature golf, driving ranges, golf
courses, skiing facilities, country clubs and similar activities.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE. One or more parcels of land, together with the
improvements thereon, jointly owned by the landholders of the individual
building sites within a development, and for the use and enjoyment of the
owners and occupants of the development.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use permitted within a district other than a permitted
principal use, requiring a conditional use permit and approval of the Village
Planning Commission after a public hearing. These uses are permitted only after
the applicant has followed the procedures outlined in §§
154.095 through
154.100 of these zoning regulations.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued by the Village Planning Commission
to allow certain specific developments that would not otherwise be allowed in a
particular zoning district. These permits are issued only after the applicant
has followed the procedures as stated in §§
154.095 through
154.100 of these zoning regulations. Development under a conditional use permit
differs from a zoning district change in that it is much more specific. The
applicant submits plans and conditions exactly or reapplies for a permit before
deviating from that plan.
   COURT. An open space which may or may not have direct street access and
which is bounded on two or more sides by a single building or a group of
related buildings. A COURT is not a yard.
   CORNER LOT. See LOT.
   DAY CARE CENTER. Any premise where child day care is provided for five or
more children, other than those of the owner or administrator, with or without
compensation. This definition excludes the care of children in places of
worship during religious services and programs operated in school buildings by
either public schools or non-public schools meeting the standard of public
schools.
   DENSITY. A unit of measurement designating the number of dwelling units per
acre of land as follows:
      (1)   GROSS DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of the total
land to be developed.
      (2)   NET DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of land when the
acreage involved includes only the land devoted to individual residential lots
or uses and excludes such areas as street right-of-way, common open space and
other similar nonresidential uses.
   DISTRICT. A portion of the unincorporated area of the Village of West
Alexandria within which certain regulations and requirements, or various
combinations thereof, apply uniformly under the provisions of these zoning
regulations.
   DRIVE-THROUGH. A business or other establishment so developed that its
retail or service character is dependent on providing a driveway approach and/
or waiting spaces for motor vehicles so as to serve patrons while in the motor
vehicle.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms designed for or used as a unit to provide
complete housekeeping facilities for one individual family with sleeping
facilities, permanently installed cooking facilities, and lawfully required
sanitary facilities. This definition shall include “modular homes” and
“manufactured homes” as defined in these zoning regulations, but specifically
excludes “mobile homes” as defined in these zoning regulations.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building consisting of one single dwelling unit
on an individual lot, separated from other dwelling units by open space.
   DWELLING, THREE-FAMILY. A building consisting of three dwelling units,
including condominiums, which may be either attached side-by side or one above
the other. Each unit shall have a separate entrance.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building consisting of two dwelling units, including
condominiums, which may be either attached side-by side or one above the other.
Each unit shall have a separate entrance.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building consisting of three or more dwelling
units, including condominiums, townhouses, quadruplexes, and garden apartments
with varying arrangements of entrances and party walls.
   EASEMENT. Authorization by a property owner for use by another for a
specified purpose, of any designated part of his or her property.
   ERECTION. The acts of building, construction, altering, reconstructing,
moving upon, or any physical operations on the premises which are required for
construction. Excavation, fill, drainage and the like shall be considered a
part of ERECTION.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, reconstruction, change,
alteration, maintenance, removal or use of any underground or overhead
equipment including towers, poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes,
conduits, cables, signals, hydrants or other similar accessories by any public
utility or governmental agency for the purpose of furnishing adequate supply,
transmission, distribution, collection, or disposal of gas, electric, water,
steam, or communication service to the public in order to maintain the public
health, safety and welfare.
   EXCAVATION. The act of digging, hollowing out or any other breaking of
ground resulting in a total quantity of more than 100 cubic yards of material
or a vertical depth of more than four feet. Common household gardening and
ground care, or plowing of ground for agricultural purposes, shall be excepted
from this definition.
   FAMILY. An individual; two or more persons related by blood, marriage or
adoption living together as a single housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit or a
mobile home; or a group of individuals, who need not be related, living
together as a single housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit or a mobile home,
provided that a ratio of two persons or less per bedroom within the dwelling
unit or mobile home be maintained.
   FEEDLOT. Land and/or buildings used for confining and feeding livestock.
   FENCE. Any free-standing structure, other than part of a building, which
encloses or partially encloses any premises and is of sufficient strength and
dimensions to prevent straying from within or intrusion from without. Live
vegetation shall not be included in this definition.
   FILL. Soil, rock, earth, sand, gravel or any other material exceeding a
total of 100 cubic yards and more than four feet in vertical height at its
deepest point which may be deposited or placed onto or into the ground.
   FILLING. The act of depositing or dumping of any fill onto or into the
ground, except common household gardening and ground care.
   FIRE CHIEF. The Fire Chief of the Village of West Alexandria, Ohio.
   FLOOD PLAIN. That land area of the Village of West Alexandria which is
subject to inundation by the 100-year flood as determined by the Flood
Insurance Study, Preble County, Ohio prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. (See Illustration.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1fa9dabcf92dcde311316e32a7f8ee1f45e628ae/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4323.png]
 
   FLOODWAY. The portion of the regulatory flood plain which is required to
carry and discharge the flood waters of the 100-year flood without obstruction
as designated in the Flood Insurance Study, Preble County, Ohio. (See
Illustration.)
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. That portion of the regulatory flood plain which serves
primarily as a storage area for the flood waters of the 100-year flood as
designated in the Flood Insurance Study, Preble County, Ohio. (See
Illustration.)
   FLOOR AREA, NONRESIDENTIAL. The sum of the gross horizontal area of all the
floors of a nonresidential building measured from the interior faces of the
interior walls, excluding stairs, washrooms, elevator shafts, maintenance
shafts and similar areas.
   FLOOR AREA, RESIDENTIAL. The sum of the gross horizontal area of all floors
of a residential building measured from the interior faces of the exterior
walls. FLOOR AREA shall not include breezeways, carports, garages, storage
areas with only outside access, porches, unfinished attics or other unheated
and/or unfinished areas attached to the dwelling.
   FRONTAGE. The distance between the side lot lines measured along the
required front setback line; and in the case of a corner lot where frontage
shall be measured along the shortest front lot line. Property lines which abut
limited access roads shall not be construed to be included within any
calculation of FRONTAGE. (See Illustration.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1fa9dabcf92dcde311316e32a7f8ee1f45e628ae/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4325.png]
 
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building or a portion of a main
building, intended for the parking or storage of automobiles, recreational
vehicles, or boats of the occupants of the premises.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC OR PARKING. A principal or accessory building other than a
private garage, intended for the parking or storage of automobiles,
recreational vehicles, boats or other vehicles.
   GLARE. Excessively bright illumination.
   GRADE, AVERAGE. The average elevation of the finished surface of the ground
at the exterior walls of a building or structure.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. A substance given such meaning by 29 C.F.R. § 1910.1200.
Such materials normally require a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) to be
prepared by the manufacturer of such substance.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation conducted by a person on the same premises as
his or her principal place of residence and is clearly subordinate and
incidental to its use for residential purposes.
   JUNK OR INOPERABLE VEHICLE. Shall be in accordance with Village of West
Alexandria code of ordinances §
98.07 and R.C. 4513.63.
   JUNK YARD. Any use primarily involved with buying, selling, exchanging,
storing, baling, packing, disassembling or handling of waste or scrap
materials, including, but not limited to, vehicles, machinery and equipment not
in operable condition or parts thereof, and furniture, building materials,
metals, paper, rags, rubber tires, and bottles. Such operations conducted
entirely within completely enclosed buildings shall not be considered a JUNK
YARD. Two or more junk or inoperable vehicles on a lot shall be considered a
JUNK YARD.
   KENNEL. Any lot or premises on which four or more domesticated animals more
than six months of age are bred, boarded, trained or sold.
   LANDING STRIP, PRIVATE. Any runway, landing strip, or other facility
designed or used by any person for the landing, take-off and storage of
aircraft on his or her own property principally for his or her own use.
   LOADING SPACE, OFF-STREET. A space or berth located totally outside of any
street or alley right-of-way for the temporary parking of a commercial vehicle
while loading or unloading merchandise or materials, and which abuts upon a
street, alley or other appropriate means of access.
   LOT. A piece or parcel of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
principal building or a group of such buildings and its accessory building and
uses, including such open spaces as are required under the provisions of these
zoning regulations. Every LOT shall have the minimum required frontage upon a
public street.
      (1)   CORNER LOT. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their
intersection, or upon two parts of the same street, and in either case forming
an interior angle of 135 degrees or less as measured at the centerline of the
road or the interior right-of-way line as applicable. (See Illustration.)
      (2)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot, other than a corner lot, with only one
frontage on a public street. (See Illustration.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1fa9dabcf92dcde311316e32a7f8ee1f45e628ae/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4327.png]
 
      (3)   THROUGH LOT. A lot having frontage on two non-intersecting streets
or two approximately perpendicular portions of the same street. (See
Illustration.)
   LOT COVERAGE. That percentage of the lot area which, when viewed directly
from above, would be covered by the principal and accessory structure or
structures, or any part thereof, excluding projecting roof eaves of less than
24 inches.
   LOT LINES. Lines bounding the lot as shown in the accepted plat or survey
record. (See Illustration.)
      (1)   FRONT LOT LINE. A lot line which either falls along a street right-
of-way line or falls approximately along the center of a road, forming the
boundary of a lot. On a corner, lot lines along both streets shall be
considered FRONT LOT LINES.
      (2)   REAR LOT LINE. The lot line that is most distant from, and most
nearly parallel to, the front lot line. If a rear lot line is less than 15 feet
long, or if the lot comes to a point, the rear lot line shall be a line at
least 15 feet long, lying wholly within the lot, parallel to, and a maximum
distance from the front lot line. In the case of a corner lot, the REAR LOT
LINE shall be the lot line opposite the shortest front lot line.
      (3)   SIDE LOT LINE. A lot line which is neither a front lot line nor a
rear lot line.
   LOT WIDTH. See FRONTAGE.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, the plat of which has
been recorded in the office of the Recorder of Preble County; or a parcel of
land to which the deed or land contract was of record as of the effective date
of these zoning regulations or any appropriate amendment thereto. (See
Illustration.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1fa9dabcf92dcde311316e32a7f8ee1f45e628ae/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4329.png]
 
   MANUFACTURING. Fabrication, altering, converting, assembling, storing,
testing and similar industrial uses.
   MINERAL EXTRACTION OPERATION. Any operation, including accessory buildings,
roads or structures, involving the excavation, mining, quarrying, storage,
separation, cleaning and/or processing of clay, sand, gravel, limestone, shale
or other mineral resource. Such operation shall include all of the land or
property that is used or owned in reserve by the person, firm or corporation
involved in such operation. Mineral extraction is an interim land use and such
operations shall possess a plan for ultimate use of the property.
   MOBILE HOME. A manufactured relocatable residential unit providing complete,
independent living facilities for one family including permanent provisions for
living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation and the design and
construction of which meets the standards and specifications of the United
States Department of Housing and Urban Development. A MOBILE HOME is not
included within the definition of MODULAR HOME or DWELLING UNIT and the removal
of running gear shall not exempt a mobile home from this definition.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any lot upon which two or more mobile homes are located
for residential use, either free of charge or for revenue purposes. A MOBILE
HOME PARK shall include any roadway, building, structure, vehicle or enclosure
used or intended for use as a part of the facilities of such park.
   MODULAR HOME. A factory-fabricated transportable building consisting of two
or more units designed to be assembled into a permanent structure at a building
site on a permanent foundation and used for residential purposes by one family,
and is built to meet the standards and specifications of the Industrial Unit
Standards of the Ohio Building Code.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A building or structure lawfully
existing at the time of enactment of these zoning regulations or subsequent
amendments, which does not conform to the regulations of the district in which
it is situated or other applicable provisions of these zoning regulations.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot lawfully existing at the time of enactment of these
zoning regulations or any subsequent amendments which does not conform to the
lot area and frontage requirements of the district in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use of land lawfully existing at the time of enactment
of these zoning regulations or subsequent amendments, which does not conform to
the regulations of the district in which it is situated or other applicable
provisions of these zoning regulations.
   OFFICIAL THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The Official Thoroughfare Plan for West
Alexandria, Ohio, establishing the official right-of-way width of major streets
on file in the office of the Recorder of Preble County, Ohio, together with all
amendments thereto subsequently adopted.
   OPEN SPACE.
      (1)   An area open and unobstructed to the sky which may be on the same
lot with a building.
      (2)   The area may include natural environmental features, water areas,
swimming pools, tennis courts and other recreational facilities that the
Village Planning Commission or Village Council, whichever is applicable, deems
permissible. Streets, parking areas, structures for habitation and the like
shall not be included.
   OPEN STORAGE. Storing or keeping of chattel not enclosed in a building.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. A space located totally outside of any street or
alley right-of-way for the parking of an automobile or other vehicle.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A non-agricultural building in which is conducted the
main or principal use of the lot on which the building is located; ordinarily
the largest building on the lot.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The main use to which the premises are devoted and the main
purpose for which the premises exist, ordinarily the use conducted on the first
story of the principal building above the basement.
   QUEUE. A line of vehicles waiting for service at a drive-through facility.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, or any other vehicle less than 35
feet in length, designed or intended to be used primarily for short term
dwelling or sleeping purposes away from the place of residence of the
occupants; and not constituting the principal place of residence of the
occupants.
   RESEARCH AND ENGINEERING LABORATORY.
      (1)   Research, development and testing related to such fields as
chemical, pharmaceutical, medical, electrical, transportation and engineering.
      (2)   All research, testing and development shall be carried on within
entirely enclosed buildings, and no noise, smoke, glare, vibration or odor
shall be detected outside such building.
   RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN. An establishment offering food and beverages which are
sold within the building, or to persons while in motor vehicles in an area
designated for drive-in service, and may be consumed on or off the premises.
   RESTAURANT, SIT-DOWN. An establishment whose primary function is the
offering of food and beverages which are sold and normally consumed within the
restaurant building.
   RETAIL. Sale to the ultimate consumer for direct consumption and/or use and
not for resale.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.
      (1)   A strip of land purchased or dedicated for use as a public way.
      (2)   In addition to the roadway, it normally incorporates the curbs,
lawn strips, sidewalks, lighting and drainage facilities, and may include
special features (required by the topography or treatment) such as grade
separation, landscaped areas, viaducts and bridges.
   SEAT. For purposes of determining the number of off-street parking spaces
for certain uses, the number of seats is the number of seating units installed
or indicated, or each 24 lineal inches of benches, pews or space for loose
chairs.
   SCREENING. Structures, fences, or vegetation maintained for the purpose of
concealing the area behind such structures or vegetation from view.
   SETBACK LINE. A line parallel to a lot line, street or right-of-way line at
any story level of a building which defines the limits of a yard and represents
the distance which all or any part of a building or structure is to be set back
from the lot line, street, or right-of-way line.
      (1)   FRONT SETBACK LINE.
         (a)   An imaginary line parallel to the front lot line extending the
full width of the lot, representing the distance which all or any part of any
structure or building is to be set back from the front lot line.
         (b)   In the event that the front lot line does not fall along a
right-of-way line, then the FRONT SETBACK LINE shall be measured from the
existing roadway easement or a line parallel to and 25 feet from the centerline
of the street, whichever is greater. (See Illustration.)
      (2)   REAR SETBACK LINE. An imaginary line parallel to any rear lot line
representing the distance which all or any part of any principal buildings is
to be set back from the rear lot line. (See Illustration.)
      (3)   SIDE SETBACK LINE. An imaginary line parallel to any side lot line
representing the distance which all or any part of any principal building is to
be set back from the side lot line. (See Illustration.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1fa9dabcf92dcde311316e32a7f8ee1f45e628ae/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4331.png]
 
   SIGN.
      (1)   See §§
154.535 through
154.551 for sign definitions.
      (2)   BILLBOARD. Any sign or advertisement used as an outdoor display by
painting, posting or affixing, on any surface, a picture, emblem, work, figure,
numerals, or lettering for the purpose of directing attention to any business,
service or product which is not conducted or sold on the lot where such sign is
located.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Includes all of the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttock and female breasts below a point immediately above the top of
the areola; and/or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Includes all of the following:
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts, real or simulated, of human masturbation, sexual intercourse,
sodomy, cunnilingus or fellatio; and/or
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock or female breasts.
   STREET. See THOROUGHFARE.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or attachment to the ground. Among other things,
structures include buildings, mobile homes, walls, fences, swimming pools,
tennis courts, signs and billboards.
   SWIMMING POOL. Any artificially constructed pool which contains a depth of
water of at least one and one-half feet at any point used or intended to be
used for swimming or bathing, including any accessory recreational structures.
   SWIMMING POOL, COMMUNITY. Any swimming pool, other than a private pool,
which is the principal use upon a lot and operated with or without a charge for
admission.
   SWIMMING POOL, PRIVATE. A swimming pool located on the same lot as the
principal use and used or intended to be used without compensation by the
residents and guests of a single-family residence, a two-family residence or a
motel.
   TELEPHONE ANTENNAS AND EQUIPMENT ON EXISTING STRUCTURES. Telephone exchange
equipment boxes, antennas, vaults or structures and/or buildings necessary to
house a telephone communications system, but does not include a telephone tower
which can be located on an existing structure.
   TELEPHONE COMMUNICATION SYSTEM. A communications system, licensed by the
Federal Communications Commission and/or the Public Utilities Commission of
Ohio, including, but not limited to, switching equipment, wires, poles,
antennas, conduits and cables as regulated in this title.
   TELEPHONE TOWER. A freestanding, ground-mounted, monopole tower or structure
with related antennas erected for the purposes and/or used for transmitting,
receiving, or relaying a telephone communications system.
   TEMPORARY USE OR STRUCTURE. A transient, nonpermanent use or structure
permitted to exist for a designated period of time during periods of
construction of the principal use or structure, or for special events. A
TEMPORARY STRUCTURE shall not be intended to be permanently affixed to the
ground.
   THOROUGHFARE, STREET or ROAD. The full width between property lines bounding
every public way of whatever nature, with a part thereof to be used for access
to a property by vehicular traffic and designated as follows.
      (1)   ALLEY. A minor street used primarily for vehicular service access
to the back or side of properties abutting on another street.
      (2)   ARTERIAL STREET. A general term denoting a highway primarily for
through traffic, carrying heavy loads and large volumes of traffic, usually on
a continuous route.
      (3)   COLLECTOR STREET. A thoroughfare, whether within a residential,
industrial, commercial or other type of development, which primarily carries
traffic from local streets to arterial streets, including the principal
entrance and circulation routes within residential subdivisions.
      (4)   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street of relatively short length with one end
open to traffic and the other end permanently terminating in a vehicular turn
around.
      (5)   DEAD-END STREET. A street temporarily having only one outlet for
vehicular traffic and intended to be extended or continued in the future.
      (6)   LOCAL STREET. A street primarily for providing access to
residential, commercial or other abutting property.
      (7)   LOOP STREET. A type of local street, each end of which terminates
at an intersection with the same arterial or collector street and whose
principal radius points of the 180 degree system of turns are not more than
1,000 feet from the arterial or collector street are not normally more than 600
feet from each other.
      (8)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A local or collector street, parallel to
and adjacent to an arterial or collector street, providing access to abutting
properties and protection from arterial or collector streets. (Also called
FRONTAGE STREET.)
   TOWER, RADIO OR TELEVISION. A tower or structure erected for the purpose of
and/or used for transmitting, receiving or relaying television or radio
services.
   USE. The specific purpose for which land, a structure, or a building is
designed, arranged, intended, occupied or maintained.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the strict terms of these zoning regulations
where such modifications will not be contrary to the public interest and, where
owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the action
of the applicant, a literal enforcement of these zoning regulations would
result in unnecessary hardship, or in the case of area variances only,
practical difficulties. VARIANCES are granted only after the applicant has
followed the procedures as stated in §§
154.115 through
154.121 of these zoning regulations.
   VETERINARY ANIMAL HOSPITAL OR CLINIC. A place used for the care, grooming,
diagnosis and treatment of sick, ailing, infirm or injured animals, and those
who are in need of medical or surgical attention. Such use may include
overnight accommodations on the premises for treatment, observation and/or
recuperation.
   VICINITY MAP. A drawing which sets forth by dimensions or other means the
relationship of a property or use to other nearby developments of landmarks and
community facilities and services within the Village of West Alexandria in
order to better locate and orient the area in question.
   VILLAGE COUNCIL. The Village Council of the Village of West Alexandria,
Ohio.
   VILLAGE PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the Village of West
Alexandria, Ohio.
   WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM, CENTRAL. A wastewater treatment system approved
by the appropriate county, state and/or federal agencies which provides a
collection network and a central wastewater treatment facility for a single
development, a community or a region.
   WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM, ON-SITE. A septic tank or similar installation
on an individual lot which utilizes an aerobic or anaerobic bacteriological
process or equally satisfactory process for the treatment of sewage and
provides for the proper and safe disposal of the effluent.
   WATER SYSTEM, CENTRAL. A water supply system approved by the appropriate
county, state and/or federal agencies which provides a water supply to a single
development, a community, or a region.
   WATER SYSTEM, ON-SITE. A well or other similar installation on an individual
lot which provides a water supply to any structures or uses upon the lot,
subject to the approval of health and sanitation officials having jurisdiction.
   WEST ALEXANDRIA COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A plan establishing the goals,
objectives and policies for development within the Village of West Alexandria.
It shows the recommended pattern of residential, commercial, industrial,
recreational, and open space uses as well as community facilities.
   YARD. An open or unoccupied space other than a court on the same lot with a
principal building and unobstructed by buildings or structures from ground to
sky except by trees or shrubbery or as otherwise provided herein. The minimum
depth of a YARD shall be determined by the setback lines as defined in these
zoning regulations. No part of a YARD provided for any building or structure
shall be included as a part of any yard required for any other building or
structure unless specifically permitted herein.
      (1)   FRONT YARD. An open space extending the full width of the lot
between a building or structure and the front lot line, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward except as hereinafter specified. Minimum
depth shall be established by the front setback line or by any other method
specified elsewhere in these zoning regulations, as appropriate. (Sec
Illustration.)
      (2)   REAR YARD. An open space extending the full width of the lot
between a building or structure and the rear lot line, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward except as hereinafter specified. (See
Illustration.)
      (3)   SIDE YARD. An open space extending from the front yard to the rear
yard between a building or structure and the nearest side lot line unoccupied
and unobstructed from the ground upward except as hereinafter specified. (See
Illustration.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1fa9dabcf92dcde311316e32a7f8ee1f45e628ae/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4333.png]
   ZONING CERTIFICATE. A document issued by the Zoning Inspector certifying
that the use of a lot, a structure or a building, and the location of a
structure, a building, or a use upon a lot is in conformance with these zoning
regulations.
   ZONING DISTRICT. See DISTRICT.
   ZONING INSPECTOR. The Zoning Inspector or his or her authorized
representative, appointed by the Village Council of the Village of West
Alexandria, Ohio.
   ZONING MAP. The Official Zoning District Map of the Village of West
Alexandria, or portion thereof, together with all amendments thereof
subsequently adopted.
(Prior Code, § 1242.02) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
VILLAGE ZONING INSPECTOR
§ 154.035 APPOINTMENT.
   The Village Council shall appoint a Village Zoning Inspector, together with
such assistants as the Village Council deems necessary, and designate him or
her as the enforcing officer of these zoning regulations. Any official or
employee of the village may assist the Zoning Inspector by reporting to him or
her any new construction, reconstruction, land use change or suspected
violation.
(Prior Code, § 1244.01) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.036 DUTIES.
   The Village Zoning Inspector shall be responsible for the following duties.
   (A)   Zoning permits. The Zoning Inspector shall review all applications
within the village for zoning permits as outlined in §§
154.080 through
154.083 to ensure they conform to all applicable provisions of these zoning
regulations, issue such permits when appropriate, and maintain a record of all
such permits.
   (B)   Inspections. The Zoning Inspector may periodically conduct on-site
inspections to ensure the actual construction of buildings and structures and
the use of land conforms to an approved zoning permit, an approved conditional
use permit, any applicable requirements of these zoning regulations, and/or the
conditions and restrictions set forth for an approved appeal, variance or
planned development.
   (C)   Notice of violation. The Zoning Inspector, upon finding that any of
the provisions of these zoning regulations are being violated, shall notify, in
writing, the person responsible for such violation and order the action
necessary to correct such violation.
   (D)   Enforcement. The Zoning Inspector may institute injunction, mandamus,
abatement or any other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent, enjoin,
abate or remove any unlawful location, erection, construction, reconstruction,
enlargement, change, maintenance or use within the jurisdiction of these zoning
regulations.
   (E)   Plat review. The Zoning Inspector shall review all applicable
subdivision plats and lot splits within the Village of West Alexandria which
are submitted to the Village of West Alexandria Planning Commission in order to
determine if the plat or lot split conforms to all applicable provisions of
these zoning regulations.
   (F)   Timely action on applications. Either a zoning certificate or a
written notification and explanation of refusal shall be issued by the Zoning
Inspector to the applicant within ten working days of its date of filing.
Failure to notify the applicant of such refusal within such period shall
entitle the applicant to submit his or her request to the Village Planning
Commission.
   (G)   Record maintenance. The Zoning Inspector shall maintain and keep all
pertinent records required by these zoning regulations, including, but not
limited to, the Official Zoning District Map(s), zoning certificates,
inspections, and all official zoning actions of Village Council, the Village
Planning Commission and the public.
(Prior Code, § 1244.02) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
VILLAGE PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 154.050 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Village Council shall establish a Village Planning Commission of five
members, consisting of the Mayor, one member of the Village Council and three
citizens of the Village of West Alexandria to be appointed by the Mayor. The
terms of the citizen members shall be six years in length and so arranged that
one of the terms of each of the citizen members will expire every two years.
Each member shall serve until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
Members of the Village Planning Commission may be removable for nonperformance
of duty, misconduct in office or other cause by the Village Council, upon
written charges being filed with the Village Council, after a public hearing
has been held regarding such charges, and after a copy of the charges has been
served upon the member so charged at least ten days prior to the hearing,
either personally, by registered mail, or by leaving such copy at his or her
usual place of residence. The member shall be given an opportunity to be heard
and answer such charges. Vacancies shall be filled by the Village Council and
shall be for the unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 1246.01) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.051 MEETINGS.
   The Village Planning Commission shall elect its own officers annually and
shall adopt the rules necessary for the conduct of its affairs in keeping with
the provisions of these zoning regulations. Meetings shall be held at the call
of the chair and at such other times as the Village Planning Commission may
determine. The chair, or in his or her absence, the acting chair, may
administer oaths. All meetings shall be open to the public. The Village
Planning Commission shall keep minutes of its proceedings and shall keep
records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be
of public record.
(Prior Code, § 1246.02) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.052 AMENDMENT RECOMMENDATION ACTIONS.
   The Village Planning Commission shall act by resolution or motion. The
concurring vote of three members of the Village Planning Commission shall be
necessary to pass any motion to recommend the approval, disapproval or
modification of any proposed amendment to these zoning regulations. The results
of such resolution or motion shall be forwarded to the Village Council for
their action, except as may otherwise be provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 1246.03) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.053 APPEAL AND CONDITIONAL USE ACTIONS.
   In exercising its duties, the Village Planning Commission may, as long as
such action is in conformity with the terms of these zoning regulations,
reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or modify the order, requirement, decision
or determination appealed from and may make such order, requirement, decision
or determination as ought to be made, and to that end shall have the power of
the Zoning Inspector from whom the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of
three members of the Village Planning Commission shall be necessary to reverse
any order, requirement, decision or determination of the Zoning Inspector, or
to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to
pass under these zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1246.04) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.054 DUTIES.
   For the purpose of these zoning regulations, the Village Planning Commission
has the following specific responsibilities.
   (A)   Amendments. The Village Planning Commission shall be responsible for
initiating or reviewing all proposed amendments to these zoning regulations and
make recommendations to the Village Council in accordance with §§
154.135 through
154.146.
   (B)   Appeals. To hear and decide appeals in accordance with §§
154.115 through
154.121 where it is alleged there is an error in any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by the Zoning Inspector.
   (C)   Variances. Where an applicant has provided sufficient evidence to
warrant the granting of a variance, to authorize such variances from the terms
of these zoning regulations as will not be contrary to the public interest,
where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of these zoning
regulations will result in unnecessary hardship, and so that the spirit of
these zoning regulations shall be observed and substantial justice done. The
consideration of such variances shall be in accordance with §§
154.115 through
154.121.
   (D)   Conditional use permits. To grant conditional use permits as specified
in §§
154.095 through
154.100, and such additional safeguards as will uphold the intent of these
zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1246.05) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
VILLAGE COUNCIL
§ 154.065 NO INTERPRETATION POWERS.
   It is the intent of these zoning regulations that all questions of
interpretation shall be first presented to the Zoning Inspector, and that such
questions shall be presented to the Village Planning Commission only on appeal
from the decision of the Zoning Inspector, and that recourse from the decisions
of the Village Planning Commission shall be to the courts as provided by law.
It is further the intent of these zoning regulations that the duties of the
Village Council in connection with these zoning regulations shall not include
hearing and deciding questions of interpretation that may arise. The procedure
for deciding such questions shall be as stated in §§
154.115 through
154.121.
(Prior Code, § 1248.01) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.066 DUTIES.
   The Village Council shall be responsible for the following duties:
   (A)   Appointments. To appoint a Zoning Inspector and members of the Village
Planning Commission;
   (B)   Establish fee schedule. To establish a schedule of fees for issuing
zoning permits, appeals, variances, conditional use permits, processing
amendments and any other zoning actions requiring postage, legal advertising,
inspections or general process of applications; and
   (c)   Amendments. To consider and adopt, reject or modify all proposed
amendments to these zoning regulations as provided in §§
154.135 through
154.146.
(Prior Code, § 1248.02) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
ZONING CERTIFICATE
§ 154.080 ZONING CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   No person shall change any use of land, locate, erect, construct,
reconstruct, enlarge or structurally alter any building or structure within the
Village of West Alexandria, Ohio without first obtaining a zoning certificate.
No zoning certificate shall be issued unless the plans for the proposed
building or structure or use of land fully comply with the provisions of these
zoning regulations, unless the Zoning Inspector receives a written order from
the Village Planning Commission deciding an appeal, a variance or conditional
use. A zoning certificate shall be required for all residential structures, all
principal structures and uses, all accessory structures unless otherwise
specified, all specified accessory uses, and all temporary uses. A zoning
certificate shall not be required for the use of land for agricultural
purposes, or for non-building structures required in the provision of essential
services by a public utility.
(Prior Code, § 1250.01) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.081 APPLICATION FOR ZONING CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   A written application and site plan for a zoning certificate shall be
submitted to the Zoning Inspector on forms provided by the Village of West
Alexandria.
   (B)   The following information shall be required:
      (1)   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
      (2)   Date;
      (3)   The name of the subdivision and the lot number or other information
necessary to establish the location of the lot;
      (4)   The actual dimensions of the lot based on actual survey, including
square footage and/or acreage, the yard and other open space dimensions
thereof, and the location and size of any existing structures thereon;
      (5)   The location on the lot and size of any proposed structure and/or
the proposed alteration of any existing structure, indication dimensions,
including building height;
      (6)   The number of proposed dwelling units, and the total residential
floor area and the number of bedrooms to be included in each dwelling unit;
      (7)   A permit from the Preble County Health Department or Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency for on-site wastewater disposal, where
applicable, illustrating the location of primary and secondary leaching field
locations;
      (8)   The proposed parking plan and number and location of proposed off-
street parking or loading spaces, and any drive-through waiting spaces;
      (9)   A plan for screening when applicable;
      (10)   A statement by the applicant attesting to the truth and exactness
of all information supplied on the application;
      (11)   A statement that the permit shall expire and shall be revoked if
work has not been started and substantially pursued within one year of its
issue date;
      (12)   Such other information as may be necessary to determine
conformance with these zoning regulations; and
      (13)   A fee as established by the Village Council.
(Prior Code, § 1250.02) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.082 PROCESSING ZONING CERTIFICATE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Within 30 days after the receipt of an application, the Zoning
Inspector shall either approve or disapprove the application in conformance
with the provisions of these zoning regulations.
   (B)   If the application is approved, the Zoning Inspector shall issue a
zoning certificate. One copy of the application shall be returned to the
applicant by the Zoning Inspector after he or she shall have marked such copy
either as approved or disapproved and attested to same by his or her signature
on such copy.
   (C)   One copy of the application similarly marked shall be retained by the
Zoning Inspector and filed. After the Zoning Inspector issues a zoning
certificate, he or she shall issue a placard to be posted in a conspicuous
place on the property in question, attesting to the fact that the use or
alteration is in conformance with the provisions of these zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1250.03) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.083 REQUIRED COORDINATION WITH ODOT.
   (A)   In the event an application involves land within 300 feet of the
centerline of a proposed new highway or a highway for which changes are
proposed as described in the certification to local officials by the Director
of the Ohio Department of Transportation or any land within a radius of 500
feet from the point of intersection of the centerline with any public road or
highway, the Zoning Inspector shall require a third application for a zoning
certificate, which is to be sent to the Director of the Ohio Department of
Transportation by registered mail for review. If the Director of the Ohio
Department of Transportation notifies the Zoning Inspector that he or she shall
proceed to acquire the land needed, then the Zoning Inspector shall refuse to
issue the zoning certificate.
   (B)   If the Director of the Ohio Department of Transportation notifies the
Zoning Inspector that acquisition at this time is not in the public interest,
or upon the expiration of the 120-day period or any extension thereof agreed
upon by the Director of the Ohio Department of Transportation and the property
owner, the Zoning Inspector shall, if the application is in conformance with
all provisions of these zoning regulations, issue the zoning certificate.
(Prior Code, § 1250.04)
CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
§ 154.095 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   As applicable to any use specifically listed as a conditional use within a
zoning district, no person shall change any use of land, locate, erect,
construct, reconstruct, enlarge or structurally alter any building or structure
within the Village of West Alexandria, Ohio without first having a conditional
use permit granted by the Village Planning Commission. It is the intent of the
conditional use process to allow appropriate uses, which have been so
identified by these zoning regulations, to exist in the village in locations
where they can be compatible with their surroundings. Conditional uses are so
designated because, while they may be appropriate, their intensity of use is
generally greater than other uses in the district and additional requirements
are necessary to ensure compatibility.
(Prior Code, § 1252.01) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.096 APPLICATION FOR CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   A written application and site plan for a conditional use permit shall
be submitted to the Zoning Inspector on forms provided by the Village of West
Alexandria.
   (B)   At a minimum, the following information shall be required:
      (1)   Name, address, and telephone number of applicant ;
      (2)   Date;
      (3)   The lot, name and number or legal description of the property;
      (4)   Description of existing zoning district;
      (5)   Description of the proposed conditional use;
      (6)   A site plan of the proposed site for the conditional use showing
the scale, north arrow, location of all buildings, parking and loading areas,
drive-through waiting spaces, traffic access and traffic circulation,
sidewalks, curbs, open spaces, landscaping, refuse and service areas, fire
hydrants, utilities, rights-of-way, signs, yards and such other information as
the Village Planning Commission may require to determine if the proposed
conditional use meets the intent and requirements of these zoning regulations;
      (7)   A plan for screening when applicable;
      (8)   A narrative statement discussing the merits of the proposal;
      (9)   Such other information as may be required by the Village Planning
Commission; and
      (10)   A fee as established by the Village Council.
(Prior Code, § 1252.02) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.097 PROCESSING OF CONDITIONAL USE APPLICATIONS.
   The Village Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing within 20 days
from the receipt of the application. Before holding the public hearing, notice
of such hearing shall be given in one or more newspapers of general circulation
within the Village of West Alexandria at least ten days before the date of the
hearing. The notice shall set forth the time and place of the public hearing,
and the nature of the proposed conditional use. Before holding the public
hearing, written notice of such hearing shall be mailed by the chair of the
Village Planning Commission, by first class mail, at least ten days before the
day of the hearing to all parties in interest. The written notice shall contain
the same information as required of the notice published in the newspaper.
Within 30 days after the hearing, the Village Planning Commission shall either
approve, approve with supplementary conditions or disapprove the application as
presented. If the application is disapproved by the Village Planning
Commission, the applicant may seek relief through the Court of Common Pleas.
(Prior Code, § 1252.03) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.098 APPROVAL OF CONDITIONAL USES.
   The burden of proof for granting a conditional use permit shall rest with
the applicant. In granting any conditional use permit, the Village Planning
Commission may prescribe such conditions and restrictions as may be necessary
to comply with the standards in this chapter and the intent and purpose of
these zoning regulations. Violation of such conditions and restrictions, when
made part of the terms under which the conditional use is granted, shall be
deemed a violation of these zoning regulations and punishable under §
154.999 of these zoning regulations. Under no circumstances shall the Village
Planning Commission authorize a conditional use to allow a use prohibited
expressly or by implication within the zoning district in which the property in
question is located.
(Prior Code, § 1252.04) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.099 CONDITIONAL USE STANDARDS.
   Conditional uses may be permitted provided that such uses shall be found to
comply with the following standards and all other applicable requirements as
set forth in these zoning regulations.
   (A)   The use is so designed, located and proposed to be operated so that
the public health, safety, morals and general welfare will be protected.
   (B)   The use will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of a
natural, scenic or historic feature of major importance.
   (C)   The use is operated in a manner that will not cause pollution of
either underground water or surface water and will not have a detrimental
impact to the underground water supply of the area.
   (D)   The use will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained so that
it shall not cause substantial injury to the value of the property in the area
or neighborhood where it is to be located.
   (E)   The use shall be compatible with adjoining development and the
proposed character of the zoning district where it is to be located.
   (F)   The use will be served adequately by essential public facilities and
services such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage
structures, refuse disposal, water and sewers, and schools, or that the persons
or agencies responsible for the establishment of the proposed use shall be able
to provide any such services adequately.
   (G)   The use will not create excessive additional requirements at public
cost for public facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the
economic welfare of the community.
   (H)   Adequate landscaping and screening are provided, as required.
   (I)   Adequate off-street parking, loading and/or waiting spaces are
provided, and ingress and egress is so designed as to cause minimum
interference with traffic on abutting streets.
   (J)   The use conforms with all applicable regulations governing the
district in which it is located, except as may otherwise be determined for
planned unit development.
   (K)   The use is compatible with the standards, objectives, and policies of
the Village of West Alexandria Land Development Plan.
   (L)   The use will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials,
equipment and conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons,
property, or the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic,
noise, smoke, fumes, glare, odors or vibrations.
   (M)   Any other supplementary requirements as prescribed by the Village
Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 1252.05) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.100 EXPIRATION OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   A conditional use permit shall be deemed to authorize only one particular
conditional use. The conditional use permit shall automatically expire if, for
any reason, the conditional use shall cease for more than six months, or
construction is not begun within the amount of time indicated on the
conditional use permit.
(Prior Code, § 1252.06) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
APPEALS AND VARIANCES
§ 154.115 APPEALS.
   Appeals to the Village Planning Commission concerning interpretation or
administration of these zoning regulations may be taken by any person aggrieved
or by any officer or bureau of the Village of West Alexandria affected by any
decision of the Zoning Inspector. Such appeal shall be taken within 20 days
after the decision by filing, with the Zoning Inspector and with the Village
Planning Commission, a notice of appeal specifying the grounds upon which the
appeal is being taken. The Zoning Inspector shall transmit to the Village
Planning Commission all the papers constituting the record upon which the
action appealed was taken.
(Prior Code, § 1254.01) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.116 STAY OF PROCEEDINGS.
   An appeal stays all proceeding in furtherance of the action appealed from,
unless the Zoning Inspector from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the
Village Planning Commission after the notice of appeal is filed with him or
her, that by reason of facts stated in the application, a stay would, in his or
her opinion, cause imminent peril to life and property. In such case,
proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a restraining order which may be
granted by the Village Planning Commission or by a court of record on
application, on notice to the Zoning Inspector from whom the appeal is taken on
due cause shown.
(Prior Code, § 1254.02) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.117 VARIANCES.
   The Village Planning Commission may authorize, upon appeal in specific
cases, such variance from the terms of these zoning regulations as will not be
contrary to the public interest or the intent of these zoning regulations
where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of
these zoning regulations would result in unnecessary hardship, or in the case
of area variances only, practical difficulties. No nonconforming use of
neighboring lands, structures, or buildings in the same district and no
permitted or nonconforming use of lands, structures, or buildings in other
districts shall be considered grounds for issuance of a variance.
(Prior Code, § 1254.03) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.118 APPLICATION.
   A variance from the terms of these zoning regulations shall not be granted
by the Village Planning Commission unless the applicant has provided sufficient
evidence to warrant the granting of a variance, and a written application for a
variance is submitted to the Zoning Inspector and the Village Planning
Commission containing, at a minimum, the following information:
   (A)   Name, address and telephone number of applicant;
   (B)   Legal description of the property;
   (C)   Description of nature of variance requested;
   (D)   A narrative statement demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Village
Planning Commission that the requested variance conforms to the standards set
forth in §
154.119; and
   (E)   A fee as established by the Village Council.
(Prior Code, § 1254.04) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.119 STANDARDS FOR GRANTING VARIANCES.
   Variances may be granted provided that such uses shall be found to comply
with the following standards.
   (A)   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience
if the strict letter of these zoning regulations were to be carried out.
   (B)   The conditions upon which the application for variance is based are
unique to the property for which the variance is sought, and are not
applicable, generally, to other property in the same zoning district.
   (C)   The purpose of the variance is not based exclusively upon a desire to
increase financial gain.
   (D)   The alleged difficulty or hardship is caused by strict interpretation
of these zoning regulations and has not been created by any persons presently
having an interest in the property.
   (E)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the neighborhood in
which the property is located.
   (F)   The proposed variance will not impair an adequate supply of light and
air to adjacent property, or substantially increase the congestion of the
public streets, or increase the danger of fire, or endanger the public safety,
or substantially diminish or impair property values within the neighborhood.
(Prior Code, § 1254.05) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.120 GRANTING OF VARIANCES.
   Variances shall not be granted on the grounds of convenience or profit, but
only where strict application of the provisions of these zoning regulations
would result in unnecessary hardship. The burden of proof for granting a
variance shall rest with the applicant. In granting any appeal or variance, the
Village Planning Commission may prescribe such conditions and restrictions as
may be necessary to comply with the standards in this section and the intent
purpose of these zoning regulations. Violation of such conditions and
restrictions, when made part of the terms under which the appeal or variance is
granted, shall be deemed a violation of these zoning regulations and punishable
under §
154.999 of these zoning regulations. Under no circumstances shall the Village
Planning Commission grant an appeal or variance to allow a use prohibited
expressly or by implication in the zoning district in which the property in
question is located.
(Prior Code, § 1254.06) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.121 PROCESSING APPEALS AND VARIANCES.
   The Village Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing within 20 days
after the receipt of an application for an appeal or variance from the Zoning
Inspector or an applicant.
   (A)   Published notice. Before holding the required public hearing, notice
of such hearing shall be given in one or more newspapers of general circulation
within the Village of West Alexandria at least ten days before the date of the
hearing. The notice shall set forth the time and place of the public hearing
and the nature of the proposed appeal or variance.
   (B)   Mailed notice. Before holding the required public hearing, written
notice of such hearing shall be mailed by the chair of the Village Planning
Commission, by first class mail, at least ten days before the day of the
hearing to all parties in interest. The notice shall contain the same
information as required of notices published in newspapers.
   (C)   Action. The Village Planning Commission shall decide upon the
application within a reasonable amount of time, not to exceed 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 1254.07) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
AMENDMENTS AND ZONING DISTRICT CHANGES
§ 154.135 NECESSITY OF AMENDMENTS.
   Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare or good zoning
practices require, the Village Council may, by ordinance after receipt of
recommendations from the Village Planning Commission, and subject to the
procedures provided by law, amend, supplement, change or repeal these zoning
regulations and district boundaries or classification of property.
(Prior Code, § 1256.01) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.136 INITIATION OF AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments to these zoning regulations may be initiated in one of the
following ways.
   (A)   By adoption of a motion by the Village Planning Commission;
   (B)   By adoption of a resolution by the Village Council; or
   (C)   By filing of an application by at least one or more owners or lessees
of property within the area proposed to be changed or affected by the proposed
amendment.
(Prior Code, § 1256.02) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.137 APPLICATION FOR AMENDMENT.
   A written application for a text or map amendment shall be submitted to the
Zoning Inspector on forms provided by the Village of West Alexandria. At a
minimum, the following information shall be required, in triplicate.
   (A)   Name, address and telephone number of applicant;
   (B)   Date;
   (C)   Legal description of the property;
   (D)   Present use;
   (E)   Present zoning district;
   (F)   Proposed use;
   (G)   Proposed zoning district;
   (H)   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the Village Planning Commission
showing property lines, streets, existing and proposed zoning, and such other
items as the Village Planning Commission may require;
   (I)   Proposed amendment to the text;
   (J)   A list of all property owners within 200 feet of, contiguous to, and
directly across the street from the parcel(s) proposed to be rezoned, and
others that may have a substantial interest in the case;
   (K)   A statement on how the proposed amendment relates to the Village of
West Alexandria Land Development Plan; and
   (L)   A fee as established by the Village Council.
(Prior Code, § 1256.03) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.138 REQUIRED SIGN.
   All applicants submitting requests for change in district boundaries on the
Official Zoning District Map shall be required to post a sign upon the property
in question within five days after the submission of an application. Such sign
shall be clearly visible from the street, or in the case of two or more
streets, the street with the higher average traffic flow. Such sign shall meet
the specifications of the Village of West Alexandria and shall denote the
present and proposed zoning district classification for the site. No zoning
permit shall be required. However, the location and size of such sign shall be
subject to approval by the Zoning Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 1256.04) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.139 COORDINATION WITH OTHER JURISDICTIONS.
   In the event that a proposed rezoning is located adjacent to another
political jurisdiction, an additional copy of the application shall be provided
and forwarded to the Chairperson of the Planning Commission of that
jurisdiction. If the adjacent political subdivision has no zoning regulations
in effect, the letter shall be forwarded to the municipal or township clerk of
such jurisdiction. Any comments provided by the adjoining jurisdiction shall be
considered at the public hearing of the Village Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 1256.05) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.140 REQUIRED COORDINATION WITH ODOT.
   Before any zoning amendment is approved affecting any land within 300 feet
of the centerline of a proposed new highway or highway for which changes are
proposed as described in the certification to local officials by the Director
of the Ohio Department of Transportation, or within a radius of 500 feet from
the point of intersection of the centerline with any public road or highway,
the Village Planning Commission shall give notice, by registered or certified
mail to the Director of the Ohio Department of Transportation. The Village
Planning Commission may proceed as required by law, however, for 120 days from
the date the notice is received by the Director of the Ohio Department of
Transportation. If the Director of the Ohio Department of Transportation
notifies the Village Council that he or she shall proceed to acquire any land
needed, then the Village Council shall refuse to approve the zoning. If the
Director of the Ohio Department of Transportation notifies the Village Council
that acquisition at this time is not in the public interest or upon expiration
of the 120-day period or any extension thereof agreed upon by the Director of
the Ohio Department of Transportation and the property owner, the Village
Council shall proceed as required by law.
(Prior Code, § 1256.06) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.141 RECOMMENDATION OF VILLAGE PLANNING COMMISSION TO VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   Within 30 days after the required public hearing, the Village Planning
Commission shall forward such recommendation to the Village Council that the
amendment be granted as requested, or it may recommend a modification of the
amendment requested, or it may recommend that the amendment not be granted.
(Prior Code, § 1256.07) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.142 VILLAGE COUNCIL PUBLIC HEARING.
   Upon receipt of the recommendation from the Village Planning Commission, the
Village Council shall schedule a public hearing. The date of the hearing shall
be not more than 40 days from the receipt of the recommendation from the
Village Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 1256.08) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.143 NOTICE OF VILLAGE COUNCIL PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   Notice of the required public hearing shall be given by the Village
Council by at least one publication in a newspaper of general circulation
within the village.
   (B)   The notice shall be published at least 30 days before the date of the
required hearing.
(Prior Code, § 1256.09) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.144 ACTION BY VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   Within 30 days after the required public hearing, the Village Council shall
either adopt or deny the recommendation of the Village Planning Commission or
adopt some modification thereof. In the event the Village Council approves an
amendment that the Village Planning Commission has recommended not to approve
or modifies the recommendation of the Village Planning Commission, a three-
fourths vote of the Village Council shall be required.
(Prior Code, § 1256.10) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.145 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Such amendment adopted by the Village Council shall become effective 30 days
after the date of such adoption, unless within 30 days after the adoption of
the amendment there is presented to the Village Council a petition, signed by a
number of registered electors residing in the incorporated area of the village
equal to not less than 10% of the total vote cast for all candidates for
Governor at the last preceding general election at which a Governor was
elected, requesting the Village Council to submit the amendment to the electors
of such area for approval or rejection at a special election to be held on the
day of the next primary or general election.
(Prior Code, § 1256.11) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.146 REFERENDUM.
   No amendment for which a referendum vote has been requested in accordance
with the Ohio Revised Code shall be put into effect unless a majority of the
votes cast on the issue is in favor of the amendment. Upon certification by the
Preble County Board of Elections that the amendment has been approved by the
voters, it shall take immediate effect.
(Prior Code, § 1256.12) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS
§ 154.160 REQUIRED APPROVAL PROCEDURE.
   All requests for approval of a planned development district shall be at the
election of the property owner. All applications for the approval of a planned
development district shall be processed in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1258.01) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.161 PRE-APPLICATION MEETINGS.
   (A)   The applicant shall meet with the Village Planning Commission prior to
the submission of the preliminary plan.
   (B)   The purpose of these meetings is to discuss, both early and
informally, the relationship of the plan to these zoning regulations, the
Village of West Alexandria Comprehensive Plan, Village of West Alexandria
subdivision regulations, and the physiography, the thoroughfare, drainage,
water and wastewater systems of the Village of West Alexandria.
(Prior Code, § 1258.02) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.162 CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   (A)   An application for preliminary plan approval for the planned
development shall be filed with the chair of the Village Planning Commission by
at least one owner of property for which the planned development is proposed.
   (B)   At a minimum, the application shall contain the following information
filed in triplicate:
      (1)   Name, address and phone numbers of the applicant and all property
owners within the proposed development, evidence of unified control of the
entire area of the development, and tentative agreement of all owners to
proceed with development according to plan or to provide adequate sureties for
completion;
      (2)   A map or maps indicating the relation of the proposed development
to the surrounding area. As appropriate to the development proposed, such map
or maps shall demonstrate access to major streets, and community facilities,
and show the approximate location and sizes of existing public sewers, water
lines and storm drainage systems;
      (3)   Name, address and phone number of registered surveyor, registered
engineer and/or urban professional planner assisting in the preparation of the
preliminary development plan;
      (4)   A legal description of the property;
      (5)   A description of existing uses both upon and surrounding the site;
      (6)   A map illustrating the existing zoning districts within and
surrounding the site;
      (7)   A topographic data map drawn to a scale of 100 feet or less to one
inch by a registered surveyor and/or engineer showing boundary lines,
easements, ground elevations, and wooded areas, streams, lakes, marshes, flood
plains, soil types and other physical conditions affecting the site;
      (8)   A preliminary development plan and report presenting, in
generalized form, the proposed residential density; the proposed circulation
pattern including all public and private streets; proposed off-street parking
or loading areas; a preliminary layout of lots, land uses, and the location of
all principal structures; the general location of utility installations and
easements; proposed parks and other community spaces; and other information
which the Village Planning Commission deems necessary;
      (9)   A proposed schedule for the development of the site;
      (10)   Evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the land
in question to initiate the proposed development plan within five years;
      (11)   A written statement by the developer setting forth the reasons why
in his or her opinion, the planned unit development would be in the public
interest and would be consistent with the statement of intent and purpose and
the criteria for approval of developments; and
      (12)   A fee as established by the Village Council.
(Prior Code, § 1258.03) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.163 REVIEW AND ACTION ON PRELIMINARY PLAN BY VILLAGE PLANNING COMMISSION.
   Within 30 days after it is filed, the Village Planning Commission shall
review the preliminary plan to determine if it is consistent with the intent
and purpose of these zoning regulations, and approve it in principle, with or
without conditions, or disapprove it. The Village Planning Commission shall
determine if the proposed development advances the general welfare of the
community and neighborhood; and whether the benefits, combination of various
land uses, and the interrelationship with the land uses in the surrounding area
justify the deviation from standard district regulations. The approval in
principle of the preliminary plan by the Village Planning Commission shall be
necessary before the applicant may submit a final plan. Approval in principle
shall not be construed to endorse a precise location of uses, configuration of
lots, or engineering feasibility.
(Prior Code, § 1258.04) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.164 FINAL PLAN.
   (A)   After approval in principle of the preliminary plan, the applicant may
submit a final plan to the Village Planning Commission.
   (B)   The final plan shall be in general conformance with the preliminary
development plan approved in principle.
   (C)   Five copies of the final development plan shall be submitted.
(Prior Code, § 1258.05) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.165 CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAN.
   (A)   An application for approval of the final plan shall be filed with the
chair of the Village Planning Commission by at least one owner of property for
which the planned unit development is proposed. Each application shall be
signed by the owner, attesting to the truth and exactness of all information
supplied on the application for final development plan.
   (B)   At a minimum, the application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   A survey of the proposed development site, showing the dimensions
and bearings of the property lines, area in acres, topography and existing
features of the development site including soil types, major wooded areas,
structures, streets, easements, utility lines and land uses;
      (2)   A map or maps in the form required by the Village of West
Alexandria subdivision regulations for recording the preliminary plat or
subdivision; the location and proposed density of dwelling units,
nonresidential buildings; and land use considered suitable for adjacent
properties;
      (3)   A schedule for the development of units to be constructed in
progression and the anticipated timing for each unit; tabulation of the number
of acres in the proposed project for various uses; the number of housing units
and bedrooms proposed by type of housing; estimated nonresidential population
where appropriate; and standards for height, open space, building density,
parking areas, population density and public improvements proposed for each
unit of the development;
      (4)   Engineering feasibility studies and plans showing necessary water,
sewer and storm drainage installations; waste disposal facilities; street
improvements, and the nature and extent of earth work required for site
preparation and development;
      (5)   The site plan, showing buildings, various functional use areas,
circulation, and their relationship;
      (6)   Preliminary building plans, including floor plans and exterior
elevations;
      (7)   Landscaping plans; and
      (8)   Deed restrictions, protective covenants and other legal statements
or devices to be used to control the use, development, and maintenance of the
land, and the improvements thereon, including those areas which are to be
commonly owned and maintained.
(Prior Code, § 1258.06) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.166 APPROVAL PROCESS OF FINAL PLAN.
   The approval process for the final plan by both the Village Planning
Commission and the Village Council shall be in accordance with the district
amendment procedure outlined in §§
154.135 through
154.146.
(Prior Code, § 1258.07) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.167 SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS.
   In approving any planned development district, the Village Council may
prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards, in conformity with these
zoning regulations. Violation of such conditions or safeguards, when made a
part of the terms under which the final development plan is approved, shall be
deemed a violation of these zoning regulations and punishable under §
154.999 of these zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1258.08) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 154.180 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   In order to carry out the purposes of provisions of these zoning
regulations, the Village of West Alexandria is hereby divided into zoning
districts as set forth in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1260.01) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.181 RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS.
 
R-1A Single-Family Residential District
R-1B Single-Family Residential District
R-1C Single-Family Residential District
R-2 Residential District
R-3 Multi-Family Residential District
PD- 1 Residential Planned Unit Development District
 
(Prior Code, § 1260.02) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999; Ord. 725, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 154.182 BUSINESS ZONING DISTRICTS.
 
B-1 General Business District
B-2 Neighborhood Business District
B-3 Central Business District
PD-2 Business Planned Unit Development District
 
(Prior Code, § 1260.03) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.183 INDUSTRIAL ZONING DISTRICTS.
 
I-1 Light Industrial District
PD-3 Industrial Planned Unit Development District
 
(Prior Code, § 1260.04) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.184 OTHER ZONING DISTRICTS.
 
AG Agricultural Conservation District
FP Flood Plain Overlay District
 
(Prior Code, § 1260.05) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
OFFICIAL ZONING DISTRICT MAP
§ 154.195 INCORPORATION INTO ZONING REGULATIONS.
   The zoning districts and their boundaries are shown on the Official Zoning
District Map of the Village of West Alexandria. The map, together with all
explanatory data and changes, is hereby incorporated into and made part of
these zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1262.01) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.196 IDENTIFICATION OF ZONING MAP.
   The Official Zoning District Map shall be identified by the signature of the
Mayor, attested by the Village Fiscal Officer, and bear the seal of the Village
of West Alexandria. The original and one copy of such map are to be maintained
and kept up-to-date by the Zoning Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 1262.02) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.197 FINAL AUTHORITY.
   The Official Zoning District Map, as amended from time to time, shall be the
final authority as to the current zoning status of lands, buildings, and other
structures within the incorporated area of the Village of West Alexandria.
(Prior Code, § 1262.03) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
REVITALIZATION DISTRICT
§ 154.210 ADOPTION OF DISTRICT BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to R.C. 4301.81, a “revitalization district” is hereby
created for the Village of West Alexandria.
   (B)   (1)   The geographic boundaries of the district shall coincide with
the village’s current B-3 Central Business District (per the Village’s Zoning
Map and Zoning Code).
      (2)   A copy of a map displaying the revitalization district is attached
as Exhibit “A” to Ordinance 768, passed April 18, 2011.
(Prior Code, § 1263.01) (Ord. 768, passed 4-18-2011)
INTERPRETATION OF ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
§ 154.225 LOCATION OF ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   When zoning district boundaries approximate municipal corporation
lines, property lines, the centerlines of streets and alleys, easements and
watercourses, or appear to lie parallel thereto, such corporation lines,
property lines or centerlines of the watercourses and rights-of-way shall
prevail or the distance noted shall establish a parallel line thereto.
   (B)   Distances not specifically indicated on the Official Zoning District
Map shall be determined by the scale of the map.
(Prior Code, § 1264.01) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.226 CONFLICT REGARDING BOUNDARIES.
   Whenever a conflict arises concerning the boundaries of the various zoning
districts as shown on the Official Zoning District Map, the Village Planning
Commission shall interpret the district boundaries.
(Prior Code, § 1264.02) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
TABLE OF DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 154.240 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
                                  Minimum Minimum Side Setback Minimum Maximum
District/ Maximum Lot Minimum Lot Front                        Rear    Building
Use       Size        Width       Setback One Side Total       Setback Height

          Square Feet Feet        Feet    Feet                 Feet    Feet
                                 Minimum Minimum Side Setback Minimum Maximum
District/  Maximum   Minimum Lot Front                        Rear    Building
Use        Lot Size  Width       Setback One Side Total       Setback Height

           Square    Feet        Feet    Feet                 Feet    Feet
           Feet
R-1A
Single-    20,000    100         40      10       25          40      35
Family
R-1B
Single-    13,000    80          25      10       25          40      35
Family
R-1C
Single-    10,000    80          25      10       25          40      35
Family
R-
2 Single-  8,700     66          25      8        16          40      35
Family
R-2 Two-   8,700     66          25      8        16          40      35
Family
R-
3 Single-  7,500     66          25      8        16          30      35
Family
R-3 Two-   8,700     66          25      10       20          30      35
Family
R-3 Three- 11,000    80          25      10       20          30      35
Family
R-3 Multi- 3,500 per 90          25      10       20          40      35
Family     unit
PD-1 Row   2,500     25          15      0*       0*          25      35
Houses
PD-1 Zero  6,000     50          25      0*       0*          30      35
Lot Line
PD-1 Other Standards noted on approved development plan shall apply
Types
AG Single- 5 acres   300         40      10       25          40      35
Family
* A minimum separation of 15 feet is required between all buildings.
 
(Prior Code, § 1266.01) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999; Ord. 725, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 154.241 RESIDENTIAL FLOOR AREA REQUIREMENTS.
Minimum Floor Area Square Footage per Dwelling Unit
R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-2, R-3 and B-3 Districts
  R-1A R-1B R-1C R-2 R-3 B-3
Minimum Floor Area Square Footage per Dwelling Unit
R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-2, R-3 and B-3 Districts
                                      R-1A  R-1B  R-1C  R-2   R-3   B-3
Single-Family 1, 2 or 3 bedroom       1,800 1,600 1,500 1,200 1,000 1,100
             Each additional bedroom 150   150   150   150   150   150
Two-Family                            N/A   N/A   N/A   800   800   800
Three-Family                          N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   800   800
Multi-Family  0-1 bedroom             N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   600   600
             2 bedroom               N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   800   800
             3+ bedroom              N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   1,000 1,000
             Each additional bedroom N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   150   150
NOTE 1: Minimum square footage amounts exclude garage area.
NOTE 2: Any multi-level residential structure shall have no less than 75%
of the minimum allowable square footage as the ground level footprint.
 
(Prior Code, § 1266.02) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999; Ord. 725, passed 5-7-2007;
Ord. 764, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 154.242 NONRESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
Zoning   Minimum Lot Minimum Lot Minimum Minimum Minimum Maximum    Maximum
District Size        Width       Front   Side    Rear    Floor Area Building
                                 Setback Setback Setback            Height
Zoning       Minimum  Minimum   Minimum   Minimum   Minimum   Maximum  Maximum
District     Lot Size Lot Width Front     Side      Rear      Floor    Building
                                Setback   Setback   Setback   Area     Height
B-1 General  None     None      35 feet   10 feet*  30 feet** N/A      35 feet
Business
B-                                                            15,000
2            None     None      35 feet   10 feet*  25 feet** square   35 feet
Neighborhood                                                  feet per
Business                                                      floor
B-3 Central  None     None      35***     6 feet*   25 feet** N/A      35 feet
Business
I-1 Light    None     100 feet  (1)       (2), (3)  (2), (3)  N/A      45 feet
Industrial
PD-                             (4), (5), (4), (5), (4), (5),
1            2 acres  N/A       (6), (7), (6), (7), (6), (7), N/A      35 feet
Residential                     (8)       (8)       (8)
PUD
PD-                             (4), (9), (4), (9), (4), (9),
2 Business   1 acre   N/A       (10),     (10),     (10),     N/A      35 feet
PUD                             (11)      (11)      (11)
PD-                             (12),     (12),     (12),
3 Industrial 10 acres N/A       (13),     (13),     (13),     N/A      35 feet
PUD                             (14),     (14),     (14),
                                (15)      (15)      (15)
AG
Agricultural 5 acres  300 feet  35 feet   15 feet   40 feet   N/A      35 feet
Conservation
FP Flood     Overlay district - see underlying zoning district requirements.
Plain
*    Setback only applies if lot is adjacent to any residential lot. In other
     cases, no side yard is required.
     Where a building in a B-2 District or B-3 District is more than 25 feet in
**   height, one additional foot of rear yard shall be provided for each
     additional two feet of height. In other cases, no side or rear yard is
     required.
***  Where a B-3 District is directly across the street from any residential,
     the minimum setback applies. In other cases, no front yard is required.
     Conditional uses shall comply with all pertinent development standards
(1)  contained in §§
     154.095 through
     154.100.
     Each side and rear yard shall be at least equal in height of the principal
     building. If adjacent lots are industrially developed to the lot line, no
     side yard need be provided. Where a side or rear yard abuts onto a
(2)  residential district, in no case shall either be less than 50 feet and a
     Type A buffer provided. An opaque fence may be substituted for such
     plantings if approved by the Planning Commission. If the use is to be
     serviced from the rear, the side yard shall be at least 50 feet deep.
     Each side and rear yard for conditional uses shall be equal to two times
     the height of the principal building. If adjacent lots are industrially
     developed to the lot lines, no side yard need be provided. Where a side or
(3)  rear yard abuts onto a residential district, the yard shall in no case be
     less than 100 feet and a Type A buffer shall be provided. An opaque fence
     may be substituted for such plantings if approved by the Planning
     Commission. If the use is to be service from the rear, the yard shall be
     at least 50 feet deep.
     There shall be a setback of 50 feet maintained around the total perimeter
(4)  of the development that is landscaped to provide a Type B buffer adjacent
     to residential uses and a Type A buffer adjacent to commercial and
     industrial uses.
(5)  Detached principal structures shall be a minimum of 15 feet from one
     another.
     Private accessory structures and uses shall not be located on common open
(6)  space and shall be a minimum of 15 feet away from all structures other
     than the principal structure they are associated with.
(7)  All structures shall be located at least 25 feet back from all public and
     private roads.
(8)  No residential structure or cluster of attached buildings shall have more
     than 300 linear feet of frontage.
(9)  Detached principal structures shall be a minimum of 20 feet from one
     another.
(10) All structures shall be located at least 25 feet back from all public and
     private roads.
     There shall be a minimum of one entrance or exit per street frontage. On
(11) the major street frontage, there may be two entrance or exit drives if the
     street frontage is more than 300 feet. In such case, the two drives shall
     be at least 200 feet apart.
     There shall be a setback of 100 feet maintained around the perimeter of
(12) the site. Such setback shall be landscaped in a Type A buffer. Where the
     site is adjacent to other industrial uses, the Planning Commission may
     determine that a less dense buffer is required.
(13) Detached principal structures shall be a minimum of 30 feet from one
     another.
(14) All structures shall be located at least 25 feet back from all public
     roads.
(15) Vehicle access points to the site shall be at least 250 feet apart from
     one another.
 
(Prior Code, § 1266.03) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
R-1A SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.255 STATEMENT OF INTENT.
   This district is intended to provide areas suitable for single family
residential development at a low density.
(Prior Code, § 1268.01) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999; Ord. 725, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 154.256 PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES.
   The following principal uses are permitted in R-1A Single-Family Residential
Districts.
   (A)   Single-family dwellings.
   (B)   Temporary uses as regulated in §
154.460.
(Prior Code, § 1268.02) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999; Ord. 725, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 154.257 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following accessory uses are permitted in R-1A Single-Family Residential
Districts.
   (A)   Accessory parking and loading spaces as regulated in §§
154.515 through
154.520.
   (B)   Accessory signs as regulated in §§
154.535 through
154.551.
   (C)   Detached garage as regulated in §
154.462.
   (D)   Ground satellite station as regulated in §
154.468.
   (E)   Home occupation as regulated in §
154.466.
   (F)   Private swimming pools as regulated in §
154.463.
   (G)   Fences as regulated in §
154.461.
(Prior Code, § 1268.03) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999; Ord. 725, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 154.258 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following conditional uses are permitted in R-1A Single-Family
Residential Districts only after approval by the Village Planning Commission in
accordance with the procedures outlined in §
154.096.
   (A)   Cemeteries as regulated in §
154.478.
   (B)   Cultural institutions.
   (C)   Day care centers as regulated in §
154.472.
   (D)   Educational institutions as regulated in §§
154.474 and
154.475.
   (E)   Government facilities.
   (F)   Government-owned parks.
   (G)   Greenhouses.
   (H)   Medical facility.
   (I)   Telephone antennas on existing structures as regulated in §
154.468.
   (J)   Churches.
(Prior Code, § 1268.04) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999; Ord. 725, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 154.259 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   All development within the R-1A Single-Family Residential District shall be
subject to the development standards set forth in §
154.240 unless otherwise specifically noted within these zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1268.05) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999; Ord. 725, passed 5-7-2007)
R-1B SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT AND R-1C SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICT
§ 154.270 STATEMENT OF INTENT.
   These districts are intended to provide areas suitable for single-family
residential development at a moderate to low density. These districts are the
same in all aspects except as set forth under §
154.240.
(Prior Code, § 1269.01) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999; Ord. 725, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 154.271 PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES.
   The following principal uses are permitted in R-1B Single-Family Residential
Districts and R-1C Single-Family Residential Districts.
   (A)   Single-family dwellings.
   (B)   Temporary uses as regulated in §
154.460.
(Prior Code, § 1269.02) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999; Ord. 725, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 154.272 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following accessory uses are permitted in R-1B Single-Family Residential
Districts and R-1C Single-Family Residential Districts.
   (A)   Accessory parking and loading spaces as regulated in §§
154.515 through
154.520.
   (B)   Accessory signs as regulated in §§
154.535 through
154.551.
   (C)   Detached garage as regulated in §
154.462.
   (D)   Ground satellite station as regulated in §
154.468.
   (E)   Private swimming pools as regulated in §
154.463.
   (F)   Fences as regulated in §
154.461.
(Prior Code, § 1269.03) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999; Ord. 725, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 154.273 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following conditional uses are permitted in R-1B Single-Family
Residential Districts and R-1C Single-Family Residential Districts only after
approval by the Village Planning Commission in accordance with the procedures
outlined in §
154.096.
   (A)   Cemeteries as regulated in §
154.478.
   (B)   Cultural institutions.
   (C)   Day care centers as regulated in §
154.472.
   (D)   Educational institutions as regulated in §§
154.474 and
154.475.
   (E)   Government facilities.
   (F)   Government-owned parks
   (G)   Greenhouses.
   (H)   Medical facility.
   (I)   Telephone antennas on existing structures as regulated in §
154.468.
   (J)   Churches.
   (K)   Home occupation as regulated in §
154.466.
(Prior Code, § 1269.04) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999; Ord. 725, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 154.274 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   All development within the R-1B Single-Family Residential District and the
R-1C Single-Family Residential District shall be subject to the development
standards set forth in §
154.240 unless otherwise specifically noted within this zoning ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1269.05) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999; Ord. 725, passed 5-7-2007)
R-2 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 154.285 STATEMENT OF INTENT.
   This district recognizes the existence of older residential areas within the
village where homes have been built on smaller lots and where conservation of
existing housing stock should be encouraged. It is not the intent to provide
new moderate density developments as major subdivisions nor to expand R-
2 Districts beyond the central area of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1270.01)
§ 154.286 PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES.
   The following principal uses are permitted in R-2 Residential Districts.
   (A)   Churches.
   (B)   Single-family dwellings.
   (C)   Temporary uses as regulated in §
154.460.
(Prior Code, § 1270.02) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.287 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following accessory uses are permitted in R-2 Residential Districts.
   (A)   Accessory parking and loading spaces as regulated in §§
154.515 through
154.520.
   (B)   Accessory signs as regulated in §§
154.535 through
154.551.
   (C)   Detached garage as regulated in §
154.462.
   (D)   Fences as regulated in §
154.461.
   (E)   Ground satellite station as regulated in §
154.468.
   (F)   Home occupation as regulated in §
154.466.
   (G)   Private swimming pools as regulated in §
154.463.
(Prior Code, § 1270.03) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.288 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following conditional uses are permitted in R-2 Residential Districts
only after approval by the Village Planning Commission in accordance with the
procedures outlined in §§
154.095 through
154.100.
   (A)   Cemeteries as regulated in §
154.478.
   (B)   Cultural institutions.
   (C)   Day care centers as regulated in §
154.472.
   (D)   Educational institutions as regulated in §§
154.474 and
154.475.
   (E)   Government facilities.
   (F)   Government-owned parks.
   (G)   Greenhouses.
   (H)   Medical facility.
   (I)   Telephone antennas on existing structures as regulated in §
154.468.
   (J)   Two-family dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 1270.04) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.289 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   All development within the R-2 Residential District shall be subject to the
development standards set forth in §§
154.240 through
154.242 unless otherwise specifically noted within these zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1270.05) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
R-3 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.300 STATEMENT OF INTENT.
   This district recognizes and is intended to provide space within the village
for medium density residential development. It allows for a variety of housing
types and is intended to accommodate individuals and families residing within
neighborhoods relatively near the central business area of the village,
creating a transition between lower density residential areas and areas of more
intense use.
(Prior Code, § 1271.01) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.301 PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES.
   The following principal uses are permitted in R-3 Multi-Family Residential
Districts.
   (A)   Boarding houses as regulated in §
154.473.
   (B)   Churches.
   (C)   Multi-family dwellings.
   (D)   Single-family dwellings.
   (E)   Temporary uses as regulated in §
154.460.
   (F)   Three-family dwellings.
   (G)   Two-family dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 1271.02) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.302 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following accessory uses are permitted in R-3 Multi-Family Residential
Districts.
   (A)   Accessory parking and loading spaces as regulated in §§
154.515 through
154.520.
   (B)   Accessory signs as regulated in §§
154.535 through
154.551.
   (C)   Detached garage as regulated in §
154.462.
   (D)   Ground satellite station as regulated in §
154.468.
   (E)   Home occupation as regulated in §
154.466.
   (F)   Private swimming pools as regulated in §
154.463.
   (G)   Fences as regulated in §
154.461.
(Prior Code, § 1271.03) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.303 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following conditional uses are permitted in R-3 Multi-Family Residential
Districts only after approval by the Village Planning Commission in accordance
with the procedures outlined in §§
154.095 through
154.100.
   (A)   Cemetery.
   (B)   Day care centers as regulated in §
154.472.
   (C)   Government facilities.
   (D)   Government-owned parks.
   (E)   Group homes as regulated in §
154.476.
   (F)   Telephone antennas on existing structures as regulated in §
154.468.
(Prior Code, § 1271.04) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.304 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   All development within the R-3 Multi-Family Residential District shall be
subject to the development standards set forth in §§
154.240 through
154.242 unless otherwise specifically noted within these zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1271.05) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
B-1 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 154.315 STATEMENT OF INTENT.
   This district is intended to provide for general commercial and business
activities, including a wide range of goods and services that will serve the
region. This district is intended to be near or along primary arterial streets
and/or intersections of such streets.
(Prior Code, § 1272.01) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.316 PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES.
   The following principal uses are permitted in B-1 General Business
Districts.
   (A)   Animal care facilities.
   (B)   Bars.
   (C)   Business retail.
   (D)   Churches.
   (E)   Commercial entertainment.
   (F)   Consumer retail.
   (G)   Funeral home as regulated in §
154.474.
   (H)   General retail.
   (I)   Medical and health-related services.
   (J)   Personal services.
   (K)   Professional and business offices.
   (L)   Restaurant.
   (M)   Temporary uses as regulated in §
154.460.
   (N)   Self-serve laundry.
(Prior Code, § 1272.02) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999; Ord. 726, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 154.317 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following accessory uses are permitted in B-1 General Business
districts.
   (A)   Accessory parking and loading spaces as regulated in §§
154.515 through
154.520.
   (B)   Accessory signs as regulated in §§
154.535 through
154.551.
   (C)   Ground satellite station as regulated in §
154.468.
   (D)   Outdoor sales as regulated in §
154.483.
   (E)   Telephone antennas on existing structures as regulated in §
154.468.
(Prior Code, § 1272.03) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.318 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following conditional uses are permitted in B-1 General Business
Districts only after approval by the Village Planning Commission in accordance
with the procedures outlined in §§
154.095 through
154.100.
   (a)   Auto fuel pumps as regulated in §
154.485.
   (b)   Auto repair and service stations as regulated in §
154.485.
   (c)   Auto (vehicle) sales as regulated in §
154.486.
   (d)   Drive-through retail as regulated in §
154.484.
   (e)   Hotels and motels as regulated in §
154.486.
(Prior Code, § 1272.04) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.319 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   All development within the B-1 General Business District shall be subject to
the development standards set forth in §§
154.240 through
154.242 unless otherwise specifically noted within these zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1272.05) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
B-2 NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 154.330 STATEMENT OF INTENT.
   This district is intended to encourage grouping of individual establishments
that will include retail convenience goods and provide personal services
responding to the daily staple needs of the immediate vicinity. This district
is intended to be located at the periphery of residential areas with good
access to primary and secondary streets.
(Prior Code, § 1273.01) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.331 PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES.
   The following principal uses are permitted in B-2 Neighborhood Business
Districts.
   (A)   Bars.
   (B)   Community service uses.
   (C)   Consumer retail.
   (D)   Medical and health-related services.
   (E)   Personal services.
   (F)   Professional and business offices.
   (G)   Restaurants.
   (H)   Temporary uses as regulated in §
154.460.
   (I)   Self-serve laundry.
(Prior Code, § 1273.02) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999; Ord. 726, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 154.332 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following accessory uses are permitted in B-2 Neighborhood Business
Districts.
   (A)   Accessory parking and loading spaces as regulated in §§
154.515 through
154.520.
   (B)   Accessory signs as regulated in §§
154.535 through
154.551.
   (C)   Ground satellite station as regulated in §
154.468.
   (D)   Outdoor sales as regulated in §
154.483.
   (E)   Telephone antennas on existing structures as regulated in §
154.468.
(Prior Code, § 1273.03) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.333 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following conditional uses are permitted in B-2 Neighborhood Business
Districts only after approval by the Village Planning Commission in accordance
with the procedures outlined in §§
154.095 through
154.100.
   (A)   Churches as regulated in §
154.474.
   (B)   Day care centers as regulated in §
154.472.
   (C)   Drive-through retail as regulated in §
154.484.
   (D)   General retail.
(Prior Code, § 1273.04) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.334 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   All development within the B-2 Neighborhood Business District shall be
subject to the development standards set forth in §§
154.240 through
154.242 unless otherwise specifically noted within these zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1273.05) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
B-3 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 154.345 STATEMENT OF INTENT.
   This district is intended to provide for commercial, office, institutional
and limited residential uses at a relatively high intensity. This district is
intended to maintain and preserve the historic center of the village at the
intersection of Main Street and Dayton Street, extending approximately one
block in all directions.
(Prior Code, § 1274.01) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.346 PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES.
   The following principal uses are permitted in the B-3 Central Business
District.
   (A)   Auto parts and accessories retail.
   (B)   Auto service stations as regulated in §
154.485.
   (C)   Banks, loan offices, stock exchange offices and other financial
institutions.
   (D)   Bars.
   (E)   Business retail.
   (F)   Churches as regulated in §
154.474.
   (G)   Commercial recreation facilities.
   (H)   Community service uses.
   (I)   Consumer retail.
   (J)   Day care centers as regulated in §
154.472.
   (K)   Department stores.
   (L)   Drug stores.
   (M)   Food stores, including supermarkets and all types of specialty food
stores such as bakeries, candy stores and similar uses.
   (N)   Fraternal organizations.
   (O)   Furniture and appliances, including rugs, floor coverings, draperies,
sewing machine shops, used furniture, office equipment, supplies and similar
uses.
   (P)   General retail such as variety stores.
   (Q)   Gift shops, camera shops, music shops, video shops and similar uses.
   (R)   Government facilities such as libraries, post offices and satellite
service offices.
   (S)   Hardware and related stores, such as paint, wallpaper and similar
uses.
   (T)   Hotels and motels as regulated in §
154.486.
   (U)   Medical and health-related services.
   (V)   Parking lots.
   (W)   Personal services such as barber shops, beauty shops, laundromats, dry
cleaners and similar uses.
   (X)   Professional and business offices such as lawyers, architects,
insurance agents, realtors, travel agencies, accounting services and similar
uses.
   (Y)   Publishing and printing offices.
   (Z)   Repair shops such as shoe and watch repair.
   (AA)   Restaurants.
   (BB)   Temporary uses as regulated in §
154.460.
(Prior Code, § 1274.02) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.347 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following accessory uses are permitted in the B-3 Central Business
District.
   (a)   Accessory parking and loading spaces as regulated in §§
154.515 through
154.520.
   (b)   Accessory signs as regulated in §§
154.535 through
154.551.
   (c)   Ground satellite station as regulated in §
154.468.
   (d)   Telephone antennas on existing structures as regulated in §
154.468.
(Prior Code, § 1274.03) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.348 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following conditional uses are permitted in the B-3 Central Business
District only after approval by the Village Planning Commission in accordance
with the procedures outlined in §§
154.095 through
154.100.
   (A)   Conversion of dwelling into office or retail facility as regulated in
§
154.482.
   (B)   Drive-through retail as regulated in §
154.484.
   (C)   Residential uses such as:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings.
      (2)   Other dwelling units, provided they are located on an upper floor
and are not located on the ground floor.
   (D)   Funeral home as regulated in §
154.474.
   (E)   Parking garages as regulated in §
154.486.
   (F)   Structures in excess of 35 feet in height.
   (G)   Vehicle sales as regulated in §
154.486.
   (H)   Other uses the Village Planning Commission considers similar to the
permitted principal uses indicated in §
154.346. However, the Village Planning Commission may also consider essentially
custom manufacturing activities, which in its opinion, shall have the following
characteristics.
      (1)   Such uses benefit from a central location and are appropriate in
the B-3 Central Business District.
      (2)   Such uses do not create any significant objectionable influences.
      (3)   Such uses involve products characterized by a high ratio of value
to bulk, so that truck traffic is kept to a minimum.
(Prior Code, § 1274.04) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999; Ord. 765, passed 12-13-
2010)
§ 154.349 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   All development within the B-3 Central Business District shall be subject to
the development standards set forth in §§
154.240 through
154.242 unless otherwise specifically noted within these zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1274.05) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.360 STATEMENT OF INTENT.
   This district is intended to provide for industrial and office uses which
are not of a nature or intensity as to produce objectionable impacts on
adjacent developments. This district should be located with suitable access to
transportation routes and necessary utilities. The intent is to permit
operations that can be operated in a clean and quiet manner.
(Prior Code, § 1275.01) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.361 PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES.
   The following principal uses are permitted in I-1 Light Industrial
Districts.
   (A)   Administrative, executive, financial, accounting, clerical and
drafting offices.
   (B)   Any use whose principal function is basic research, design, and/or
pilot or experimental product development or technical training.
   (C)   Automobile and truck service and repair as regulated in §
154.485.
   (D)   Laboratories-experimental, film, testing, research or engineering.
   (E)   Light sheet metal products, including heating and ventilating
equipment, cornices or eaves.
   (F)   Manufacture and repair of electric and neon signs.
   (G)   Manufacture, compounding, assembling, or treatment of articles or
merchandise from previously prepared materials such as, but not limited to,
bone, canvas, cellophane, cloth, cork, feathers, felt, fiber, fur, glass, hair,
horn, leather, paper, plastics, precious or semi-precious metals or stone,
sheet metal (excluding large stampings such as automobile fenders or bodies),
shell, textiles, tobacco, wax, wire, wood, (excluding saw and planning mills)
and yarns.
   (H)   Manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging or treatment of such
products as, but not limited to, bakery goods, boxes and paperboard containers,
business machinery, candy, clocks and toys, cosmetics, electrical and
electronic products, hardware and cutlery, tool, die gauge, machine shops, and
pharmaceuticals.
   (I)   Manufacture of pottery and figurines or other similar ceramic products
using only previously pulverized clay, and kilns fired only be electricity or
gas.
   (J)   Medical, dental, optical manufacturing.
   (K)   Printing, publishing, binding, and typesetting plants.
   (L)   Temporary uses as regulated in §
154.460.
   (M)   Warehousing and distribution, including food and grain storage and
industrially-related wholesale establishments.
   (N)   Self storage units.
(Prior Code, § 1275.02) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999; Ord. 726, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 154.362 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following accessory uses are permitted in I-1 Light Industrial
Districts.
   (A)   Accessory buildings customarily incidental to a permitted principal
use.
   (B)   Accessory parking and loading spaces as regulated in §§
154.515 through
154.520.
   (C)   Accessory signs as regulated in §§
154.535 through
154.551.
   (D)   Ground satellite station as regulated in §
154.468.
   (E)   Telephone antennas on existing structures as regulated in §
154.468.
(Prior Code, § 1275.03) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.363 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following conditional uses are permitted in I-1 Light Industrial
Districts only after approval by the Village Planning Commission in accordance
with the procedures outlined in §§
154.095 through
154.100.
   (A)   Adult entertainment facilities as regulated in §
154.487.
   (B)   Automobile service stations as regulated in §
154.485.
   (C)   Car washes.
   (D)   Cocktail lounges.
   (E)   Electroplating.
   (F)   Fast food and drive-in restaurants as regulated in §
154.484.
   (G)   Garages for storage, repair, and servicing of motor vehicles,
including body repair, painting, and engine rebuilding as regulated in §
154.485.
   (H)   Graphic products manufacture.
   (I)   Laundries.
   (J)   Machinery and heavy equipment rental, sales and storage.
   (K)   Other manufacturing, processing, or storage uses determined by the
Village Planning Commission to be of the same general character as the
permitted uses listed in §
154.361, provided such uses are found not to be obnoxious, unhealthful or
offensive by reason of the potential emission or transmission of noise,
vibration, smoke, dust, or glare or heat. In this regard, the Village Planning
Commission may seek expert advice of what conditions should be imposed on this
particular operation to carry out the purposes of these zoning regulations. The
cost of such expert assistance shall be borne by the applicant.
   (L)   Radio, television or telephone tower and related service facilities as
regulated in §
154.361.
   (M)   Truck and motor freight terminals and hauling services.
   (N)   Yards of general contractors engaged in building or heavy
construction; building materials storage and sales.
(Prior Code, § 1275.04) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.364 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   All development within the I-1 Light Industrial District shall be subject to
the development standards set forth in §§
154.240 through
154.242 unless otherwise specifically noted within these zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1275.05) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
PD-1 RESIDENTIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
§ 154.375 STATEMENT OF INTENT.
   This district is established to provide opportunities in the village for
innovative developments that do not lend themselves to the traditional
development standards and provide a flexible process to review these proposals
while ensuring their compatibility with existing proposed developments. This
district is intended to allow a wide range of housing opportunities within the
village.
(Prior Code, § 1276.01) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.376 PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES.
   The following principal uses are permitted in PD-1 Residential Planned Unit
Development Districts.
   (A)   Churches as regulated in §
154.474.
   (B)   Community centers.
   (C)   Day care centers as regulated in §
154.472.
   (D)   Elementary schools as regulated in §
154.474.
   (E)   Golf courses as regulated in §
154.477.
   (F)   Multi-family dwellings.
   (G)   Nursing homes as regulated in §
154.475.
   (H)   Parks
   (I)   Row houses as regulated in §
154.464.
   (J)   Single-family dwellings.
   (K)   Temporary uses as regulated in §
154.460.
   (L)   Three-family dwellings.
   (M)   Two-family dwellings.
   (N)   Zero-lot-line dwellings as regulated in §
154.464.
(Prior Code, § 1276.02) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.377 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following accessory uses are permitted in PD-1 Residential Planned Unit
Development Districts.
   (A)   Accessory parking and loading spaces as regulated in §§
154.515 through
154.520.
   (B)   Accessory signs as regulated in §§
154.535 through
154.551.
   (C)   Garages and storage buildings as regulated in §
154.462.
   (D)   Home occupation as regulated in §
154.466.
   (E)   Swimming pools as regulated in §
154.463.
(Prior Code, § 1276.03) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
PD-2 BUSINESS PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
§ 154.390 STATEMENT OF INTENT.
   This district is established to provide opportunities in the Village of West
Alexandria for innovative developments that do not lend themselves to the
traditional development standards and provide a flexible process to review
these proposals while ensuring their compatibility with existing proposed
developments. This district encourages business development in cluster or
shopping center layouts in place of strip-type development.
(Prior Code, § 1277.01) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.391 PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES.
   The following principal uses are permitted in PD-2 Business Planned Unit
Development Districts.
   (A)   Auto station.
   (B)   Bars.
   (C)   Business retail.
   (D)   Commercial entertainment.
   (E)   Consumer retail.
   (F)   Medical and dental offices.
   (G)   Medical clinics.
   (H)   Personal services.
   (I)   Professional and business offices.
   (J)   Restaurants.
   (K)   Temporary uses as regulated in §
154.460.
(Prior Code, § 1277.02) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.392 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following accessory uses are permitted in PD-2 Business Planned Unit
Development Districts.
   (A)   Accessory parking and loading spaces as regulated in §§
154.515 through
154.520.
   (B)   Accessory signs as regulated in §§
154.535 through
154.551.
   (C)   Telephone antennas on existing structures as regulated in §
154.468.
(Prior Code, § 1277.03) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
PD-3 INDUSTRIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
§ 154.405 STATEMENT OF INTENT.
   This district is established to provide opportunities in the Village of West
Alexandria for innovative developments that do not lend themselves to the
traditional development standards and provide a flexible process to review
these proposals while ensuring their compatibility with existing proposed
developments. This district encourages light and general industrial uses in an
industrial park environment with compatibility with surrounding uses.
(Prior Code, § 1278.01) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.406 PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES.
   The following principal uses are permitted in PD-3 Industrial Planned Unit
Development Districts.
   (A)   Commercial and telecommunications towers.
   (B)   General industry.
   (C)   Light industry.
   (D)   Professional and business offices.
   (E)   Research and development laboratories.
   (F)   Temporary uses as regulated in §
154.460.
   (G)   Wholesale business.
(Prior Code, § 1278.02) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.407 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following accessory uses are permitted in PD-3 Industrial Planned Unit
Development Districts.
   (A)   Accessory parking and loading spaces as regulated in §§
154.515 through
154.520.
   (B)   Accessory signs as regulated in §§
154.535 through
154.551.
   (C)   Telephone antennas on existing structures as regulated in §
154.468.
(Prior Code, § 1278.03) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
AG AGRICULTURAL CONSERVATION DISTRICT
§ 154.420 STATEMENT OF INTENT.
   The AG Agricultural Conservation District is intended to provide protection
from indiscriminate urban encroachment. This protection is extended to active
agricultural enterprises and areas suitable for open space and recreational use
until they are required for urban expansion and subsequent rezoning, thus
enabling growth to be pre-planned and coordinated in an effective manner. Land
best suited for this district includes those sections of the Village of West
Alexandria that are prime farmland in outlying areas and/or land that has
significant natural features, such as wetlands, forest, hillsides, and other
open space that should be preserved.
(Prior Code, § 1279.01) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.421 PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES.
   The following principal uses are permitted in AG Agricultural Conservation
Districts.
   (A)   Agricultural and related uses as regulated in §
154.479.
   (B)   Churches.
   (C)   Farm markets as regulated in §
154.480.
   (D)   Kennels as regulated in §
154.481.
   (E)   Parks and primarily outdoor recreational uses as regulated in §
154.477.
   (F)   Single-family dwellings.
   (G)   Stables as regulated in §
154.479.
   (H)   Temporary uses as regulated in §
154.460.
(Prior Code, § 1279.02) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.422 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following accessory uses are permitted in AG Agricultural Conservation
Districts.
   (A)   Accessory parking and loading spaces as regulated in §§
154.515 through
154.520.
   (B)   Accessory signs as regulated in §§
154.535 through
154.551.
   (C)   Detached garages, sheds, and out-buildings as regulated in §
154.462.
   (D)   Home occupation as regulated in §
154.466.
   (E)   Ground satellite station as regulated in §
154.467.
   (F)   Telephone antennas on existing structures as regulated in §
154.468.
(Prior Code, § 1279.03) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.423 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following conditional uses are permitted in AG Agricultural Conservation
Districts only after approval by the Village Planning Commission in accordance
with the procedures outlined in §§
154.095 through
154.100.
   (A)   Extraction of sand, gravel, and other natural material landfills as
regulated in §
154.471.
   (B)   Telephone tower as regulated in §
154.468.
(Prior Code, § 1279.04) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.424 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   All development within the AG Agricultural Conservation District shall be
subject to the development standards set forth in §§
154.240 through
154.242 unless otherwise specifically noted within these zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1279.05) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
FP FLOOD PLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT
§ 154.435 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the FP Flood Plain Overlay District is to promote the public
health, safety and general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses
due to flood conditions in specific areas of the community.
(Prior Code, § 1280.01) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999; Ord. 680, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 154.436 BOUNDARIES OF FLOOD PLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   The Flood Plain Overlay District shall apply to all areas of special flood
hazard within the jurisdiction of the Village of West Alexandria, Ohio, as
specified in §§
153.020 and
153.021, Flood Damage Prevention Regulations, as adopted and amended.
(Prior Code, § 1280.02) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999; Ord. 680, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 154.437 RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN FLOOD PLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT AND OTHER ZONING
DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The provisions of the Flood Plain Overlay District shall be applicable
to all areas located within its boundaries and shall be supplemental to those
of any underlying zoning district.
   (B)   In the event of any conflict between a requirement of the Flood Plain
Overlay District and a requirement of the underlying zoning district, the more
restrictive requirement shall apply.
   (C)   Uses requiring structures or fill shall be permitted only after full
compliance with the provisions of Chapter 153 - Flood Damage Prevention
Regulations of this code of ordinances, as adopted and amended.
(Prior Code, § 1280.03) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999; Ord. 680, passed 8-6-2001)
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
§ 154.450 APPLICABILITY OF SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General applicability of standards. The supplementary regulations set
forth in this chapter shall apply to all zoning districts unless otherwise
specifically modified by the standards of a particular zoning district. In any
event, the more restrictive standards shall apply.
   (B)   Use standards. The supplementary regulations set forth in this chapter
for specific uses are applicable to the specified use or uses identified in
each particular section, regardless of which zoning district such use is
located or to be located.
(Prior Code, § 1282.01) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.451 REQUIRED STREET FRONTAGE AND SETBACKS.
   (A)   Required public street frontage. No new lot shall be created nor shall
any building be erected upon a lot which does not possess the required minimum
frontage upon a public street established for the district in which such lot is
located.
   (B)   Required setbacks. All buildings and structures shall hereafter be
constructed in accordance with the required front yard setback in the zoning
district in which it is to be located, measured from the dedicated right-of-way
line or the street line, whichever is greater.
(Prior Code, § 1282.02) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.452 PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS PER LOT.
   (A)   Principal buildings per lot. No more than one principal building or
structure may be constructed upon any one lot for the purposes of these zoning
regulations. The construction of more than one principal building or structure
upon any one lot shall require the approval of a variance from the Village
Planning Commission or an approved Planned Unit Development.
   (B)   Principal building area lot coverage. Principal building area coverage
per lot shall be set by other existing village ordinance(s).
(Prior Code, § 1282.03) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999; Ord. 727, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 154.453 MODIFICATION OF DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Exceptions to height limitations. Any structure designed to exceed the
maximum height regulations for the zoning district in which it is to be located
shall require the approval of a conditional use permit in accordance with the
procedures outlined in §§
154.095 through
154.100.
      (1)   Additional setback required. All structures more than 35 feet in
height shall provide additional setbacks from those required in their
respective district at a rate of one additional foot for every one foot of
building height.
      (2)   Fire Chief approval required. The application for an exception to
the height limitations shall include documentation from the Fire Chief that the
proposed building can be adequately protected from fire.
      (3)   Types of non-habitable structures permitted to exceed height
limits. Chimneys, domes, spires, necessary mechanical appurtenances, and radio,
television or telephone towers may exceed district height limitations.
      (4)   Types of habitable structures permitted to exceed height limits.
Public, semi-public or public service buildings, hospitals, institutions or
schools, where permitted, may be erected to a height not exceeding 90 feet when
the required side and rear yards are each increased by one foot for each one
foot of additional building height above the height regulations for the
district in which the building is located.
      (5)   Radio, television, and telephone towers. Radio, television, and
telephone towers shall be in accordance with §
154.468.
   (B)   Yards required for corner and through lots.
      (1)   In any district, the side yard of a corner lot that abuts the side
street shall have the same setback requirements as the front yard.
      (2)   A rear yard shall be provided parallel to and opposite from the
front yard.
      (3)   On through lots the front yard requirements shall apply to all
street frontages.
   (C)   Corner lot accessory buildings. Where a corner lot adjoins the side
boundary of a lot in a residential district, no part of any accessory building
within 25 feet of the common lot line shall be nearer the street bounding the
side lot line than the least depth of any front yard required along such side
street.
   (D)   Lots adjoining alleys. In calculating the area of a lot that adjoins
an alley for the purpose of applying lot area requirements of these zoning
regulations, one-half the width of such alley abutting the lot shall be
considered as part of such lot.
(Prior Code, § 1282.04) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.454 PROJECTIONS INTO REQUIRED YARDS.
   (A)   Projections into side yards. Chimneys, flues, sills, pilasters,
cornices, eaves, gutters and other similar features may project into a required
side yard a maximum of 12 inches.
   (B)   Projections into front yards. Porches and steps may project into the
front yard of a dwelling unit no further than 15 feet, and no other structural
projections will be permitted.
(Prior Code, § 1282.05) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.455 MINIMUM FLOOR ELEVATION.
   Flood plain standard: within the FP Flood Plain Protection Overlay District,
no structure intended or used for residential purposes or human occupancy may
hereafter be constructed or moved to a site unless the minimum floor elevation
is in conformance with §§
154.457 or
154.458 of these zoning regulations, as applicable.
(Prior Code, § 1282.06) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.456 SEPTIC TANKS OR WELLS.
   (A)   Areas with public sewer. Any residential construction utilizing wells
and public sewer shall be situated on a lot having a minimum site area of one-
half acre.
   (B)   Areas without public sewer. Any residential construction utilizing
septic tanks shall be situated on a lot having a minimum site area of one acre.
(Prior Code, § 1282.07) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.457 EXTERNAL EFFECTS.
   No land, building or structure in any district shall be used or occupied in
any manner so as to create any dangerous, injurious, noxious or otherwise
objectionable fire, explosion or other hazard; noise, brilliant light or
vibration; smoke, dust, fumes, odor or other form of air pollution; heat, cold
or dampness; electrical or electronic disturbances; nuclear radiation; or any
other condition, substance or element which is dangerous, injurious, noxious or
otherwise objectionable to any person or property outside of the premises on
which such building, structure, or use is located. Such uses, when lawfully
permitted under the provisions of these zoning regulations, shall be operated
in a manner so as to ensure that the property rights of all other parcels of
land will not be adversely affected to the extent of reducing the enjoyment of
property rights thereon.
(Prior Code, § 1282.08) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.458 OUTDOOR STORAGE AND WASTE DISPOSAL.
   Required standards: every use shall be operated in accordance with the
following provisions.
   (A)   No highly flammable or explosive liquids, solids or gases shall be
stored in bulk above ground except in an industrial district. Tanks or drums of
fuel directly connected with heating devices or appliances located on the same
lot as the tanks or drums of fuel are excluded from this provision.
   (B)   All outdoor storage facilities for fuel, raw materials and products
shall be enclosed by a fence, wall or planting to conceal such facilities from
adjacent residential zoning districts or land uses.
   (C)   No garbage shall be deposited upon a lot in such form or manner that
it may be transferred from the lot by wind, flood or natural causes or forces.
   (D)   All garbage that might cause fumes or dust, constitute a fire hazard
or be edible or attractive to rodents or insects shall be stored outdoors only
in closed containers constructed of impervious material.
(Prior Code, § 1282.09) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.459 LANDSCAPING AND BUFFERING.
   (A)   Purposes. The landscaping and buffering requirements of this section
are intended to provide the various land uses permitted with the best possible
compatibility and integration with one another. Landscaped and/or mechanical
screening helps mitigate problems associated with noise, pollution, light and
privacy and also allows for an easier transition between different types of
uses.
   (B)   Requirements. Buffering shall be required as follows.
      (1)   Where an industrial district is adjacent to a residential district,
a Type A buffer shall be provided by the industrial uses.
      (2)   Where an industrial district is adjacent to a business district, a
Type B buffer shall be provided by the industrial uses.
      (3)   Where a business district is adjacent to a residential district, a
Type B buffer shall be provided by the business uses.
      (4)   Where a buffer is a requirement for a conditional use pursuant to
the provisions of §§
154.450 through
154.487, the buffer shall comply with such provisions.
   (C)   Buffer types.
      (1)   Type A opaque buffer.
         (a)   A Type A buffer is the most dense buffer required.
         (b)   This buffer is to be completely opaque from the ground to six
feet above the ground. Buffering shall be provided by plant material, some type
of mechanical barrier and/or an earth berm.
         (c)   Plant material shall reach desired maturity within two years of
planting and shall provide the same level of buffering year-round.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1fa9dabcf92dcde311316e32a7f8ee1f45e628ae/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4335.png]
 
      (2)   Type B semi-opaque buffer.
         (a)   A Type B buffer is the intermediate buffer required.
         (b)   This buffer is to be completely opaque from the ground to three
feet to six feet above the ground.
         (c)   Buffering shall be provided by plant material, some type of
mechanical barrier and/or earth berm.
         (d)   Plant material shall provide the same level of buffering year-
round.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1fa9dabcf92dcde311316e32a7f8ee1f45e628ae/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4337.png]
 
      (3)   Type C Light buffer.
         (a)   A Type C buffer is the least intense buffer required.
         (b)   This buffer is to be at least 30% opaque from the ground to six
feet from the ground.
         (c)   Buffering shall be provided by plant material, some type of
mechanical barrier and/or an earth berm.
         (d)   Plant material shall reach desired maturity within two years of
planting and shall provide the same level of buffering year-round.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1fa9dabcf92dcde311316e32a7f8ee1f45e628ae/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4339.png]
 
   (D)   Maintenance. It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to
maintain the required buffer yard in good condition and to replace plant
material as necessary to ensure the required buffer density.
(Prior Code, § 1282.10) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.460 REGULATIONS FOR TEMPORARY USES.
   (A)   Temporary uses in any district. In any district, subject to the
conditions stated in this section, the Zoning Inspector may issue a permit for
the temporary uses regulated in this section.
   (B)   Temporary construction use. Temporary buildings or yards for
construction offices, material or equipment may be permitted, provided such use
is adjacent to the construction site and removed when construction is
completed. Each permit shall be valid for six months and may be renewed if
construction is under way. It shall be removed when construction is completed
or discontinued for more than 30 days.
   (C)   Temporary real estate offices. Temporary offices incidental and
necessary to real estate sales and rentals may be permitted. Each permit shall
be valid for one year and may be renewed for one additional year if conditions
warrant such renewal.
   (D)   Placement of temporary uses. Building and yard locations shall be
subject to such conditions and safeguards as the Zoning Inspector may deem
necessary to preserve the character of the surrounding area.
   (e)   Temporary gatherings. Gatherings under canvas or in the open may be
permitted, including religious services, shows, meetings, exhibitions, bazaars,
carnivals or circuses. If such gathering is located within 400 feet of any
residential area, no permit will be issued unless there is first filed with the
Zoning Inspector the written consent of the owners of 60% of all residentially
used property within 400 feet from the place of such meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1282.11) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.461 HEIGHT OF FENCES.
   (A)   Side and rear fences. Fences constructed within a side or rear yard
shall not be higher than six feet, except as provided herein.
   (B)   Planting, fences and walls in front yard. No fence, wall or hedge
shall rise more than four feet in height in any required front yard, except on
corner lots where fences must conform to division (C) of this section. No
fence, wall or hedge planting shall interfere with visibility from a driveway.
The Zoning Inspector is hereby empowered to cause all such obstructions to be
removed in the interest of public safety.
   (C)   Corner lot sight distances. On any corner lot in any district, there
shall be no fence, sign, wall, structure, shrubbery or other object more than
two and one-half feet higher than the top of the curb within an area formed by
the intersection right-of-way lines and a line connecting points 30 feet from
such an intersecting line.
(Prior Code, § 1282.12) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.462 BUILDINGS ACCESSORY TO DWELLINGS.
   (A)   Prohibited in required side yard or front yard. In any residential
district, no garage or other accessory building shall be erected within any
required side yard or front yard.
   (B)   Placement in rear yard. When located at least 60 feet from the front
property line and completely to the rear of the main dwelling, the accessory
building may be erected not less than three feet from the side or rear lot
lines nor less than ten feet from the main building, provided that when access
to a garage is from an alley, such garage shall be located not less than ten
feet from the alley.
   (C)   Required attachment to dwelling. When located less than 60 feet from
the front property line and not completely to the rear of the dwelling, garages
shall be constructed as a part of the main building or connected thereto by a
covered breezeway.
   (D)   Maximum height. No detached accessory building in a R-1A, R-1B, R-2,
R-3, or B-2 zoning district shall exceed one story or 14 feet in height.
(Prior Code, § 1282.13) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.463 PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Permitted within residential districts. Private swimming pools,
outside completely enclosed principal structures, shall be allowed in any
residential zoning district as an accessory use, and such pools shall comply
with the conditions and requirements of this section.
   (B)   Private use. Such pools must be intended and used primarily for the
enjoyment of the occupants of the principal use of the property on which they
are located.
   (C)   Required setback. Such pools may not be located closer than ten feet
from any side or rear lot line of the property on which they are located and
shall meet all required front yard setbacks.
   (D)   Must conform to Building Code. Such pools must meet applicable
Building Code standards relating to structural safety and must meet or exceed
Building Code user safety standards, such as fencing and electrical
installations.
   (E)   Enclosed pools must meet accessory building standards. Enclosed pools
shall meet applicable standards for accessory structures.
(Prior Code, § 1282.14) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.464 ROW HOUSES AND ZERO LOT LINE DWELLINGS.
   (A)   Required ground floor access. Separate direct access to a ground floor
entrance must be provided for all dwelling units.
   (B)   Satellite parking lots. When more than four units are created, parking
spaces in accordance with these zoning regulations shall be provided. However,
parking may be provided by a satellite parking lot.
   (C)   Minimum number of units. A minimum of four dwelling units shall be
developed at a time to form a unified cluster.
   (D)   Required open space. Open space shall be provided in conjunction with
these developments so that the overall density (or minimum lot size) standards
for the district are not exceeded.
(Prior Code, § 1282.15) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.465 USE, PARKING, AND STORAGE OF TRUCKS, RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND MOBILE
HOMES.
   (A)   Trucks, truck trailers, and commercial vehicles. Within any non-
industrial district, the overnight parking or storage of any truck, truck
trailer or commercial vehicle with a gross vehicle weight in excess of 10,000
pounds, or any bus or mobile home is prohibited outside of a fully-enclosed
building.
   (B)   Recreational vehicles. All recreational vehicles stored or parked
within the Village of West Alexandria shall be in accordance with the following
provisions.
      (1)   No recreational vehicle shall be used for living, sleeping or
housekeeping purposes when parked or stored on a lot within a residential
district or in any district other than those districts in which such use is
specifically permitted by these zoning regulations.
      (2)   No recreational vehicle shall be parked or stored within any front
or side yard in a residential district.
   (C)   Mobile homes. No mobile home shall be stored, parked, and/or occupied
within the Village of West Alexandria except within a mobile home park or as
specifically permitted elsewhere within these zoning regulations. A mobile home
park shall receive approval under PD-1 Residential Planned Development before
any mobile home shall be permitted to locate within such mobile home park.
(Prior Code, § 1282.16) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.466 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to define and regulate those
occupations that may be carried on in residential districts.
   (B)   Conditional use permit required. No home occupation may be carried on
in a residential unit unless a conditional use permit has first been approved
by the Village Planning Commission.
   (C)   Application for permit. A written application for a home occupation to
the Zoning Inspector. The application shall include:
      (1)   The address of the property and the name, address and telephone
number of the owner and occupant of the property;
      (2)   A description of the home occupation sought to be carried on;
      (3)   The number and names of persons to be involved in the home
occupation;
      (4)   The length of time the home occupation is expected to be carried
on; and
      (5)   Any additional information required by the Village Planning
Commission to establish the advisability of granting the permit.
   (D)   Required standards. No home occupation permit shall be issued, and no
home occupation shall be carried on, unless the home occupation complies with
all of the following regulations.
      (1)   The home occupation shall be incidental and subordinate to use of
the dwelling unit for residential purposes, and not more than 25% of the floor
area of a single floor of the dwelling unit shall be used in the conduct of the
home occupation.
      (2)   External indication of such home occupation shall be limited to one
nameplate having an area of not more than four square feet unless such home
occupation is located within 500 feet, measured by public road, of any business
or industrial zoning district, in which case the Village Planning Commission
may permit a sign or nameplate larger than four square feet in area.
      (3)   The home occupation may not generate traffic in greater volume than
normal for a residential neighborhood.
      (4)   No equipment or process may be used in the home occupation that
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical interference
detectable to the normal senses off the lot if the occupation is conducted in a
single-family residence, or outside the dwelling unit if the occupation is
conducted in other than a single-family residence. In the case of electrical
interference, no equipment or process shall be used which creates visual or
audible interference in any radio or television receivers off the premises, or
which causes fluctuations in line voltage off the premises.
   (E)   Revocation of permit and appeal. If one or more of the regulations in
division (D) of this section are violated, the Village Planning Commission may
revoke the home occupation permit.
(Prior Code, § 1282.17) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.467 GROUND SATELLITE STATIONS.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall erect a ground satellite station in
the village without first securing a permit therefor in accordance with this
section.
   (B)   Application required. The owner or occupant of any lot, premises or
parcel of land within the village who desires to construct or erect a satellite
dish at any location within the village shall apply to the Zoning Inspector of
the village for a permit therefor.
   (C)   Requirements for approval. The Zoning Inspector shall issue such
permit, provided that the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The applicant submits a written application upon forms furnished by
the village, with a plot plan of the lot, premises or parcel attached, showing
the exact location satellite dish, a description of the kind of satellite dish,
the plans and specifications showing elevations where the dish is to be erected
and elevations of the dish itself, and sufficient details to show the method of
assembly and construction. The plans and specifications shall give the address
of the work and the name and address of the owner of the property and of the
person who prepared the plans and specifications. Each applicant shall indicate
the owner of the premises, the occupant of the premises and the contractor or
other person to be permitted to construct or erect the proposed satellite dish.
      (2)   The applicant meets all the requirements of this section of these
zoning regulations.
   (D)   Stations in residential districts. Within the residential districts,
the following provisions shall apply to ground satellite stations.
      (1)   Such ground stations or antennas shall be for the personal use of
residents.
      (2)   Such ground stations or antennas shall contain no graphic message
or advertising other than the brand name of the dish as it appeared at the time
of purchase.
      (3)   Ground-mounted stations or antennas shall be considered accessory
structures and shall comply with the following conditions and requirements.
         (a)   Such stations or antennas not mounted on the roof of a primary
or accessory structure shall be located to the rear of the principal building
or structure and shall not exceed an above grade height of 14 feet.
         (b)   Such stations or antennas shall be subject to the side and rear
yard setback requirements applicable to accessory buildings.
         (c)   Such stations or antennas shall be mounted in a concrete base in
line with grade and only metal supports of galvanized construction shall be
used.
         (d)   Wiring between such stations and any other structure shall be
placed underground in accordance with applicable village codes and standards.
         (e)   Such stations or antennas shall be designed to withstand wind
force of up to 70 mph without the use of supporting guy wires.
      (4)   Roof-mounted stations or antennas shall be considered accessory
structures and shall comply with the following conditions and requirements.
         (a)   Such stations or antennas shall be mounted directly on the roof
of a primary or accessory structure and shall not be mounted on appurtenances
such as chimneys, towers or spires.
         (b)   Such stations or antennas mounted on the roof of a primary or
accessory structure shall not exceed a height of greater than three feet above
the roof on which they are mounted. The height shall be measured vertically
from the point at which such station or antenna is mounted on the roof.
         (c)   The diameter of any dish antenna mounted upon the roof of a
primary or accessory structure shall not exceed three feet.
         (d)   Such stations or antennas shall be designed to withstand a wind
force of up to 70 mph without the use of supporting guy wires.
   (E)   Stations in nonresidential districts. Within nonresidential districts,
the following shall apply to ground satellite stations.
      (1)   Such ground stations or antennas shall contain no graphic messages
or advertising.
      (2)   Ground-mounted stations or antennas shall be considered accessory
structures and shall comply with the following conditions and requirements.
         (a)   Such stations or antennas not mounted on the roof of primary or
accessory structure shall be located to the rear of the principal building or
structure on the property where the station is located and shall not exceed an
above-ground height of 14 feet.
         (b)   Such stations or antennas shall not be located within 50 feet of
a public right-of-way or within 30 feet of a rear or side lot line and shall
not be closer than 50 feet from a lot line or a residential district.
         (c)   Such stations or antennas shall be mounted in a concrete base in
line with grade and only metal supports of galvanized construction shall be
used.
         (d)   Wiring between such stations and any other structure shall be
placed underground in accordance with applicable village codes and standards.
         (e)   Such stations or antennas shall be designed to withstand wind
force of up to 70 mph without the use of supporting guy wires.
      (3)   Roof-mounted stations or antennas shall be considered accessory
structures and shall comply with the following conditions and requirements.
         (a)   Such stations or antennas shall be mounted directly on the roof
of a primary or accessory structure and shall not be mounted on appurtenances
such as chimneys, towers or spires.
         (b)   Such stations or antennas mounted on the roof of a primary or
accessory structure shall not exceed a height of 12 feet above the roof on
which they are mounted. The height shall be measured vertically from the point
at which such station or antenna is mounted on the roof.
         (c)   Such stations or antennas shall be designed to withstand a wind
force of up to 70 mph without the use of supporting guy wires.
(Prior Code, § 1282.18) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.468 RADIO, TELEVISION, AND TELEPHONE TOWERS AND ANTENNAS.
   (A)   Conflict with state or federal law. The restrictions of this section
shall not apply to the extent preempted or prohibited by state or federal law
or regulation.
   (B)   General requirements for all radio, television, and telephone towers
and antennas. The following standards shall apply to all radio, television, and
telephone towers and to all antennas and equipment on existing structures.
      (1)   All structures and equipment shall be screened with a minimum six
foot high solid wood fence and continuous evergreen hedge. Structures and
equipment located on a rooftop shall be screened from view by a parapet wall or
screen.
      (2)   The entire facility, including the towers, antennas, equipment,
buildings and structures, must be aesthetically and architecturally compatible
with the surrounding environment.
      (3)   The following shall be removed within six months of ceasing
operations: all radio, television and telephone towers; all antennas and
equipment on existing structures; and all buildings and equipment associated
therewith. If not removed, they shall be subject to abatement by the Village of
West Alexandria that they are a nuisance.
      (4)   Proof shall be provided by the applicant in a form satisfactory to
the Zoning Inspector that the proposal has been approved by all agencies and
governmental entities with jurisdiction, including, but not limited to, the
Ohio Department of Transportation, the Federal Aviation Administration, the
Federal Communications Commission or the successors to their respective
functions.
      (5)   Lights, beacons or strobes shall not be permitted on any radio,
television or telephone tower or antenna or equipment on existing structures
unless required by the Federal Aviation Administration.
   (C)   Radio and television towers. Radio and television towers and
associated equipment, buildings, and structures may exist as a conditional use
on any lot within an industrial district, subject to the following standards
and conditions.
      (1)   The minimum lot area for radio and television towers shall be four
acres.
      (2)   Radio and television towers shall be located at least 200 feet or a
distance equal to the height of the tower, whichever is greater, from any
residential zoning district or dwelling unit.
      (3)   Radio and television towers shall not exceed 300 feet in height.
      (4)   Radio and television towers shall be set back at least 150 feet
from any arterial or collector street as specified in the West Alexandria
Thoroughfare Plan, or a distance equal to the height of the tower, whichever is
greater, and shall not be located on the street frontage.
      (5)   They shall meet all the requirements of division (B) of this
section.
   (D)   Telephone towers. Telephone towers for the purpose of communications
and cellular transmission may exist as a conditional use in an agricultural or
industrial district, subject to the following conditions and standards.
      (1)   The minimum required lot area shall be two acres.
      (2)   Telephone towers shall be located at least 200 feet or a distance
equal to the height of the tower, whichever is greater, from any residential
district or existing residential dwelling.
      (3)   Telephone towers shall not exceed 150 feet in height.
      (4)   All telephone towers must be freestanding monopole structures.
      (5)   Telephone towers shall be set back at least 150 feet from any
arterial or collector street as specified in the West Alexandria Thoroughfare
Plan, and shall not be located on the street frontage.
      (6)   The applicant shall agree to permit use of the telephone tower by
other communication service providers, on reasonable terms, so long as such use
does not conflict with the applicant and/or any other pre-existing users’ use
of the telephone tower and does not violate the structural integrity of the
telephone tower.
      (7)   No new tower may be constructed if there is a technically suitable
space available on an existing or planned telephone tower within the geographic
area that the new tower is to serve.
      (8)   Telephone towers shall be constructed to handle at least two sets
of antennas for telephone communication systems.
      (9)   They shall meet all conditions in division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Antennas and equipment on existing structures. Antennas and equipment
on existing structures may be located in the public right-of-way on existing
utility poles with the permission of the utility provider, or on an existing
structure as an accessory use in any agricultural, business or industrial
district, or as an accessory structure accompanying any conditional use in a
residential district, subject to the following conditions and standards.
      (1)   Antennas and equipment boxes shall be designed to match the color
of the pole or building on which they are mounted.
      (2)   Antennas and equipment on existing structures shall not exceed the
height of the existing pole upon which it is located plus ten feet.
      (3)   Antennas and equipment on existing structures, including and
associated with the installation, must be integrated into the design of the
structure upon which it is located and shall be aesthetically and
architecturally compatible with the structure upon which it is located and the
surrounding environment.
      (4)   All equipment associated with a telephone communication system,
except antennas, shall be located underground, attached to the structure or
inside the building upon which they are mounted.
      (5)   An existing pole may be replaced, if not structurally suitable to
hold the antennas and equipment related to a communication system, but in no
case shall the new pole exceed the height of the existing pole plus ten feet.
      (6)   If the antennas and equipment related to a telephone communication
system are to be located as an accessory structure to a conditional use in any
residential district, the minimum lot area shall be two acres.
      (7)   A right-of-way use permit will be required from the Village of West
Alexandria for any antennas or equipment located in the public right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 1282.19) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.469 JUNK VEHICLES.
   Compliance with §
98.07 of this code of ordinances and R.C. § 4513.63 is required. The regulation
of junk vehicles shall be in accordance with Village of West Alexandria code of
ordinances §
98.07 and R.C. 4513.63 as adopted and amended.
(Prior Code, § 1282.20) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.470 ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
   Essential services shall be allowed in any zoning district insofar as
permitted, authorized or regulated by law or other ordinance. Buildings
required in conjunction with an essential service may be permitted in any
zoning distinct after the Village Planning Commission takes into consideration
the location, size, use and effect such building will have on the adjacent land
and buildings.
(Prior Code, § 1282.21) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.471 REMOVAL OF SOIL, SAND OR OTHER MATERIALS.
   The use of land for the removal of topsoil, sand or other materials from the
land, other than materials from basement excavations, is not permitted in any
district, except under a temporary permit from the Village Planning Commission.
This permit may be denied or issued in appropriate cases after the filing of an
application, accompanied by a suitable agreement or bond that such removal will
not cause stagnant water to collect and will not leave the surface of the land,
at the expiration of such permit, in an unstable condition or unfit for the
growing of turf or for other land uses permitted in the district in which such
removal occurs.
(Prior Code, § 1282.22) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.472 DAY CARE CENTERS.
   (A)   Thoroughfare access. The site shall be accessible to a major
thoroughfare so as not to create excessive traffic on local residential
streets.
   (B)   Required play area. An outdoor play area shall be required. The
minimum size of such play area shall be no less than 200 square feet per each
child. The minimum width or depth of such play area shall be 20 feet. Such play
area shall also be completely enclosed by a fence or wall a minimum of 42
inches in height.
   (C)   Required screening. The required play area shall be screened along all
sides that are within 50 feet of a lot within a residential district. All sides
of the parking lot which face any dwelling or residential district shall be
screened.
   (D)   Maximum enrollment. The Village Planning Commission may establish a
maximum enrollment based upon neighborhood impact.
(Prior Code, § 1282.23) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.473 BED AND BREAKFAST OPERATIONS AND BOARDING HOUSES.
   (A)   Required parking. Required parking shall be located in the rear of the
entrance. Not more than ten parking spaces shall be required to comply with
these zoning regulations.
   (B)   Required buffer. A Type A or Type B buffer yard shall be provided at
the side and rear boundaries of the site, depending on the intensity of use.
   (C)   Sign. One sign not more than five square feet shall be allowed, and
this sign may be lighted only indirectly.
   (D)   Scale. The structure shall be of the same scale as other buildings in
the area and in no case shall it be larger than the average size of the
immediately adjacent structures.
   (E)   Traffic. The use shall not generate an excess amount of traffic on
residential streets.
(Prior Code, § 1282.24) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.474 ELEMENTARY AND JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS, CHURCHES, AND OTHER PLACES OF
WORSHIP, NURSING HOMES, AND FUNERAL HOMES.
   (A)   Thoroughfare access. Direct access to a major arterial or to a
collector street shall be provided and local residential streets shall not be
used as the principal access route for such uses.
   (B)   Consistency with surroundings. The building orientation and parking
layout should be consistent with the surrounding uses.
   (C)   Required buffer. A Type A or Type B buffer yard shall be provided at
the side and rear boundaries of the site.
   (D)   Lighting. The parking area and general site lighting shall be designed
and installed to avoid casting direct light or glare onto surrounding
properties.
(Prior Code, § 1282.25) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.475 HOSPITALS, HIGH SCHOOLS, COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES, AND TECHNICAL
SCHOOLS.
   (A)   Thoroughfare access. Direct access to a major arterial shall be
provided.
   (B)   Traffic impact study required. The application for a conditional use
permit shall include a traffic impact study that demonstrates that the
surrounding street system has the capacity to handle the expected traffic
generated by this use.
   (C)   Required buffer. A Type C buffer yard shall be provided at the side
and rear boundaries of the site. Where parking is located in the front yard, a
landscape or mechanical hedge buffer of not less than two feet and not more
than four feet shall be provided.
   (D)   Required drainage plan. A drainage plan for the site shall be provided
that demonstrates that the site will create no more storm run-off after
development than it did before development.
   (E)   Lighting. Parking area and general site lighting shall be designed and
installed to avoid casting direct light or glare onto surrounding properties.
(Prior Code, § 1282.26) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.476 GROUP HOMES AND RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   Required information for application. For a conditional use permit to
operate a group home, the applicant shall submit the following information, in
written form, prior to setting a public hearing, to aid the Village Planning
Commission in its review of the requested facility.
      (1)   Information explaining the need for the facility, the clientele to
be served, and the financial resources that will be used to operate the
facility;
      (2)   Identification of similar facilities presently located in the area,
including the names of individuals who may be contacted concerning the
operation of such facilities;
      (3)   Identification of community facilities and social services that
will be used by the clientele of the group home or residential treatment
facility, including an indication from the administrator of such facilities and
services that the clientele of the group home or residential treatment facility
can be accommodated;
      (4)   A license or evidence of ability to obtain a license from the
appropriate governmental agency. Prior to the issuance of a final certificate
of occupancy, the applicant shall provide evidence that a valid license has
been issued or is obtainable for the proposed conditional use on the subject
property. When a license is not required of the applicant by a governmental
agency, a written affidavit shall be presented as part of the application by
the governmental agency to which that applicant has accountability, stating
that a license is not required. The affidavit shall further state and describe
the procedures that have been established in lieu of licensing to ensure that
the provisions of this section are carried out and shall state and describe the
types of controls that the governmental agency can exercise in this regard;
      (5)   A copy of the operational and occupancy standards that will be used
in establishing the facility; and
      (6)   Site plans, drawings and/or illustrations showing the location of
all structures, floor plans, exterior elevations, off-street parking, ingress
and egress, landscaping and screening areas, and recreation and open-space
facilities. Such plans and drawings shall include evidence that the proposed
use of the site will be compatible with the present physical character of the
neighborhood and will not disrupt the neighborhood from the standpoint of
noise, lights, congestion or traffic generation.
   (B)   Facility requirements.
      (1)   Minimum area per occupant. Every room occupied for sleeping
purposes within the home shall contain a minimum of 80 square feet of habitable
room area for one occupant, and when occupied by more than one individual,
shall contain at least 60 square feet of habitable area for each occupant. No
such facility shall use living rooms, dining rooms, entryways, closets,
corridors and/or outside porches or cellars as sleeping rooms.
      (2)   Indoor recreation area. The group home or residential treatment
facility shall provide not less than 25 square feet per person of suitable
indoor recreation area and not less than 75 square feet of outdoor recreation
open space per person, exclusive of required front and side yards and parking
area. Such indoor recreation area shall be consolidated in a useful
configuration and location provided on the site.
      (3)   Compatibility with neighborhood. No exterior alterations of the
structure shall be made which depart from the residential character of the
building. All new structures shall be compatible in residential design with the
surrounding neighborhood.
      (4)   Lighting. All exterior lighting fixtures will be shaded wherever
necessary to avoid casting direct light upon any adjoining property located in
a residential district.
      (5)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall be provided on a one-
to-one ratio to the number of autos operated and/or anticipated to be operated
out of the facility.
      (6)   Required compliance. The group home or residential facility shall
comply with all other applicable codes and ordinances prior to the issuance of
an occupancy permit.
   (C)   Review by Village Planning Commission. In its review of each proposed
facility, the Village Planning Commission shall consider the following
regarding the proposed facility:
      (1)   Whether or not it is, in fact, a facility licensed by and/or has
accountability to a governmental agency and sufficient controls can be
exercised to ensure continued compliance with this section;
      (2)   Whether or not it will be designed, constructed, operated and
maintained so as to be harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the
existing uses of the general vicinity, and whether or not such uses will change
the essential character of the neighborhood;
      (3)   Whether or not it will be hazardous or disturbing to existing or
officially planned future neighborhood uses from the standpoint of noise,
lights, congestion or traffic generation which would be incompatible with the
neighborhood environment;
      (4)   Whether or not it will be served adequately by essential public
facilities and services, such as streets, police and fire protection, drainage
structures, refuse disposal, water, sewers and schools, and whether or not the
persons or agencies responsible for the establishment of the proposed use will
be able to provide such services adequately; and
      (5)   Whether or not it will have vehicular approaches to the property
that will be so designed as not to create interference with traffic on public
thoroughfares.
(Prior Code, § 1282.27) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.477 RECREATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   Thoroughfare access. Direct access to a major arterial or collector
street shall be provided.
   (B)   Hard surface parking area required. Where more than ten parking spaces
are required, there shall be a hard surface parking area provided.
   (C)   Required buffer. A Type A, Type B or Type C buffer yard shall be
provided at the side and rear boundaries of the site, depending on the
intensity of use. The front boundary shall be buffered in some way if the
Village Planning Commission deems it necessary.
   (D)   Lighting. Parking area and general site lighting shall be designed and
installed to avoid casting direct light or glare onto surrounding properties.
(Prior Code, § 1282.28) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.478 CEMETERIES.
   (A)   Required conditions. The conditions set forth in this section shall
apply to the development and construction of cemeteries within the Village of
West Alexandria.
   (B)   Conflict with Thoroughfare Plan prohibited. The site proposed for a
cemetery shall not interfere with the development of a system of collector and
larger streets in the vicinity of such site as designated by the West
Alexandria Thoroughfare Plan. In addition, such site shall have direct access
to a thoroughfare which the Village Planning Commission determines is adequate
to serve the size of facility proposed.
   (C)   Minimum size. Any new cemetery shall be located on a site containing
not less than 40 acres.
   (D)   Required setbacks for buildings. All buildings, including but not
limited to mausoleums and maintenance buildings, shall respect the required
yards setback of the district in which it is located.
   (E)   Required setbacks for burial sites. All graves or burial lots shall be
set back not less than 25 feet from any street right-of-way line.
   (F)   Required landscaping and maintenance plan. All required yards shall be
landscaped and maintained in good order in accordance with state and local
regulations. A plan for perpetual care of the grounds shall be required.
(Prior Code, § 1282.29) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.479 ANIMAL AND POULTRY HUSBANDRY.
   (A)   Feedlot prohibited. Feedlots are prohibited within the Village of West
Alexandria.
   (B)   Pasture. Grazing of farm animals shall be prohibited within 100 feet
of any residential zoning district and on any lot less than ten acres in area.
The Village Planning Commission may restrict the number of animals within a
pasture based upon the size of such area and type of animal.
   (C)   Commercial horse stables. Commercial horse stables shall be in
accordance with the following.
      (1)   The lot area shall be a minimum of five acres.
      (2)   The maximum number of horses permitted outside of the building at
any one time shall be one per acre.
      (3)   Stables, corrals and piles of manure, feed and bedding shall be
located a minimum of 100 feet from any street or residential zoning district in
order to minimize odor and nuisance problems. Pasture may extend to the lot
line, provided fencing approved by the Village Planning Commission is erected
and maintained in good condition.
      (4)   A waste management plan shall be submitted to and approved by the
Village Planning Commission prior to operation.
      (5)   Standards for accommodating any special events such as shows,
exhibitions and contests shall be subject to approval by the Village Planning
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 1282.30) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.480 FARM MARKETS.
   (A)   Subject to AG Agricultural Conservation District standards. All farm
markets shall be subject to the regulations concerning structure size, building
setback lines, parking area, and ingress and egress otherwise applicable in the
AG Agricultural Conservation District.
   (B)   Distinction from retail store. The use of any land for a farm market
where less than 50% of the gross income is received from agricultural products
produced on farms owned or operated by the market owner in a normal crop year
shall be considered a retail store and is prohibited in all districts except
the B-1 General Business District, and shall be subject to all regulations
otherwise applicable in such district.
(Prior Code, § 1282.31) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.481 ANIMAL HOSPITAL/KENNEL/VETERINARIAN.
   (A)   Minimum lot area. Animal hospitals, kennels and veterinarians shall
only be located on lots with a minimum area of five acres.
   (B)   Required setback. No building, pen or enclosure having windows capable
of being opened or is located outside shall be located closer than 200 feet to
any property line.
(Prior Code, § 1282.32) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.482 CONVERSION OF DWELLINGS INTO OFFICES OR RETAIL FACILITIES.
   The conversion of any residential dwelling into an office or retail use
within the B-3 Central Business District shall be in accordance with the
following requirements.
   (A)   All of the development standards of the B-3 Central Business District
shall be required.
   (B)   The lot area shall be adequate to accommodate the required off-street
parking standards for new comparable structures within the B-3 Central Business
District.
   (C)   Prior to approval, the Village Planning Commission shall determine
that such conversion meets the requirements of the Village of West Alexandria
Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 1282.33) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.483 OUTDOOR SALES.
   (A)   Required separation from street. All outdoor sales areas and
accompanying off-street parking areas shall be separated from the public right-
of-way by a landscaped area at least ten feet in width. Shrubs shall be planted
within such area. Such shrubs shall be a minimum of one foot high at time of
planting, maintained no taller than three feet high, and shall be planted at
such density to form a continuous hedge effect at maturity. All such plantings
shall be maintained with necessary care to ensure their survival. Any plant
material that dies or otherwise becomes unhealthy shall be immediately replaced
with like planting material.
   (B)   Temporary outdoor sales. Temporary outdoor sales may be permitted in
accordance with the following.
      (1)   A site layout illustrating the location of the temporary sales
activity, parking spaces deleted, and relocated area for such parking spaces is
approved by the Village Planning Commission.
      (2)   The goods offered to the public shall be displayed from within an
enclosure. Such enclosure may be a truck, a trailer, a tent or other similar
vehicle or structure. Plants offered at temporary garden centers are not
required to be displayed within such enclosure.
      (3)   Additional temporary sales will not require separate approval if
such activity adheres to the approved layout, a zoning permit is obtained for
each successive year, and the activity has not been adjudged by a court of law
to be a hazard, nuisance, noisome condition or in violation of any applicable
rules, regulations, and ordinances of the Village of West Alexandria.
      (4)   Temporary sales may be permitted under one, but not both, of the
following time period schemes:
         (a)   A maximum of 14 consecutive days within any six month period for
any goods not customarily seasonal in nature; or
         (b)   A maximum of 90 days within any 12 month period for any seasonal
items that are customarily sold at certain times of the year.
      (5)   Not more than 20% of the site shall be devoted to outdoor storage
or display space.
(Prior Code, § 1282.34) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.484 DRIVE-THROUGH RETAIL.
   (A)   Required queue area. A linear queue shall be provided for every
service window. These spaces shall not block or otherwise interfere with the
site circulation patterns as shown on the required site plan. Minimum
requirements for each queue shall conform to the following table.
 
Number of Drive-in Stations Minimum Number of Vehicles Minimum Length in Feet
                            in Queue
1 or 2                      7                          154
3                           4                          88
4                           3                          66
5                           3                          66
 
   (B)   Traffic and pedestrian circulation. The circulation system shall
provide smooth, continuous traffic flow with efficient, non-conflicting
movement throughout the site. Major pedestrian movements shall not conflict
with major vehicular circulation movements.
   (C)   Thoroughfare access. Direct access to a major arterial shall be
provided.
   (D)   Required buffer. A Type A or Type B buffer shall be required at the
side and rear boundaries of the site, depending on the intensity of use.
   (E)   Curb cuts. Not more than two curb cuts per 75 feet of street frontage
shall be allowed, and in no case shall a use have more than four curb cuts.
(Prior Code, § 1282.35) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.485 AUTO REPAIR, SERVICE STATIONS, AND FUEL PUMPS.
   (A)   Curb cuts. Not more than two curb cuts per 75 feet of street frontage
shall be allowed, and in no case shall one use have more than four curb cuts.
   (B)   Fuel pump setback. In all cases, regardless of the setback
requirements of the zoning district, fuel pumps shall be a minimum of 35 feet
behind the property line, or ten feet behind the right-of-way line, whichever
is greater.
   (C)   Outdoor storage limitation. Outdoor storage of tires and items for
sale shall be allowed only during operating hours, and no permanent outdoor
storage shall be allowed.
   (D)   Inoperable vehicle storage. Inoperable vehicles shall be stored for no
longer than seven days on the site, in unenclosed areas.
   (E)   Required buffer. A Type A or Type B buffer yard shall be required at
the side and rear boundaries of the site.
(Prior Code, § 1282.36) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.486 AUTO SALES, HOTELS AND MOTELS, AND PARKING GARAGES.
   (A)   Scale. The general scale and mass of such uses shall not exceed the
general scale and mass of surrounding uses.
   (B)   Curb cuts. Not more than two curb cuts per 75 feet of street frontage
shall be allowed, and in no case shall one use have more than four curb cuts.
   (C)   Traffic impact study required. The application for a conditional use
permit shall include a traffic impact study that demonstrates that the
surrounding street system has the capacity to handle the expected traffic
generated by such use.
   (D)   Central Business District. Twenty-five percent of the required parking
spaces in the B-3 Central Business District shall be provided.
(Prior Code, § 1282.37) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.487 ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to promote the public health,
safety and welfare through the regulation of adult entertainment businesses. It
is the intent of these sections to regulate adult entertainment businesses, as
defined herein, so to prevent crime, to protect the village’s retail trade and
property values, and in general, to preserve the quality of life in the village
and not suppress First Amendment rights of speech.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment which utilizes 10% or more of its
retail selling area for the purpose of retail sale or rental, or for the
purpose of display by coin or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other
image-producing devices, or both, books, magazines, other periodicals, films,
tapes and cassettes which are distinguished by their emphasis on adult
materials as defined in this section.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. An adult bookstore, adult motion picture
theater, adult drive-in motion picture theater or an adult-only entertainment
establishment as further defined in this section.
      ADULT MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, poster, print,
picture, slide, transparency, figure, image, description, motion picture film,
videotape, phonographic record or tape, other tangible thing or service,
capable of arousing interest through sight, sound or touch, and:
         (a)   Which material is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
on matter displaying, describing or representing sexual activity, masturbation,
sexual excitement, nudity, bestiality or human bodily functions of elimination;
or
         (b)   Which service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
on sexual activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, nudity, bestiality or
human bodily functions of elimination.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE DRIVE-IN THEATER. An open air drive-in theater which
is regularly used or utilizes 10% or more of its total viewing time for
presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or related to adult material as defined in this section.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed motion picture theater which is
regularly used or utilizes 10% or more of its total viewing time for presenting
material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or related to adult material as defined in this section.
      ADULT-ONLY ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment where the patron
directly or indirectly is charged a fee where the establishment features
entertainment or services which constitute adult material as defined in this
section, or which features exhibitions, dance routines or gyrational
choreography of persons totally nude, topless, bottomless or strippers, male or
female impersonators or similar entertainment or services which constitute
adult material.
      BOTTOMLESS. Less than full opaque covering of male or female genitals,
pubic area or buttocks.
      NUDE or NUDITY. The showing, representation or depiction of human male or
female genitals, pubic area or buttocks with less than full, opaque covering of
any portion thereof, or female breast(s) with less than a full, opaque covering
of any portion thereof below the top of the nipple, or of covered male genitals
in a discernibly turgid state.
      SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Sexual contact or sexual conduct, or both.
      SEXUAL CONTACT. Any touching of an erogenous zone of another, including
without limitation, the thigh, genitals, buttock, pubic region or, if the
person is a female, the breast, for the purpose of sexually arousing or
gratifying either person.
      SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of the human male or female genitals,
when in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
      TOPLESS. The showing of a female breast with less than a full opaque
covering of any portion thereof below the top of the nipple.
   (C)   Conditional use permit. No person shall cause or permit the
establishment (defined as the opening of a new business, relocation of an
existing business or the conversion of an existing business) of an adult
entertainment business unless authorized by the issuance of a conditional use
permit in accordance with §§
154.095 through
154.100. In addition, an adult entertainment business shall comply with the
following conditional use criteria.
      (1)   Adult entertainment businesses shall be conditionally permitted
only in an I-1 Light Industrial-Business District and shall comply with all
regulations within such district.
      (2)   No adult entertainment business shall be located within 1,000 feet
of any village residential district or any residential property line, church.
park, preschool or school located within the village.
      (3)   No adult entertainment business shall be permitted in a location
which is within 1,000 feet of another adult entertainment business.
   (D)   Permit guidelines. An adult entertainment business shall be issued a
conditional use permit only if the establishment of the business is in
accordance with the conditional use permit standards as set forth in § 154.099,
as well as the rules and regulations of this section.
(Prior Code, § 1282.38) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
NONCONFORMING USES
§ 154.500 STATEMENT OF INTENT; EXTENSION OR ENLARGEMENT OF USES.
   (A)   Statement of intent.
      (1)   Within the districts established by these zoning regulations or
amendments that may be adopted later, there may exist lots, structures and uses
of land and structures that were lawful before these zoning regulations were
passed or amended but would be prohibited, regulated or restricted under the
terms of these zoning regulations or future amendment.
      (2)   It is the intent of these zoning regulations to permit these
nonconformities to continue until they are removed or discontinued, but not to
encourage their continuance.
      (3)   Such uses are declared by these zoning regulations to be
incompatible with permitted uses in the districts involved. It is further the
intent of these zoning regulations that nonconformities shall not be enlarged
upon, expanded or extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other structures
or uses prohibited elsewhere in the district except by appeal to the Village
Planning Commission for approval of specific plans.
   (B)   Extension or enlargement of uses. A nonconforming use of a structure
or land, or a structure and land, shall not be extended or enlarged after
passage of these zoning regulations by attachment on a building or premises of
additional signs intended to be seen from off the premises, or by the addition
of other uses of a nature that would be prohibited generally in the district
involved.
(Prior Code, § 1284.01) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.501 PRE-EXISTING UNLAWFUL USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall grant legal nonconforming use status to a use
that existed unlawfully prior to the effective date of these zoning
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1284.02) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.502 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
   All nonconforming buildings, structures or uses of land lawfully existing
prior to the effective date of these zoning regulations, shall be maintained in
good repair. No structural alterations shall be made, except those required by
law.
(Prior Code, § 1284.03) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.503 TERMINATION AND REVERSION.
   (A)   Due to permitted use superseding. Any nonconforming building,
structure or use of land, which is superceded by a use that is permitted or
conditionally permitted within the zoning district in which it is located,
shall thereafter be in conformance with these zoning regulations, and the
previous nonconforming use shall not be resumed.
   (B)   Due to discontinued use. Any nonconforming use of land that is
discontinued, or nonconforming building or structure that is left vacant,
unused or abandoned for a period of two years or more, shall not be resumed.
Any subsequent use of the premises shall be in conformance with these zoning
regulations.
   (C)   Due to destruction. Any nonconforming building or use of land, which
is destroyed by natural causes (flood, earthquake, tornado or the like), or
fire, to the extent of more than 60% of its replacement cost, shall not be
resumed or reconstructed, except in conformance with these zoning regulations.
Replacement cost shall be based upon the reproduction cost of the building,
structure or use prior to the destruction by natural causes or fire, as
determined by a certified real estate appraiser. In case of any uncertainty as
to the replacement value of a particular building, structure or use, the
determination shall be made by the Village Planning Commission.
   (D)   Due to substitution. The substitution of a lawful nonconforming use
with another equally or more appropriate nonconforming used shall be permitted,
provided that no structural alterations are made, except those required by law
or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1284.04) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.504 NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   In any district where single-family detached dwellings are permitted, such
single-family dwellings and customary accessory structures may be erected on
substandard lots of record, provided that all of the following conditions are
met:
   (A)   Street frontage and land area requirements. Such lots of record have
street frontage on an improved street and land area equal to at least one-half
of the prevailing zoning standards for the district;
   (B)   Potential to accommodate structure. Such lots of record have the
potential of accommodating a principally permitted new structure meeting at
least two-thirds of the dimensional requirements, the dimensions of the
surrounding built lots or the applicable yard requirements for the particular
zoning districts; and
   (C)   Sale of land. No portion of any lot shall be sold in a manner that
creates an area and/or lot width less than that required for such structure or
permitted use, accessory use or conditional use in the zoning district in which
the lot is located, and no variance shall be granted for such use or sale.
(Prior Code, § 1284.05) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 154.515 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING SPACES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Street parking and loading spaces required. No building or structure
shall be erected, substantially altered, changed in use, or any land used or
changed in use unless adequately maintained off-street parking spaces, either
in garages or open parking areas, off-street loading spaces and off-street
waiting spaces have been provided for uses for which such spaces are required
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The provisions of this
chapter shall not apply to any building, structure or land use existing before
the effective date of these zoning regulations or any amendment thereto unless
such building, structure, or use is altered or changed. The number of off-
street parking spaces and loading spaces for such existing uses shall not be
reduced to an amount less than required for a new land use as specified in this
chapter.
   (B)   Parking plan required. A parking plan shall not be required for
single-family or two-family residential uses. All other land uses shall submit
a parking plan to the Zoning Inspector as a part of the application for a
zoning permit. The parking plan shall show boundaries of the property, parking
spaces, loading areas, drive-through waiting spaces, circulation patterns,
drainage plans, construction plans for any boundary walls or fences, a
screening plan, and the location of adjacent houses or buildings.
   (C)   Location of required spaces. Required off-street parking, loading and
drive-through waiting spaces shall be provided upon the same parcel of land
containing the use for which it is required unless otherwise specifically
authorized within these zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1286.01) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.516 HANDICAPPED PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Handicapped parking required. Excluding all residential uses, all off-
street parking facilities shall have designated therein a minimum number of
reserved spaces for parking of vehicles operated by or transporting handicapped
persons as defined in R.C. § 4511.69.
   (B)   Number of spaces required. Each parking area shall have at least one
parking space so designated or 2% of the parking spaces available so
designated, whichever number is higher.
   (C)   Location of spaces. Parking spaces designated for handicapped parking
shall be located nearest to the applicable facility. Each space designated for
handicapped parking shall be clearly and appropriately identified by the
standard handicapped parking symbol and shall be a minimum of 12 feet in width.
(Prior Code, § 1286.02) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.517 OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Off-street parking development standards. All parking facilities,
including entrances, exits, maneuvering areas and parking spaces shall be in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Parking space dimensions. All parking spaces shall be in accordance
with the following design requirement.
 
Parking Angle (in degrees) 45               60               90      Parallel
Width of parking space     14 feet          11 feet 5 inches 10 feet 9 feet
Length of parking space    21 feet 6 inches 22 feet          20 feet 23 feet
Width of driveway aisle    13 feet          17 feet 6 inches 25 feet 12 feet
 
   (C)   Access. All parking spaces, except those required for single-family or
two-family uses not fronting upon an arterial or collector street, shall have
access to a public street in such a manner that any vehicle leaving from or
entering into the parking area from a public street shall be traveling in a
forward motion. Access of driveways for parking areas shall be located in such
a way that any vehicle entering or leaving such parking area shall be dearly
visible for a reasonable distance by any pedestrian or motorist approaching the
access or driveway from a public or private street.
   (D)   Separation from right-of-way. All parking facilities located within
required front or side yards shall be separated from sidewalks and streets in
public right-of-ways by a strip of land which shall be at least ten feet in
width and which shall be reserved as open space and planted in grass.
   (E)   Paving. All required parking spaces, together with driveways, and
other circulation areas, shall be hard-surfaced with a pavement having an
asphalt or concrete binder in or adjacent to residential districts and have an
all-weather surface, at a minimum, in all other areas.
   (F)   Marking. Where necessary due to multiple curb cuts, the entrances,
exits and the intended circulation pattern of the parking area shall be clearly
marked. All parking spaces shall be marked with paint lines, curb stones, or in
any other manner approved by the Village Planning Commission and maintained in
clearly visible condition.
   (G)   Drainage. All parking spaces, together with driveways, aisles and
other circulation areas shall be graded and drained so as to dispose of surface
water which might accumulate within or upon such area, and shall be designed to
prevent the excess drainage of surface water onto adjacent properties or
walkways and damage to public streets.
   (H)   Barriers. Wherever a parking lot extends to a property line, fencing,
wheel stops, curbs or other suitable barriers shall be provided in order to
prevent any part of a parked vehicle from extending beyond the property line.
   (I)   Lighting. Any parking areas which are intended to be used during non-
day hours shall be properly illuminated as to avoid accidents. Any light used
to illuminate a parking lot shall be so arranged as to reflect the light away
from any public street or adjoining property.
   (J)   Landscaping required. All parts of open off-street parking areas which
are unusable, either for parking or for traffic, shall be landscaped with
plantings of grass, flowers, shrubs and/or trees, which shall be continuously
maintained in good condition.
   (K)   Screening. Screening shall be provided as required by the appropriate
district regulations.
   (L)   Maintenance. The owner of property used for parking areas shall
maintain such areas in good condition and free of all dust, trash or other
debris.
(Prior Code, § 1286.03) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.518 USE OF PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   Other uses within required parking areas.
      (1)   No motor vehicle repair work or service of any kind, except
emergency repairs, shall be permitted in or associated with any off-street
parking area.
      (2)   Temporary display or sales of any merchandise within any parking
area may be permitted only insofar as it is permitted within the zoning
district and does not occupy more than 25% of the required parking area.
   (B)   Joint use of facilities.
      (1)   Two or more nonresidential uses may jointly provide and use parking
spaces when their hours of operation do not normally overlap, provided that
such an arrangement is provided within the deeds or other written legal
documents approved by the Village Planning Commission.
      (2)   Parking spaces authorized for joint use shall be located within 200
feet of each use for which they are intended to serve.
   (C)   Collective parking areas. Two or more nonresidential uses may
collectively provide the required off-street parking area, provided the
required number of parking spaces shall not be less than the sum of the
requirements for the individual uses computed separately, unless division (B)
of this section is followed.
(Prior Code, § 1286.04) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.519 NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Parking space requirements. For the purposes of these zoning
regulations the following parking space requirements shall apply.
   (B)   Number determined. The number of parking spaces required for uses not
specifically mentioned shall be determined by the Village Planning Commission.
Type of Use Parking Spaces Required
Type of Use                             Parking Spaces Required
Residential
Mobile home                             Two which may include the driveway
Single-family, two-family, three-family Two for each unit which may include the
or multiple-family dwelling             driveway
Commercial, Service, and Institutional
                                        One for each two animal enclosures and
Animal hospitals and kennels            examination rooms and one for each two
                                        employees
Automobile or farm implement repair     One for each 800 square feet of floor
station                                 area and one for each employee
Automobile or farm equipment sales,     One for each 400 square feet of floor
machinery or other large item sales,    area, one for each five vehicles or
and similar uses                        implements, and one for each employee
Automobile service stations             Two for each service stall and two for
                                        each service bay
                                        One for each 200 square feet of floor
Convenience retail store                area and one for each two employees,
                                        with a minimum total of eight spaces
Churches and other places of religious  One for each 300 square feet of floor
assembly                                area
Day care center                         One space for each five children plus
                                        one space for each employee
                                        One for each 200 square feet of floor
Farm markets                            area, with a minimum total of two
                                        spaces
Offices                                 One for each 300 square feet of floor
                                        One for each employee and one for each
Research facilities                     motor vehicle used in the business and
                                        maintained on the premises
Restaurants, taverns, night clubs and   One for each three persons capacity,
similar uses                            and one for each three employees
Retail stores                           One for each 250 square feet of sales
                                        area
Industrial
                                        Two for every three employees on the
Manufacturing, storage uses, warehouse  largest shift for which the building is
and wholesale uses, parcel delivery,    designed and one for each motor vehicle
freight terminals, and similar uses     used in the business and maintained on
                                        the premises.
Recreational
                                        Six for each alley or lane plus one
Bowling alleys                          additional space for each 100 square
                                        feet used for restaurant, lounge, or
                                        similar use
Dance halls, skating rinks              One for each two person capacity
Other private recreation facilities     One for each three persons capacity
 
(Prior Code, § 1286.05) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.520 LOADING SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Off-street loading development standards.
      (1)   A permanently maintained area for standing, loading and unloading
services shall be provided for on the same lot with every building, structure,
or part thereof erected and occupied for nonresidential use requiring
distribution of materials or merchandise by vehicles.
      (2)   These off-street loading areas shall be required in order to avoid
undue interference with public use of streets and alleys. All loading
facilities shall be in accordance with the specifications of this section.
   (B)   Loading space dimensions. Each loading space shall have minimum
dimensions not less than 12 feet in width, 50 feet in length, and a vertical
clearance of not less than 15 feet.
   (C)   Projection into required yards. Off-street loading spaces may occupy
any part of a required rear or side yard, but shall not project into any front
yard.
   (D)   Access. All required, off-street loading spaces shall have access to
public street or alley in such a manner that any vehicle leaving or entering
the premises shall be traveling in a forward motion. This requirement may be
waived upon approval by the Board of Appeals.
   (E)   Paving. All required loading spaces, together with driveways, aisles
and other circulation areas, shall be surfaced with an asphalt or portland
cement binder pavement in order to provide a durable or dust free surface.
   (F)   Drainage. All loading spaces, together with driveways, aisles and
other circulation areas, shall be designed to prevent the drainage of surface
water onto adjacent properties or walkways and damage to public streets.
   (G)   Screening. Screening shall be provided as required by the appropriate
district regulations.
   (H)   Setback from residential districts. No loading ramp, dock, door or
space, nor any portion thereof, shall be located closer than 100 feet from any
lot zoned for any residential use unless located completely within an enclosed
building.
   (I)   Required number of spaces.
      (1)   The minimum number of off-street loading spaces shall be provided
in accordance with this section unless otherwise approved by the Village
Planning Commission.
      (2)   An area adequate for maneuvering, ingress, and egress shall be
provided in addition to the following required loading spaces.
Type of Use Required Loading Spaces
Type of Use                              Required Loading Spaces
Retail operations, including restaurant  One loading berth for every 40,000
and dining facilities within hotels and  square feet of floor area or fraction
office buildings, with a total usable    thereof: one loading space for every
floor area of 20,000 square feet or more 20,000 square feet of floor area or
devoted to such purposes                 fraction thereof
Retail operations, and all first floor
nonresidential uses, with gross floor
area of less than 20,000 square feet,    One loading space
and all wholesale and light industrial
operations with a gross floor area less
than 10,000 square feet
Industrial and wholesale operations with Minimum number of loading spaces
a gross floor area of 10,000 square feet required
or over as follows:
10,000 to 39,999 square feet             1
40,000 to 99,999 square feet             2
100,000 to 159,999 square feet           3
160,000 to 239,999 square feet           4
240,000 to 319,999 square feet           5
320,000 to 399,999 square feet           6
Each 90,000 square feet above 399,999    1
square feet
 
(Prior Code, § 1286.06) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
SIGNS
§ 154.535 PURPOSES.
   (A)   Purposes.
      (1)   Signs make use of private land and the sight lines created by
public rights-of-way to inform and persuade the general public by publishing a
message. This chapter provides standards for the erection and maintenance of
private signs. All private signs not exempted as provided below shall be
erected and maintained in accordance with these standards. Signs shall be
designed, erected, altered, reconstructed, moved and maintained, in whole or in
part, in accordance with the type, design, size, location, illumination and
other provisions set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   The construction, erection and maintenance of all signs shall be in
accordance with this chapter. The provisions of this chapter shall not amend,
nor in any way interfere with, other codes, rules or regulations governing
traffic signs within the village. The display of official public notices and
the emblem or insignia of an official governmental body shall not be affected
by the provisions of these regulations. Further, signs used for safety purposes
relative to the repair or maintenance of streets, sidewalks or utilities in a
public right-of-way shall not be affected by the provisions of these
regulations.
   (B)   Objectives. The general objectives of these standards are to promote
health, safety, welfare, convenience and enjoyment of the public and, in part,
to achieve the following.
      (1)   Safety. To promote the safety of persons and property by providing
that signs:
         (a)   Do not create a hazard due to collapse, fire, collision, decay
or abandonment;
         (b)   Do not obstruct firefighting or police surveillance; and
         (c)   Do not create traffic hazards by confusing or distracting
motorists or by impairing the driver’s ability to see pedestrians, obstacles or
other vehicles, or to read traffic signs.
      (2)   Communication and efficiency. To promote the efficient transfer of
information in sign messages by providing that:
         (a)   Those signs that provide messages and information most needed
and sought by the public are given priority;
         (b)   Businesses and services may identify themselves;
         (c)   Customers and other persons may locate a business or service;
         (d)   No person or group is arbitrarily denied the use of the sight
lines from the public right-of-way for communications purposes; and
         (e)   Persons exposed to signs are not overwhelmed by the number of
messages presented and are able to exercise freedom of choice to observe or
ignore such messages, according to the observer’s purpose.
      (3)   Landscape quality and preservation. To protect the public welfare
and to enhance the appearance and economic value of the village landscape by
providing that signs:
         (a)   Do not interfere with scenic views;
         (b)   Do not create a nuisance to persons using the public rights-of-
way;
         (c)   Do not constitute a nuisance to occupancy of adjacent and
contiguous property by their brightness, size, height, or movement; and
         (d)   Contribute to the special character of particular areas or
districts within the village, helping the observer understand the village and
orient himself or herself within it.
(Prior Code, § 1288.01) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.536 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BULLETIN BOARD SIGN. A sign displaying announcements that direct attention
to the public, charitable or religious facility and which is located on the lot
of such facility.
   BUSINESS SIGN. A sign directing attention to a business, product, service,
or activity conducted or sold on the lot where the sign is displayed.
   CANOPY SIGN. A sign directing attention to a business, product, service, or
activity conducted or sold on the lot where the sign is displayed.
   CONSTRUCTION SIGN. A sign directing attention to construction upon property
where the sign is displayed, and bearing the name, address, sub-lot number or
other identifier of the contractor.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. A sign intending to direct the safe flow of vehicular and
pedestrian traffic, including “enter”, “exit” and “arrow” signs.
   FLASHING SIGN. Any illuminated sign that exhibits changing light or color
effects.
   FRONT STREET SIGN. The edge of the pavement along the front of property.
   GROUND SATELLITE STATION. Any antenna or earth station designed,
constructed, or modified to bring in or receive satellite television signals.
   GROUND SIGN. A free-standing sign not permanently anchored or secured either
to a building or the ground, such as, but limited to, the “A-frame”, “T-shaped”
or inverted “T-shaped” sign structures, and truck, trailer or vehicle-mounted
signs.
   HEIGHT OF A SIGN. The measurement from the ground elevation immediately
below the sign to the highest point on the sign or supporting frame.
   IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign, other than a nameplate sign, indicating the
name, address and activity occupying the building store, service or
establishment.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign that has characters, letters, figures, designs or
an outline illuminated by electric lights or luminous tubes as a part of the
sign proper, or that is illuminated by the reflector method.
   INFORMATIONAL SIGN. A sign conveying a message relative to a danger or
hazard existing on the property, or indicating a condition on the property that
requires the exercise of ordinary due care, or providing public safety
information, or other public information, such as “Beware of Dog”, “Children at
Play”, “Helping Hand”, “Gold Star” and “Blue Star” signs.
   MARQUEE. A permanent roofed structure attached to and supported by the
building and projecting beyond the building line or over public property.
   MARQUEE SIGN. A sign attached to or constructed in a marquee.
   MEMORIAL SIGN. A sign designed, intended or used to preserve the memory of a
person, place or event, including landmark plaques and historical places.
   NAMEPLATE SIGN. A sign indicating the name, address, and profession of the
person or persons residing on the premises, or legally occupying the premises,
or indicating a home occupation legally existing on the premises in a
residential district structure.
   PERMANENT SIGN. A sign designed or intended to be used indefinitely without
change in the same state or place, and includes nameplate signs, directional
signs, business signs, bulletin board signs, illuminated signs, identification
signs, informational signs, project signs and memorial signs.
   POLE SIGN. A sign supported by one or more poles, posts or braces on or in
the ground.
   POLITICAL SIGN. A sign urging the passage or defeat of any candidate seeking
any political office or urging the passage or defeat of any ballot measure to
be voted upon by the public.
   PROJECTION SIGN. A sign, other than a wall sign, erected on the outside wall
of a building, which projects out at a 90 degree angle therefrom.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN. A sign announcing the sale, rental or lease of the lot
where the sign is displayed, or announcing the sale, rental, or lease of one or
more structures, or a portion thereof, located on such lot, and indicating the
owner, realty agent, telephone number, or “open house” information.
   RESIDENTIAL AREA. The R-1A, R-1B, R-2, R-3 and PD-1 Districts.
   REVOLVING SIGN. A sign that revolves 360 degrees, but does not exceed eight
revolutions per minute.
   ROOF SIGN. A sign erected upon or above a roof or parapet wall of a
building, which sign is wholly or partially supported by such building.
   SECURITY SIGN. A sign indicating that the property is protected by a
security surveillance system of any nature.
   SIGN. Any display, figure, painting, drawing, placard, poster or other
device placed on the ground or on any tree, wall, bush, rock, post, fence,
building, structure or object whatsoever, which is designed, intended or used
to convey a message, advertise, inform or direct attention to a person,
institution, organization, activity, place, object, or product. PLACED, as used
in this definition, includes erecting, constructing, posting, painting,
printing, tacking, nailing, gluing, sticking, carving, or other fastening,
affixing, or making visible in any manner whatsoever.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. Any structure that supports or is capable of supporting any
sign as defined in this chapter. A SIGN STRUCTURE may be a single pole or may,
or may not be, an integral part of the building.
   TEMPORARY ADVERTISING SIGN. A sign announcing or advertising special events
or sales.
   TIME AND TEMPERATURE DISPLAY. A cabinet containing illuminated numerals
flashing alternatively to show the time and temperature.
   TOTAL AREA OF A SIGN.
      (1)   The entire area within a sign’s continuous perimeter enclosing the
extreme limits of such sign, including all background area figures and letters.
      (2)   Such perimeter shall not include any structural elements lying
outside of the sign limits that are not an integral part of the information or
visual attraction.
         (a)   For computing the area of a wall sign that consists of letters
or figures attached to a wall surface, the sign area shall be within a single
continuous perimeter enclosing only such letters and figures, if the background
wall surface is not changed, painted, or designed to form a distinct or
contrasting background surface in relation to the remaining wall surface.
         (b)   In computing two-sided signs, the combined area of both faces
shall be used for the total sign area.
   WALL OR PANEL SIGN. A sign integral with the exterior wall of a building,
attached to the wall or parallel with the wall.
   WINDOW SIGN. A sign painted, attached or affixed to the interior or exterior
surface of windows or doors of a building.
(Prior Code, § 1288.02) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.537 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Design standards for all signs.
      (1)   Wind. The effect of special local wind pressures shall be
thoroughly considered in the design, but in no case shall the wind load be
assumed to be less than 20 pounds per square foot for ground and projecting
signs.
      (2)   Illumination.
         (a)   No sign shall be illuminated by other than electrical means, and
electrical devices and wiring shall be installed in accordance with the
National Electrical Code.
         (b)   In no case shall any open spark or flame be used for display
purposes unless specifically approved by the Building Inspector for locations
outside the fire limits.
      (3)   Obstructions to exit ways. No signs shall be erected, constructed
or maintained so as to obstruct any fire escape, required exitway, window or
door opening used as a means of ingress or egress, or to prevent free passage
from one part of a roof to another part of a roof or access thereto.
      (4)   Obstruction to ventilation. No sign shall be attached in any form,
shape or manner that will interfere with any opening required for ventilation,
except that such signs be erected in front of and may cover transom windows.
   (B)   Wall signs.
      (1)   Materials. Wall signs that have an area exceeding 40 square feet
shall be constructed of metal or other approved noncombustible materials.
      (2)   Extension and height.
         (a)   Wall signs shall not be erected to extend above the top of the
wall, nor to extend beyond the ends of the wall to which they are attached.
         (b)   In no case shall a wall sign extend to a height of more than 35
feet above the ground.
   (C)   Use of combustible materials.
      (1)   Ornamental features. Wood or approved plastic or other materials of
combustible characteristics similar to wood may be used for molding, cappings,
nailing blocks, letters and latticing and for the purely ornamental features of
signs in accordance with the approved rules.
      (2)   Sign facings. Sign facings may be made of approved combustible
plastics, provided the area of each face is not more than 40 square feet and
the wiring for electric lighting is entirely enclosed in metal conduit and
installed with a clearance not less than two inches from the facing material.
   (D)   Projecting signs.
      (1)   Materials. Projecting signs, in excess of 40 square feet in area,
shall be constructed entirely of metal or other approved non-combustible
materials, except for ornamental features.
      (2)   Maximum protection. No such sign shall project over public property
more than 60% of the distance between the property line and the curb line nor
be nearer the curb line, extended vertically, than three feet.
      (3)   Clearances. Clear space of not less than nine feet shall be
provided below all parts of such signs.
      (4)   Height. No projecting sign shall be erected to a height of more
than 35 feet above the ground.
   (E)   Window signs.
      (1)   Permanent window signs.
         (a)   Subject to the requirements of this subchapter, any industrial,
commercial or institutional establishment may display permanent window signs.
All window signs must be placed such that the principal activity within the
business is visible from the street. Permanent window signs are not permitted
in a residential area.
         (b)   If an establishment displays no wall sign, then no window shall
be covered with more than 30 square feet of permanent window signs.
      (2)   Temporary window signs. Subject to the requirements of these
regulations, any commercial or industrial establishment may display temporary
window signs. Temporary window signs are not permitted in an institutional or
residential area except for use as real estate signs.
   (F)   Awnings and canopies. Signs on awnings and canopies shall be exempt
from the limitations imposed by this chapter on the projection of signs from
the face of the wall of any building or structure, provided that any sign
located on the awning or canopy shall be affixed flat to the surface thereof,
shall be non-illuminated, and shall indicate only the name and/or address of
the establishment. No such sign shall extend vertically or horizontally beyond
the limits of such awning, and all awnings shall maintain the following
clearances.
      (1)   Height. All awnings shall maintain a vertical clearance of not less
than seven feet, six inches above grade.
      (2)   Projection. No awning shall project closer to a curb line than 24
inches.
   (G)   Marquee signs.
      (1)   Materials. Marquee signs shall be constructed entirely of metal or
other approved noncombustible materials, except for ornamental features.
      (2)   Height. Such signs shall not exceed 16 feet in height nor shall
they project below the facia of the marquee lower than nine feet above the
sidewalk.
      (3)   Length. The marquee may extend the full length, but in no case
shall they project beyond the ends of the marquee.
   (H)   Ground signs.
      (1)   Exemptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to any
ground sign exempted under §
154.538 of these zoning regulations.
      (2)   Obstruction of ingress and egress prohibited. No ground sign shall
be erected so as to obstruct free access to ingress or egress from any
building.
      (3)   Bottom of sign. The bottom capping of all in-ground signs shall be
at least 30 inches above the ground, but the intervening space may be filled
with open lattice work or platform decorative trim.
      (4)   Materials of construction. Inside the fire limits, no ground sign
shall be constructed of combustible materials, except ornamental features.
Outside the fire limits, the structural frame of ground signs shall not be
erected of combustible materials.
      (5)   Maximum height. No ground sign shall be erected to a height of more
than six feet above the ground.
      (6)   Location on sidewalk or near curb. No person shall place, or cause
the placement of any sign or sign holder on any sidewalk within the village, or
on the ground within six feet of the curb within the village so as to impede
pedestrian traffic or persons entering or exiting parallel parked vehicles.
Signs must be removed during non-business hours. No sign so placed shall be
larger than 18 square feet for a single-faced sign or 36 square feet for a
double-faced sign or be electrified.
      (7)   Location outside right-of-way or away from curb. Any ground sign
placed outside a right-of-way or more than six feet from the curb, whichever is
greater, and not upon a municipal sidewalk in accordance with the requirements
of this section, may be so placed for not more than 30 consecutive days and not
more than twice per year, per address.
      (8)   Relation to property. A ground sign shall only advertise matters
which are the business of the establishment in front of whose property such
sign is located.
      (9)   Consent of owner required. No sign shall be erected or placed
without the landowner thereof first obtaining a permit from the Zoning
Inspector to erect or place the same, paying a fee therefor and meeting the
bond requirements of this zoning code, all as set forth in §
154.550 of these zoning regulations.
   (I)   Pole signs. Pole signs may be located within required yards, if
approved by the Village Planning Commission, and shall not be less than 15 feet
from another business lot and not less than 50 feet from a residential district
line. In the B-1 General Business District, the maximum size of any face of a
pole sign shall be 50 square feet in area. The support for a pole sign shall
not be located within, nor shall such sign project over, any dedicated right-
of-way. Pole signs shall not exceed 30 feet in height in any zoning district,
nor six feet in height in residential districts.
   (J)   Miscellaneous and temporary signs and banners.
      (1)   Construction and removal. Temporary signs and banners attached to
or suspended from a building and constructed of cloth or other combustible
material shall be strongly constructed and shall be securely attached to their
supports. They shall be removed as soon as they are torn or damaged and in no
case later than 30 days after erection, except that permits for temporary signs
suspended from or attached to a canopy or marquee shall be limited to a period
of ten days.
      (2)   Maximum size. Temporary signs of combustible construction shall not
be more than ten feet in one dimension nor more than 500 square feet in area.
      (3)   Rigid frames. When more than 100 square feet in area, temporary
signs and banners shall be made of rigid materials with rigid frames.
      (4)   Projection. Temporary signs of cloth and similar combustible
construction shall meet projection requirements as stated in division (D) of
this section, except that such signs, when constructed without a frame, may be
supported against the face of a canopy or marquee or may be suspended from the
lower facia thereof but shall not extend closer to the sidewalk than eight
feet. In no case shall a sign be permitted to extend across streets or project
over public spaces except to the extent herein provided.
   (K)   Illuminated signs.
      (1)   Permitted types of illumination. Illuminated signs are permitted,
provided the illumination is not of a flashing, chasing or scintillating nature
characterized by a sudden or transient outburst of bright lights. Included
among the permitted signs are public service information and commercial message
displays that are illuminated, have a sequential and flexible, changeable
message capacity and may be changed by electronic process or by remote control,
except that commercial messages shall be limited to information concerning the
business establishment that operates the display.
      (2)   Design and construction. An illuminated sign shall be designed and
constructed so as to concentrate the illumination upon the area of the sign and
prevent glare upon the street or adjacent property.
      (3)   Hours of illumination. Such illumination shall be turned off
between 1:00 a. m. and sunrise when such sign is within 200 feet of any R-1A,
R-1B, R-2, R-3 or PD-1 District. Illumination may be permitted, however, during
the time any such business is open to the public between such hours.
      (4)   Movement prohibited. No sign shall employ any parts or elements
that revolve, rotate, whirl, spin or otherwise make use of motion to attract
attention.
      (5)   Certified electric wiring and devices. All electrically illuminated
signs shall be certified as to electric wiring and devices by the Building
Inspector and all wiring and accessory electrical equipment shall conform to
the requirements of the National Electrical Code.
      (6)   Permits. Permits shall be issued for the erection or maintenance of
illuminated signs within the limitations set forth in this chapter for the
location, size and type of sign or outdoor display.
      (7)   Relettering. The requirements of this section shall not apply to
the relettering of illuminated signs, except where such relettering requires a
change of wiring or piping of the sign.
(Prior Code, § 1288.03) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999; Ord. 728, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 154.538 REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO SIGNS IN ALL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Regulations applicable to signs in all districts. The following
provisions apply and govern in all districts.
      (1)   No sign shall be erected or maintained unless it is in compliance
with the regulations for the district in which it is located.
      (2)   No sign shall be erected or continued in operation which in any
manner constitutes a nuisance because of glare, focus, animation or flashing.
      (3)   All signs hereafter erected, constructed or modified shall comply
with sign setback requirements of the districts in which they are located.
      (4)   No sign shall be attached to any utility pole, tree, hedge or
shrub.
      (5)   No sign shall be erected, relocated or maintained so as to prevent
free ingress to or egress from any door, window or fire escape.
      (6)   No sign shall be erected at the intersection of any streets in such
a manner as to obstruct free and clear vision; or at any location where, by
reason of its position, shape or color, it may interfere with, obstruct the
view of, or be confused with any traffic signal or device; or which makes use
of the words, “stop”, “look”, “drive-in”, “danger” or any other phrases,
symbols or characters in such manner as to interfere with, mislead or confuse
traffic.
      (7)   No person shall display upon any sign or other advertising
structure any obscene, indecent or immoral matter.
      (8)   No sign shall be erected or maintained in any R-1A, R-1B, R-2, R-3,
B-1, B-2, B-3, I-1, PD-I, PD-2, PD-3 or AG Zoning District unless the sign
complies with all of the following conditions.
         (a)   It is erected and maintained for a permitted use for the
district in which the sign is located.
         (b)   It is clearly incidental and customary to, and commonly
associated with, the operation of the use.
         (c)   It is limited in location to the premises on which the use is
located.
         (d)   It is limited in subject matter to the name, design, picture or
trademark of the owner, operator, builder, sales agent, managing agent, lessor
or lessee of the premises or of the activities (including merchandise handled
or services rendered) on the premises on which such sign is located, and does
not include any general commercial advertising unrelated to or extending in
substantial degree beyond the enumerated permitted subjects.
      (9)   No sign shall be located on or over a public right-of-way, except
as allowed by this chapter.
   (B)   Exemptions. The provisions and regulations of these zoning regulations
shall not apply to the following signs when maintained on private property,
provided they are not illuminated nor animated and that there is not more than
one such sign per use per each street front of the lot on which the sign is
located:
      (1)   Real estate signs not exceeding four and one-half square feet in
area that advertise only the sale, rental or lease of the premises on which
such signs are located;
      (2)   Professional or occupational nameplates not exceeding one square
foot in area;
      (3)   Occupational signs denoting only the name and profession of an
occupant in a commercial building, public institutional building or multiple
dwelling and not exceeding two square feet in area;
      (4)   Construction signs denoting the architect, engineer or contractor
when placed upon work under construction, and not exceeding four square feet in
area, to be removed upon completion of the building;
      (5)   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings and dates of
erection, when cut into any masonry surface or when constructed of bronze or
other incombustible materials and when not exceeding two square feet;
      (6)   Traffic or other municipal signs, legal notices, railroad crossing
signs and such temporary emergency or nonadvertising signs as may be authorized
by Village Council;
      (7)   Political signs, provided that:
         (a)   They are not more than four and one-half square feet in area; or
         (b)   They are not posted more than 60 days prior to the election to
which the sign relates and are removed within seven days after the election to
which the sign relates.
      (8)   The flag, pennant or insignia of any nation, state, city or other
political unit, or any political, educational, charitable, philanthropic,
civic, professional, religious or like campaign, drive, movement or event.
(Prior Code, § 1288.04) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.539 SIGNS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Use type and structure type. Only the following use type and structure
type of signs shall be permitted in residential districts:
Use Type Structure Type
Use Type             Structure Type
Bulletin board signs Pole signs
Construction signs   Window signs
Real estate signs    Wall sign (when used as a nameplate or memorial sign)
Illuminated signs     
Informational signs   
Memorial signs        
Nameplate signs       
Political signs       
Occupational signs    
   
   (B)   Number, size and placement. The number, size and placement of signs
permitted in residential areas shall be in accordance with the following
regulations and schedules. Unless otherwise stated in this section, all such
signs shall be attached to the building or setback at least 30 feet from the
front street line and ten feet from any side lot line, or as specified in other
regulations, whichever provides the greater setback.
      (1)   Bulletin board signs. Bulletin board signs shall not be over 15
square feet in area, shall not exceed six feet in height and must be setback at
least ten feet from any public right-of-way.
      (2)   Construction signs. Construction signs shall not exceed 16 square
feet in area, shall not be permitted less than 100 feet from any occupied
dwelling or less than 20 feet from the front street line. Construction signs
may remain on the lot only during the period of construction.
      (3)   Real estate signs larger than four and one-half square feet in
area. Real estate signs are permitted in all zoning districts. In residential
districts, the total message area of real estate signs located on one lot may
not exceed ten square feet. Real estate signs more than four and one-half
square feet in area have no setback requirements but may not be located within
the right-of-way of any public street or on any public lands or easements or in
any location that would create a public hazard.
      (4)   Illuminated signs. Only nameplate signs and bulletin board signs
may be illuminated. Nameplate signs may only be illuminated by the reflector
method, and no illuminated sign shall be designed, arranged or used so as to
cause an annoying glare.
      (5)   Informational signs. Informational signs shall not be greater than
one square foot in area and may be installed in the window. If installed
outside the building, they may not be more than three feet from the ground.
They must be set back at least 100 feet from the front property line or not
more than ten feet from the line of the building, whichever is the lesser
distance from the front property line. No more than two signs are permitted on
a property.
      (6)   Memorial signs. Memorial signs shall not exceed two square feet in
area and must be constructed of bronze or other incombustible materials and be
permanently affixed to the building or premises on which they are located.
      (7)   Nameplate signs. Nameplate signs shall not exceed one square foot
in area and shall be attached to the building or placed not less than ten feet
from any lot line.
      (8)   Occupational signs. Occupational signs shall not exceed two square
feet in area and may only denote the name and profession of the occupant in the
building.
      (9)   Political signs. Political signs shall not exceed six feet in
height nor eight square feet in area and shall not be posted on or over the
public right-of-way in the village.
      (10)   Security signs. Security signs may only be of the type that is
readily affixed to a window, such as a sticker or decal, and may not be more
than 15 square inches in area.
(Prior Code, § 1288.05) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999; Ord. 766, passed 12-13-
2010)
§ 154.540 SIGNS IN BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   (A)   B-1 General Business District and B-2 Neighborhood Business District.
      (1)   Use type and structure type. Only the following signs shall be
permitted in B-1 General Business and B-2 Neighborhood Business Districts:
Use Type Structure Type
Use Type             Structure Type
Business signs       Wall signs
Construction signs   Ground signs
Real estate signs    Window signs
Identification signs Projected signs
Illuminated signs    Roof signs (only in B-1 Districts)
Memorial signs       Pole signs
Political signs       
Security signs        
Bulletin board signs  
 
      (2)   Number, size and placement. The number, size and placement of signs
permitted in B-1 and B-2 Districts shall be in accordance with the following
regulations and schedules:
         (a)   Business signs.
            1.   Business signs for any single business enterprise shall have
not greater than one and one half square feet of sign area for each linear foot
of width of building occupied by such enterprise, but shall not have more than
150 square feet of total sign area, whichever is less. Any such sign shall be
placed only upon the front wall or front outside window or door of a building
or in the area inside the building between the front window and a line parallel
to that window and located six feet back from the entrance.
            2.   The area of all business signs for any single business
enterprise shall be limited according to the width of the building or part of
the building occupied by such enterprise. For the purposes of this section,
width shall be measured along the building face nearest parallel to the street
line. In the case of a corner lot, either frontage may be used in determining
width, but the frontage selected shall be considered the front wall of the
building for the purposes of this section. Only one structure type is allowed
for each building or part of a building occupied by the enterprise, and only
two business signs are allowed for each enterprise.
            3.   Business signs shall not be permitted above the coping or
cornice, whichever is higher, in any B-2 District.
         (b)   Construction signs. Construction signs shall not exceed 16 feet
in area and shall not be permitted less than ten feet from the front street
line. Construction signs may remain on the lot only during the period of
construction.
         (c)   Real estate signs larger than four and one-half square feet in
area. Real estate signs are permitted in all zoning districts. In manufacturing
and commercial districts the maximum total message area for real estate signs
shall be computed in the same manner as for commercial advertising signs. Real
estate signs less than ten square feet in area have no setback requirements but
may not be located within the right-of-way of any public street or on any
public lands or easements or in any location that would create a public hazard.
Real estate signs larger than ten square feet in area must meet the setback
requirements of the district wherein located as if the sign were a building.
         (d)   Identification signs. One identification sign is permitted per
single business enterprise. Such sign shall be placed over the rear doorway of
any building or portion of a building occupied by any single business
enterprise, of a maximum size of six square feet for a single door and 12
square feet for a double door. The proprietor of any business enterprise may
designate any entrance thereto his or her front entrance, and the opposite
entrance shall be considered the rear entrance. Where the rear entrance is
designed and used for customer access and opens to available off-street
parking, one business sign, not exceeding the allowable sign area for the front
of the building or part of a building occupied by such business enterprise, may
be used in lieu of such an identification sign.
         (e)   Illuminated signs.
            1.   Only business signs may be illuminated, and only by the
indirect, outline or tube-lighting method.
            2.   Illuminated signs shall not be designed, arranged or used so
as to be reflected or directed into any residential area or to cause annoying
glare in any other area.
            3.   “Goose-neck” reflectors, “naked” bulb lighting and flashing
signs are specifically prohibited.
            4.   Revolving, oscillating or otherwise moving signs are also
prohibited.
         (f)   Memorial signs. Memorial signs or cornerstone tablets shall not
exceed 12 square feet in area and shall either be cut into a masonry surface or
be constructed of bronze or other incombustible materials and be permanently
affixed to the building or premises thereto.
         (g)   Political signs. Political signs shall be governed by §
154.539(B)(9).
         (h)   Security signs. Security signs shall be governed by §
154.539(B)(10).
         (i)   Bulletin board signs. Bulletin board signs shall be governed by
§
154.539(B)(1).
   (B)   B-3 Central Business District.
      (1)   Use type and structure type. Only the following signs shall be
permitted in the B-3 Central Business District.
Use Type Structure Type
Use Type             Structure Type
Business signs       Projected signs
Identification signs Wall signs
Illumination signs   Window signs
Memorial signs       Ground signs
Political signs       
Real estate signs     
Security signs        
 
      (2)   Number, size and placement. The number, size and placement of signs
permitted in B-3 Districts shall be in accordance with the following
regulations and schedules.
         (a)   Business signs. Only one business sign shall be permitted on the
outside of the premises. Such sign shall not extend above the coping or
cornice, whichever is higher, shall be limited to the display of either the
name of the occupant or the name of the building, and shall be permitted only
along the building face parallel to the street line. The area of the business
sign on the premises shall not exceed one square foot for each linear foot of
face measured parallel to the street line, or 100 square feet, whichever is
less. Neither the lettering nor other symbols thereon shall exceed two feet in
height. On a corner lot, a business sign may be permitted on one or both
frontages of the building.
         (b)   Identification signs. One identification sign is permitted per
single business enterprise. Such sign shall be placed over the rear doorway of
any building or portion of building occupied by any single business enterprise,
of a maximum size of four square feet for a single door and eight square feet
for a double door. The proprietor of any business enterprise may designate any
entrance thereto his or her front entrance, and the opposite entrance shall be
considered the rear entrance.
         (c)   Real estate signs larger than four and one-half square feet in
area. Real estate signs are permitted in all zoning districts. In manufacturing
and commercial districts the maximum total message area for real estate signs
shall be computed in the same manner as that for commercial signs. Real estate
signs less than ten square feet in area have no setback requirements but may
not be located within the right-of-way of any public street or on any public
lands or easements or in any location that would create public hazard. Real
estate signs of the district larger than ten square feet in area must meet the
setback requirements wherein located as if the sign were a building.
         (d)   Illuminated signs. Only business signs may be illuminated and
only by the indirect, outline or tube-lighting method. Illuminated signs shall
not be designed, arranged or used so as to be reflected or directed into any
residential area or to cause annoying glare in any other area. “Gooseneck”
reflectors, “naked” bulb lighting and flashing signs are specifically
prohibited. Revolving, oscillating or otherwise moving signs are also
prohibited.
         (e)   Memorial signs. Memorial signs or cornerstone tablets shall not
exceed 12 square feet in area and shall either be cut into a masonry surface or
be constructed of bronze or other incombustible materials and be permanently
affixed to the building or premises thereto.
         (f)   Political signs. Political signs shall be governed by §
154.539(B)(9).
         G.   Security signs. Security signs shall be governed by §
154.539(B)(10).
(Prior Code, § 1288.06) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999; Ord. 728, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 154.541 SIGNS IN INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Use type and structure type. The following signs are allowed in the I-
1 Light Industrial District:
 
Use Type             Structure Type
Business signs       Pole signs
Construction signs   Projecting signs
Directional signs    Roof signs
Real estate signs    Window signs
Identification signs Ground signs
 
   (B)   Number, size and placement. The number, size and placement of signs
permitted in industrial districts shall be in accordance with the following
regulations and schedules:
      (1)   Business signs. Business signs shall be governed by the same
provisions applicable to the B-1 and B-2 Districts. See §
154.540(A)(2)(a).
      (2)   Construction signs. Construction signs shall not exceed 16 square
feet in area and shall not be placed less than 20 feet from the front street
line. Construction signs may remain on a lot only during the period of
construction. Only one construction sign shall be permitted at any one time.
(Prior Code, § 1288.07) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.542 SIGNS IN OTHER DISTRICTS.
   Lots within the AG Agricultural Conservation District that have structures
shall be governed by the regulations for residential districts within §
154.540 of these zoning regulations. Undeveloped lots within the AG
Agricultural Conservation District shall be governed by §
154.548 of these zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1288.08) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.543 MAINTENANCE OF SIGNS.
   All signs and sign structures shall be maintained in a safe and attractive
condition. Signs which no longer serve the purpose for which they were
intended, or which have been abandoned or are not maintained in accordance with
these zoning regulations and other applicable regulations of the village, shall
be removed by the latest permit holder or by the village at the expense of such
permit holder. Any sign or part thereof that has been blown down, destroyed or
otherwise taken down for any purpose shall not be rebuilt, re-erected or
relocated unless it shall be made to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1288.09) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.544 ABANDONED SIGNS.
   (A)   Public nuisance. If any sign becomes abandoned, such a sign shall be
declared a public nuisance.
   (B)   Definition. An ABANDONED SIGN means a sign that meets any of the
following criteria:
      (1)   Any sign associated with an unlawful nonconforming use;
      (2)   Any conforming sign that remains after the termination of a
business if the business has ceased operations and is closed to the public for
at least 180 days or six months within a 12 month period, except for seasonal
businesses which are exempt from this determination; or
      (3)   Any nonconforming sign that remains after the termination of a
business.
   (C)   Notification.
      (1)   Upon determining that a sign is abandoned, the Zoning Inspector
shall make reasonable effort to notify, in writing, the owner of the property
on which the sign is located.
      (2)   Upon receiving notification that an abandoned sign exists on his or
her property, the owner shall have the abandoned sign removed within 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 1288.10) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.545 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Definition. A sign conforming to the regulations prevailing on the
effective date of these zoning regulations, but which does not conform with the
regulations of these zoning regulations or a subsequent amendment, shall be
construed as a legal nonconforming sign.
   (B)   Repair, maintenance and removal.
      (1)   Nonconforming signs may be maintained and structural parts repaired
or restored to a safe condition if required and if a permit is issued.
      (2)   However, any sign or part thereof that has been blown down,
destroyed or otherwise taken down for any purpose shall not be rebuilt, re-
erected or relocated unless it shall be made to comply with the provisions of
these zoning regulations and the Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 1288.11) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.546 EXISTING SIGNS.
   (A)   Required compliance after change. No sign heretofore erected shall be
repaired, altered or moved, nor shall any sign, or any substantial part
thereof, that has been blown down, destroyed or removed, be re-erected
reconstructed, rebuilt or relocated, unless it is made to comply with all
applicable requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Maintenance and repair. This section shall not be construed to prevent
the general maintenance of a sign or the repair or restoration to a safe
condition, as directed by the Building Inspector, of any part of an existing
sign when damaged by a storm or other accidental emergency.
   (C)   Moving of sign. Any sign that is moved to another location, either on
the same or to other premises, shall be considered a new sign, and a permit
shall be secured for any work performed in connection therewith when required
by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1288.12) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.547 UNSAFE AND UNLAWFUL SIGNS.
   (A)   Removal or conformity. When any sign becomes insecure, in danger of
falling or otherwise unsafe, or if any sign is unlawfully installed, erected or
maintained in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, the owner
thereof or the person or firm maintaining the same shall, upon written notice
of the Zoning Inspector, forthwith, in the case of immediate danger, and in any
case within not more than ten days, make such sign conform to the provisions of
this chapter or shall remove it.
   (B)   Notification. The Building Inspector shall notify the owner or lessee
of the building or structure by registered mail whenever a sign is so erected
as to obstruct free ingress to or egress from a required door, window, fire
escape or other required exitway. Such obstruction shall be forthwith removed.
   (C)   Unlawful projecting sign. A projecting display sign erected at other
than right angles to the wall of a building or structure outside of the
building line that extends above the roof cornice or parapet wall, or above the
roof level when there is no cornice or parapet wall, and that obstructs access
to the roof, is hereby prohibited. Such signs shall be reconstructed as herein
required.
   (D)   Projections into alleys. No signs shall be permitted to project beyond
public alley lot lines.
(Prior Code, § 1288.13) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.548 SIGNS ON UNDEVELOPED PROPERTY.
   No sign shall be permitted on any lot within the village that is not
occupied by a building, except the following.
   (A)   Permitted signs. Real estate, construction and political advertising
signs may be established on any undeveloped lot.
   (B)   Size of signs. The total area of all permitted signs on an undeveloped
lot shall not exceed 32 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 1288.14) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999; Ord. 767, passed 12-13-
2010)
§ 154.549 BILLBOARDS.
   (A)   Required conformance. All billboards within the Village of West
Alexandria shall be in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Permitted locations. Billboards may be erected on free-standing
structures only in the AG Agricultural Conservation District and the I-1 Light
Industrial District. Billboards may be erected on any side or rear building
wall in the AG Agricultural Conservation District, B-1 General Business
District, B-2 Neighborhood Business District, B-3 Central Business District and
the I-1 Light Industrial District.
   (C)   Number of faces. Free-standing billboards can be double-faced and each
side shall be considered as facing traffic flowing in the opposite direction.
   (D)   Maximum height. The top of a free-standing billboard shall not extend
more than 25 feet above the grade of the street.
   (E)   Required spacing. No billboard shall be located closer than 1,500 feet
to another billboard facing traffic flowing in the same direction.
   (F)   Maximum sign area. The maximum sign area permitted for a free-standing
billboard shall not exceed 150 square feet of total area. The maximum sign area
for a wall billboard shall not exceed 10% of the wall area or 150 square feet
of total area, whichever is less.
   (G)   Structural design. Structures for free-standing billboards shall be of
vertical (cantilever) construction and where the back of the sign is visible it
shall be suitably painted or otherwise covered to present a neat and clean
appearance.
   (H)   Lighting. All lighting used in the illumination of billboards shall be
adequately shielded or shaded, and properly directed so as to not cast direct
light upon public streets and/or adjacent and surrounding properties.
   (I)   Required setback from street. All free-standing billboards shall be
set back from right of-way lines a minimum distance of 100 feet along all state
highways designated as such on the Official Zoning District Map, and the
required front yard setback along all other streets.
   (J)   Setback from residential uses and districts. No billboard shall be
located closer than 500 feet to any residential zoning district or 200 feet
from any existing residential dwelling.
(Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
(Prior Code, § 1288.15)
§ 154.550 APPLICATION FOR SIGN PERMIT.
   Before any permit is granted for the erection of a sign or outdoor display
structure, an application, together with plans and specifications, shall be
filed with the Building Official. Such plans and specifications shall show the
dimensions, materials and required details of construction, including loads,
stresses and anchorage. The application shall be accompanied by the written
consent of the owner and/or lessee of the premises upon which the sign is to be
erected.
(Prior Code, § 1288.16) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.551 PERMIT FEES AND BONDS.
   (A)   Fee schedule and payment. A fee schedule for sign permits shall be
established by Village Council. Sign permit fees shall be paid to the Village
Fiscal Officer or his or her authorized representative prior to beginning any
construction with respect to a sign.
   (B)   Bond for erecting or maintaining signs. Every person engaged in the
business of erecting or maintaining signs or outdoor display structures shall
file with the village a bond in the sum of $5,000 conditioned on such person
holding the village free from all damages or loss on account of the
construction or maintenance of any sign.
   (C)   Bond for sign projecting over or into streets. Before a sign permit is
granted, the applicant for a permit to erect a display sign suspended over a
street or extending into a street beyond the building line shall file with the
village a continuing bond in a sum to be fixed by the Building Inspector,
executed by the applicant and a surety company. Such bond shall be approved by
the Director of Law and conditioned on the faithful observance of the
provisions of this chapter and all amendments thereto, and of all laws and
ordinances relating to signs and other advertising structures. Such bond shall
indemnify and save harmless the village from any and all damages, judgments,
costs or expenses that the village may incur or suffer by reason of the
granting of such permit. Any person lawfully maintaining a display sign
suspended over street or extending into a street beyond the building line at
the time of the enactment of this shall, within 60 days after such enactment,
comply with all the provisions set forth in this section. A liability insurance
policy, issued by an insurance company authorized to do business in the state
and conforming to this section, may be permitted in lieu of such bond. A copy
of such policy or bond shall be filed with the village.
(Prior Code, § 1288.17) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
FEE SCHEDULE
§ 154.565 ADOPTION.
   A fee schedule is herein established for all West Alexandria zoning matters.
(Prior Code, § 1290.01) (Ord. 666, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 154.566 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The fee schedule herein adopted under this chapter is as follows:
Zoning permit                              $10
Fence permit                               $5
Swimming pool permit                       $10
Sign permit                                $0.50/square foot
Satellite dish permit                      $25
Appeal to zoning board                     $50
Variance                                   $25
Amendment to wording of zoning regulations $35
Conditional use, or amendment to zoning map, or application for planned
developments, for parcels of:
   1/2 acre or less                     $35
   More than acre to 1 acre             $50
   More than 1 acre to 3 acres          $70
   More than 3 acres to 5 acres         $100
   More than 5 acres to 10 acres        $175
   More than 10 acres to 15 acres       $200
   More than 15 acres                   $250
Any other zoning matter                    $50
 
(Prior Code, § 1290.02) (Ord. 666, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 154.567 PAYMENT.
   All fees under these regulations must be paid at the time an applicant makes
a request for any matter contained in §
154.566 of this chapter. No request may be considered until all fees are paid
in full.
(Prior Code, § 1290.03) (Ord. 666, passed 7-17-2000)
VIOLATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.580 VIOLATION.
   (A)   Violation is nuisance per se. Buildings or structures erected,
altered, razed or converted, or uses carried on in violation of any provision
of these zoning regulations, including violations of conditions and safeguards
established by the Village Planning Commission for conditional uses and
variances, are hereby declared to be nuisances per se.
   (B)   Abatement. The District Court shall order such nuisance abated and the
owner or agent in charge of such building or land shall be adjudged guilty of
maintaining a nuisance per se.
(Prior Code, § 1292.01) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.581 REMEDIES.
   (A)   Remedies. If any building or land is used, altered, constructed,
enlarged or any such action proposed in violation of the provisions of these
zoning regulations or any amendment or supplement thereto, the Village
Attorney, the Zoning Inspector, any person or any property owner damaged by or
subject to damage by such violation in addition to other remedies provided by
law is hereby empowered or authorized to institute appropriate action or
proceedings to prevent such unlawful location, erection, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, enlargement, change, maintenance, or use.
   (B)   Other action. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Village of
West Alexandria from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent
or remedy any violation.
   (C)   Affected parties. The owner or tenant of any building, structure,
premises, or part thereof, and any architect, builder, contractor, agent or
other person who knowingly commits, participates in, assists in, or maintains a
violation may be found guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties
herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 1292.02) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.582 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Zoning Inspector is authorized to make inspections of buildings
and premises located within the Village of West Alexandria for purposes of
enforcing the provisions of these zoning regulations. For the purpose of making
such inspections, and upon showing appropriate identification, the Zoning
Inspector is hereby authorized to examine and survey all premises at any
reasonable hour.
   (B)   Prior to seeking entry to a property for purposes of making
inspections necessary to enforce the provisions of these zoning regulations,
the Zoning Inspector or designate thereof shall attempt to obtain the owner’s
or occupant’s permission to inspect. If such permission is denied or is unable
to be obtained, the enforcement office shall request assistance from the Law
Director in securing a valid search warrant.
(Prior Code, § 1292.03) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.583 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Content.
      (1)   Whenever the Zoning Inspector determines that there is a violation
of the provisions of these zoning regulations, he or she may give notice of
such violation to the property owner or other persons responsible therefore and
order compliance, as hereinafter provided.
      (2)   Such notice and order shall:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
         (c)   Include a statement of the reason or reasons why it is being
issued;
         (d)   Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time to bring
the property into compliance with the provisions of these regulations; and
         (e)   State the right of the violator to appeal the notice to the
Village Planning Commission within ten days of receipt of the notice.
   (B)   Service. A notice of violation shall be deemed to be properly served
if one or more of the following methods are used:
      (1)   By personal delivery to the owner or occupant of the premises or by
leaving the notice at the premises or the usual place of residence of the owner
with a person of suitable age and discretion;
      (2)   By certified mail deposited in the United States Post Office
addressed to the person or persons responsible at his, her or their last known
address, with return receipt requested. If a certified mail envelope is
returned with endorsement showing that the envelope is unclaimed, then service
shall be sent by ordinary mail and the mailing shall be evidenced by a
certificate of mailing which shall be filed by the Zoning Inspector. Service
shall be deemed complete when the fact of mailing is entered of record,
provided that the ordinary mail envelope is not returned by the postal
authorities with an endorsement showing failure of delivery; or
      (3)   By posting a copy of the notice form in a conspicuous place on the
premises found in violation and publishing a legal notice once a week for two
consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation within the Village of
West Alexandria. The legal notice shall identify the owners of the property,
the last address, if known, of the owners, the parcel identification, the
location and nature of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 1292.04) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   Violation of any provision of these zoning regulations or any amendment or
supplement thereto, or failure to comply with any of the requirements of these
zoning regulations shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person, firm or
corporation violating any of the provisions of these zoning regulations, or any
amendment thereto, or failing to comply with any of the requirements of these
zoning regulations, or any amendment or supplement thereto, shall, upon
conviction, be fined not less than $25 nor more than $200, or imprisoned for
not more than 30 days, or both, and, in addition, shall pay all costs and
expenses involved in the case. Each day such violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 1292.99) (Ord. 652, passed 11-8-1999)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   EASEMENTS
      
III.   VACATING OF STREETS AND ALLEYS
      
IV.   DEDICATION AND PLAT APPROVAL
      
V.   ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF REAL PROPERTY
      
VI.   LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY
      
VII.   STREET GRADE LEVELS AND CHANGE OF STREET NAME
      
VIII.   ANNEXATION AND DETACHMENT OF TERRITORY
      
IX.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
Ord./Res. No. Date Description
Ord./Res. No. Date       Description
178           5-6-1946   To the Dayton Power and Light Co., an electric
                         franchise for 25 years.
206           5-5-1952   To the Dayton Power and Light Co., a gas franchise for
                         25 years.
210           2-2-1953   Fixing the price of electricity from the Dayton Power
                         and Light Co. for 5 years.
214           11-2-1953  Fixing the price of electricity from the Dayton Power
                         and Light Co. for 5 years.
224           9-20-1954  Fixing the price of natural gas from the Dayton Power
                         and Light Co. for 1 year.
266           3-3-1958   Fixing the price of electricity from the Dayton Power
                         and Light Co. for 5 years.
266           3-2-1959   Fixing the price of natural gas from the Dayton Power
                         and Light Co. for 2 years.
271           12-29-1958 Fixing the price of electricity from the Dayton Power
                         and Light Co. for 5 years.
290           5-1-1961   Supplements Ord. 271.
300           4-1-1963   Fixing the price of electricity from the Dayton Power
                         and Light Co. for 5 years.
306           9-3-1963   Fixing the price of electric light supplied by the
                         Dayton Power and Light Co. for 5 years.
                         Fixing the price of electricity from and authorizing a
345           2-5-1968   contract with the Dayton Power and Light Co. for 5
                         years.
349           8-5-1968   Fixing the price of electricity from the Dayton Power
                         and Light Co. for 5 years.
361           6-7-1971   To the Dayton Power and Light Co., an electric
                         franchise for 25 years.
372           4-2-1973   Fixing the price of electricity from the Dayton Power
                         and Light Co. for 5 years.
403           9-13-1976  Fixing the price of electricity for street lighting
                         from the Dayton Power and Light Co. for 2 years.
408           6-20-1977  To the Dayton Power and Light Co., a gas franchise for
                         5 years.
413           10-17-1977 To the General Telephone Co. of Ohio, Inc.
414           5-15-1978  Fixing the price of electricity for municipal purposes
                         from the Dayton Power and Light Co. for 10 years.
415           7-10-1978  To Jackson Communication Corp., for a CATV system.
417           11-6-1978  Fixing the price of electricity for street lighting
                         from the Dayton Power and Light Co. for 2 years.
420           12-11-1978 Exclusive contract with Tony Jaros for trash, rubbish
                         and garbage pick-up and disposal for 3 years.
441           1-4-1982   Fixing the price of electricity for street lighting
                         from the Dayton Power and Light Co. for 1 year.
442           4-5-1982   To the Dayton Power and Light Co., a gas franchise for
                         5 years.
448           12-20-1982 Fixing the price of electricity for street lighting
                         from the Dayton Power and Light Co. for 2 years.
468           10-15-1984 Fixing the price of electricity for street lighting
                         from the Dayton Power and Light Co. for 2 years.
502           5-4-1987   To the Dayton Power and Light Co., a gas franchise for
                         25 years.
Res. 1993-05  10-4-1993  To the Dayton Power and Light Co., for electric street
                         lighting service, for 4 years.
                         To Warner Cable Communications, to construct, operate
587           6-21-1993  and maintain a cable television system in the village,
                         for 15 years.
617           5-20-1996  To the Dayton Power and Light Co., an electric
                         franchise, for 25 years.
Res. 1997-11  12-1-1997  To the Dayton Power and Light Co., for electric street
                         lighting service, for 10 years.
                        
 
TABLE II: EASEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date       Description
Res. -   6-17-1957  Accepting an easement from Marjorie S. and Lester Ashworth
                    for the purpose of constructing and widening Rosemary Lane.
413      10-17-1977 To General Telephone Co. of Ohio, for installation and
                    maintenance of telephone lines, and the like.
815      3-20-2017  Appropriating permanent and temporary easements in 105
                    Meyer Lane.
                   
 
TABLE III: VACATING OF STREETS AND ALLEYS
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord. No. Date       Description
172      10-1-1945  A 20 feet alley running north and south between Lot 238 and
                    Outlot 1.
191      6-7-1948   A 24-3/4 feet alley running north and south immediately
                    east of and adjoining Lot 169.
192      8-2-1948   Alley running north and south between Oak St. and the first
                    alley north of Oak St.
209      10-6-1952  Alley extending from N. Oak St. to Lot 329, located east of
                    Lots 277 and 278 and west of Lot 373.
220      5-3-1954   Part of a 24-3/4 feet alley beginning at the south side of
                    W. Third St., south to Miller Alley.
                    Part of a 24-3/4 feet alley extending north from W. Second
235      10-3-1955  St.; part of a 25 feet alley extending east from Central
                    Ave.; and part of a 20 feet alley extending south from W.
                    Oak St.
247      2-4-1957   Part of a 25 feet alley beginning of the east side of
                    Woodard Ave., east for a distance of 141.96 feet.
                    A 24-3/4 feet alley running east and west along the north
262      10-7-1957  side of Lots 287 and 288; and a 20 feet alley running east
                    and west between Lots 259 and 260.
268      6-2-1958   A 25 feet alley running east and west between Lots 317 and
                    266.
304      8-5-1963   Alley running north from Oak St.
307      1-6-1964   Alley running west from Voge St.
316      4-4-1966   Alley between Woodard Ave. and the first alley east of
                    Woodard Ave.
338      8-7-1967   Part of Taylor Alley.
400      11-3-1975  Alley between Lots 243 and 244 and part of Outlot 3.
                    Alley running east and west between South St. and Oak St.
429      5-21-1980  abutting Outlot 19 and Lots 352, 354, 355, 356, 252 and
                    217.
451      5-21-1983  Alley running south from West Oak St. to Rosemary Ln. and
                    East West St.
452      8-1-1983   Alley running south from dead end of East Oak St. to dead
                    end at southeast corner of Lot 330.
477      3-18-1985  Alley between and abutting Outlot 2 and Lots 316, 315 and
                    206, east and west, north of and parallel to W. Third St.
480      5-21-1985  A 9-foot strip of an alley abutting Lots 275 and 276,
                    running east and west.
484      7-15-1985  Alley abutting Lots 412, 417, 418, 347 and 348.
563      2-3-1992   Part of the north- south alley between Dayton and Second
                    Sts. (bounded by Lots 62 and 83).
                    Part of the alley between Lots 188, 198 and 199; part of
568      5-4-1992   the alley between Lots 187 and 199; and part of the alley
                    in a 0.584 tract on the west side.
577      9-21-1992  Part of the north- south alley along the west side of Lot
                    234.
582      3-1-1993   The east-west alley lying between school- owned property to
                    the north and Lots 194, 195, 206, 315 and 316 to the south.
616      4-15-1996  The south side of the most westerly end of Oak St. and the
                    alleyway adjoining to the immediate south.
                    The north-south alley running south from South St. to the
635      9-8-1998   first east-west alley parallel to and south of South St.
                    bounded by Lots 213 and 294.
732      8-6-2007   The north-south alley running south from Second St. bounded
                    by Lots 93 and 96.
                    The unimproved alleys and a portion of Fourth St. lying
795      11-17-2014 within the Rexarc International, Inc. premises north of
                    Third St. and west of the former railroad in the village.
                   
 
TABLE IV: DEDICATION AND PLAT APPROVAL
Ord./Res. No. Date Description
Ord./Res. Date      Description
No.
180       9-11-1946 Plat of Woodard’s Addition.
181       9-11-1946 Plat of Eby’s Addition.
182       9-11-1946 Plat of G. Cathern Unger’s Addition.
183       9-11-1946 Plat of Paul S. Unger’s Addition.
213       10-5-1953 Plat of Ashworth’s Addition of Outlot 20.
221       6-7-1954  Plat of Spitler’s Subdivision of Outlot 18.
Res. 240  3-5-1956  Plat of Town and County Subdivision.
263       11-4-1957 Plat of Reynold’s Subdivision of parts of Outlots 22 and
                    124.
356       6-1-1970  Accepting dedication of land adjacent to Dewey St. for
                    public street purposes.
                   
 
TABLE V: ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF REAL PROPERTY
Ord./Res. No. Date Description
Ord./
Res.  Date Description
No.
Res.  - -  Approving the transfer of the property of the West Alexandria Municipal Library
282        to the Board of Trustees of the Preble County Library District.
      11-
368   6-   Authorizes sale of Outlot 8.
      1972
389   8-5- Authorizes purchase of Lot 29 for fire station house.
      1974
      5-   Deeding a specified narrow strip of land to an abutting Lot 276 from Outlot 8
480   21-  known as Peach Park.
      1985
559   6-3- Accepting the conveyance of Lot 475 from the West Alexandria Emergency Medical
      1991 Service.
569   5-4- Accepting conveyance of real estate from the Twin Valley Recreation Assn., Inc.
      1992
      12-
638   21-  Accepting a gift of real estate of .833 acres from Paul Allen Wright.
      1998
655   1-3- Acquiring real estate from Kerns Properties, Ltd. for a site for municipal and
      2000 governmental purposes.
      6-
757   21-  Accepting a gift of real estate from Mary A. Bullen aka Mary A. Moreland.
      2010
      11-
812   28-  Accepting a gift of real estate from Timothy D. Stebbens.
      2016
      12-  Accepting a gift/donation of real property from the West Alexandria Firemen’s
814   12-  Association, Inc.
      2016
      3-
815   20-  Appropriating fee simple interests in 105 Meyer Lane.
      2017
      2-   Approving and authorizing the Mayor to purchase real property at 10 N. Main St.
-     27-  (parcel no. K37001801900025000 ).
      2020
          
 
TABLE VI: LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY
 
Ord. No. Date       Description
286      1-2-1961   Authorizes lease for dumping grounds with Twin Twp. and
                    Lanier Twp.
373      12-18-1972 Authorizes lease of part of Outlot 8 to the Twin Valley
                    Chamber of Commerce.
419      1-15-1979  Authorizes lease of platform on water tower to Jackson
                    Communications Systems for microwave facility.
                   
 
TABLE VII: STREET GRADE LEVELS AND CHANGE OF STREET NAME
 
Ord. No. Date      Description
                   Grade of Main, Dayton, Second, Voge, Oak, Twin, South,
39       2-4-1907  Summit, Smith, Dewey, Elm, Third and Fourth Sts. and Central
                   Ave.
589      8-16-1993 Twin St., from U.S. Rte. 35 (Dayton St.) north to the
                   Village corporation limits, to Stotler Rd.
                  
 
TABLE VIII: ANNEXATION AND DETACHMENT OF TERRITORY
Ord./Res. No. Date Description
Ord./Res. No. Date       Description
                         Accepting application for annexation of part of the
3             3-30-1898  northeast quarter of Sec. 3, Twp. 5, Range 3 E.,
                         containing 4-1/2 acres of land.
4             7-3-1905   Accepting application for annexation of part of the
                         northwest quarter of Sec. 3, Twp. 5, Range 3E.
238           2-6-1956   Accepting application of W.E. Gardner, et al, for
                         annexation of 4.93 acres.
350           11-4-1968  Accepting application of Stanley L. Habekost, et al.,
                         for annexation of 45.787 acres.
Res. 1985-19  7-1-1985   Accepting application for annexation of the South
                         Golden Gate Subdivision.
Res. 1989-06  6-19-1989  Accepting application of Stanley E. Brower and Elois
                         Locke for annexation of 3.59 acres in Lanier Twp.
586           5-17-1993  Approving detachment petition for 7.520 acres, part of
                         Outlot 28 in the village.
                         Accepting application of The Paul E. Getts Family
600           5-2-1994   Estate (Trust), D. and N. Getts, co- trustees, for
                         annexation of 8.563 acres in Twin Twp.
610           11-6-1995  Accepting application of P.E. Getts, for annexation of
                         32.216 acres in Twin Twp.
641           2-1-1999   Accepting application of a majority of owners of real
                         estate, for annexation of 3.937 acres in Lanier Twp.
658           3-6-2000   Accepting application of a majority of owners of real
                         estate, for annexation of 39.479 acres in Twin Twp.
Res. 2001-02  1-18-2001  Declining the proposed annexation of land owned by
                         Erfolg Realty, Co.
                         Accepting application of Twin Valley Community Local
679           7-16-2001  School District, for annexation of 36.943 acres in
                         Twin Twp.
                         Consenting to the filing and approval of an annexation
714           12-5-2005  petition proposed by a majority of owners of real
                         estate, for annexation of 119.469 acres in Lanier and
                         Twin Twps.
                         Accepting application of a majority of owners of real
717           3-20-2006  estate, for annexation of 119.469 acres in Lanier and
                         Twin Twps.
                         Consenting to the filing and approval of an annexation
758           7-19-2010  petition with and by the Board of Commissioners of
                         Preble County for approximately 4.483 acres in Lanier
                         Twp.
                         Accepting application for the annexation of certain
761           10-18-2010 territory containing approximately 4.483 acres in
                         Lanier Twp.
                         Consenting to the filing and approval of an annexation
                         petition with and by the Board of Commissioners of
793           9-15-2014  Preble County for approximately .792 acres of land in
                         Lanier Twp. into the village and to approve an
                         appropriate annexation agreement between the township
                         and the village.
                         To accept the application for the annexation of
797           1-20-2015  certain territory containing approximately 0.792 acres
                         in Lanier Twp. to the village.
                         Petition the County Commissioners of Preble County for
850           3-4-2019   annexation of approximately 3.460+/- acres of land to
                         the village.
                         To petition the County Commissioners of Preble County,
918           9-20-2021  for annexation of approximately 2.353+/- acres of
                         land, located on and near U.S. State Route 35 and
                         Electric St. to the village.
                        
 
TABLE IX: ZONING MAP CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date      Description
                   Rezoning an area comprised of part Outlots 24 and 28 from AG
662      6-19-2000 Agricultural Conservation District to R-2 Residential
                   District.
                   Rezoning Lot No. 532 (County Parcel Ld. No. H26-
784      4-15-2013 001805000006-0 00) and Lot No. 533 (County Parcel Ld. No.
                   H26-001805000007-0 00) from R-2 Residential District to B-
                   1 General Business District.
                  
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
Historical References to Ohio Revised Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
HISTORICAL REFERENCES TO THE OHIO REVISED CODE
R.C. Cites Code Section
R.C. Cites                    Code Section
1.01                          10.01
1.02                          10.02
1.05                          10.02
1.14                          10.03
1.15                          10.03
1.23                          10.05
1.42                          10.03
1.43                          10.03
1.44                          10.02
1.45                          10.03
1.46                          10.03
1.47                          10.18
1.48                          10.18
1.49                          10.18
1.50                          10.07
1.51                          10.05
1.52                          10.05
1.54                          10.04
1.55                          10.05
1.56                          10.05
1.57                          10.04
1.58                          10.04
1.59                          10.02
128.01(A)                     136.20
128.32(E) - (G)               136.20
128.99(A)                     136.20
128.99(B)                     136.20
701.01                        10.02
715.67                        130.99
718.01                        36.061,
                              36.075
718.011                       36.061
718.012                       36.046
718.02                        36.076
718.021                       36.106
718.03                        36.060
718.031                       36.062
718.04                        36.015,
                              36.016
718.05                        36.120,
                              36.123
718.051                       36.122
718.052                       36.121
718.06                        36.077
718.08                        36.090
718.11                        36.187
718.12                        36.124,
                              36.200
718.121                       36.108
718.13                        36.170
718.15                        36.078
718.151                       36.079
718.16                        36.107
718.18                        36.186
718.19                        36.125
718.23                        36.157
718.24                        36.155
718.25                        36.142
718.26                        36.158
718.27                        36.140
718.28                        36.156
718.30                        36.201
718.35                        36.171
718.36                        36.141
718.38                        36.185
718.41                        36.124
718.50                        36.047
718.99                        36.999
723.011                       98.05
731.51                        92.02
731.52                        92.03
731.53                        92.04
731.54                        92.05
901.51                        131.21
901.99(A)                     131.21
925.62                        90.06
925.99(B)                     90.06
951.02                        90.01
951.10                        90.01
951.99                        90.01
955.10                        90.10
955.21                        90.08
955.22                        90.01
955.222                       90.01
955.24                        90.09
955.25                        90.11
955.54                        90.19
955.99(B)                     90.09—
                              90.11
955.99(E)                     90.01,
                              90.08
955.99(F)                     90.01
955.99(G)                     90.01
955.99(H)                     90.01
955.99(J)                     90.01
955.99(L)                     90.01
955.99(M)                     90.01
955.99(N)                     90.01
955.99(O)                     90.19
955.99(P)                     90.01
955.99(Q)                     90.01
959.01                        90.02
959.02                        90.03
959.03                        90.04
959.04                        90.03,
                              90.04
959.13                        90.05
959.131                       90.05
959.99(B)                     90.03
959.99(C)                     90.04
959.99(D)                     90.05
959.99(E)                     90.05
959.99(E)(3)                  90.02
1349.17                       131.31
1349.99(A)                    131.31
1533.171(A)                   131.24,
                              135.05
1533.99(C)                    131.24,
                              135.05
2901.01                       130.02
2901.02                       130.03
2901.03                       130.04
2901.04                       130.05
2901.05                       130.13
2901.06                       130.14
2901.08                       130.15
2901.09                       130.21
2901.11                       130.16
2901.13                       130.06
2901.21                       130.07
2901.22                       130.08
2901.23                       130.09
2901.24                       130.10
2903.05                       135.02
2903.06                       73.19,
                              135.03
2903.08(A)(3)                 73.19,
                              135.03
2903.08(C)(3)                 73.19,
                              135.03
2903.08(D)(3)                 73.19,
                              135.03
2903.08(E) - (G)              73.19,
                              135.03
2903.09                       135.01
2903.10                       135.19
2903.13                       135.04
2903.14                       135.04
2903.16                       135.19
2903.21                       135.06
2903.211                      135.06
2903.22                       135.06
2903.31                       135.17
2903.311(B)                   135.17
2903.311(C)                   135.17
2903.33                       135.20
2903.34                       135.20
2903.341                      135.20
2903.35                       135.20
2903.36                       135.20
2905.03                       135.07
2905.05                       135.29
2905.12                       135.09
2907.01                       133.01
2907.04                       133.02
2907.06                       133.03
2907.08                       133.05
2907.09                       133.04
2907.10                       133.06
2907.23                       133.07
2907.231                      133.07
2907.24                       133.08
2907.241                      133.08,
                              133.21
2907.25                       133.09
2907.26                       133.13
2907.31                       133.10
2907.311                      133.11
2907.33                       133.12
2907.35                       133.10
2907.36                       133.14
2907.37                       133.15
2907.38                       133.16
2907.39                       133.17
2907.40                       133.18
2909.01                       131.01
2909.03                       131.02
2909.06                       131.03
2909.07                       131.04
2909.08(A) - (E)              131.05
2909.09                       131.03
2909.10                       131.34
2909.101                      131.34
2909.11(B) - (D)              131.02
2909.31                       136.21
2911.21                       131.06
2911.211                      131.06
2911.23                       131.06
2911.32                       131.07
2913.01                       131.01
2913.02                       131.08
2913.03                       131.09
2913.04                       131.10
2913.07                       131.33
2913.11                       131.11
2913.21                       131.12
2913.31(B)                    131.26
2913.31(C)(2)                 131.26
2913.32                       131.27
2913.33                       131.13
2913.34                       131.29
2913.40                       131.23
2913.401                      131.23
2913.41                       131.14
2913.42                       131.15
2913.43                       131.16
2913.44                       131.28
2913.441                      132.11
2913.45                       131.17
2913.47                       131.23
2913.48                       131.23
2913.51                       131.18
2913.61(B) - (E)              131.19
2913.71                       131.20
2913.72                       131.25
2913.73                       131.25
2915.01                       134.01
2915.02(A) - (G)              134.02
2915.02(K)                    134.02
2915.03                       134.03
2915.04                       134.04
2915.05                       134.05
2915.06                       134.14
2915.061                      134.14
2915.09                       134.06
2915.091                      134.10
2915.092                      134.11
2915.093                      134.12
2915.094                      134.13
2915.10                       134.07
2915.11                       134.08
2915.12                       134.09
2915.13                       134.12
2915.14                       134.15
2917.01                       132.10
2917.03                       132.01
2917.031                      132.01
2917.04                       132.02
2917.05                       132.03
2917.11                       132.04
2917.12                       132.05
2917.13                       132.06
2917.21                       132.07
2917.211                      133.20
2917.31                       132.08
2917.32                       132.09
2917.40                       132.13
2917.41                       132.14
2919.01                       135.10
2919.11                       135.11
2919.12                       135.11
2919.121                      135.11
2919.122                      135.11
2919.14                       135.12
2919.18                       135.11
2919.21                       135.13
2919.22(A) - (E)              135.14
2919.22(H)                    135.14
2919.23                       135.15
2919.231                      135.15
2919.24                       135.18
2919.25                       135.16
2919.27                       135.23
2921.01                       136.01
2921.04                       136.17
2921.13                       136.02
2921.14                       136.14
2921.15                       136.19
2921.21                       136.03
2921.22                       136.04
2921.23                       136.05
2921.24                       136.16
2921.25                       136.16
2921.29                       136.21
2921.31                       136.06
2921.32                       136.07
2921.321                      136.15
2921.33                       136.08
2921.331(A) - (C)             70.02,
                              136.22
2921.331(E)                   70.02,
                              136.22
2921.331(F)                   70.02,
                              136.22
2921.36                       136.13
2921.37                       136.13
2921.42                       136.09
2921.43                       136.10
2921.44                       136.11
2921.45                       136.12
2921.51                       132.12
2921.52(A) - (D)              136.18
2923.02                       130.11
2923.03                       130.12
2923.11                       137.01
2923.12                       137.02
2923.1211(B)                  137.13
2923.1211(C)                  137.13
2923.1212                     137.13
2923.122(C) - (G)             137.11
2923.126                      137.13
2923.131                      137.12
2923.15                       137.03
2923.16                       137.04
2923.162                      137.09
2923.18                       137.10
2923.19                       137.06
2923.20                       137.07
2923.201                      137.14
2923.211                      137.08
2923.24                       137.05
2925.03(A) - (C)              138.02
2925.03(I)                    138.02
2925.04(A)                    138.06
2925.04(B)                    138.06
2925.04(C)(5)                 138.06
2925.04(G)                    138.06
2925.11                       138.03
2925.12                       138.04
2925.13(A) - (C)              138.05
2925.13(F)                    138.05
2925.14                       138.13
2925.141                      138.13
2925.31                       138.07
2925.32(B)(4)                 138.10
2925.32(D)(2)                 138.10
2925.32(F)                    138.10
2925.32(G)                    138.10
2925.33                       138.10
2925.34                       138.19
2925.36(A) - (C)              138.08
2925.37(A)                    138.12
2925.37(G)                    138.12
2925.50                       138.09
2925.51                       138.11
2925.511                      138.11
2925.55                       138.18
2925.56                       138.18
2925.57                       138.18
2925.58                       138.18
2925.62                       138.20
2927.01                       135.28
2927.02                       135.25
2927.021                      135.25
2927.022                      135.25
2927.023                      135.25
2927.024                      135.25
2927.03                       135.21
2927.11                       131.35
2927.12                       135.22
2927.15                       135.08
2927.17                       133.19
2927.27                       130.20
2929.21                       130.99
2929.22                       130.18
2929.23                       133.99
2929.24                       130.99
2929.25                       130.99
2929.26                       130.99
2929.27                       130.99
2929.28                       130.99
2929.31                       130.99
2929.41                       130.19
2935.041                      131.22
2935.28                       70.08
2935.36(E)                    130.02
2981.07                       131.30
2981.11                       130.17
2981.12                       130.17
2981.13(A)                    130.17
3701.81                       98.02,
                              135.27
3701.82                       98.01
3701.99(B)                    98.01
3701.99(C)                    98.02,
                              135.27
3715.05                       138.18
3715.06                       138.18
3716.11                       135.24
3716.99(C)                    135.24
3719.08(A)                    138.14
3719.08(E)                    138.14
3719.172(A)                   138.15
3719.172(B)                   138.15
3719.19                       138.09
3719.99(C)                    138.14
3719.99(E)                    138.15
3737.34                       95.04
3737.51(A)                    95.05
3737.51(B) - (H)              95.99
3737.61                       95.06
3737.62                       95.07
3737.63                       95.08
3737.64                       95.09
3737.65                       95.10
3737.99(B)                    95.99
3737.99(C)                    95.06,
                              95.99
3737.99(D)                    95.07,
                              95.99
3737.99(E)                    95.08,
                              95.99
3743.01                       95.25
3743.54(B) - (F)              95.25
3743.60(E) - (L)              95.25
3743.61(E) - (L)              95.25
3743.63                       95.25
3743.64(C) - (G)              95.25
3743.65(A) - (E)              95.25
3743.65(G)                    95.25
3743.65(H)                    95.25
3743.66                       95.25
3743.68(B)                    95.25
3743.80                       95.25
3743.99(C)                    95.99
3743.99(D)                    95.99
3743.99(F) - (H)              95.99
3767.13                       98.04
3767.201                      70.09
3767.29                       98.06
3767.32                       98.03
3767.99(B)                    98.06
3767.99(C)                    98.03,
                              98.04
3767.99(D)                    70.09
3773.06                       137.09
3773.99(A)                    137.09
3781.55                       133.04
3791.031                      98.15,
                              135.26
4301.01                       97.01
4301.20                       97.02
4301.21                       97.03
4301.22                       97.04
4301.244                      97.01
4301.58                       97.05
4301.60                       97.06
4301.61                       97.28
4301.611                      97.29
4301.62                       97.07
4301.63                       97.08
4301.631                      97.09
4301.633                      97.11
4301.634                      97.12
4301.637                      97.14
4301.638                      97.04,
                              97.13
4301.639(A)                   97.15
4301.639(C)                   97.15
4301.64                       97.16
4301.65                       97.10
4301.66                       97.18
4301.67                       97.19
4301.68                       97.20
4301.69                       97.13
4301.70                       97.99
4301.74                       97.27
                              97.07,
4301.99(A)                    97.10,
                              97.99
                              97.04,
4301.99(B)                    97.09,
                              97.16,
                              97.19
                              97.03,
                              97.05,
                              97.06,
4301.99(C)                    97.11,
                              97.13,
                              97.18,
                              97.20,
                              97.27
4301.99(E)                    97.08,
                              97.09
4301.99(F)                    97.12
4301.99(I)                    97.13
4301.99(J)                    97.10
4303.208(C)                   97.17
4303.202(D)(2)                97.17
4303.25                       97.05
4303.40                       97.26
4303.99(D)                    97.17
4399.09                       97.21
4399.10                       97.22
4399.14                       97.23
4399.15                       97.24
4399.16                       97.25
4399.99(A)                    97.25
4399.99(B)                    97.21
4399.99(C)                    97.22
4399.99(D)                    97.23
4399.99(E)                    97.24
4501.01(LL)                   70.01
4501.01(TT)                   72.061
4503.05                       71.02
4503.11(A)                    71.01
4503.11(D)                    71.01
4503.111(A)                   71.01
4503.111(B)                   71.01
4503.111(C)                   71.01
4503.12(A)                    71.01
4503.12(D)                    71.01
4503.21(A)                    71.01
4503.21(B)                    71.01
4503.21(C)                    71.01
4503.236                      71.03
4505.18                       71.04
4506.01                       71.45
4506.011                      71.46
4506.03(A) - (C)              71.48
4506.03(D)                    71.48
4506.04(A)                    71.47
4506.04(B)                    71.47
4506.04(C)                    71.47
4506.05(A) - (C)              71.48
4506.05(D)                    71.48
4506.10(A)                    71.49
4506.10(E)                    71.49
4506.12(I)                    71.47
4506.12(J)                    71.47
4506.15(A)                    71.50
4506.15(B)                    71.50
4506.17(H)                    71.50
4506.17(N)                    71.50
4506.19                       71.51
4506.20                       71.52
4506.23                       71.50
4506.99                       71.99
4507.02(A)                    71.22
4507.02(A)(1) - 4510.12(A)(1) 75.52
4507.03                       71.22
4507.04                       71.22
4507.05(I)                    71.21
4507.05(F)                    71.21
4507.071(B) - (I)             71.21
4507.071(J)                   71.21
4507.213                      71.22
4507.30                       71.20
4507.31(A)                    71.21
4507.31(B)                    71.21
4507.321                      71.23
4507.35                       71.26
4507.36                       71.27
4507.99                       71.99
4509.101(A)(1)                75.53
4509.102                      136.02
4509.74                       73.33
4510.037(J)                   71.28
                              71.28,
4510.04                       71.30—
                              71.32
4510.05                       71.25
4510.11                       71.28
4510.111                      71.28
4510.12                       71.29
4510.14                       71.30
4510.15                       71.25
4510.16                       71.31
4510.21                       71.32
4510.44                       73.08
4511.01                       70.01
4511.02                       10.16
4511.03                       70.03
4511.031                      70.38
4511.04                       70.04
4511.041                      70.04
4511.042                      70.04
4511.05                       70.05
4511.051                      70.06
4511.08                       70.07
4511.094                      70.16
4511.12(A)                    70.30
4511.12(B)                    70.30
4511.121(A) - (C)             70.30
4511.121(D)                   70.30
4511.121(E)                   70.30
4511.13                       70.31
4511.131                      70.32
4511.132                      70.33
4511.14                       70.34
4511.16                       70.35
4511.17                       70.36
4511.18                       70.37
4511.181                      73.01
4511.19(A) - (M)              73.01
4511.191(A)                   73.02
4511.191(D)                   73.02
4511.192                      73.02
4511.194                      73.03
4511.20                       73.05
4511.201                      73.06
4511.202                      73.07
4511.203                      71.24
4511.204                      72.132
4511.205                      72.133
4511.21(A) - (G)              73.10
4511.21(O)                    73.10
4511.21(P)                    73.10
4511.211(A) - (E)             73.10
4511.211(F)                   73.10
4511.213(A) - (C)             72.120
4511.213(D)                   72.121
4511.213(E)                   72.121
4511.214                      73.18
4511.215                      73.18
4511.216                      73.18
4511.22                       73.11
4511.23                       73.13
4511.24                       73.12
4511.25                       72.001
4511.251                      73.09
4511.26                       72.003
4511.27                       72.004
4511.28                       72.005
4511.29                       72.006
4511.30                       72.007
4511.31                       72.008
4511.32                       72.009
4511.33                       72.010
4511.34                       72.011
4511.35                       72.012
4511.36                       72.013
4511.37                       72.014
4511.38                       72.015
4511.39                       72.016
4511.40                       72.017
4511.41                       72.030
4511.42                       72.031
4511.43                       72.032
4511.431(A)                   72.033
4511.431(B)                   72.033
4511.432(D)                   72.033
4511.44                       72.034
4511.441                      72.035
4511.45                       72.036
4511.451                      72.037
4511.452                      72.038
4511.454                      72.036
4511.46                       72.039
4511.47                       72.040
4511.48                       72.041
4511.481                      72.060
4511.49                       72.055
4511.491                      72.059
4511.50                       72.056
4511.51                       72.057
4511.511                      72.058
4511.512                      72.061
4511.513                      72.062
4511.514                      72.063
4511.52                       75.01
4511.521                      75.02
4511.522                      75.03
4511.53                       75.04
4511.54                       75.05
4511.55                       75.06
4511.56                       75.07
4511.60                       72.002
4511.61                       72.075
4511.62                       72.076
4511.63                       72.077
4511.64                       72.078
4511.65                       70.10
4511.66                       76.01
4511.661                      76.02
4511.67                       76.03
4511.68                       76.04
4511.681                      76.06
4511.69                       76.05
4511.70                       72.115
4511.701                      72.117
4511.71(A)                    72.118
4511.71(B)                    72.118
4511.711(A)                   72.119
4511.711(B)                   72.119
4511.712                      72.120
4511.713(A)                   72.119
4511.713(B)                   72.119
4511.714(A)                   72.118
4511.714(B)                   72.118
4511.714(C)                   72.118
4511.714(D)                   72.118
4511.72(A)                    72.120
4511.72(B)                    72.121
4511.73                       72.122
4511.74(A)                    72.123
4511.74(B)                    72.123
4511.74(C)                    72.123
4511.75                       72.090
4511.751                      72.091
4511.76(C)                    72.092
4511.76(F)                    72.092
4511.76(G)                    72.092
4511.761                      72.093
4511.762                      72.094
4511.763                      72.095
4511.764                      72.096
4511.77                       72.097
4511.771                      72.098
4511.772                      72.099
4511.79                       73.04
4511.81(A) - (H)              72.124
4511.81(K)                    72.124
4511.81(L)                    72.124
4511.82(A)                    72.123
4511.82(B)                    72.123
4511.82(C)                    72.123
4511.82(D)                    72.123
4511.84                       72.127
4511.85                       72.128
4511.99                       70.99
4511.991                      70.99
4513.02(A)                    74.01
4513.02(H)                    74.01
4513.021                      74.02
4513.03                       74.03
4513.04                       74.04
4513.05                       74.05
4513.06                       74.06
4513.07                       74.07
4513.071                      74.08
4513.08                       74.09
4513.09                       74.10
4513.10                       74.11
4513.11                       74.12
4513.111                      74.12
4513.112                      74.12
4513.113                      74.12
4513.114                      74.12
4513.115                      74.12
4513.12                       74.13
4513.13                       74.14
4513.14                       74.15
4513.15                       74.16
4513.16                       74.17
4513.17                       74.18
4513.17(F)                    74.18
4513.171                      74.18
4513.171(B)                   74.18
4513.18                       74.19
4513.181                      74.20
4513.182                      74.21
4513.19                       74.22
4513.20                       74.23
4513.201                      74.24
4513.202                      74.25
4513.21                       74.26
4513.22                       74.27
4513.23                       74.28
4513.24                       74.29
4513.241(C) - (J)             74.31
4513.241(K)                   74.31
4513.25                       74.30
4513.26                       74.31
4513.261                      74.32
4513.262                      74.33
4513.263                      72.125
4513.27                       74.34
4513.28                       74.35
4513.29                       74.36
4513.30                       74.51
4513.31                       74.52
4513.32                       74.53
4513.33                       74.54
4513.34                       74.50
4513.36                       73.15,
                              73.17
4513.361                      73.14,
                              73.16
4513.50                       74.38
4513.51(A)                    74.38
4513.51(B)                    74.38
4513.51(D)                    74.38
4513.61                       76.16
4513.64                       76.16
4513.66                       70.12
4513.68                       70.12
                              74.11,
                              74.21,
                              74.23,
                              74.24,
                              74.25,
4513.99                       74.30—
                              74.31,
                              74.34,
                              74.36,
                              74.50,
                              74.51—
                              74.53
4519.01                       75.25
4519.02                       75.34
4519.20(A)                    75.26
4519.20(B)                    75.26
4519.20(C)                    75.26
4519.22(A)                    75.26
4519.22(B)                    75.26
4519.40                       75.27
4519.401                      73.18
4519.41                       75.28
4519.44                       75.29
4519.45                       75.30
4519.46                       75.31
4519.47                       75.32
4519.48                       75.33
4519.66                       75.35
4549.02                       73.30
4549.021                      73.31
4549.03                       73.32
4549.05                       70.11
4549.08                       71.06
4549.081(B)                   70.30
4549.081(C)                   70.30
4549.10                       71.07
4549.11(A)                    71.01
4549.11(B)                    71.01
4549.12(A)                    71.01
4549.12(B)                    71.01
4549.18                       71.05
4549.20                       74.39
4731.481                      138.17
4731.99(F)                    138.17
4734.161                      138.17
4734.99(B)                    138.17
4933.18                       131.32
4933.19                       131.32
5577.02                       74.55
5577.03                       74.56
5577.04                       74.56
5577.041                      74.56
5577.042                      74.61
5577.043                      74.61
5577.044                      74.61
5577.045                      74.61
5577.05                       74.57
5577.06                       74.57
5577.10                       74.58
5577.11                       74.59
5577.12                       74.60
5577.15                       74.53
5577.99(A)                    74.55
5577.99(C)                    74.56,
                              74.57
5577.99(D)                    74.58
5577.99(E)                    74.59
5589.08                       72.129
5589.081                      74.37
5589.12                       131.10
                              72.129,
5589.99(B)                    74.37,
                              131.10
                              
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Code Section
Prior Code    Code Section
220.01        30.01
224.01        37.01
224.02        37.02
224.03        37.03
224.04        37.04
224.05        37.05
224.06        37.06
224.07        37.07
224.08        37.08
224.09        37.09
230.01        31.015
232.01        31.030
234.01        31.045
234.02        31.046
234.05        31.047
234.06        35.15
234.07        35.16
234.08        35.17
234.09        35.18
234.10        35.19
234.11        35.20
234.12        35.21
237.01        31.060
237.02        31.061
237.03        31.062
238.01        33.01
238.02        33.02
238.03        33.03
241.01        32.01
241.02        32.02
241.03        32.03
244.05        32.15
244.06        32.16
244.07        32.17
246.01        34.01
246.03        34.02
246.05        34.03
246.06        34.04
246.07        34.05
246.073       34.06
246.075       34.07
246.077       34.08
246.08        34.09
246.09        34.10
246.10        34.11
246.11        34.12
246.12        34.13
246.13        34.14
246.14        34.15
246.15        34.16
246.16        34.17
246.17        34.18
247.01        31.075
247.02        31.076
247.03        31.077
247.04        31.078
247.05        31.079
247.06        31.080
248.01        31.095
248.02        31.096
248.03        31.097
248.04        31.098
248.05        31.099
248.06        31.100
249.01        38.01
249.02        38.02
249.03        38.03
249.04        38.04
249.05        38.05
249.06        38.06
249.07        38.07
249.08        38.08
249.09        38.09
256.01        32.30
256.02        32.31
256.03        32.32
260.01        32.45
260.02        32.46
260.03        32.47
260.04        32.48
Ch. 270       39.01
402.01—402.570.01
404.01        70.02
404.02        73.17
404.03        70.04
404.035       70.04
404.04        70.05
404.05        70.13
404.06        70.14
404.07        70.15
404.08        73.14
404.09        73.15
404.10        73.16
406.01        70.50
406.02        70.51
406.03        70.52
406.04        70.53
406.05        70.54
406.06        70.55
406.07        70.56
406.08        70.57
408.01        70.99
408.02        70.99
408.03        71.25
412.01        72.123
412.02        72.134
412.03        72.135
412.04        72.136
412.05        70.06
414.01        70.30
414.02        70.10
414.03        70.31
414.04        70.32
414.05        70.34
414.07        70.35
414.08        70.36
414.09        70.37
414.10        70.38
414.11        70.16
416.01        72.039
416.02        72.040
416.03        72.041
416.04        72.055
416.05        72.056
416.06        72.057
416.07        72.058
416.08        72.038
416.09        72.035
416.10        72.060
416.11        72.059
416.12        72.061
432.01        72.001
432.02        72.003
432.03        72.004
432.04        72.005
432.05        72.006
432.06        72.007
432.07        72.008
432.08        72.010
432.09        72.011
432.10        72.013
432.11        72.014
432.12        72.015
432.13        72.016
432.14        72.017
432.15        72.030
432.155       70.33
432.16        72.031
432.17        72.032
432.18        70.03
432.19        72.036
432.195       72.121
432.20        72.034
432.205       72.033
432.21        72.037
432.22        72.119
432.23        72.115
432.24        72.118
432.25        72.121
432.26        72.122
432.27        72.002
432.28        72.009
432.29        72.012
432.30        72.090
432.31        72.076
432.32        72.075,
              72.077
432.33        72.078
432.34        72.120
432.35        72.130
432.36        72.131
432.37        72.018
432.38        72.019
432.39        72.119
432.40        72.123
432.41        72.127
432.42        72.132
432.43        72.133
434.01        73.01—
              73.03
434.011       73.08
434.02        73.05,
              73.06
434.025       73.07
434.03        73.10
434.035       73.10
434.04        73.11
434.05        73.13
434.06        73.12
434.07        73.09
434.08        73.19
434.09        73.18
436.01        71.22
436.02        71.22
436.03        71.21
436.035       71.21
436.04        71.20
436.05        71.24
436.06        71.26
436.071       71.28
436.072       71.29
436.073       71.30
436.074       71.31
436.075       71.32
436.08        71.04
436.09        71.01
436.10        71.06
436.11        73.30
436.12        73.31
436.13        73.32
436.14        70.12
438.01        74.01
438.02        74.03
438.03        74.04
438.04        74.05
438.05        74.06
438.06        74.07
438.07        74.09
438.08        74.10
438.09        74.11
438.10        74.12
438.11        74.13
438.12        74.14
438.13        74.15
438.14        74.16
438.15        74.17
438.16        74.18
438.165       74.18
438.17        74.21
438.18        74.22
438.19        74.23
438.20        74.26
438.21        74.27
438.22        74.28
438.23        74.29
438.235       74.31
438.24        74.51
438.25        74.08
438.26        74.02
438.27        74.40
438.28        72.124
438.30        72.125
438.31        74.39
440.01        74.50
440.02        74.57
440.03        74.59
440.04        74.36
440.05        74.53
440.06        74.52
440.07        72.129,
              74.37
440.08        74.63
440.09        74.64
440.10        72.128
440.11        74.62
442.01        71.45
442.02        71.46
442.03        71.47
442.04        71.49
442.05        71.50
442.06        71.51
442.07        71.52
442.08        71.50
442.09        73.04
444.02        70.11
446.01        72.116
446.02        72.116
446.03        72.116
446.04        72.117
446.05        72.116
452.01        76.01
452.02        76.03
452.03        76.04
452.04        76.05
452.05        76.16
452.055       76.06
452.06        76.02
452.07        72.115
452.08        76.07
452.09        76.08
452.10        76.09
452.11        76.10
452.12        76.12
452.13        76.13
452.14        76.14
452.145       76.15
452.15        76.11
452.16        76.17
454.01        76.30
454.02        76.31
454.03        76.32
454.04        76.33
454.05        76.34
474.01        75.01
474.02        75.04
474.03        75.05
474.04        75.06
474.05        75.07
474.06        75.08
474.07        75.09
474.08        75.10
474.09        75.11
474.10        75.12
474.11        75.02
476.01        75.25
476.02        75.26
476.03        75.27
476.04        75.28
476.05        75.29
476.06        75.31
476.07        75.33
476.08        75.34
476.09        75.35
478.01        75.50
478.02        75.51
478.03        75.52
478.04        75.53
478.05        75.54
478.06        75.55
478.99        76.35
606.01        130.02
606.02        130.08
606.03        130.03
606.04        130.04
606.05        130.05
606.055       130.16
606.06        130.06
606.07        130.07
606.08        130.09
606.09        130.10
606.10        136.02
606.105       136.14
606.11        136.03
606.12        136.04
606.13        136.05
606.14        136.06
606.15        136.07
606.16        136.08
606.165       136.22
606.17        136.09
606.18        136.10
606.19        136.11
606.20        136.12
606.21        130.11
606.22        130.12
606.23        131.22
606.24        130.17
606.25        132.12
606.26        132.11
606.27        136.18
606.28        136.21
606.29        136.20
606.30        130.21
612.01        97.01
612.02        97.08,
              97.13
612.03        97.04
612.04        97.16
612.05        97.05
612.06        97.14
612.07        97.07
612.08        97.17
612.09        97.04
612.10        97.30
612.11        97.31
612.12        136.13
612.13        97.09
618.01        90.01
618.02        90.02
618.03        90.03
618.04        90.04
618.05        90.05
618.06        90.06
618.07        90.07
618.08        90.08
618.09        90.09
618.095       90.10
618.10        90.11
618.11        90.12
618.12        90.13
618.13        90.14
618.14        90.15
618.15        90.16
618.155       90.17
618.16        90.18
618.17        90.19
618.18        90.20
624.01        138.01
624.02        138.02
624.025       138.06
624.03        138.03
624.04        138.04
624.05        138.05
624.07        138.07
624.073       138.10
624.076       138.10
624.08        138.08
624.09        138.15
624.10        138.11
624.11        138.09
624.12        138.16
624.13        138.14
624.14        138.13
624.15        138.12
624.16        138.18
630.01        134.01
630.02        134.02
630.03        134.03
630.04        134.04
630.05        134.05
630.06        134.06
630.07        134.07
630.08        134.08
630.09        134.09
630.10        134.10
630.11        134.11
630.12        134.12
630.13        134.13
630.14        134.14
634.01        91.01
634.02        91.02
634.03        91.03
634.04        91.04
634.05        91.05
634.06        91.06
634.07        91.07
634.08        91.08
634.09        91.09
634.10        91.10
636.001       135.01
636.01        135.02
636.02        135.04
636.03        135.04
636.04        135.06
636.045       135.06
636.05        135.06
636.06        135.07
636.075       135.29
636.08        135.09
636.09        135.13
636.11        135.14
636.12        135.15
636.125       135.18
636.15        132.07
636.16        135.24
636.17        135.16
636.18        132.13
636.19        135.17
636.20        135.30
636.21        135.31
636.22        135.25
636.23        135.22
636.24        135.21
636.25        135.19
636.26        135.11
636.27        135.08
642.01        131.01
642.02        131.08
642.03        131.20
642.035       131.25
642.04        131.09
642.05        131.10
642.06        131.21
642.07        131.35
642.08        136.15
642.09        131.02
642.10        131.03
642.11        131.04
642.12        131.06
642.125       131.06
642.13        131.07
642.14        131.11
642.145       131.26
642.146       131.27
642.15        131.12
642.155       131.31
642.16        131.13
642.17        131.14
642.18        131.15
642.19        131.16
642.20        131.28
642.21        131.17
642.22        131.18
642.23        131.10
642.24        131.19
642.25        131.02
642.26        131.32
642.30        132.14
642.31        131.23
642.32        131.23
642.33        131.23
642.34        131.33
642.35        131.30
648.01        132.01
648.02        132.02
648.03        132.03
648.04        132.04
648.05        132.05
648.06        132.06
648.07        132.08
648.08        132.09
648.09        132.15
648.10        132.10
660.01        98.01
660.02        98.02
660.03        98.03
660.04        98.04
660.05        98.05
660.06        98.06
660.07        98.07
660.075       98.08
660.08        98.09
660.09        98.10
660.10        98.11
660.11        98.12
660.12        98.13
660.13        98.14
660.14        98.15
660.15        98.16
666.01        133.01
666.02        133.02
666.03        133.03
666.04        133.04
666.05        133.05
666.06        133.06
666.07        133.07
666.08        133.08
666.085       133.21
666.09        133.09
666.10        133.13
666.11        133.10
666.115       133.11
666.13        133.12
666.14        133.10
666.15        133.14
666.16        133.15
666.17        133.18
666.18        133.19
666.99        133.99
668.01        99.01
668.02        99.02
668.03        99.03
668.04        99.04
668.05        99.05
668.06        99.06
668.07        99.07
668.08        99.08
668.09        99.09
672.01        137.01
672.02        137.02
672.025       137.12
672.03        137.03
672.04        137.04
672.05        137.10
672.06        137.06
672.07        137.07
672.085       137.08
672.09        137.09
672.095       137.09
672.10        95.25
672.12        137.15
672.13        137.05
672.14        131.05
672.15        137.11
672.16        137.13
672.17        137.14
674.01        92.01
674.02        92.02
674.03        92.03
674.04        92.04
674.05        92.05
698.02        130.99
698.03        130.18
698.04        130.99
698.05        130.19
698.07        71.25
810.01        110.01
810.99        110.99
818.01        111.01
818.99        111.99
826.01        112.01
826.02        112.02
826.03        112.03
826.04        112.04
826.99        112.99
850.01        113.01
850.02        113.02
850.99        113.99
860.01        114.01
860.99        114.99
870.01        115.01
870.02        115.02
870.03        115.03
870.04        115.04
870.05        115.05
870.99        115.99
874.01        116.01
874.99        116.99
876.01        117.01
876.02        117.02
876.03        117.03
890.01        36.001
890.02        36.002
890.03        36.003
1020.01       93.01
1020.02       93.02
1020.03       93.03
1020.04       93.04
1020.99       93.99
1024.01       93.15
1024.02       93.16
1024.03       93.17
1026.01       93.30
1028.01       94.01
1028.02       94.02
1028.03       94.03
1028.04       94.04
1028.05       94.05
1028.06       94.06
1028.99       94.99
1040.01       52.01
1040.02       52.02
1040.03       52.03
1040.04       52.04
1040.05       52.05
1044.01       53.01
1044.02       53.02
1044.03       53.03
1044.04       53.04
1044.05       53.05
1044.06       53.06
1044.07       53.07
1044.08       53.08
1044.09       53.09
1044.99       53.99
1048.01       54.01
1048.02       54.02
1048.03       54.03
1048.04       54.04
1054.01       50.01
1054.02       50.02
1060.01       51.01
1060.02       51.02
1060.03       51.03
1060.031      51.04
1060.04       51.05
1060.05       51.06
1060.06       51.07
1060.07       51.08
1060.99       51.99
1210.01       152.001
1210.02       152.002
1210.03       152.003
1210.04       152.004
1210.05       152.005
1210.06       152.006
1210.99       152.999
1212.01       152.020
1212.02       152.021
1212.03       152.022
1214.01       152.035
1214.02       152.036
1214.03       152.037
1216.01       152.050
1216.02       152.051
1216.03       152.052
1216.04       152.053
1216.05       152.054
1216.06       152.055
1216.07       152.056
1218.01       152.070
1218.02       152.071
1218.03       152.072
1218.04       152.073
1218.05       152.074
1218.06       152.075
1230.01       153.001
1230.02       153.002
1230.03       153.003
1230.04       153.004
1230.05       153.005
1231.01       153.020
1231.02       153.021
1231.03       153.022
1231.04       153.023
1231.05       153.024
1231.06       153.025
1231.07       153.026
1231.99       153.999
1232.01       153.040
1232.02       153.041
1232.03       153.042
1232.04       153.043
1233.01       153.055
1233.02       153.056
1233.03       153.057
1234.01       153.070
1234.02       153.071
1235.01       153.085
1235.02       153.086
1240.01       154.001
1240.02       154.002
1240.03       154.003
1240.04       154.004
1240.05       154.005
1240.06       154.006
1242.01       154.020
1242.02       154.021
1244.01       154.035
1244.02       154.036
1246.01       154.050
1246.02       154.051
1246.03       154.052
1246.04       154.053
1246.05       154.054
1248.01       154.065
1248.02       154.066
1250.01       154.080
1250.02       154.081
1250.03       154.082
1250.04       154.083
1252.01       154.095
1252.02       154.096
1252.03       154.097
1252.04       154.098
1252.05       154.099
1252.06       154.100
1254.01       154.115
1254.02       154.116
1254.03       154.117
1254.04       154.118
1254.05       154.119
1254.06       154.120
1254.07       154.121
1256.01       154.135
1256.02       154.136
1256.03       154.137
1256.04       154.138
1256.05       154.139
1256.06       154.140
1256.07       154.141
1256.08       154.142
1256.09       154.143
1256.10       154.144
1256.11       154.145
1256.12       154.146
1258.01       154.160
1258.02       154.161
1258.03       154.162
1258.04       154.163
1258.05       154.164
1258.06       154.165
1258.07       154.166
1258.08       154.167
1260.01       154.180
1260.02       154.181
1260.03       154.182
1260.04       154.183
1260.05       154.184
1262.01       154.195
1262.02       154.196
1262.03       154.197
1263.01       154.210
1264.01       154.225
1264.02       154.226
1266.01       154.240
1266.02       154.241
1266.03       154.242
1268.01       154.255
1268.02       154.256
1268.03       154.257
1268.04       154.258
1268.05       154.259
1269.01       154.270
1269.02       154.271
1269.03       154.272
1269.04       154.273
1269.05       154.274
1270.01       154.285
1270.02       154.286
1270.03       154.287
1270.04       154.288
1270.05       154.289
1271.01       154.300
1271.02       154.301
1271.03       154.302
1271.04       154.303
1271.05       154.304
1272.01       154.315
1272.02       154.316
1272.03       154.317
1272.04       154.318
1272.05       154.319
1273.01       154.330
1273.02       154.331
1273.03       154.332
1273.04       154.333
1273.05       154.334
1274.01       154.345
1274.02       154.346
1274.03       154.347
1274.04       154.348
1274.05       154.349
1275.01       154.360
1275.02       154.361
1275.03       154.362
1275.04       154.363
1275.05       154.364
1276.01       154.375
1276.02       154.376
1276.03       154.377
1277.01       154.390
1277.02       154.391
1277.03       154.392
1278.01       154.405
1278.02       154.406
1278.03       154.407
1279.01       154.420
1279.02       154.421
1279.03       154.422
1279.04       154.423
1279.05       154.424
1280.01       154.435
1280.02       154.436
1280.03       154.437
1282.01       154.450
1282.02       154.451
1282.03       154.452
1282.04       154.453
1282.05       154.454
1282.06       154.455
1282.07       154.456
1282.08       154.457
1282.09       154.458
1282.10       154.459
1282.11       154.460
1282.12       154.461
1282.13       154.462
1282.14       154.463
1282.15       154.464
1282.16       154.465
1282.17       154.466
1282.18       154.467
1282.19       154.468
1282.20       154.469
1282.21       154.470
1282.22       154.471
1282.23       154.472
1282.24       154.473
1282.25       154.474
1282.26       154.475
1282.27       154.476
1282.28       154.477
1282.29       154.478
1282.30       154.479
1282.31       154.480
1282.32       154.481
1282.33       154.482
1282.34       154.483
1282.35       154.484
1282.36       154.485
1282.37       154.486
1282.38       154.487
1284.01       154.500
1284.02       154.501
1284.03       154.502
1284.04       154.503
1284.05       154.504
1286.01       154.515
1286.02       154.516
1286.03       154.517
1286.04       154.518
1286.05       154.519
1286.06       154.520
1288.01       154.535
1288.02       154.536
1288.03       154.537
1288.04       154.538
1288.05       154.539
1288.06       154.540
1288.07       154.541
1288.08       154.542
1288.09       154.543
1288.10       154.544
1288.11       154.545
1288.12       154.546
1288.13       154.547
1288.14       154.548
1288.15       154.549
1288.16       154.550
1288.17       154.551
1290.01       154.565
1290.02       154.566
1290.03       154.567
1292.01       154.580
1292.02       154.581
1292.03       154.582
1292.04       154.583
1292.99       154.999
1404.01       150.001
1404.02       150.002
1404.03       150.003
1404.04       150.004
1404.05       150.005
1404.06       150.006
1404.99       150.099
1406.01       150.020
1406.02       150.021
1406.03       150.022
1406.04       150.023
1406.05       150.024
1406.06       150.025
1406.07       150.026
1408.01       150.040
1408.02       150.041
1408.03       150.042
1408.04       150.043
1408.99       150.099
1410.01       150.055
1410.02       150.056
1410.03       150.057
1410.04       150.058
1410.05       150.059
1412.01       150.070
1412.02       150.071
1412.03       150.072
1412.99       150.099
1416.01       150.085
1416.02       150.086
1416.03       150.087
1416.04       150.088
1416.05       150.089
1416.06       150.090
1416.07       150.091
1416.08       150.092
1416.09       150.093
1416.10       150.094
1416.11       150.095
1416.12       150.096
1416.13       150.097
1416.14       150.098
1416.15       150.099
1416.99       150.999
1420.01       151.01
1420.02       151.02
1420.99       151.99
1422.01       151.15
1422.02       151.16
1422.03       151.17
1422.04       151.18
1422.99       151.99
1424.01       151.30
1424.02       151.31
1424.99       151.99
1426.01       151.45
1602.01       95.01
1602.02       95.02
1602.03       95.03
1602.04       95.04
1602.05       95.05
1602.06       95.06
1602.07       95.07
1602.08       95.08
1602.09       95.09
1602.10       95.10
1602.11       95.11
1602.12       95.12
1602.13       95.13
1602.99       95.99
              
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
282      - -         TSO Table V
240      3-5-1956    TSO Table IV
-        6-17-1957   TSO Table II
1985-19  7-1-1985    TSO Table VIII
1986-3   4-7-1986    32.01
1989-06  6-19-1989   TSO Table VIII
1991-06  10-10-1991  150.020—
                     150.026
1993-05  10-4-1993   TSO Table I
1997-11  12-1-1997   TSO Table I
2000-14  12-18-2000  153.085,
                     153.086
2001-02  1-18-2001   TSO Table VIII
2004-05  5-3-2004    34.15
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
3        3-30-1898   TSO Table VIII
45       1-3-1900    97.30
37       6-4-1901    116.01,
                     116.99
24       2-15-1904   98.14
4        7-3-1905    TSO Table VIII
38       1-8-1906    31.030
39       2-4-1907    TSO Table VII
                     151.01,
12       5-25-1908   151.02,
                     151.30,
                     151.31
533      6-5-1939    90.18
172      10-1-1945   TSO Table III
178      5-6-1946    TSO Table I
180      9-11-1946   TSO Table IV
181      9-11-1946   TSO Table IV
182      9-11-1946   TSO Table IV
183      9-11-1946   TSO Table IV
191      6-7-1948    TSO Table III
192      8-2-1948    TSO Table III
203      8-6-1951    72.116
206      5-5-1952    TSO Table I
209      10-6-1952   TSO Table III
210      2-2-1953    TSO Table I
213      10-5-1953   TSO Table IV
214      11-2-1953   TSO Table I
220      5-3-1954    TSO Table III
221      6-7-1954    TSO Table IV
225      8-30-1954   54.01
224      9-20-1954   TSO Table I
235      10-3-1955   TSO Table III
238      2-6-1956    TSO Table VIII
247      2-4-1957    TSO Table III
248      2-4-1957    71.24
                     33.01,
                     54.02—
                     54.04,
                     72.134,
                     73.14,
                     73.15,
                     74.50,
                     76.12,
                     76.13,
                     90.03,
                     90.12,
                     92.01—
260      4-1-1957    92.05,
                     93.02—
                     93.04,
                     93.15,
                     93.16,
                     99.01—
                     99.03,
                     99.06,
                     99.07,
                     110.01,
                     114.01,
                     132.15,
                     137.15
262      10-7-1957   TSO Table III
263      11-4-1957   TSO Table IV
266      3-3-1958    TSO Table I
268      6-2-1958    TSO Table III
271      12-29-1958  TSO Table I
266      3-2-1959    TSO Table I
286      1-2-1961    TSO Table VI
290      5-1-1961    TSO Table I
300      4-1-1963    TSO Table I
304      8-5-1963    TSO Table III
306      9-3-1963    TSO Table I
307      1-6-1964    TSO Table III
316      4-4-1966    TSO Table III
329      2-20-1967   32.15
338      8-7-1967    TSO Table III
344      12-4-1967   33.02
345      2-5-1968    TSO Table I
349      8-5-1968    TSO Table I
350      11-4-1968   TSO Table VIII
353      3-12-1969   53.08
2-1970   2-2-1970    53.04,
                     53.07
356      6-1-1970    TSO Table IV
361      6-7-1971    TSO Table I
366      7-3-1972    135.30
368      11-6-1972   TSO Table V
369      11-6-1972   32.30,
                     32.31
373      12-18-1972  TSO Table VI
                     152.002—
                     152.006,
                     152.020—
                     152.022,
371      2-5-1973    152.035—
                     152.037,
                     152.050—
                     152.055,
                     152.070—
                     152.075
372      4-2-1973    TSO Table I
376      12-3-1973   51.01,
                     51.02
381      4-2-1974    53.02
385      6-3-1974    72.131
389      8-5-1974    TSO Table V
391      11-4-1974   31.046
                     34.03,
392      12-2-1974   34.08—
                     34.10
395      4-7-1975    34.04
400      11-3-1975   TSO Table III
401      6-7-1976    93.30
402      6-30-1976   34.11
403      9-13-1976   TSO Table I
408      6-20-1977   TSO Table I
413      10-17-1977  TSO Table I,
                     TSO Table II
414      5-15-1978   TSO Table I
415      7-10-1978   TSO Table I
417      11-6-1978   TSO Table I
420      12-11-1978  TSO Table I
419      1-15-1979   TSO Table VI
427      4-21-1980   93.01
428      4-21-1980   51.03
429      5-21-1980   TSO Table III
430      7-7-1980    98.07
437      4-30-1981   111.01,
                     111.99
441      1-4-1982    TSO Table I
442      4-5-1982    TSO Table I
444      6-7-1982    34.12
448      12-20-1982  TSO Table I
451      5-21-1983   TSO Table III
452      8-1-1983    TSO Table III
462      5-7-1984    76.14
463      5-7-1984    34.04
465      7-2-1984    33.02
                     94.01—
469      9-4-1984    94.06,
                     94.99
470      9-4-1984    91.01—
                     91.10
                     112.01—
472      9-17-1984   112.04,
                     112.99
473      10-1-1984   99.05
468      10-15-1984  TSO Table I
477      3-18-1985   TSO Table III
478      3-18-1985   76.15
480      5-21-1985   TSO Table III,
                     TSO Table V
482      6-17-1985   52.05
484      7-15-1985   TSO Table III
485      11-4-1985   36.001—
                     36.003
488      2-3-1986    31.047
                     151.15—
487      4-7-1986    151.18,
                     151.99
502      5-4-1987    TSO Table I
500      6-1-1987    98.08
501      6-1-1987    112.03
504      6-1-1987    90.16
507      10-8-1987   31.045
                     53.03,
509      12-7-1987   53.05,
                     53.06
516      2-22-1988   30.01
517      3-21-1988   35.15
521      7-11-1988   52.04
523      10-3-1988   33.02
524      10-17-1988  32.17
525      12-19-1988  34.06
528      1-23-1989   132.15
530      3-6-1989    51.99
535      9-5-1989    34.05
537      11-6-1989   34.08
540      12-4-1989   34.07
555      3-18-1991   53.09
557      4-1-1991    31.060—
                     31.062
559      6-3-1991    TSO Table V
562      1-21-1992   34.01
563      2-3-1992    TSO Table III
566      3-2-1992    50.02
568      5-4-1992    TSO Table III
569      5-4-1992    TSO Table V
572      5-18-1992   53.01
577      9-21-1992   TSO Table III
582      3-1-1993    TSO Table III
585      5-3-1993    90.20
586      5-17-1993   TSO Table VIII
587      6-21-1993   TSO Table I
588      8-16-1993   32.45—
                     32.48
589      8-16-1993   TSO Table VII
592      10-4-1993   35.16
594      1-3-1994    32.15
596      3-7-1994    34.15
597      3-7-1994    34.16
599      4-18-1994   52.02,
                     53.02
600      5-2-1994    TSO Table VIII
601      6-6-1994    34.04
603      7-18-1994   90.17
604      7-18-1994   51.01,
                     51.02
608      4-3-1995    50.01
610      11-6-1995   TSO Table VIII
615      4-15-1996   91.06
616      4-15-1996   TSO Table III
617      5-20-1996   TSO Table I
619      10-21-1996  74.62
620      10-21-1996  34.13
621      10-21-1996  32.32
622      12-16-1996  34.14
623      12-19-1996  31.015
626      3-3-1997    33.03
628      4-7-1997    34.08
630      6-2-1997    34.07
631      7-7-1997    51.05,
                     51.06
410      7-11-1997   97.31
634      3-16-1998   152.056
635      9-8-1998    TSO Table III
636      10-5-1998   98.16
637      10-19-1998  98.11
638      12-21-1998  TSO Table V
639      1-4-1999    53.01
640      1-19-1999   53.01
641      2-1-1999    TSO Table VIII
644      3-1-1999    34.08,
                     34.10
646      8-2-1999    76.14
647      8-2-1999    92.01
649      10-4-1999   99.08
650      10-18-1999  34.17
651      11-8-1999   112.01
                     154.001—
                     154.006,
                     154.020,
                     154.021,
                     154.035,
                     154.036,
                     154.050—
                     154.054,
                     154.065,
                     154.066,
                     154.080—
                     154.082,
                     154.095—
                     154.100,
                     154.115—
                     154.121,
                     154.135—
                     154.146,
                     154.160—
                     154.167,
                     154.180—
                     154.184,
                     154.195—
                     154.197,
                     154.225,
                     154.226,
                     154.240—
                     154.242,
                     154.255—
                     154.259,
                     154.270—
652      11-8-1999   154.274,
                     154.286—
                     154.289,
                     154.300—
                     154.304,
                     154.315—
                     154.319,
                     154.330—
                     154.349,
                     154.360—
                     154.364,
                     154.375—
                     154.377,
                     154.390—
                     154.392,
                     154.405—
                     154.407,
                     154.420—
                     154.424,
                     154.435—
                     154.437,
                     154.450—
                     154.487,
                     154.500—
                     154.504,
                     154.515—
                     154.520,
                     154.535—
                     154.551,
                     154.580—
                     154.583,
                     154.999
654      12-20-1999  31.015
655      1-3-2000    TSO Table V
657      2-24-2000   31.075—
                     31.080
658      3-6-2000    TSO Table VIII
665      4-3-2000    35.17
662      6-19-2000   TSO Table IX
666      7-17-2000   154.565—
                     154.567
667      9-18-2000   35.18
670      12-4-2000   32.03
                     31.077,
                     32.15,
671      12-4-2000   32.17,
                     34.03,
                     34.08,
                     34.10
                     153.001—
                     153.005,
                     153.020—
                     153.026,
                     153.040—
672      12-18-2000  153.043,
                     153.056,
                     153.057,
                     153.070,
                     153.071,
                     153.999
673      12-18-2000  34.10
675      6-4-2001    51.99
676      6-4-2001    52.02
677      6-4-2001    52.02,
                     53.02
678      6-18-2001   34.07
679      7-16-2001   TSO Table VIII
680      8-6-2001    154.435—
                     154.437
682      12-17-2001  32.02
683      12-17-2001  51.05,
                     51.06
685      3-4-2002    32.03
686      4-1-2002    35.19
687      10-7-2002   38.01—
                     38.08
689      2-3-2003    51.99
690      2-3-2003    53.01
696      6-2-2003    51.05,
                     51.06
                     150.085—
699      9-2-2003    150.099,
                     150.999
700      11-3-2003   32.02
702      3-15-2004   51.99
703      3-15-2004   53.01
706      9-20-2004   51.99
707      9-20-2004   53.01
                     51.02,
708      9-20-2004   51.05,
                     51.06
709      12-6-2004   31.095—
                     31.100
713      4-4-2005    52.03
714      12-5-2005   TSO Table VIII
                     31.015,
                     34.03,
715      12-5-2005   34.05—
                     34.07,
                     34.18
717      3-20-2006   TSO Table VIII
718      5-5-2006    150.055—
                     150.059
719      6-5-2006    32.17
721      12-4-2006   37.01—
                     37.09
722      2-5-2007    151.45
724      3-19-2007   53.06
                     154.181,
                     154.240,
                     154.241,
725      5-7-2007    154.255—
                     154.259,
                     154.270—
                     154.274
                     154.316,
726      5-7-2007    154.331,
                     154.361
727      5-7-2007    154.452
728      5-7-2007    154.537,
                     154.540
729      7-2-2007    35.21
730      7-2-2007    35.20
731      7-16-2007   51.05
732      8-6-2007    TSO Table III
733      11-2-2007   150.024
736      1-7-2008    51.99
737      1-7-2008    53.01
738      3-17-2008   38.09
741      10-6-2008   99.09
743      3-2-2009    117.01—
                     117.03
745      3-16-2009   30.01
751      12-14-2009  153.005
752      12-14-2009  153.056
753      12-14-2009  153.021
755      2-23-2010   153.021
756      6-21-2010   51.08
757      6-21-2010   TSO Table V
758      7-19-2010   TSO Table VIII
760      8-3-2010    53.06
761      10-18-2010  TSO Table VIII
764      12-13-2010  154.241
765      12-13-2010  154.348
766      12-13-2010  154.539
767      12-13-2010  154.548
768      4-18-2011   154.210
769      5-16-2011   36.001
779      9-17-2012   35.19
780      9-17-2012   51.04
784      4-15-2013   TSO Table IX
787      7-15-2013   51.05
                     75.50—
                     75.55,
788      9-9-2013    75.99,
                     76.30—
                     76.34
790      2-18-2014   35.22
793      9-15-2014   TSO Table VIII
795      11-17-2014  TSO Table III
797      1-20-2015   TSO Table VIII
799      6-15-2015   51.05
                     36.015—
                     36.018,
                     36.030,
                     36.031,
                     36.045—
                     36.047,
                     36.060—
                     36.062,
                     36.075—
                     36.079,
                     36.090,
                     36.105—
800      10-19-2015  36.108,
                     36.120—
                     36.125,
                     36.140—
                     36.142,
                     36.155—
                     36.158,
                     36.170,
                     36.171,
                     36.185—
                     36.187,
                     36.200—
                     36.204,
                     36.999
802      12-14-2015  90.21
803      2-1-2016    30.02
805      3-21-2016   31.049
806      5-16-2016   34.19
811      11-14-2016  36.060
812      11-28-2016  TSO Table V
814      12-12-2016  TSO Table V
815      3-20-2017   TSO Table II,
                     TSO Table V
818      8-21-2017   39.01
842      1-24-2019   30.01
843      1-24-2019   53.01
844      1-24-2019   51.99
847      2-18-2019   31.048
849      3-4-2019    32.16
850      3-4-2019    TSO Table VIII
861      9-16-2019   35.01
862      9-16-2019   34.07
-        2-18-2020   30.01
-        2-27-2020   TSO Table V
900      4-20-2020   51.99
901      4-20-2020   53.01
902      5-18-2020   31.076
903      5-18-2020   31.077
909      10-19-2020  31.001
910      12-21-2020  36.215
911      4-19-2021   96.01—
                     96.07
912      4-19-2021   31.115—
                     31.117
913      6-21-2021   34.05
                     36.230—
917      7-19-2021   36.255,
                     36.999
918      9-20-2021   TSO Table VIII
919      10-18-2021  150.099
920      11-15-2021  51.05
                    
 
