CITY OF XENIA, OHIO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-18 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through December 23, 2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
DIRECTORY OF OFFICIALS
(2023)
CITY COUNCIL
William Urschel, President
Wesley Smith, Vice-President
Sarah Mays, Mayor
Cody Brannum
Levi Dean
Rebekah Dean
Thomas Scrivens
CITY OFFICIALS
City Manager and Director of Public Safety Brent W Merriman
Finance Director                           Ryan Duke
Law Director                               Donnette A. Fisher
Assistant City Manager                     Jared Holloway
Administrative Services (HR) Director      Jackie Potter
Assistant Finance Director                 Jason Lake
City Engineer/Public Service Director      Chris Berger
Fire & EMS Chief                           Kenneth Riggsby
Police Chief                               Chris Stutes
City Planner                               Brian Forschner
Economic Development Coordinator           Steve Brodsky
Community Development Coordinator          Ryan Baker
Municipal Court Judge                      David McNamee
City Clerk                                 Michelle D. Johnson
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
CITY OF XENIA, OHIO
ORDINANCE NO. 07 - 06
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF XENIA, OHIO,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED
IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the City of Xenia,
Ohio, are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and
substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety,
and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its
affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Ohio empower and
authorize the City of Xenia, Ohio, to revise, amend, restate, codify, and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
   WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Xenia, Ohio, has authorized a
general compilation, revision, and codification of the ordinances of the City
of Xenia, Ohio, of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinance in book form, and various ordinances and resolutions that have been
passed by City Council since the last update and revision (December 9, 2004)
have been included in this recodification; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing, with the cooperation of the Law
Department and the City Clerk's Office, has accomplished a complete
recodification of the Codified Ordinances of the City; and
   WHEREAS, certain changes were made in the Codified Ordinances to bring City
law into conformity with State law, where and as required.
   NOW, THEREFORE, the City of Xenia hereby ordains:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the City of Xenia, Ohio, as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Xenia, Ohio."
   Section 2. Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following:
   INDEX
   CHARTER
   PART TWO: ADMINISTRATION CODE
      TITLE TWO - General Provisions
         Chap. 200.   Definitions.
         Chap. 202.   Codified Ordinances.
         Chap. 204.   Official Standards.
         Chap. 206.   Public Meetings.
         Chap. 208.   Contracts and Purchasing.
         Chap. 210.   Civil Defense.
         Chap. 212.   Elections. (Repealed)
      TITLE FOUR - Legislation
         Chap. 220.   City Council.
         Chap. 222.   Ordinances and Resolutions.
         Chap. 224.   Mayor.
         Chap. 226.   Community Funding.
      TITLE SIX - Administration
         Chap. 230.   City Manager.
         Chap. 232.   City Clerk.
         Chap. 234.   Department of Law.
         Chap. 236.   Department of Finance.
         Chap. 238.   Department of Public Safety.
         Chap. 240.   Division of Police.
         Chap. 242.   Division of Fire.
         Chap. 244.   Department of Public Service.
         Chap. 248.   Department of Parks and Recreation.
         Chap. 250.   Department of Community Development.
         Chap. 252.   Department of Human Resources.
         Chap. 254.   Health Services.
         Chap. 260.   Employees Generally.
      TITLE EIGHT - Boards, Commissions and Committees.
         Chap. 270.   Planning and Zoning Commission.
         Chap. 272.   Board of Zoning Appeals.
         Chap. 274.   Civil Service Commission.
         Chap. 276.   Community Relations Commission.
         Chap. 278.   Board for Recreation, Arts and Cultural Activities.
         Chap. 280.   City Beautification Commission. (Repealed)
         Chap. 282.   Loan Trust Fund Committee.
         Chap. 284.   Traffic Commission.
         Chap. 286.   Pretreatment Review Committee.
         Chap. 288.   Tax Appeals Committee.
      TITLE TEN - Judiciary
         Chap. 290.   Municipal Court.
      TITLE TWELVE - Fees
         Chap. 298.   Fee Schedule.
   PART FOUR: TRAFFIC CODE
      TITLE TWO - Administration, Enforcement and Penalties
         Chap. 402.   Definitions.
         Chap. 404.   Enforcement; Impounding.
         Chap. 406.   Traffic Control Map and File.
         Chap. 408.   Penalties.
         Chap. 410.   Traffic Commission.
      TITLE FOUR - Public Ways and Traffic Control Devices
         Chap. 411.   Definitions.
         Chap. 412.   Obstruction and Special Uses of Public Ways.
         Chap. 414.   Traffic Control Devices.
         Chap. 416.   Pedestrians.
      TITLE SIX - Operation and Vehicles
         Chap. 430.   Definitions.
         Chap. 432.   Operation Generally.
         Chap. 434.   O.V.I.; Reckless Operation; Speed.
         Chap. 436.   Licensing; Accidents.
         Chap. 438.   Safety and Equipment.
         Chap. 440.   Commercial and Heavy Vehicles.
         Chap. 442.   Drivers of Commercial Vehicles.
         Chap. 444.   Bicycles and Motorcycles Generally.
         Chap. 446.   Licensing of Bicycles and Motorized Bicycles.
         Chap. 448.   Snowmobiles, Off-Highway Motorcycles and All-Purpose
Vehicles.
      TITLE EIGHT - Parking
         Chap. 450.   Definitions.
         Chap. 452.   Parking Generally.
         Chap. 454.   Parking Meters.
   PART SIX: GENERAL OFFENSES
         Chap. 604.   Definitions.
         Chap. 606.   General Provisions.
         Chap. 608.   Administration, Enforcement and Public Service.
         Chap. 612.   Alcoholic Beverages.
         Chap. 618.   Animals.
         Chap. 620.   Civil Rights.
         Chap. 622.   Clean Indoor Air.
         Chap. 624.   Drugs.
         Chap. 630.   Gambling.
         Chap. 636.   Offenses Relating to Persons.
         Chap. 642.   Offenses Relating to Property.
         Chap. 648.   Peace Disturbances.
         Chap. 660.   Safety, Sanitation and Health.
         Chap. 666.   Sex Related Offenses.
         Chap. 672.   Theft and Fraud.
         Chap. 676.   Vegetation.
         Chap. 678.   Weapons and Explosives.
         Chap. 698.   Penalties and Sentencing.
   PART EIGHT: BUSINESS REGULATION AND TAXATION CODE
      TITLE TWO - Business Regulation
         Chap. 802.   Definitions.
         Chap. 804.    Advertising and Handbills.
         Chap. 808.   Cable Communications.
         Chap. 810.   Carnivals, Circuses and Other Exhibitions.
         Chap. 820.   Escorts and Escort Services.
         Chap. 840.   Massage Establishments and Practitioners.
         Chap. 850.   Peddlers and Solicitors.
         Chap. 858.   Sexually Oriented Businesses and Employees.
         Chap. 860.   Pet Shops and Kennels.
         Chap. 862.   Taxicabs.
      TITLE FOUR - Taxation
         Chap. 878.   Definitions.
         Chap. 880.   Income Tax.
         Chap. 882.   Hotel-Motel Tax.
         Chap. 884.   Motor Vehicle License Tax.
         Chap. 886.   Community Reinvestment Areas.
   PART TEN: STREETS, UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SERVICE CODE
      TITLE TWO - Street and Sidewalk Areas
         Chap. 1020.   Excavations.
         Chap. 1022.   Sidewalks, Curbs and Gutters.
         Chap. 1024.   Construction Materials Requirements.
      TITLE FOUR - Utilities
         Chap. 1038.   Definitions.
         Chap. 1040.   Utilities Billing.
         Chap. 1042.   Water.
         Chap. 1044.   Sewers Generally.
         Chap. 1046.   Sewer User Charges.
         Chap. 1048.   Industrial Pretreatment Standards.
         Chap. 1049.   Stormwater Management.
         Chap. 1050.   Water and Sewer Extension Policy.
         Chap. 1052.   Water and Sewer Extension Cost Recovery Fee Procedures.
         Chap. 1054.   Water and Sewer Extension Projects.
         Chap. 1056.   Electricity.
         Chap. 1058.   Gas.
      TITLE SIX - Other Public Services
         Chap. 1059.   Definitions.
         Chap. 1060.   Sanitation Service.
         Chap. 1062.   Parks.
         Chap. 1064.   Emergency Alarms and Communications.
   PART TWELVE: PLANNING AND ZONING CODE
      TITLE TWO - Planning
         Chap. 1218.   Definitions.
         Chap. 1220.   Planning and Zoning Commission.
         Chap. 1222.   Land Use.
         Chap. 1224.   Urban Renewal.
         Chap. 1226.   Erosion and Sediment Control.
         Chap. 1228.   Flood Damage Reduction.
      TITLE FOUR - Subdivision Regulations
         Chap. 1230.   General Provisions and Definitions.
         Chap. 1232.   Administration, Enforcement and Penalty.
         Chap. 1234.   Platting Procedure.
         Chap. 1236.   Design Standards.
         Chap. 1238.   Improvements.
      TITLE SIX - Zoning
         Chap. 1240.   General Provisions and Definitions.
         Chap. 1242.   Administration, Enforcement and Penalty.
         Chap. 1244.   Board of Zoning Appeals.
         Chap. 1246.   Amendments.
         Chap. 1248.   Districts Generally and Zoning Map.
         Chap. 1250.   R-1A, R-1B and R-1C One-Family Residential Districts.
         Chap. 1252.   R-2 Two-Family Residential Districts.
         Chap. 1254.   R-3 Multi-family Residential District.
         Chap. 1256.   R-4 Multi-family Residential District.
         Chap. 1258.   R-O Residential Office District.
         Chap. 1260.   O-1 Office District.
         Chap. 1262.   H-1 Hospital District.
         Chap. 1264.   B-1 Convenience Shopping Business District.
         Chap. 1266.   B-2 Central Business District.
         Chap. 1268.   B-3 Highway-Oriented Business District.
         Chap. 1270.   B-4 Planned Shopping Center Business District.
         Chap. 1272.   I-1 Light Industrial District.
         Chap. 1274.   I-2 Heavy Industrial District.
         Chap. 1276.   I-O Industrial Office District.
         Chap. 1278.   A-1 Agricultural District.
         Chap. 1280.   GRP Ground Water Resource Protection Overlay District.
         Chap. 1281.   Urban Design Overlay District.
         Chap. 1282.   Planned Unit Development.
         Chap. 1284.   Mobile Homes and Mobile Home Parks.
         Chap. 1286.   Nonconforming Uses.
         Chap. 1288.   Off-Street Parking, Loading and Waiting Areas.
         Chap. 1290.   Signs.
         Chap. 1292.   Sexually Oriented Business Facilities.
         Chap. 1294.   Supplementary Regulations.
         Chap. 1296.   Wireless Telecommunications Facility.
   PART FOURTEEN: BUILDING AND HOUSING CODE
      TITLE TWO - Building Standards
         Chap. 1420.    Ohio Basic Building Code.
         Chap. 1422.   OBOA One, Two and Three Family Dwelling Code.
         Chap. 1424.   National Electric Code.
      TITLE FOUR - Miscellaneous Building Regulations
         Chap. 1438.   Definitions.
         Chap. 1440.   Administration, Permits and Fees.
         Chap. 1442.   Assistance to the Physically Handicapped.
         Chap. 1444.   Awnings, Marquees and Signs.
         Chap. 1450.   Fire Alarm Systems and Smoke Detectors.
         Chap. 1452.   Fire Limits.
         Chap. 1454.   Flood Damage Prevention. (Repealed)
         Chap. 1468.   Moving of Buildings.
         Chap. 1472.   Nuisances and Dangerous Structures.
         Chap. 1474.   Numbering of Buildings.
      TITLE SIX - Housing
         Chap. 1488.   Definitions.
         Chap. 1490.   BOCA National Property Maintenance Code.
         Chap. 1492.   Minimum Housing Standards.
   PART SIXTEEN: FIRE PREVENTION CODE
         Chap. 1600.   Definitions.
         Chap. 1610.   Ohio Fire Code.
         Chap. 1620.   Hazardous Materials and Chemicals.
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      TABLE A.   Franchises.
      TABLE B.   Easements.
      TABLE C.   Vacating of Streets and Alleys.
      TABLE D.   Dedication and Plat Approval.
      TABLE E.   Acquisition and Disposal of Real Property.
      TABLE F.   Lease of Real Property.
      TABLE G.   Street Grade Levels and Change of Street Name.
      TABLE H.   Annexation and Detachment of Territory.
      TABLE I.   Zoning Map Changes.
      TABLE J.   Changes to Traffic Control Map.
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
      Historical References to Ohio Revised Code
      References to 1997 Code
      References to Resolutions
      References to Ordinances
   Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets for other public places; nor
shall such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature
or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
   Section 4. Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by City Council and the Clerk of the City Council is hereby
authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the Office
of the Clerk.
   Section 5. City Clerk shall cause a notice of the enactment of this
ordinance, containing the title of this ordinance and a summary of the new
matters covered by it to be published one time within 20 days after passage in
a newspaper of general circulation in the City.
   Section 6. Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in
Section 7, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places
of the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties, and regulations
therein contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly
signed, attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and
notices thereof as required by law have been given.
   Section 7. This Ordinance is an emergency to immediately allow the
electronic code to be made available to staff, residents, vendors, businesses,
etc., distribution of hard copies, and installation of Folio Views on selected
users' computers for immediate access.
Passed:   February 8, 2007
Effective:   February 9, 2007
                           /s/
                           Patricia L. Felton
                           President, Xenia City Council
Attest:
/s/            
Michelle D. Johnson
Clerk, Xenia City Council
XENIA CITY CHARTER
Effective November 8, 2022
EFFECTIVE DATES:
Originally Adopted on August 30, 1917
Re-adopted in its entirety on November 3, 1998 (Ordinance 98-48)
Amendments:
   Article XVI – Enacted November 2, 2010 (Ordinance 2010-31)
   Section 8.05 – Enacted November 6, 2018 (Ordinance 2018-25)
   Articles V, VIII, and X – Enacted on May 3, 2022 (Ordinance 2021-27)
   Articles IV, IX, and XIII – Enacted on August 2, 2022 (Ordinance 2022-08)
   Articles XIV and XV – Repealed on August 2, 2022 (Ordinance 2022-08)
   Articles VI and VII – Enacted on November 8, 2022 (Ordinance 2022-24)
   Article XVI – Repealed on November 8, 2022 (Ordinance 2022-24)
   Articles I, II and III – Enacted on November 8, 2022 (Ordinance 2022-25)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREAMBLE
ARTICLE I - NAME
   Section
1.01   Name
ARTICLE II - FORM OF GOVERNMENT
   Section
2.01   City Council – City Manager Plan
ARTICLE III - POWERS OF THE CITY
   Section
3.01   General Powers Granted
   Section
3.02   Exercise of Powers
   Section
3.03   Construction of Powers
   Section
3.04   Rights and Liability of the City; Limitations
ARTICLE IV - CITY COUNCIL
   Section
4.01   Powers of the Council
   Section
4.02   Composition, Qualifications, Election, and Terms
   Section
4.03   Mayor
   Section
4.04   Chairperson and Vice Chairperson of the Council
   Section
4.05   Compensation and Expenses
   Section
4.06   Vacancies
   Section
4.07   Removal from Office
   Section
4.08   Prohibitions and Restrictions
   Section
4.09   Inquiries
   Section
4.10   City Clerk
   Section
4.11   Council Meetings
ARTICLE V - LEGISLATION
   Section
5.01   Ordinances, Resolutions and Motions
   Section
5.02   Ordinances in General
   Section
5.03   Emergency Ordinances
   Section
5.04   Emergency Ordinances for Appropriations
   Section
5.05   Resolutions
   Section
5.06   Procedural Motions
   Section
5.07   Authentication and Recording of Ordinances and Resolutions
   Section
5.08   Initiative and Referendum
   Section
5.09   Adoption of Technical Codes by Reference
   Section
5.10   Codification
ARTICLE VI - CITY MANAGEMENT
   Section
6.01   Appointed Officials
   Section
6.02   City Manager
   Section
6.03   Finance Director
   Section
6.04   Law Director
ARTICLE VII - ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS
   Section
7.01   General Provisions
   Section
7.02   Appointment of Department and Division Heads
   Section
7.03   Administrative Code
   Section
7.04   Safety Services
ARTICLE VIII - BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
   Section
8.01   Creation of Boards and Commissions
   Section
8.02   Boards and Commissions
   Section
8.03   Planning and Zoning Commission
   Section
8.04   Board of Zoning Appeals
   Section
8.05   Civil Service Commission
   Section
8.06   Charter Review Commission
ARTICLE IX - FINANCES
   Section
9.01   Fiscal Year
   Section
9.02   Uniform Tax Levy Law
   Section
9.03   Deposits and Investments
   Section
9.04   Operating Budget and Capital Improvement Plan
   Section
9.05   Annual Appropriation Ordinance
   Section
9.06   Appropriations and Expenditures
   Section
9.07   Payment of Claims
   Section
9.08   Contracting Procedures
   Section
9.09   Public Improvements by Force Account
   Section
9.10   Independent Audit
ARTICLE X – CIVIL SERVICE AND PERSONNEL
   Section
10.01   Civil Service
   Section
10.02   Classification of Civil Service
   Section
10.03   Civil Service Rules
   Section
10.04   Original Appointment
   Section
10.05   Promotions
   Section
10.06   Organizational Plan; Pay Plan; Fringe Benefits
   Section
10.07   Personnel Manual
ARTICLE XI - ELECTIONS
   Section
11.01   Rules for Elections
   Section
11.02   Petition for Place on Ballot
   Section
11.03   General Election Laws to Apply
   Section
11.04   General Initiative and Referendum Laws to Apply
   Section
11.05   General Recall Laws to Apply
ARTICLE XII - UTILITY REGULATION; FRANCHISES
   Section
12.01   Utility Regulation
   Section
12.02   Franchises
ARTICLE XIII - GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Section
13.01   Activities Prohibited; Penalties
   Section
13.02   Conflicts of Interest and Ethics
   Section
13.03   Open Meetings
   Section
13.04   Charter Amendments
   Section
13.05   Rules of Construction
   Section
13.06   Effect of Partial Invalidity
PREAMBLE
WE THE PEOPLE of the City of Xenia, Greene County, State of Ohio, in order to
exercise the power and full privileges of Home Rule (local self-government)
available to us under the Constitution of the State of Ohio, believing thereby
that a more efficient and capable conduct of municipal affairs may be obtained,
do ordain, adopt, and enact this Charter for the Government of the City of
Xenia, Ohio.
ARTICLE I - NAME
§ 1.01 NAME.
   The municipal corporation existing as the City of Xenia as its limits now
are, or may hereinafter be, shall continue to be a body politic and corporate
under the same name under this Charter and shall have perpetual succession as
such, with all powers of home rule granted under the Constitution and laws of
the State of Ohio, as amended.
ARTICLE II - FORM OF GOVERNMENT
§ 2.01 CITY COUNCIL – CITY MANAGER PLAN.
   The municipal government provided by this Charter shall be known as the
“City Council – City Manager Plan.” Pursuant to its provisions and subject only
to the limitations imposed by the Constitution of the State of Ohio and by this
Charter, all powers of the City shall be vested in an elected City Council,
hereinafter referred to as “the Council,” which shall enact local legislation,
adopt budgets, determine policies and appoint the City Manager, Finance
Director and Law Director, who shall execute the laws and administer the
government of the City. All powers of the City shall be exercised in the manner
prescribed by this Charter, or, if the manner be not prescribed, then in such
manner as may be prescribed by ordinance.
ARTICLE III - POWERS OF THE CITY
§ 3.01 GENERAL POWERS GRANTED.
   The City of Xenia shall have all powers and authority possible for a City to
have under the Constitution of the State of Ohio and laws of the State as fully
and completely as though they were specifically enumerated in this Charter. All
general laws of the State applicable to municipal corporations now existing, or
which may hereinafter be enacted, when not in conflict with the provisions of
this Charter, or with any ordinances enacted for its government, shall apply to
the government of the City of Xenia, Ohio. All ordinances of the City of Xenia
now in force, or when this Charter takes effect, and not inconsistent
therewith, shall continue in full force and effect until repealed, altered or
amended by the City of Xenia through its duly constituted authority for such
purpose, and herein provided for.
§ 3.02 EXERCISE OF POWERS.
   All powers and authority shall be exercised in the manner prescribed by this
Chater or, if not so prescribed, in the manner provided by the ordinances of
the City. When not prescribed in this Charter or by ordinance, then the powers
shall be exercised in the manner provided by the laws of the State.
§ 3.03 CONSTRUCTION OF POWERS.
   The powers and authority of the City under this Charter shall be liberally
construed in favor of the City, and the specific mention of particular powers
in this Charter shall not be construed as limiting in any way the General
Powers granted in this Article.
§ 3.04 RIGHTS AND LIABILITY OF THE CITY; LIMITATIONS.
   A.   Title to all real property shall be taken in the name of the City of
Xenia, Ohio.
   B.   The City may exercise any of its powers, perform any of its functions
and provide related financing, jointly or in cooperation, by contract or
otherwise, with the State of Ohio, any county, township, municipality or any
other political subdivision of Ohio or the divisions or agencies thereof; with
the United States government or any of its divisions or agencies; or any
individual, partnership, corporation or other type of entity, whether for
profit or nonprofit, unless prohibited by the Constitution of the State of
Ohio.
   C.   No property rights, interests, or ownership in real, personal or
intangible property vested in the City shall be affected by the adoption of
this Charter, nor shall any right be taken away or liability affected, or
prosecution or action for or against the City be abated or in any manner
altered or changed by such adoption.
ARTICLE IV - CITY COUNCIL
§ 4.01 POWERS OF THE COUNCIL.
   All legislative powers, rights and duties of the City shall be vested in the
City Council, except as otherwise provided in the Charter or the Constitution
of the State of Ohio. Without limitation of the foregoing, the Council shall
have and possess the following powers:
   A.   Taxes and Debts. The power to levy taxes and incur debts, subject to
the limitation imposed thereon by this Charter or the Constitution of the State
of Ohio.
   B.   Local Regulations. The power to adopt and to provide for the
enforcement, including penalties, of local police, sanitary and other similar
regulations as are not in conflict with the general laws of the State.
   C.   Departments, Divisions, Boards and Commissions. In addition to the
departments, divisions, Boards, Commissions and Committees required under this
Charter, the Council shall have the power to create and define the duties,
responsibilities and authorities of other offices, departments, divisions,
Boards, Commissions and Committees of the City as the Council deems necessary,
and the power to combine, change, alter or abolish any office, department,
division, board, commission, or committee so created by the Council.
   D.   Personnel. The power to fix the number of employees in the various
offices, departments, and divisions of the City administration and to fix the
rate of their compensation, hours of work and to provide such other fringe
benefits as deemed proper by the Council. The Council shall also have the power
to require such bonds as, in the opinion of the Council, are necessary for the
faithful discharge of the duties of the officers and employees of the City. The
premium for such bonds shall be paid by the City.
   E.   Municipal Utilities. The power to establish municipal utilities and to
set the rates charged for use of such utilities and services.
   F.   Franchises. The Council, in addition to all other rights and powers
granted to it under the general laws of the State, may grant permission to any
person, firm or corporation to construct and operate a public utility on,
across, under or above any public street or public ground within the City. The
Council may prescribe the kind and quality of service or product to be
furnished, the rate or rates to be charged therefor and any other terms
conducive to the public interest; provided that such grant of permission shall
not extend beyond twenty-five (25) years, but such grant may be amended or
renewed. All such grants, amendments or renewals shall be made subject to the
continuing right of the Council to provide reasonable regulations for the
adequacy of service and the maintenance and operation of such utilities with
reference to such streets and public grounds, including the right to require
reconstruction, relocation or discontinuance of appliances, materials or
equipment used by the franchisee in, on, across or under such streets and
public grounds as is, in the discretion of the Council, necessary for the
public interest.
   G.   Real Property.
      (1)   The power to acquire title to, or interests in, real property,
whether such property is acquired by the exercise of the power of eminent
domain, purchase, gift, lease, devise, bequest, in trust or otherwise.
      (2)   The power to sell, convey, lease, or grant the use of real property
owned by the City, or any rights therein, shall also be vested in the Council.
Such sale, conveyance, lease or grant of use shall be made only upon a
determination by Council, by resolution, that such property is not needed for
any municipal purpose or, in those cases in which real estate is offered only
for lease or use for a term, that it will not be needed for municipal purposes
during the term of the proposed lease or use or that such proposed lease or use
will not interfere with the property’s use for municipal purposes. Any sale,
conveyance, or lease shall be made only by negotiation, informal competition,
or formal bidding, as prescribed by Council in the resolution authorizing the
method of sale, conveyance, lease, or grant. The sale, conveyance, lease or
grant of use of real property owned by the City, or any rights therein, shall
be effective only upon the adoption of an ordinance by Council, approved by the
affirmative vote of at least four (4) members of the Council.
   H.   Personal Property.
      (1)   Council shall, by ordinance, prescribe rules and regulations for
the disposal of personal property belonging to the City that is no longer
needed for any municipal purposes or which is obsolete or unfit for the use for
which it was acquired. Such rules and regulations shall set forth procedures
and policies for the sale or disposal of such personal property, including when
such sale shall be by competitive bid, by auction, by internet auction, by
trade-in, or by such other methods as the ordinance may prescribe. In addition,
the rules and regulations shall include a dollar amount for the estimated value
of such personal property, which amount shall not be less than five thousand
dollars ($5,000), at which Council approval, by resolution, is required before
sale or disposal.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing and regardless of the property’s
value, the Council may, by resolution, authorize the sale of personal property
owned by the City that is not needed for any municipal purpose to the United
States, the State of Ohio, to any subdivision or agent of the United States or
the State of Ohio, or to any nonprofit corporation organized for a public or
charitable purpose, upon such terms as may be deemed proper by Council.
   I.   Rules of Council. The power to adopt Rules of Council to govern the
order of all meetings, to set forth the Council’s duties and privileges and
establish its rules of order, investigations, and other such related items;
provided, however, that such rules shall not be in conflict with the provisions
of this Charter. In the absence of adopting its own Rules of Council, Robert’s
Rules of Order shall be followed by the Council. In addition, the Council shall
have the power to establish rules of conduct for its members beyond those
specified in this Charter and may provide such sanctions for violations of such
rules as the Council deems appropriate.
   J.   All Other Powers. Council shall have and shall exercise all other
powers granted to it, as the legislative authority of the City, by the
Constitution of the State of Ohio, this Charter, and the general laws of the
State. There is hereby expressly reserved to the Council any residual home rule
powers not expressed directly in this Charter.
§ 4.02 COMPOSITION, QUALIFICATIONS, ELECTION, AND TERMS.
   A.   Composition. The Xenia City Council shall consist of seven (7) members,
including the Mayor, elected by the qualified electors of the City at-large.
   B.   Qualifications.
      (1)   Only qualified electors of the City who have physically lived in
the City for at least two (2) years immediately preceding the filing of a
nominating petition or declaration of intent to be a write-in candidate shall
be eligible to hold the office of Councilmember or Mayor.
      (2)   No member of the Council or the Mayor shall hold any other elective
public office or other office or employment that has been found to be
incompatible with the position of Councilmember or Mayor by the Ohio Attorney
General or the Ohio Ethics Commission, except where otherwise authorized by
this Charter.
   C.   Term. All elected members of the Council shall hold office for a term
of four (4) years, except as herein provided, and successors shall be elected
at the next general Municipal election before the expiration of their term of
office, which term of office shall be subject to recall, as hereinafter
provided.
§ 4.03 MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall serve as a Councilmember and have the right to vote on all
matters and issues before the Council but shall have no veto power. In addition
to the powers, rights, and duties as a member of the Council, the Mayor shall
be recognized as the head of the municipal government for all ceremonial and
non-administrative purposes and shall perform all other duties as required by
this Charter or the ordinances of the City.
§ 4.04 CHAIRPERSON AND VICE CHAIRPERSON OF THE COUNCIL.
   A.   Election. At its first regular meeting in January of each year, the
Council shall elect from its membership, including the Mayor, by a majority
vote of the members present, a Chairperson and a Vice Chairperson, who may also
be called the Chair and Vice Chair or the President and Vice President, of the
Council. No member of Council who has not served on the Council for at least
two (2) or more years, whether by current term or prior terms, shall be
eligible to serve as Chairperson or Vice Chairperson, unless all members of the
Council have served for less than two (2) years.
   B.   Term. The term of the Chairperson and a Vice Chairperson of Council,
respectively, shall run until his or her successor is elected in accordance
with Section 4.04 A., above.
   C.   Powers and Duties. In addition to the powers, rights, and duties as a
member of the Council, the Chairperson, when present, shall be the presiding
officer for all meetings of the Council, shall approve the agenda for all
meetings of the Council, and shall perform all other duties as required by this
Charter or the ordinances of the City. The Vice Chairperson shall fulfill the
duties of the Chairperson during the absence of the Chairperson.
   D.   Vacancies. In cases where the Chairperson or the Vice Chairperson
resigns, is removed or is unable or unqualified to serve as the Chairperson or
the Vice Chairperson, respectively, the Council shall elect a new Chairperson
or Vice Chairperson in accordance with Section 4.04 A., except that the new
Chairperson or the Vice Chairperson may be elected at the time the vacancy
occurs.
§ 4.05 COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES.
   A.   Councilmembers. The Council may determine the salaries of its members
by ordinance, but no ordinance adjusting such salaries shall become effective
until the date of the commencement of the terms of the members of Council,
including the Mayor, elected at the next regular municipal election. Any
ordinance adjusting the salaries of Councilmembers, including the Mayor, shall
be adopted by June 1st. Such ordinance may set the salaries for Council,
including the Mayor, per year of each year of the Councilmembers’ and Mayor’s
terms, but no salary adjustment shall exceed three percent (3%) per year.
   B.   Mayor and Chairperson of Council. In addition to their salaries as
members of Council, the Mayor and the Chairperson of Council shall each receive
an additional five hundred dollars ($500.00) yearly. If the Mayor is elected as
Chairperson of Council, he or she shall be entitled to receive an additional
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) yearly in total.
   C.   Expenses. The Council may provide, by ordinance, the methods whereby
the members of Council, including the Mayor, may receive their actual and
necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties of office.
§ 4.06 VACANCIES.
   A.   Vacancies. The office of a member of Council, including the Mayor,
shall be deemed vacant upon the death, resignation, disqualification, judicial
determination of mental incompetence, or removal from office, in the manner
authorized by this Charter, of the person holding such office.
   B.   Filling a Vacancy.
      (1)   When the office of a member of the Council, including the Mayor,
becomes vacant and thirty (30) months or less of that office’s term remains,
the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term by a majority vote of the
remaining members of the Council by appointment of a qualified person as a
member of the Council.
      (2)   When the office of a member of the Council, including the Mayor,
becomes vacant and more than thirty (30) months of that office’s term remains,
a qualified person shall be appointed by a majority vote of the remaining
members of the Council to serve until midnight of the first day of January
following the next regular municipal election, and at the next regular
municipal election, a qualified person shall be elected to serve the remainder
of the unexpired term, commencing at one minute after midnight on the first day
of January following his or her election.
      (3)   In the event the Council fails to fill a vacancy as provided in
this section within sixty (60) days from the date the vacancy was created, then
said vacancy shall immediately be filled by the appointment of a qualified
person as a member of the Council by the presiding judge of the municipal court
having territorial jurisdiction within the City.
   C.   Quorum. Notwithstanding the requirements of Section
4.11 B., if at any time the membership of the Council, including the Mayor, is
reduced to less than four (4) members, a majority of the remaining members
shall constitute a quorum solely for the purpose of appointing, by a majority
vote of the remaining members, additional Council members to raise the
membership to at least four (4) members.
§ 4.07 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   A.   Grounds for Removal. The Council shall be the judge of the
qualifications of its members, including the Mayor, and of the grounds for
removal from office of its members. Any member of the Council, including the
Mayor, may be removed from office and his or her office forfeited if he or she
is found to have committed any of the grounds for removal, hereinafter set
forth, by an affirmative vote of four (4) of the members of the Council.
Grounds for removal shall be:
      (1)   That the accused member does not possess or has violated the
qualifications for the office of Councilmember or Mayor prescribed by this
Charter;
      (2)   That the accused member has knowingly violated any prohibition or
restriction contained in of this Charter during his or her term of office;
      (3)   That the accused member has been convicted of any felony or a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
      (4)   That the accused member has failed to attend three (3) consecutive
regular Council meetings and such absences have not been excused by the
Council; or
      (5)   The accused member has violated a rule of conduct set forth by
Council in its Rules of Council for which the provided sanction is removal.
   B.   Public Hearing. A member of Council, including the Mayor, accused of
conduct constituting grounds for removal from office shall be entitled to a
public hearing prior to his or her removal, and may be represented at such
hearing by legal counsel. Notice of the time, date and place of the hearing
shall be published at least once in a newspaper of general circulation within
the City and on the City’s website, or by other electronic method, at least
seven (7) days prior to the hearing. At such hearing the Law Director or
special counsel, as designated by the Council, shall present the evidence and
testimony in support of the grounds for removal. Such hearing may be adjourned
from time to time without the necessity of any further publication of notice.
   C.   Subpoenas. Upon the request of the Law Director or other special
counsel presenting the charges for removal, or upon the request of the accused
member or his or her legal counsel, the Chairperson of Council, or the Vice
Chairperson if the Chairperson is the accused, shall have the power to and
shall issue subpoenas for witnesses and for the production of other evidence.
Any person who refuses to obey a lawful order issued in the exercise of such
powers may be found in contempt by the issuing officer, and the issuing officer
shall refer the matter to the municipal court for the determination of
punishment. The judge of the municipal court may fine such person found in
contempt the sum of not more than five hundred dollars ($500) per day for each
day such person refused or refuses to obey such order.
   D.   Presiding Officer at Hearing. The Council shall, upon a majority vote
by procedural motion, appoint an acting judge or a retired judge of any state,
county or municipal court in Ohio to act as the hearing officer. The hearing
officer shall have the power to administer oaths to witnesses at the public
hearing and shall preside at the public hearing.
   E.   Restriction on Voting. A member of the Council, including the Mayor,
who is accused of grounds for removal shall not vote on any matter pertaining
to his or her removal.
   F.   Appeals. A member of the Council, including the Mayor, who is removed
from office in accordance with this section shall have the right to appeal such
removal to the appropriate court.
§ 4.08 PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   A.   Ohio Ethics Law. The members of the Council, including the Mayor, shall
at all times and in all respects comply with Ohio Ethics Laws.
   B.   Appointment and Removal of Employees. Neither the Council nor any of
its members shall, in any manner, dictate the appointment or removal of any
City employee who the City Manager, the Finance Director or the Law Director
are authorized to appoint, but the Council may express its views and fully and
freely discuss with the appropriate appointed official anything pertaining to
the appointment and removal of their employees. This section does not prevent
the removal of the City Manager, the Finance Director or the Law Director
because of the Council’s disapproval of their respective personnel management
or their respective appointment or removal of employees.
   C.   Interference with Administration. Except for the purpose of inquiries
and investigations under Section 4.09, the members of the Council, including
the Mayor, shall deal with City officers and employees who are subject to the
direction and supervision of the City Manager, the Finance Director or the Law
Director through the City Manager, the Finance Director or the Law Director,
respectively, and neither the Council nor its members, including the Mayor,
shall in any way interfere with the daily administrative services of any City
department or employee by ordering or instructing action to be taken or not
taken with respect to the City’s daily administrative matters. This prohibition
does not apply to a Councilmember’s work with or relationship to boards or
commissions or staff representatives assigned to boards or commissions. In the
event any Councilmember violates the provisions of this Section 4.08 C., the
Council shall be notified and may take corrective action.
§ 4.09 INQUIRIES.
   The Council may cause an inquiry to be made into any affairs of the City.
Further, the Council may cause an inquiry to be made of any City department,
division, office, agency, official or employee when the Council has reasonable
cause to believe that there has been a violation of any of the provisions of
this Charter, or any federal, state, or local law, rule, or ordinance. The
inquiry may be conducted by any combination of Councilmembers, City employees
or appropriate outside agencies as determined by the Council. The Council shall
have all other powers necessary to enforce compliance with the provisions of
this Charter or any federal, state, or local law, rule, or ordinance.
§ 4.10 CITY CLERK.
   A.   Appointment. The Council shall appoint, by a majority vote of the
members of the Council, an officer of the City who shall serve as the secretary
to the Council and who shall have the title of City Clerk. The City Clerk shall
be under the daily direction of the Finance Director but shall serve at the
pleasure of the Council and may be removed from office, with or without cause,
notice or hearing by a majority vote of the members of Council.
   B.   Duties. The City Clerk shall:
      (1)   Give notice of Council meetings and the meetings of the various
Boards, Commissions and Committees of the City to their members, appointed
officials, department heads and the public, in accordance with the provisions
of this Charter, the Rules of Council, or the ordinances of the City;
      (2)   Keep the Clerk’s Journal of Council’s proceedings, and record
therein all matters required under this Charter;
      (3)   Publish notice of each public hearing before the Council and/or the
various Boards, Commissions and Committees of the City, in accordance with this
Charter, the Rules of Council, or the ordinances of the City;
      (4)   Publish notification of each ordinance adopted and each resolution
passed by the Council, in accordance with Article V of this Charter;
      (5)   Authenticate and record in the Clerk’s Journal all ordinances
adopted and resolutions passed by the Council; and
      (6)   Perform such other duties as are assigned to the Clerk by this
Charter, the ordinances and resolutions of the City, the Rules of Council, or
as otherwise directed by the Council.
   C.   Acting City Clerk. Should a vacancy in the office of City Clerk, or
during periods of absence or disability of the City Clerk lasting thirty (30)
days or more, the Council shall, by a majority vote of the members present,
appoint an Acting City Clerk. In cases where the City Clerk is absent from his
or her office for a period of less than thirty (30) days due to vacation,
illness or other leave, the Finance Director shall appoint, by administrative
directive, an Acting City Clerk to fill the temporary vacancy. The Acting City
Clerk shall have all the duties and functions of the City Clerk while so
acting.
   D.   Other Employment. The City Clerk and Acting City Clerk may hold other
office or position of employment with the City.
§ 4.11 COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   A.   Meetings.
      (1)   Regular Meetings: Regular meetings of the Council shall be held at
least twice a month, unless cancelled for a lack of agenda items, at the times
and places as the Council may determine.
      (2)   Special Meetings: Special meetings of the Council may be called by
a vote of the Council, taken at any regular or special meeting thereof, upon a
majority vote of the members present, or may be called by the Chairperson or by
any three (3) or more members of the Council. The City Clerk, or in his or her
absence, the Finance Director, shall cause notice of each special meeting to be
made by email, by phone or other personal contact to each member of the
Council, including the Mayor, not less than twenty-four (24) hours preceding
the time of the special meeting; provided, however, that in the event a special
meeting is called by a vote of the Council taken at a regular or special
meeting from which any member of the Council was absent, notice of the special
meeting shall be given only to each absent member in the manner hereinbefore
described.
      (3)   Emergency Meetings: Emergency meetings may be called by the
Chairperson or by any three (3) members of the Council. The City Clerk, or in
his or her absence, the Finance Director, shall cause notice to be given to
each member of the Council, including the Mayor, by personal contact as soon as
the emergency meeting is called.
   B.   Quorum. A majority of the members of the Council shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Council, but a
lesser number, greater than one (1), may meet to compel, by a majority vote of
the members present, the attendance of absent members in such a manner and
under such penalty as may be provided by ordinance or the Rules of Council.
   C.   Open Meetings. All meetings of the Council shall comply with Section
13.03 of this Charter and the record of Council’s proceedings, known as the
Clerk’s Journal, shall be open for inspection by the public.
   D.   Record of Proceedings. A journal of the proceedings of the Council, to
be known as the “Clerk’s Journal,” shall be kept to:
      (1)   Record the minutes of all meetings of the Council;
      (2)   Record, in full, all ordinances adopted by the Council, and the
vote upon the question of adoption of each ordinance coming before the Council;
      (3)   Record, in full, all resolutions passed by the Council, and the
vote upon the question of passage of each resolution coming before the Council;
and
      (4)   Record the vote upon each procedural motion coming before the
Council.
ARTICLE V - LEGISLATION
§ 5.01 ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   A.   Actions of the Council. Formal actions of the City shall be by
ordinance or resolution. Ordinances shall be used for the exercise of the
legislative powers of the City granted by the Constitution of the State of Ohio
or by the Ohio Revised Code, including enactments of the Council that set forth
rules or regulations regarding the conduct of the City’s government and its
citizens of a permanent or general nature and shall have the full force and
effect of law. Resolutions shall be used for the exercise of the administrative
powers of the City, including orders of the Council of a special, temporary, or
less permanent nature or for other matters not required by this Charter to be
done by ordinance. Procedural motions shall be used for procedural matters of
the City, including the organization or conducting the business of the Council,
for establishing or modifying the Rules of Council, and for appointments made
by the Council to the various Boards, Commissions or Committees.
   B.   Action Requiring an Ordinance.
      The following legislative actions of the City Council shall be by
ordinance:
      (1)   Adopting or amending of an administrative code to establish, alter,
or abolish any City department, office, board, commission, or other agency;
      (2)   Establishing any offense and the imposition or provision of
imposition of any penalty for such offense;
      (3)   Levying of taxes, except when such action may be taken by
resolution under the Ohio Revised Code;
      (4)   Granting, renewing, or extending a franchise;
      (5)   Regulating the rate charged for its services by a public utility;
      (6)   Authorizing the borrowing of money or appropriations for the
expenditure of public funds;
      (7)   Authorizing the purchase, conveyance or lease of real property or
any title or interest therein;
      (8)   Regulating land use and development;
      (9)   Exercise the police powers granted the City by Article XVIII of the
Constitution of the State of Ohio; or
      (10)   Amending or repealing any ordinance previously adopted.
   C.   Action Requiring a Resolution. Administrative actions, or other
official actions of the City Council that are not required by this Charter to
be taken by ordinance, may be taken by resolution.
   D.   Action Requiring a Procedural Motion. Actions by the City Council to
conduct its own affairs in procedural matters, including its organization and
elections under Section
4.04 of this Charter, establishing or modifying Rules of Council, and for
appointments made by the Council may be made by procedural motion.
§ 5.02 ORDINANCES IN GENERAL.
   A.   Form. Every proposed ordinance shall be introduced in writing and in
the form required for final adoption, after review by the Law Director, or his
or her designee, on the question of correct legal form or possible
contradiction with the U.S. Constitution or the Constitution of the State of
Ohio, this Charter, existing ordinances, or general laws of the State. No
ordinance shall contain more than one (1) subject, which shall be clearly
expressed in its title; provided, however, that appropriation ordinances may
contain various subjects, accounts, and amounts for which moneys are
appropriated, and an ordinance amending or enacting sections of the City Code
may contain more than one title, chapter, section or subsection containing more
than one subject. The enacting clause shall be “The City of Xenia hereby
ordains…”. Any ordinance that repeals or amends an existing ordinance or part
of the Xenia City Code shall set out in full the ordinance, sections, or
subsections to be repealed or amended, and shall indicate matters to be omitted
by enclosing it in brackets or by strikeout type and shall indicate new matters
by underscoring or by italics. Any ordinance, section or subsection so amended
shall be repealed.
   B.   Procedure. An ordinance may be introduced by any member of Council at
any regular or special meeting of the Council. Upon introduction of any
proposed ordinance, the City Clerk shall distribute a copy to each Council
member and appointed official, shall file a copy in the office of the City
Clerk, and shall publish the ordinance, by title or by a brief summary thereof,
together with notice setting out the time and place for a public hearing
thereon and for its consideration by the Council. Notice of the public hearing
shall be published at least seven (7) days prior to the scheduled public
hearing.
   C.   Public Hearing. A public hearing on the proposed ordinance shall be
held not earlier than seven (7) days following publication of the notice of
such hearing and may be held separately or in connection with a regular or
special meeting of the City Council. After the public hearing, Council may
adopt the proposed ordinance, with or without amendment, or reject it.
   D.   Amendment. If, after the public hearing, Council amends the ordinance
and the amendment is a matter of substance, as determined by a majority vote of
the members of Council who are present, the ordinance may not be voted upon
until it has been subjected to the procedures required in the case of a newly
introduced ordinance under Subsection B. of this section.
   E.   Adoption and Publication. The vote on the question of adoption of each
ordinance shall be taken by roll call and entered into the Clerk’s journal. No
ordinance shall be adopted except upon the affirmative vote of a majority of
the members of Council who are present, unless otherwise required by this
Charter. After its by this Charter. After its adoption, the Clerk shall publish
the ordinance again, together with a notice of its adoption. As used in this
section, the term “publish” means to post on the City’s website within seven
(7) days of adoption and either to print in one or more newspapers of general
circulation in the City or to post in full in not less than three (3) public
places in the City, as determined by Council, within twenty (20) days of
adoption, the ordinance by title or by a brief summary thereof.
   F.   Effective Date. Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, every
adopted ordinance shall become effective thirty (30) days after adoption or at
any later date specified therein.
§ 5.03 EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   A.   Emergency Ordinances. To meet a public emergency affecting the peace,
health, safety, or welfare of the inhabitants of the City, or for the
preservation of their lives or property, or to insure the necessary daily
operations of a Municipal department or public utility, the Council may adopt
one or more emergency ordinances, but such emergency ordinances may not levy
taxes (except when incidental to incurring debt); grant, renew or extend a
franchise (except one affecting health or incidental to incurring debt);
regulate the rate charged by a public utility for its services, or grant any
special privileges.
   B.   Procedure; Adoption. An emergency ordinance shall be introduced in the
form and manner provided for ordinances generally, except that it shall be
plainly designated as an emergency ordinance and shall contain, after the
enacting clause, a declaration stating that an emergency exists and describing
it in clear and specific terms. An emergency ordinance may be adopted with or
without amendment or rejected at the meeting at which it is introduced, but the
affirmative vote of five (5) members of Council shall be required for adoption,
except as otherwise provided in Section
5.04. An emergency ordinance shall become effective upon adoption or at such
time and date as it may by its terms specify. After adoption, the ordinance
shall be published as prescribed for other adopted ordinances. Emergency
ordinances, including ordinances for emergency appropriations, shall not be
subject to referendum.
   C.   Automatic Repeal. Every emergency ordinance, except one made pursuant
to Section
5.04 of this Charter, or one authorizing or otherwise adopted in connection
with the borrowing of money and/or the levying of taxes with respect to such
borrowing, or one authorizing the purchase, conveyance or lease of real
property or the title or interest therein, shall automatically stand repealed
as of the sixty-first (61st) day following the date on which it was adopted,
but this shall not prevent the reenactment of the ordinance in the manner
specified in Section 5.02 or this section. No emergency ordinance shall be
extended beyond its repeal date by the adoption of another emergency ordinance.
Contract rights that vest pursuant to an emergency ordinance shall not be
impaired or abridged by the repeal of such ordinance. An emergency ordinance
may also be repealed by adoption of a repealing ordinance in the same manner
specified in Section
5.02.
§ 5.04 EMERGENCY ORDINANCES FOR APPROPRIATIONS.
   To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, safety, property, or the
public welfare, or to meet an emergency in the daily operations of a City
department, division or agency, City Council may make supplemental or amended
appropriations. Such appropriations shall be made pursuant to an emergency
ordinance in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.03; provided, however, that appropriations made by emergency ordinance shall
be adopted upon the affirmative vote of at least four (4) members of Council
and such emergency ordinance shall not be automatically repealed.
§ 5.05 RESOLUTIONS.
   A.   Resolutions shall be in written form and may be introduced by any
member of Council at any regular or special meeting of the City Council. The
City Clerk shall distribute a copy to each Councilmember and appointed official
prior to the meeting at which the resolution is to be introduced. A resolution
may be passed, with or without amendment, or rejected by the City Council at
the meeting at which it is introduced, and no waiting period or hearing shall
be required. The vote on the question of passage of each resolution shall be
taken by roll call and entered into the Clerk’s journal. No resolution shall be
adopted except upon the affirmative vote of a majority of the members of
Council who are present, unless otherwise required by this Charter.
   B.   No waiting period, notice, or hearing shall be required for a
resolution and a resolution shall become effective immediately upon its passage
or at such time and date as it may specify. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
Council may accept public comment upon any resolution before it upon a motion
to entertain public comment, duly seconded, and approved by a majority vote of
the members present.
   C.   The Clerk shall publish notice of the passage of a resolution, by title
or a brief summary thereof, on the City’s website within seven (7) days of its
passage.
§ 5.06 PROCEDURAL MOTIONS.
   Consistent with Section
5.01 of this Charter, City Council may take actions that are procedural in
nature, such as organizing or conducting the business of the City Council,
establishing or modifying the Rules of Council, or making appointments to
boards, commissions or committees by procedural motion. Action on a procedural
motion shall be made by a member of Council and duly seconded. The vote on a
procedural motion may be by roll call or by voice vote, as determined by
Council in the Rules of Council, and shall be carried upon the affirmative vote
of a majority of the members of Council who are present. The procedural motion
and the vote thereon shall be entered into the Clerk’s Journal. No waiting
period, notice, hearing or publication shall be required for a procedural
motion and it shall be effective immediately unless otherwise stated in the
motion.
§ 5.07 AUTHENTICATION AND RECORDING OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   All ordinances and resolutions passed by Council shall be signed by the
presiding officer and authenticated by the City Clerk; however, the failure or
refusal of such officers to sign such ordinance or resolution shall not
invalidate an otherwise properly enacted ordinance or resolution. The Clerk
shall record in full in the Clerk’s Journal or other record prescribed by
Council all ordinances and resolutions adopted by Council. The City Clerk or a
duly authorized deputy to said Clerk shall, upon the request of any person and
upon the payment of any fee established by Council, certify true copies of any
ordinance or resolution, which certified copies shall be admissible as evidence
in any court.
§ 5.08 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM.
   Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, ordinances providing for the
exercise of any powers of government granted by the Constitution of the State
of Ohio or delegated by the Ohio General Assembly to the City may be proposed
and submitted to the electors of the City by initiative petition. Except as
otherwise provided in this Charter, the effective date of an ordinance passed
by the City Council may be suspended until such ordinance is approved by the
electors of the City by referendum petition. If the Council is required to pass
more than one ordinance to complete and pay for any public improvement, the
referendum shall apply only to the first ordinance to be passed and not to any
subsequent ordinance in the series relating thereto.
§ 5.09 ADOPTION OF TECHNICAL CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The City Council may, by ordinance, adopt any standard code of technical
regulations prepared by the State or any department, board or other agency of
the State, or any standard or model ordinance or code prepared and promulgated
by a public or private organization including, but not limited to, code and
regulations pertaining to fire, fire hazards, fire prevention, plumbing
regulations, electrical regulations, building regulations, housing regulations,
environmental regulations and such other matters as the Council may determine
to be appropriate for adoption and incorporation by reference. The ordinance
adopting any such standard code shall state the date and source of such
standard code and shall not be required to contain the entire code so adopted.
The ordinance adopting any such standard code may also adopt and incorporate by
reference any future amendments to such standard codes and upon the ordinance
stating that such future amendments are adopted for incorporation by reference,
no further action by the Council to adopt such future amendments shall be
required.
§ 5.10 CODIFICATION.
   A.   Codification. By a majority vote of the members elected to Council, the
Council may cause the ordinances of the City to be revised, rearranged,
codified, or recodified and published in book form and/or electronically. Such
revision, rearrangement, codification, or recodification shall be done by
ordinance, and may contain new matters therein. A current service supplementing
such revision, rearrangement, codification or recodification or publication
shall be maintained in the manner prescribed by Council.
   B.   Xenia City Code. Within three (3) years after adoption of this Charter,
and at least every five (5) years thereafter, the City Council shall provide
for the preparation of a general codification of all City ordinances to be
published in bound or loose-leaf form or by means of electronic media, together
with this Charter and any amendments thereto, and other matters as the Council
may specify. This compilation shall be known as the “Xenia City Code” or “City
Code.” Copies of the Code shall be furnished to City officers, placed in
libraries and public offices or made available on the internet for free public
reference, and made available for purchase by the public at cost.
ARTICLE VI: CITY MANAGEMENT
§ 6.01 APPOINTED OFFICIALS.
   A.   Appointed Officials. The management and administration of the City
government shall be vested in three appointed officials, the City Manager, the
Finance Director, and the Law Director, who shall be appointed by the City
Council in accordance with this Charter.
   B.   Administrative Steering Committee.
      (1)   There is hereby established an Administrative Steering Committee of
the City to provide policy direction and guidance on building security,
information technology issues and projects, human resources and personnel
management and any other topics or issues affecting the departments and
divisions under the direction and control of the appointed officials.
      (2)   The Administrative Steering Committee shall consist of the City
Manager, the Finance Director and the Law Director, and at the discretion of
the Xenia Municipal Court Judge, may also consist of the Clerk of Court of the
Xenia Municipal Court.
   C.   Annual Evaluations. The City Council shall evaluate the City Manager,
Finance Director, and Law Director on an annual basis.
   D.   Removal. The City Manager, Finance Director, or Law Director may be
removed by Council by the affirmative vote of five (5) members of the Council.
The Appointed Official shall be given at least ten (10) days’ notice prior to
the meeting at which his or her removal will be considered. In the intervening
period, the Appointed Official may be suspended with or without pay, or as
otherwise required in the Appointed Official’s employment contract.
§ 6.02 CITY MANAGER.
   A.   Appointment and Qualifications. The City Council, by a majority vote of
its total membership, shall select, appoint, contract with, and fix the
compensation of a qualified individual for the position of City Manager.
   B.   Powers and Duties of the City Manager. The City Manager shall be the
chief executive and administrative officer (CEO) of the City and shall be
recognized by the courts for civil process involving the City. The City Manager
shall be responsible to the Council for the administration of all City affairs
placed in the Manager’s charge by or under this Charter. The City Manager shall
have the following powers, duties, and functions:
      (1)   Appoint, employ, or hire City employees and department or division
heads, when such positions are authorized by Council, and suspend, remove, or
otherwise discipline City employees and department or division heads in
accordance with the City’s Personnel Manual, with the exception of those under
the direct supervision of the Council, the Finance Director or the Law
Director. The City Manager may authorize any administrative officer who is
subject to his or her direction and supervision to exercise these powers with
respect to subordinates in that officer’s department, division, office, or
agency.
      (2)   Execute, on behalf of the City, all contracts, agreements, bonds,
notes, conveyances, evidences of indebtedness and any other instruments to
which the City is a party, except as otherwise required or provided by this
Charter or Ohio law.
      (3)   Direct and supervise the administration of all departments,
offices, and agencies of the City, except those under the direct supervision of
the Finance Director or the Law Director or as otherwise provided by this
Charter or by law.
      (4)   Attend City Council meetings and make recommendations to the
Council concerning the affairs of the City. The City Manager shall have the
right to take part in discussion but shall not vote. The City Manager’s office
shall also provide staff support services for the Council.
      (5)   Prepare and submit the annual City budget and capital programs to
the Council.
      (6)   See that all laws, provisions of this Charter and acts of the
Council, subject to enforcement by the City Manager or by officers subject to
the Manager’s direction and supervision, are faithfully executed.
      (7)   Make an annual “State of the City” address prior to March 1st of
the next year, which address shall be made available to the public.
      (8)   Make such other reports as the Council may require concerning the
operation of City departments, offices, and agencies subject to the City
Manager’s direction and supervision.
      (9)   Act as the Public Safety Director for the City.
      (10)   Perform such other duties as are specified in this Charter or as
may be required by the City Council.
   C.   Acting and Interim City Manager.
      (1)   Should a vacancy in the office of the City Manager occur, or during
periods of temporary absence or disability of the City Manager lasting thirty
(30) days or more, the Assistant City Manager shall serve as the Interim City
Manager, unless a majority of the Council appoints another Interim City Manager
to fill the temporary vacancy.
      (2)   In cases where the City Manager is vacant from his or her office
for a period of less than thirty (30) days due to vacation, illness or other
leave, the Assistant City Manager shall serve as the Acting City Manager,
unless the City Manager appoints another to serve as Acting City Manager in his
or her absence, by administrative directive.
§ 6.03 FINANCE DIRECTOR.
   A.   Appointment and Qualifications. The City Council, by a majority vote of
its total membership, shall select, appoint, contract with, and fix the
compensation of a qualified individual for the position of Finance Director.
   B.   Powers and Duties of the Finance Director. The Finance Director shall
be the chief fiscal officer (CFO) of the City and shall perform the functions
customarily assigned to the municipal auditor and/or treasurer under the
general laws of the State for municipal accounting, collection of taxes,
accounts and assessments and control of disbursements. The Finance Director
shall be the head of the Department of Finance and shall have the following
powers, duties, and functions:
      (1)   Act as the fiscal manager and advisor for the City and keep the
Council and the City Manager fully advised as to the financial condition of the
City.
      (2)   Issue all warrants for the payment of money by or on behalf of the
City and keep an accurate account of all taxes and assessments.
      (3)   Appoint, employ, or hire employees of the Finance Department, when
such positions are authorized by Council, and suspend, remove, or otherwise
discipline any such employees in accordance with the City’s Personnel Manual.
      (4)   Act as the custodian and manager of all monies of the City, keeping
and preserving the same in such manner and form as Council may by ordinance or
resolution direct, and keep an accurate account of all monies due to and all
receipts and disbursements made by the City, or its assets and liabilities, and
of all appropriations made by the Council.
      (5)   Assist the City Manager in the preparation and presentation of the
annual budget and capital plan for the City.
      (6)   Audit the accounts of the several departments of the City at least
once each fiscal year, unless requested to do so more frequently by Council,
and provide cash management services for the City.
      (7)   Prescribe the method of keeping the accounts of all City
departments, showing the receipt of all monies by such departments and the
disposition thereof, at such time as the Finance Director shall determine.
      (8)   Perform all other duties as may be required by Council, as well as
other persons holding the position of auditor or treasurer under the laws of
the State applicable to municipalities and not inconsistent with this Charter,
except that nothing contained herein shall be construed as to impose upon the
Finance Director any duty or responsibility imposed by State law which is not
required by this Charter.
   C.   Acting and Interim Finance Director.
      (1)   Should a vacancy in the office of the Finance Director occur, or
during periods of temporary absence or disability of the Finance Director
lasting thirty (30) days or more, the Assistant Finance Director shall serve as
the Interim Finance Director, unless a majority of the Council appoints another
Interim Finance Director to fill the temporary vacancy.
      (2)   In cases where the Finance Director is vacant from his or her
office for a period of less than thirty (30) days due to vacation, illness or
other leave, the Assistant Finance Director shall serve as the Acting Finance
Director, unless the Finance Director appoints another to serve as Acting
Finance Director in his or her absence, by administrative directive.
§ 6.04 LAW DIRECTOR.
   A.   Appointment and Qualifications. The City Council, by a majority vote of
its total membership, shall select, appoint, contract with, and fix the
compensation of a qualified individual for the position of Law Director. The
Law Director shall be an attorney licensed to practice in the State of Ohio on
the date of appointment.
   B.   Powers and Duties of the Law Director. The Law Director shall be the
chief legal officer of the City and the head of the Department of Law and shall
have the following powers, duties, and functions:
      (1)   Act as legal advisor to, and attorney for, the City and all of its
departments, agencies, officials, and employees, as directed by Council.
      (2)   Review every proposed ordinance and resolution to be presented to
the Council on the questions of correct legal form, possible contradictions
with existing ordinances, or conflict with the Charter or provisions of the
Constitution of the State of Ohio.
      (3)   Prepare all contracts, surety or indemnification bonds or other
instruments in writing in which the City is concerned and provide his or her
endorsement thereon for approval only as to the form and correctness thereof,
provided that bonds, notes and other debt obligations are exempted from this
requirement, and no contract or other written instrument shall be valid until
the Law Director gives endorsement thereon.
      (4)   Prosecute all misdemeanor offenses in the Xenia Municipal Court.
The Council may authorize the position of City Prosecutor, who shall be under
the supervision and direction of the Law Director.
      (5)   Appoint, employ, or hire employees of the Law Department, when such
positions are authorized by Council, and suspend, remove, or otherwise
discipline such employees in accordance with the City’s Personnel Manual.
      (6)   With the consent of Council, employ special counsel to handle
particular legal matters for the City. Contracts for special or outside legal
counsel may be executed by the Law Director or, upon Council approval by the
City Manager, and such special counsel may, when authorized by the Law
Director, exercise all or any part of the powers, duties and functions granted
to the Law Director under this section.
      (7)   Perform such other duties as Council may require or as provided by
law.
ARTICLE VIII: ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS
§ 7.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   A.   Established Departments. There shall be a Department of Finance, a
Department of Law, a Department of Public Safety, and a Department of Public
Service. Each established Department may consist of such divisions as are
established by the Council, by ordinance, and each established department and
division shall have such powers, duties, and functions as are prescribed by
Council, by ordinance.
   B.   Creation of Departments. The Council may establish, by ordinance, other
City departments and divisions thereof, in addition to those created by this
Charter, and Council shall prescribe the powers, duties, and functions of such
departments and divisions upon their establishment.
§ 7.02 APPOINTMENT OF DEPARTMENT AND DIVISION HEADS.
   A.   Department Heads.
      (1)   At the head of each Department there shall be a full-time or part-
time director. The City Manager shall serve as the Director of the Department
of Public Safety and shall appoint and may suspend, remove or otherwise
discipline, the directors of all departments, other than the Director of the
Department of Finance and the Director of the Department of Law, who shall be
appointed, disciplined and removed by Council.
      (2)   Each director shall be an administrative officer of the City. He or
she shall have supervision and control of the department he or she heads,
subject to the direction of the City Manager, except the Director of the
Department of Finance and the Department of Law, who shall be subject to the
direction of Council.
      (3)   With the approval of Council, the City Manager may appoint one (1)
person as the head of two (2) or more departments, except for the Department of
Finance and Department of Law.
   B.   Division Heads. For each division within each department, the appointed
official with authority over the department shall appoint, and may suspend,
remove, or otherwise discipline, a division head. The division head shall have
supervision and control of the division he or she heads, subject to the
direction of the director of the department.
§ 7.03 ADMINISTRATIVE CODE.
   Subject to the provisions of this Charter and after consultation with the
Administrative Steering Committee, the Council shall adopt, by ordinance, an
Administrative Code, which shall provide in detail the organization of the City
government, define the powers and duties of each organizational unit, and
determine the administrative procedures to be followed. Where the Charter,
Administrative Code, or ordinances of the City are silent, the officers and
employees of the City shall have and may exercise all powers, duties and
functions provided for similar officers and employees by State law; however,
provisions of the Charter, Administrative Code and ordinances of the City shall
supersede those of the State law in case of conflict.
§ 7.04 SAFETY SERVICES.
   The Public Safety Director may utilize volunteers, temporary and/or part-
time firefighters, emergency medical technicians, auxiliary police officers
and/or part-time police officers as a part of any manning requirement.
ARTICLE VIII: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 8.01 CREATION OF BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
   A.   Charter-Created Boards and Commissions. The following City Boards and
Commissions are hereby established:
      (1)   Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (2)   Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (3)   Civil Service Commission.
      (4)   Charter Review Commission.
   B.   Additional Boards and Commissions. In addition to those Boards and
Commissions enumerated above, the Council may create, alter, or abolish
additional boards and commissions by ordinance, or may establish standing and
select committees by resolution. If it creates any such board, commission or
committee, the Council shall establish its powers and duties, and establish
rules for its organization.
§ 8.02 BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
   A.   Qualifications. Members of the Planning and Zoning Commission, the
Board of Zoning Appeals, the Civil Service Commission, and the Charter Review
Commission shall be qualified electors of the City at the time of their
appointment by Council and during their respective terms of office and shall
hold no other elected or appointed office nor employment with the City, unless
otherwise authorized by this Charter. The qualifications for membership to any
Council-created board, commission or committee shall be established by Council
at the time of its creation.
   B.   Meetings.
      (1)   Each board, commission or committee shall meet as is necessary to
conduct and transact the business before it, and shall meet on the dates and at
the time established by said board, commission or committee by a majority vote
of all the members of the board, commission or committee; provided, however,
that in the case of a board, commission or committee created by the Council,
Council may establish the dates and times for such board, commission, or
committee’s meeting at the time of its creation.
      (2)   A majority of the voting members of each board, commission or
committee created pursuant to Section 8.01 of this Article shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of such board,
commission, or committee.
      (3)   Each board, commission or committee created pursuant to Section
8.01 of this Article shall conduct its meetings in compliance with Section
13.03 of this Charter.
      (4)   Rules providing for the number and the manner of calling regular
and special meetings, and to provide for the conduct and government of such
meetings, may be adopted by a majority vote of the members of each board,
commission or committee created pursuant to Section
8.01 of this Article; provided, however, that such rules shall not conflict
with the provisions of this Charter or any ordinance passed by the Council. In
the absence of adopting its own rules, each board, commission, or committee
shall follow the Rules of Council authorized under Section
4.01 I. of this Charter. If the Council has not adopted Rules of Council, then
each board, commission or committee that has not adopted its own rules shall
follow Robert’s Rules of Order.
      (5)   The Chairperson of each board and commission created pursuant to
Section
8.01 A. of this Article shall act as the presiding officer at all meetings of
that board or commission and shall establish or approve an agenda for each
meeting of his or her respective board or commission. The Vice Chairperson
shall act as the presiding officer in the Chairperson’s absence.
   C.   Majority Vote. A majority vote of the voting members present and
eligible to vote of each board, commission or committee created under Section
8.01 of this Article shall be required to take action on any matter and for the
passage of any motion coming before such board or commission.
   D.   Removals; Vacancies.
      (1)   The member of any board or commission created pursuant to Section
8.01 hereof may be removed by Council, upon a majority vote, for neglect of
duty, incapacity, incompetency, malfeasance in office or other good cause, as
determined by the Council. Written notice of the charges for such removal shall
be provided to the member at least ten (10) days prior to the public hearing on
such removal before the Council. The member shall have the right to address
Council during said public hearing. All removals made in accordance with this
division shall be final.
      (2)   The seat of a member appointed to a board or commission hereinabove
referred to shall be deemed vacant if the member resigns, is unable to serve,
or is absent from three (3) consecutive meetings and such absences are not
excused by a majority vote. Unless otherwise provided by this Charter, such
vacancy on a board or commission shall be filled for the remainder of the term
in the manner authorized for an original appointment to the seat.
      (3)   If a member is removed for neglect of duty or malfeasance in
office, that person shall not be eligible for appointment to any City Board,
Commission or Committee for a period of five (5) years after his or her
removal.
§ 8.03 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   A.   Membership; Terms. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall consist of
five (5) members at-large, and one (1) Councilmember, who shall act as the
Chairperson of the Commission. Members of the Planning and Zoning Commission
shall be appointed by the Council, by majority vote. The at-large members shall
serve for terms of four (4) years and each member shall continue in office
until his or her successor is appointed. The term of the Chairperson shall be
two (2) years, and the Chairperson shall continue in office until his or her
successor is appointed.
   B.   Organization.
      (1)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall be chaired by a sitting
member of the City Council. The Chairperson of the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall have no voting privileges, except in the case of a tie vote.
      (2)   At its first meeting in each year, the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall elect, by majority vote, from among its membership a member to
serve as the Vice Chairperson. When acting as the presiding officer in the
absence of the Chairperson, the Vice Chairperson shall have full voting
privileges.
   C.   Powers and Duties.
      (1)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall perform all duties
assigned to it by the City Council by ordinance or resolution related to the
planning or regulation of the growth, development, platting, subdivision and
land use within the City.
      (2)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall continuously review and
report to the City Council its recommendations concerning the City’s
subdivision, platting, thoroughfare plans, land use plans, and zoning
ordinances and regulations.
      (3)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may conduct such studies,
prepare such plans, maps and reports related to the growth, development,
platting, subdivision, and land use within in the City and may make such
recommendations relative thereto to the City Council as it feels are in the
best interest of the City.
§ 8.04 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   A.   Membership; Terms. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall consist of five
(5) members at-large, and one (1) Councilmember, who shall act as the
Chairperson of the Board. Members of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be
appointed by Council, by majority vote. The at-large members shall serve for
terms of four (4) years and each member shall continue in office until his or
her successor is appointed. The term of the Chairperson shall be two (2) years,
and the Chairperson shall continue in office until his or her successor is
appointed.
   B.   Organization.
      (1)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall be chaired by a sitting member of
the City Council. The Chairperson of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall have no
voting privileges, except in the case of a tie vote.
      (2)   At its first meeting in each year, the Board of Zoning Appeal shall
elect, by majority vote, from among its membership a member to serve as the
Vice Chairperson. When acting as the presiding officer in the absence of the
Chairperson, the Vice Chairperson shall have full voting privileges.
   C.   Powers and Duties.
      (1)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the authority to hear and
decide appeals for exceptions to, and variances in, the application of
ordinances, resolutions, rules, regulations, and measures that govern zoning,
building, and housing in the City, subject to such standards as may be
prescribed by City Council.
      (2)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the authority to hear and
decide appeals from the orders of administrative officials related to the
application of ordinances, resolutions, rules, regulations, and measures that
govern zoning, building, and housing in the City, subject to such standards as
may be prescribed by City Council.
      (3)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall perform all duties assigned to it
by the City Council by ordinance or resolution related to the application of
City ordinances, resolutions, rules, regulations, and measures related to
zoning, building, and housing within the City.
      (4)   In any appeal from the decision of the order of any administrative
official or for exception to, and variances in, the application of any zoning,
building, or housing ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation, or measure, the
Board of Zoning Appeals shall be deemed to be acting as a quasi-judicial body.
§ 8.05 CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
   A.   Membership; Terms. The Civil Service Commission shall consist of five
(5) members at-large, shall be appointed by Council, by majority vote.
Appointments shall be made without concern for the member’s political
affiliation. The members shall serve for terms of five (5) years, one (1) to be
appointed every year, and each member shall continue in office until his or her
successor is appointed.
   B.   Organization.
      (1)   At its first meeting in each year, the Civil Service Commission
shall elect, by majority vote, from among its membership a member to serve as
the Chairperson and a member to serve as the Vice Chairperson. Both the
Chairperson and the Vice Chairperson shall have full voting privileges.
      (2)   The Civil Service Commission shall appoint a Secretary, who may be
from within or without the membership of the Commission or may hold other
office or employment with the City. The Secretary shall keep an accurate record
of the proceedings of the Commission and shall be responsible for the
administration of competitive examinations and communications between the
Commission and the City’s administration. The position of Secretary shall be
part-time unless a full-time Secretary is authorized by the City Council.
   C.   Powers and Duties.
      (1)   The Civil Service Commission shall be responsible for the
administration of competitive examinations for original appointments and
promotions in the classified service of the City.
      (2)   The Civil Service Commission shall have the authority to hear
appeals from administrative determinations that result in suspensions,
demotions, and removals, made by an appointed official pursuant to any rules
official pursuant to any rules, regulations or policies adopted by Council, any
administrative rules, regulations, or policies promulgated pursuant to
authorization by Council, or as otherwise permitted by the classified
employee’s applicable collective bargaining agreement.
      (3)   The Civil Service Commission shall perform all duties assigned to
it by
Article X of this Charter or by the City Council, by ordinance or resolution,
related to merit system and personnel management policies for classified
employees of the City.
§ 8.06 CHARTER REVIEW COMMISSION.
   A.   Creation. The Council shall appoint, at least every five (5) years, by
majority vote, a Charter Review Commission.
   B.   Membership; Terms. The Commission shall consist of an odd number of
members, from a minimum of five (5) to a maximum of eleven (11) members, and no
more than two (2) of said members shall hold other elective office or
employment with the City. The Law Director shall serve as legal counsel to the
Commission, and the City Manager and the Finance Director, or their designees,
may serve as advisors to the Commission. The terms of the members of the
Charter Review Commission shall terminate at the time designated by City
Council for the filing of the Commission’s report, with recommendations, to the
Council, unless such time is extended by Council, by resolution.
   C.   Powers and Duties. The Charter Review Commission shall review the City
Charter and, within the time designated by Council at the time the Commission
members are appointed, and shall recommend to Council such amendments,
additions, or revisions, if any, to this Charter that the Commission deems
necessary or desirable. After the consideration of the recommendations of the
Commission, the City Council may submit all or any of such proposed amendments,
additions, or revisions to this Charter to the electorate in the manner
prescribed by the Constitution of the State of Ohio.
ARTICLE IX: FINANCES
§ 9.01 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the City for budget, accounting, and all other similar
purposes shall be the calendar year.
§ 9.02 UNIFORM TAX LEVY LAW.
   The City shall comply with the Uniform Tax Levy Law of Ohio relating to
budgets, appropriations, taxation, debts, bonds, and other fiscal matters.
§ 9.03 DEPOSITS AND INVESTMENTS.
   A.   Deposit and Investment Policy. The City Council shall adopt, by
ordinance, a Deposit and Investment Policy governing the deposit of public
funds and the investment of public moneys. The Policy shall define the
parameters for eligible institutions that may hold public deposits, the
standards for securing those deposits, and the process by which such eligible
institutions shall be selected. The Policy shall also identify permitted
investment instruments, the maximum term of those investments, and the process
for selecting the investments, as well as custody, safekeeping, and the
licensing and registration of broker dealers.
   B.   Uniform Depository Act. It is the intent of this section to supersede
the Ohio Uniform Depository Act, as contained in the general laws of the State;
provided, however, that if Council should fail to adopt the Deposit and
Investment Policy required under subsection A. of this section, the Uniform
Depository Act shall apply to all deposits of public funds and the investment
of public moneys.
§ 9.04 OPERATING BUDGET AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN.
   A.   Operating Budget. The City Manager shall prepare and submit to Council,
on or before the 1st day of November, an estimated Operating Budget for the
ensuing fiscal year. The estimated Operating Budget shall begin with a clear
general summary of its contents; shall show in detail all estimated income,
indicating the proposed property tax levy, and all proposed expenditures,
including debt service, for the ensuing fiscal years; and shall be arranged to
show comparative figures for actual and estimated income and expenditures of
the current fiscal year and actual income and expenditures of the preceding
fiscal year. It shall indicate in separate sections:
      (1)   The proposed goals and objectives and expenditures for current
operations during the ensuing fiscal years, detailed for each fund by
organization unit and program, purpose or activity, and the method of financing
such expenditures;
      (2)   Proposed capital expenditures, as shown in the Capital Improvement
Plan, during the ensuing fiscal years, detailed for each fund by organizational
unit, and the proposed method of financing each capital expenditure;
      (3)   The anticipated income and expense and profit and loss for the
ensuing years for each utility or other enterprise fund operated by the City;
and
      (4)   For any fund, the total of proposed expenditures shall not exceed
the total of estimated income plus carried-forward fund balances.
   B.   Capital Improvement Plan. The City Manager shall prepare and submit to
Council at the same time as the Operating Budget, a Capital Improvement Plan.
The Capital Improvement Plan shall include:
      (1)   A clear general summary of its contents;
      (2)   A list of all capital improvements and other capital expenditures
which are proposed to be undertaken during the five (5) fiscal years next
ensuing, with appropriate supporting information as to the necessity for each;
      (3)   Cost estimates and recommended time schedules for each improvement
or other capital expenditure; and
      (4)   The method of financing, upon which each capital expenditure is to
be reliant. The above shall be revised and extended each year with regard to
capital improvements still pending or in process of construction or
acquisition.
   C.   Action by City Council.
      (1)   On or before November 1st, the City Manager shall either publish
the estimated Operating Budget and Capital Improvement Plan on the City’s
website or shall publish, in one or more newspapers of general circulation
within the City, that said documents are available for public inspection.
      (2)   At its first regular meeting in November, Council shall schedule
and hold a time for public comment on the estimated Operating Budget and
Capital Improvement Plan as presented.
      (3)   Within thirty (30) days of presentation of the Operating Budget and
the Capital Improvement Plan to Council, the Council may approve the proposed
estimated Operating Budget and Capital Improvement Plan, by administrative
motion, or may amend the proposed Operating Budget and/or the Capital
Improvement Plan by adding or increasing programs or amounts or by deleting or
decreasing any programs or amounts, except expenditures required by law for
debt service, provided that no amendment shall increase the authorized
expenditures to an amount greater than total estimated income. If the Council
takes no action within thirty (30) days, the proposed Operating Budget and the
Capital Improvement Plan shall be deemed approved as presented.
   D.   Effect. The approved Operating Budget and Capital Improvement Plan
shall be used as a foundation in the preparation of the Annual Appropriation
Ordinance for the ensuing fiscal year.
§ 9.05 ANNUAL APPROPRIATION ORDINANCE.
   A.   Annual Appropriation Ordinance. On or before the first day of each
fiscal year, the City Council shall adopt an Annual Appropriation Ordinance,
classified so as to set forth separately the amounts appropriated for each
office, department, and division and, within each, the amount appropriated for
personnel services. Council may, if it desires, postpone the passage of the
Annual Appropriation Ordinance until an amended certificate is received from
the Greene County Auditor based on actual balances. In such a case, the Council
may pass a temporary appropriation ordinance for meeting the ordinary expenses
of the City on or before the first day of each fiscal year, but such temporary
appropriation measure shall be replaced with the Annual Appropriation Ordinance
no later than the 1st day of April. The total appropriations from each fund
shall not exceed the total of the estimated revenue available for expenditure
therefrom, as certified by the Greene County Budget Commission, or in case of
appeal, by the Greene County Board of Tax Appeals.
   B.   When Effective. The Annual Appropriation Ordinance shall not become
effective until the Greene County Auditor files with the Finance Director a
certificate that the total appropriations from each fund, taken together with
all other outstanding appropriations, do not exceed the official estimated
revenue or amended official estimate of revenue.
   C.   Supplemental Appropriations. During the fiscal year, the Council may
pass any supplemental appropriation measures as it finds necessary, based on
the revised tax budget or the official certificate of estimated resources or
amendments of the certificate.
   D.   Amended Appropriations. The Annual Appropriation Ordinance may be
amended by Council, by ordinance, provided that no appropriation for any
purpose shall be reduced below an amount sufficient to cover all unliquidated
and outstanding contracts or obligations certified from or against the
appropriation. Such amendments may add to or transfer part or all of the
unencumbered appropriation balance from one (1) department or major
organizational unit to the appropriation for another department or major
organizational unit, or may transfer money in the General Fund to any other
fund, or may transfer moneys between funds except where such transfer is
prohibited by State law.
   E.   Reduction of Appropriations. If at any time during the fiscal year it
appears probable to the City Manager and the Finance Director that the revenues
or fund balances available will be insufficient to finance the expenditures for
which appropriations have been authorized, the City Manager or the Finance
Director shall report the same to the City Council without delay. The estimated
amount of the deficit, any remedial action taken by the City Manager or the
Finance Director, and recommendations as to any other steps to be taken shall
be indicated. The Council shall then take such further action as it deems
necessary to prevent or reduce any deficit and for that purpose it may amend
the Annual Appropriation Ordinance to reduce one (1) or more appropriations.
   F.   Procedure. The Annual Appropriation Ordinance and any supplements or
amendments thereto shall be adopted as an emergency ordinance, in accordance
with Section
5.04 of this Charter. Such emergency ordinance may contain more than one (1)
subject, as provided in Section
5.02 B. of this Charter. Notwithstanding the requirements of Section
5.02 A., any emergency ordinance supplementing or amending the Annual
Appropriation Ordinance need not set out the Annual Appropriation Ordinance in
full but shall show what funds and/or line items are being amended. Such
emergency ordinance shall be effective upon its adoption by the affirmative
vote of at least four (4) members of Council.
   G.   Authority and Duty of Finance Director.
      (1)   The Finance Director may adjust appropriations within any Fund or
Department in the Annual Appropriation Ordinance so long as such adjustments do
not exceed the total appropriations authorized within any Fund or Department
and such adjustment is not in violation of this Charter, City ordinance or
State law.
      (2)   The Finance Director may establish any additional fund required
under State law to ensure proper accounting. Any optional or special fund shall
only be established upon the approval of the City Council, by resolution.
      (3)   The Finance Director shall maintain an updated Annual Appropriation
Ordinance, showing all supplements and amendments thereto made by Council in
one document, which shall be available to the public upon request.
§ 9.06 APPROPRIATIONS AND EXPENDITURES.
   All appropriations and expenditures made by the City shall comply with the
Uniform Tax Levy Law as contained in the general laws of the State.
§ 9.07 PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   No warrant for the payment of any claim shall be issued by the Finance
Director unless there is an available appropriation sufficient to cover the
payment and the Finance Director is satisfied that the same is in proper form,
correctly computed, and that the claim is legally due and payable. The Finance
Director and his or her sureties shall be liable to the City for all loss or
damage sustained by the City by reason of the corrupt approval of such claim
against the City, and the Finance Director shall have the power to require that
the amount claimed is justly due, and is in conformity with the law and
ordinances, and may summon any officer or employee and examine him or her for
that purpose.
§ 9.08 CONTRACTING PROCEDURES.
   A.   Competitive Bidding. Council, by ordinance, shall establish a threshold
amount, which in no case shall be less than $30,000, notice provisions and
other procedures for competitive bidding. When any contract for the
construction of a public improvement or the purchase of equipment, supplies,
materials, or services is estimated to exceed the threshold established by
Council, the contract shall be competitively bid. Council shall award the
contract, by resolution, to the lowest and best bidder; provided, however, that
Council may reject any and all bids in whole or by items. No contract shall be
divided to avoid the requirements of competitive bidding.
   B.   Waiver of Competitive Bidding. Competitive bidding is not required if:
      (1)   The statutory or common law of the State does not require
competitive bidding;
      (2)   Council determines that an item is available and can be acquired
only from a single source or the purchase consists of services related to
information technology that are proprietary or limited to a single source;
      (3)   The purchase is made through a cooperative purchasing program where
the cost has already been set by bid;
      (4)   The purchase is from the federal government, the State, a county, a
municipality, a township, a board of education or an educational service
center;
      (5)   The purchase consists of any form of insurance or any form of
health care plan; or
      (6)   Council determines, by resolution approved by an affirmative vote
of no less than four (4) members, that a waiver of the competitive bidding
requirement is in the best interest of the City or is necessary due to a real
and present emergency.
   C.   Professional Services. Contracts for professional services shall not be
subject to the competitive bidding requirements of this Section and shall not
require separate authorization by Council if the current Annual Appropriation
Ordinance provides sufficient funding for the scope of services in any such
contract.
   D.   Alterations or Modifications of Contracts. Council shall, by ordinance,
establish procedures for alteration or modifications of contracts. Such
modification or alterations shall not require competitive bidding and shall not
require separate authorization by Council if the current Annual Appropriation
Ordinance provides sufficient funding for the alteration or modification.
   E.   No Interest on Escrow. Notwithstanding any provision of general law,
contractors and vendors shall not be entitled to receive interest on funds
temporarily retained on a contract pending final acceptance of work performed
or goods supplied, nor shall the City be required to maintain a separate escrow
account from which to pay any contractor or vendor.
§ 9.09 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS BY FORCE ACCOUNT.
   Nothing in Section
9.08 shall be construed to prohibit the Council from doing any public work or
making any public improvement by the direct employment of the necessary labor,
including professional and/or specialized technical services, and the purchase
of the necessary equipment, supplies and materials, with separate accounting as
to each improvement so made, and the Council may, on so declaring by ordinance
or resolution, cause any public work or improvement to be done or made in such
manner.
§ 9.10 INDEPENDENT AUDIT.
   The Council shall provide for an annual independent audit of all City
accounts and may provide for more frequent audits as deemed necessary and
proper. Such audits may be made by the Auditor of State, or a certified public
accountant or accounting firm that has no personal interest, direct or
indirect, in the affairs of the City or any of its officials, officers or
employees.
ARTICLE X: CIVIL SERVICE AND PERSONNEL
§ 10.01 CIVIL SERVICE.
   A.   Intent. It is the intent of this Article to comply with Article XV,
Section 10, of the Constitution of the State of Ohio while superseding the Ohio
Civil Service Act, as contained in the general laws of the State. The
provisions of this Article are intended to expressly delegate specific
rulemaking authority to the Civil Service Commission and/or the Council, and
any such rules made by the Civil Service Commission and/or Council under the
authority delegated by this Article shall supersede State law.
   B.   Civil Service. All appointments and promotions of City officers and
employees who are in the classified service shall be made solely on the basis
of merit and fitness, demonstrated by examination, where practicable, or other
evidence of competence.
§ 10.02 CLASSIFICATION OF CIVIL SERVICE.
   A.   Unclassified Service. The following positions shall constitute the
unclassified service of the City:
      (1)   The members of City Council, including the Mayor;
      (2)   The members of all boards, commissions, and committees, whether
created by Charter or by the Council;
      (3)   The City Clerk, Deputy Clerks, Assistant Clerks and other officers
and employees of the City Council;
      (4)   The City Manager, Assistant City Manager, and any assistants or
secretaries to the City Manager;
      (5)   The Finance Director, Assistant Finance Director, and any
assistants or secretaries to the Finance Director;
      (6)   The Law Director, City Prosecutor, any assistants or secretaries to
the Law Director, and any special counsel appointed or employed by the Law
Director;
      (7)   The department heads and division heads of the various departments
and divisions of the City, including the Police Chief and the Fire Chief, and
their assistants;
      (8)   The Clerk of Court, Deputy Clerks of Court, the Chief Bailiff and
Deputy Bailiffs, the Chief Probation Officer and Probation Officers, and other
employees of the Xenia Municipal Court;
      (9)   Seasonal and temporary positions;
      (10)   Positions requiring peculiar and exceptional qualifications of a
scientific, managerial, professional, technical, or educational character;
      (11)   Ordinary unskilled laborers; and
      (12)   Any employees placed in the unclassified service by any section of
the Ohio Revised Code.
   B.   Classified Service. The classified service shall comprise all positions
not specifically included in this Charter in the unclassified service.
§ 10.03 CIVIL SERVICE RULES.
   A.   Civil Service Rules. The Civil Service Commission shall make,
promulgate and, when necessary, may amend, rules for the administration of
competitive examinations, the ranking of candidates and the creation of
eligibility lists for positions in the classified service; for the solicitation
of applications and criteria for lateral entries; for the promotion of
classified employees; and for the hearing of appeals filed by a classified
employee. In cases of conflict, the Civil Service Rules adopted in accordance
with this section are intended to and shall supersede State law.
   B.   Required Provisions. The Civil Service Rules shall provide:
      (1)   For the establishment of categories within the classified services
for classified positions that are to be filled by competitive examinations, for
nonpromotional classified positions that may be filled by lateral entry, and
for classified positions requiring specialized training, or skills requiring
certifications or licensure, and/or qualifications of a scientific, business,
managerial, professional, or educational character that may be filled
noncompetitively;
      (2)   Rules, regulations, and procedures regarding the administration of
competitive examinations for those classified positions that are to be filled
through competitive examination, including public notice thereof, to ascertain
the merit and fitness of applicants for appointment;
      (3)   Rules, regulations, and procedures regarding the grading of
competitive examinations and the evaluation of the same, including the
establishment of passing and nonpassing scores;
      (4)   Rules, regulations, and procedures governing the establishment of
eligibility requirements for competitive examinations and for applications for
lateral entries and noncompetitive classified positions;
      (5)   Rules, regulations, and procedures governing the establishment of
eligibility lists from competitive examinations, including rules regarding the
ranking of names on such lists and seniority, veteran’s preferences, or other
additional preferences related to merit and fitness;
      (6)   Rules, regulations, and procedures governing the solicitation of
applications, and the requirements for application, for nonpromotional
classified positions to be filled by lateral entry and for classified positions
that may be filled noncompetitively, including public notice thereof;
      (7)   Rules, regulations, and procedures governing the rejection of
candidates, applicants, or those eligible who fail to comply with reasonable
requirements as to moral, psychological, or physical character, or who have
attempted deception or fraud in connection with any application or test for a
position in the classified service.
      (8)   Rules, regulations, and procedures governing the certification to
the appointing authority of eligibility lists resulting from competitive
examinations;
      (9)   Rules, regulations, and procedures governing the temporary
appointment to a classified position until the position can be filled by
competitive examination, lateral hire, or application, for a period not to
exceed one (1) year;
      (10)   Rules, regulations, and procedures governing the process for
promotions from among persons holding positions in successive ranks lower than
the position to be filled, such promotions to be based on competitive
examinations and the applicant’s conduct and capacity in office;
      (11)   Rules, regulations, and procedures regarding the filing of and the
conduct of appeals taken to the Commission regarding any suspension, demotion,
or removal of a classified employee by an appointing authority;
      (12)   Rules, regulations, and procedures governing the reinstatement of
any classified employee suspended, demoted, or removed; and
      (13)   Any other rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this
section, as may be necessary and proper for the enforcement of the civil
service and to provide for the procedures of the Civil Service Commission.
§ 10.04 ORIGINAL APPOINTMENTS.
   A.   Positions Filled by Competitive Examination. When a position in the
classified service is to be filled by competitive examination, the appointing
authority may notify the Civil Service Commission of the fact and the
Commission shall certify to the appointing authority an eligibility list,
containing the names and addresses of candidates eligible for that classified
position. The appointing authority shall appoint to the classified position one
of the persons whose name ranks in the top ten (10) names (or less) on the
eligibility list. The eligibility list shall be considered a rolling list, and
persons whose names are disqualified or otherwise removed from the list may be
replaced by the next eligible person on the list, until such time as the list
expires, is exhausted or there are no more eligible candidates.
   B.   Positions Filled by Lateral Hires. When a position in the classified
service may be filled by lateral hires, the appointing authority may notify the
Civil Service Commission of the fact and the Commission shall advertise for
applications for the position. After the application deadline, the Commission
shall certify to the appointing authority an eligibility list of those
applicants that meet the eligibility criteria. Eligible applicants shall be
listed in the order their applications were submitted.
   C.   Positions Filled Noncompetitively. When a position in the classified
service that requires specialized training, or skills requiring certifications
or licensure, and/or qualifications of a scientific, business, managerial,
professional, or educational character becomes vacant, the appointing authority
may notify the Civil Service Commission of the fact and the Commission shall
advertise for applications for the position. After the application deadline,
the Commission shall certify to the appointing authority an eligibility list of
those applicants that meet the eligibility criteria. Eligible applicants shall
be listed in the order their applications were submitted.
   D.   Appointing Authority’s Discretion. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in this Article, when a position in the classified service to be
filled by an original appointment becomes vacant, it is within the appointing
authority’s discretion whether to fill the vacancy and to determine the timing
to fill such a vacancy.
   E.   Probationary Period. All original appointments shall be for a
probationary period of not less than six (6) months nor more than one (1) year,
as fixed by the Civil Service Rules, and the Civil Service Rules may set such
probationary periods to begin on the date of obtaining any required
certification for the position. No appointment shall be deemed finally made
until the appointee has satisfactorily served his or her probationary period.
§ 10.05 PROMOTIONS.
   A.   Competitive Examinations. The Civil Service Commission shall provide in
the Civil Service Rules for promotion to positions in the classified service
based on competitive examination and on records of the candidate’s conduct and
capacity in his or her current position. Promotion shall be by successive ranks
insofar  as practicable. The Civil Service Commission shall provide in the
Civil Service Rules for requirements for periods of service in the lower ranks
for promotion to a higher rank.
   B.   Promotions. When a promotional position in the classified service
becomes vacant, the appointing authority may notify the Civil Service
Commission of the fact and the Commission shall certify to the appointing
authority the names of the three (3) candidates standing highest on the
eligibility list for that position; provided, however, that less than three (3)
shall constitute a valid eligibility list. The appointing authority shall
promote to the position one (1) of the persons named on the list.
   C.   Competition. The Civil Service Commission shall provide in the Civil
Service Rules procedures for cases where there are less than two (2) persons
eligible to take the competitive examination for a promoted position, including
requirements for periods of service in the next lower ranks, and procedures for
when there are insufficient eligible applicants in the next lower ranks.
   D.   Appointing Authority’s Discretion. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in this Article, when a position in the classified service to be
filled by promotion becomes vacant, it is within the appointing authority’s
discretion whether to fill the vacancy and to determine the timing to fill such
a vacancy.
   E.   Probationary Period. All promotions shall be for a probationary period
of not less than six (6) months nor more than one (1) year, as fixed by the
Civil Service Rules, and no promotion shall be deemed finally made until the
appointee has satisfactorily served his or her probationary period.
§ 10.06 ORGANIZATIONAL PLAN; PAY PLAN; FRINGE BENEFITS.
   A.   Organizational Plan and Position Descriptions.
      (1)   The Administrative Steering Committee shall recommend to the
Council an Organizational Plan, including any amendments thereto, for all City
positions, whether classified or unclassified, considering the duties,
authority, and responsibility for each position, with adequate provision for
the reorganization of such positions. Such Plan shall also include the pay
grade or wage range for each position. The recommended Organizational Plan
shall be approved, with or without modification, by resolution of the City
Council.
      (2)   The Administrative Steering Committee shall establish, and may
amend, position descriptions for each position listed within the Organizational
Plan, which descriptions shall include the employment requirements, licensure
requirements, essential functions, and other responsibilities of each position.
   B.   Pay Plan. The Administrative Steering Committee shall recommend a
yearly Pay Plan for all compensated employee positions in the City’s service to
the Council. Such recommended Pay Plan shall be approved, with or without
modification, by resolution by the City Council. Such Plan may be for a single
year or multiple years, but in no case shall the Pay Plan set wages for a
period longer than three (3) years.
   C.   Fringe Benefits. City Council shall establish, by ordinance, the hours
of work, holidays, overtime pay, authorized payroll deductions and any benefits
or leave required under federal law for all City employees, whether classified
or unclassified, and shall provide for any other fringe benefits to be provided
to City employees, whether classified or unclassified, which fringe benefits
may include, but are not limited to, health insurance, compensatory time, sick
leave, vacation, personal leave, longevity pay, military leave, life insurance
or injury leave. In cases of conflict, the provisions of any ordinance adopted
by the City Council regarding fringe benefits are intended and shall supersede
State law.
§ 10.07 PERSONNEL MANUAL.
   A.   Establishment. The Administrative Steering Committee shall establish
rules, regulations and policies pertaining to the merit system and personnel
management policies of the City. Such rules and regulations shall be known as
the “City of Xenia Personnel Manual” or “Personnel Manual.”
   B.   Contents. The Personnel Manual shall address the procedures and
policies for the administration of any fringe benefits provided by the Council,
by ordinance. In addition, the Personnel Manual shall provide for rules,
regulations, policies, processes and/or procedures regarding:
      (1)   The appointment, transfer, promotion, demotion, or layoff of
classified employees in the service of the City;
      (2)   Reductions in force, removal, suspension, or other employee
discipline, including the causes therefor, of City employees, whether
classified or unclassified;
      (3)   Transfers, resignations, retirements, and re-employment of City
employees, whether classified or unclassified;
      (4)   The ethics of public employment and the conduct of City employees,
whether classified or unclassified;
      (5)   All other practices and procedures necessary to the administration
of the merit and personnel system of the City, including any policies or
procedures governing the relationships with employee organizations or unions,
and the administration of grievance procedures.
   C.   Conflict with State Law. In cases of conflict, the provisions of the
Personnel Manual adopted in accordance with this section are intended to and
shall supersede State law.
   D.   Amendments. The Personnel Manual may be amended by the Administrative
Steering Committee from time to time, as needed, to assure efficient
administration of the merit and personnel management of the City. In the event
of a tie vote by the Administrative Steering Committee on a proposed amendment
to the Personnel Manual, such amendment may be presented to Council by any of
the Appointed Officials, individually or jointly, and the Council shall approve
the proposed amendment, with or without amendment, or reject the proposed
amendment.
ARTICLE XI: ELECTIONS
§ 11.01 RULES FOR ELECTIONS.
   A.   Time and Submission. Regular Municipal elections shall be held on the
first Tuesday after the first Monday in November in each odd-numbered year,
except as hereinafter provided. Any matter which by the terms of this Charter
may be submitted to the electors of the City at any special election may be
submitted at any regular Municipal election.
   B.   Nonpartisan Ballots. All officers to be elected under this Charter
shall be elected upon one (1) ballot without any party designation of any kind.
   C.   Determinations. The Council shall be the judge of the qualification and
election of its own members, subject to the requirements and limits of this
Charter.
§ 11.02 PETITION FOR PLACE ON BALLOT.
   Candidates for Council and Mayor shall be nominated only by petition. The
name of any elector of the City shall be printed and signed upon a petition
which is to be filed with the Greene County Board of Elections.
      (1)   Such petitions shall state the name and place of residence of each
person whose name is presented for a place upon the ballot, and that he or she
is a candidate for Council or Mayor for the City of Xenia.
      (2)   Such petitions shall be signed by seventy-five (75) electors of the
Municipality.
      (3)   An elector signing a petition shall add to his or her signature his
or her place of residence with the street number, and the date of signing. An
elector may subscribe to one (1) nominating petition for each of the offices to
be filled, and no more. All signatures shall be made in ink.
      (4)   Signatures of all the petitioners shall be on forms approved by the
Greene County Board of Elections.
      (5)   No petition shall be signed by any elector more than one hundred
twenty (120) days prior to the day of the election, and such petition shall be
filed with the Board of Elections not less than ninety (90) days previous to
the date of such election, except as hereinafter provided.
      (6)   Any person whose name has been submitted for nomination by any such
petition shall file his or her acceptance of such nomination with the Board of
Elections at the time of filing of his or her petition, except as hereinafter
provided; otherwise, his or her name shall not appear upon the ballot.
      (7)   Write-in candidates shall be permitted for the office of Council
member in accordance with Ohio election laws.
§ 11.03 GENERAL ELECTION LAWS TO APPLY.
   All elections shall be conducted, and the results canvassed and certified
by, the election authorities prescribed by the general election laws, except as
otherwise provided by this Charter, or by ordinance or resolution of the
Council hereafter elected.
§ 11.04 GENERAL INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM LAWS TO APPLY.
   The Constitution and the general laws of Ohio shall govern the procedure for
initiative and referendum.
   No ordinance or resolution adopted by an electoral vote can be repealed or
amended within one (1) year after its adoption except by an electoral vote;
however, an ordinance or resolution to repeal or amend any such ordinance or
resolution may be submitted to an electoral vote at any regular election, or at
any special Municipal election called for some other purpose, provided that
notice of the intention to do so be published by the Council not more than
sixty (60) days nor less than thirty (30) days prior to such election, in the
manner required for the publication of ordinances and resolutions. If an
amendment is so proposed, such notice shall contain the proposed amendment in
full. Such submission shall be in the same manner, and the notice shall have
the same effect, as in cases of ordinances or resolutions submitted to an
election by popular petition.
§ 11.05 GENERAL RECALL LAWS TO APPLY.
   The provisions of Chapter 705 of the Revised Code of Ohio, and any
subsequent version of that statute, shall govern the procedure for recall of
elected officials of the City.
ARTICLE XII: UTILITY REGULATION; FRANCHISES
§ 12.01 UTILITY REGULATION.
   All grants shall be subject to the right of the City, whether in terms
reserved or not, to control, regulate, in, over, under or across all streets,
alleys or public places occupied by any such public utility, and the Council
may cause to be reconstructed, relocated or discontinued any such structure or
fixture, and the Council may pass all regulatory ordinances effecting such
utilities which may be required in the interests of public health, safety, or
accommodation.
§ 12.02 FRANCHISES.
   A.   Restrictions. No grant to exercise a franchise in the City of Xenia
shall be exclusive and no such grant shall be renewed earlier than two (2)
years prior to its expiration. No franchise or public utility shall be
assignable without the consent of the Council by ordinance or resolution first
advertised, and any attempted assignment without such ordinance or resolution
shall be void and of no effect.
   B.   Extension to Annexed Property. In the grant of any franchise or right
to exercise any public utility within the City, the extension of the same to
any territory annexed to the City shall, without being expressed therein, be a
part of the right which may be enforced by appropriate proceedings.
   C.   Right of Purchase. All grants of the right to exercise a franchise made
by the Council shall reserve to the City the right to purchase or lease all
property of the utility used, for the operation of the utility at a price
either fixed in the ordinance or resolution making the grant, or to be fixed in
the manner provided by such ordinance or resolution, which price shall in no
event include any value for the grant. Nothing in such ordinance or resolution
shall prevent the City from acquiring such property by condemnation proceedings
or in any other lawful mode, which rights shall be in addition to those
reserved in the ordinance making such grant. Upon the acquisition of such
property by purchase, condemnation, or otherwise, all grants shall at once
terminate.
   D.   Extension, Connection and Utilization of City Utilities. The extension,
connection, and utilization of City utilities to tributary areas shall be
permitted and the City Council shall establish a schedule of fees for use of
and connection to City utilities. The extension, connection and use of City
utilities shall only apply to utilities with sufficient capacity.
ARTICLE XIII: GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 13.01 ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED; PENALTIES.
   A.   Activities Prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall be appointed to or removed from, or in any way
favored or discriminated against, with respect to any City position or
appointive City administrative office because of race, gender, age, handicap,
religion, country of origin, or political affiliation.
      (2)   No person shall willfully make any false statement, certificate,
mark, rating or report in regard to any test, certification or appointment
under the provisions of this Charter or the rules and regulations made
thereunder, or in any manner commit or attempt to commit any fraud preventing
the impartial execution of such provisions, rules and regulations.
      (3)   No person who seeks appointment or promotion with respect to any
City position or appointive City administrative office shall directly or
indirectly give, render or pay any money, service or other valuable thing to
any person for or in connection with his or her test, appointment, proposed
appointment or proposed promotion.
      (4)   No person shall knowingly or willfully solicit or assist in
soliciting any assessment, subscription or contribution for any political party
or political purpose to be used in conjunction with any City election from any
City employee.
      (5)   No City employee shall knowingly or willfully make, solicit or
receive any contribution to the campaign fund of any political party or
committee to be used in a City election or to campaign funds to be used in
support of or opposition to any candidate for election to City office. This
section shall be not construed to limit any person’s right to exercise rights
as a citizen to express opinions or to cast a vote, nor shall it be construed
to prohibit any person from active participation in political campaigns at any
other level of government.
   B.   Penalties. Any person found guilty of a violation of this section shall
be ineligible for a period of five (5) years following such conviction to hold
any City office or position and, if an officer or employee of the City, shall
immediately forfeit his or her office or position. The City Council shall
establish, by ordinance, such further penalties as it may deem appropriate.
§ 13.02 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND ETHICS.
   The law of Ohio pertaining to conflicts of interest, ethics, criminal
behavior and financial disclosure by City officials and employees shall apply
under this Charter.
§ 13.03 OPEN MEETINGS.
   A.   Open Meetings. All deliberations, discussions and actions on official
public business taken by the Council or other boards, commissions, and
committees of the City, whether created by Charter or by the Council in
accordance with this Charter, shall be taken in meetings open to the public,
except as otherwise provided in this Charter or by the general laws of the
State.
   B.   Notice. Council shall provide, by ordinance, Rules of Public Notice by
which the Council and all other boards, commissions, and committees of the City
shall give notice of their meetings.
   C.   Executive Session. The Council, boards, commissions, and committees of
the City, whether created by Charter or by the Council in accordance with this
Charter, may adjourn into executive session during any regular or special
meeting of that body to discuss any of limited matters outlined in Ohio Revised
Code Section 121.22(G), and any subsequent revisions thereto, or any other
relevant provisions of the general laws of the State; provided, however, that:
      (1)   The Council, Boards, Commissions, and Committees of the City may
also adjourn into executive session during any regular or special meeting to
receive and discuss general legal advice from the Law Director or other special
counsel.
      (2)   The Council, Boards, Commissions, and Committees of the City may
adjourn into executive session during any regular or special meeting to
consider and discuss economic development projects when that proposed project
includes a request for economic development assistance from the City or the
state, or involves public infrastructure improvements or the extension of
municipal utilities, without a separate finding by the public body that an
executive session is necessary to protect the interest of the applicant.
      (3)   Any public body of the City exercising the quasi-judicial duties
assigned to it by this Charter, by ordinance, or by the general laws of the
State may adjourn into executive session to deliberate when so acting within
its quasi-judicial capacity.
   D.   Presence Required. A member of the Council or other Board, Commission
or Committee of the City must be present in person, or by telephone, video or
electronic means in the limited situations permitted by the Rules of Council,
at a meeting open to the public to be considered present, to vote on any
official business, or for the purpose of determining whether a quorum of the
public body is present at the meeting.
   E.   Minutes. The Council, Boards, Commissions, and Committees of the City
shall keep full and accurate minutes of their meetings, and such minutes shall
include enough facts and information to permit the public to understand and
appreciate the rationale behind the public body’s decision but need not be a
verbatim transcript. Such minutes need only reflect the general subject matter
of discussions in executive session, but shall record the motion, the reasons
given for the executive session, and the vote to adjourn into executive
session. The minutes of the City’s public bodies shall be promptly prepared,
filed and maintained and shall be open to public inspection.
   F.   Effect of Violation. Any ordinance, resolution, motion or formal action
of any kind by the Council or any Board, Commission or Committee is invalid
unless adopted in an open meeting that complied with the Rules of Public
Notice. An ordinance, resolution, motion or formal action adopted in an open
meeting that results from deliberations in a meeting not open to the public is
invalid unless the deliberations were part of a quasi-judicial hearing, or were
for a purpose specifically authorized under Section
13.03 C. of this Article, and the executive session was held in compliance with
that section.
§ 13.04 CHARTER AMENDMENTS.
   This Charter may be amended by the eligible voters of this City as provided
in Article XVIII, Section 9 of the Constitution of the State Ohio, the
provisions of this Charter, and the general laws of the State.
§ 13.05 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   A.   Singular and Plural; Gender; Tense. As used in this Charter, unless the
context otherwise requires:
      (1)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular;
      (2)   Words of one gender include the other genders; and
      (3)   Words in the present tense include the future.
   B.   Mandatory or Discretionary. The words “shall” and “will” are mandatory,
while the word “may” is permissive/discretionary.
   C.   Common and Technical Usage. As used in this Charter, words and phrases
shall be read in context and construed according to the rules of grammar and
common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a technical or particular
meaning, whether by legislative definition or otherwise, shall be construed
accordingly.
   D.   Headings. Section and paragraph headings are for convenience only and
are not intended to have substantive significance in interpreting any provision
of this Charter.
§ 13.06 EFFECT OF PARTIAL INVALIDITY.
   A judicial determination that all or any part of any article, section,
paragraph, or division of this Charter is invalid or unconstitutional shall not
invalidate or impair the validity, force, or effect of any other part except to
the extent that the other part is wholly or necessarily dependent for its
operation upon the part declared invalid or unconstitutional.
PART TWO - CITY GOVERNMENT CODE
         TITLE TWO - General Provisions
            
Chap. 200   Xenia City Code
            
Chap. 202   Official Standards
            
Chap. 204   Public Meetings and Public Records
            
Chap. 206   Miscellaneous
         TITLE FOUR - Legislative Code
            
Chap. 210   City Council
            
Chap. 212   Ordinances, Resolutions, and Motions
            
Chap. 214   Contracts, Purchasing, and Sale of Personal Property
         TITLE SIX - Administrative Code
            
Chap. 219   City Manager's Office
            
Chap. 220   Department of Administrative Services
            
Chap.
221   Support Services Division
            
Chap.
222   Public Relations Division
            
Chap.
223   Personnel Management Division
            
Chap.
224   Information Technology Division
            
Chap.
230   Department of Development Services
            
Chap.
231   Community Development Division
            
Chap.
232   Economic Development Division
            
Chap.
233   Planning & Zoning Division
            
Chap.
234   Building Division
            
Chap.
240   Department of Public Safety
            
Chap.
241   Police Division
            
Chap.
242   Fire & EMS Division
            
Chap.
243   Emergency Communications Division
            
Chap.
244   Department of Public Service
            
Chap.
245   Department of Law
            
Chap.
250   Department of Finance
            
Chap.
251   Funds
            
Chap.
252   Accounting Division
            
Chap.
253   Accounts Receivable & Billing Division
            
Chap.
254   Tax Division
            
Chap.
255   Payroll & Benefits Division
            
Chap.
256   City Clerk's Office
            
Chap.
260   Employees Generally
         TITLE EIGHT - BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
            
Chap.
280   Planning and Zoning Commission
            
Chap.
281   Board of Zoning Appeals
            
Chap.
282   Civil Service Commission
            
Chap.
283   Charter Review Commission
            
Chap.
284   Xenia Recreation and Events Commission
            
Chap.
285   Community Reinvestment Area Housing Council
            
Chap.
286   Records Commission
            Chap. 287   Xenia Public Art Commission
         TITLE TEN - Judiciary
            
Chap. 290.   Municipal Court.
         
Appendix A: Fee Schedule.
TITLE TWO: GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 200
Xenia City Code
200.01   Designation; Citations; Headings
200.02   General Definitions
200.03   Rules of Construction
200.04   Effect of Reenactment, Amendment Or Repeal
200.05   Computation of Time
200.06   Determination of Legislative Intent; Conflicts of Law
200.07   Severability
200.99   General Penalty
   CROSS REFERENCES
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Adoption of Technical Codes - see
CHTR. 5.08
   Codification - see
CHTR. 5.09
   Emergency Ordinances - see
CHTR. 5.04
   Ordinances and Resolutions - see
CHTR. Art. V
   Ordinance Required - see
CHTR. 5.02
   Powers of City Council - see
CHTR. 4.01; ADMIN.
Ch. 220
§ 200.01   DESIGNATION; CITATIONS; HEADINGS.
   (a)   Xenia City Code. All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of
the City of Xenia, Ohio, as revised, codified, arranged, numbered, and
consolidated into general provisions, component codes, titles, chapters,
sections, and divisions, shall be collectively known and designated as the
"Xenia City Code," or the "Codified Ordinances of Xenia, Ohio," for which
designation "City Code" or "Codified Ordinances" may be substituted. Code,
title, chapter, section, and division headings do not constitute any part of
the law as contained in the Xenia City Code.
Statutory reference: ORC 1.01
   (b)   Component Codes. All references to codes are to such components of the
Xenia City Code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be referred
to and cited by its name, such as the "Administrative Code" or the "Traffic
Code."
   (c)   Sections and Divisions. Sections may be referred to and cited by the
designation "section" followed by the number, such as "section 101.01" or "§
101.01," or may be simply cited by their numerical designation, such as
"101.01." Likewise, divisions may be referred to and cited by the designation
"division" followed by the number, such as "division 101.01(a)," or may be
simply cited by their numerical designation, such as "101.01(a)."
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
§ 200.02   GENERAL DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   Applicability. As used in the Xenia City Code, unless another
definition is provided or the context otherwise requires, the general
definitions contained in division (b) of this section shall apply.
   (b)   General Definitions.
      (1)   "And" may be read "or," and "or" may be read "and" if the sense
requires it.
      (2)   "Another," when used to designate the owner of property that is the
subject of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other
owner of property.
      (3)   "Anything of value," as used in any section of the Xenia City Code
for the violation of which there is provided a penalty or forfeiture, unless
the context otherwise requires, includes:
         A.   Money, bank bills or notes, U.S. treasury notes, and other bills,
bonds or notes issued by a lawful authority and intended to pass and circulate
as money;
         B.   Goods and chattels;
         C.   Promissory notes, bills of exchange, orders, drafts, warrants,
checks or bonds given for the payment of money;
         D.   Receipts given for the payment of money or other property;
         E.   Rights in action;
         F.   Things which savor of the realty and are, at the time they are
taken, a part of the freehold, whether they are of the substance or produce
thereof or affixed thereto; although there may be no interval between the
severing and taking away;
         G.   Any interest in realty, including fee simple and partial
interests, present and future, contingent or vested interests, beneficial
interests, leasehold interests and any other interests in realty;
         H.   Any promise of future employment; and/or
         I.   Every other thing of value.
      (4)   "Bond" includes an undertaking.
      (5)   "CFR" means the Code of Federal Regulations.
      (6)   "Child" or "children" means progeny or offspring of parentage and
includes child by adoption.
      (7)   "City" or "Municipality" when used in the Xenia City Code shall
denote the City of Xenia, Ohio, irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
      (8)   "Council" or "City Council" means the legislative authority of the
City of Xenia, Ohio.
      (9)   "County" means Greene County, Ohio.
      (10)   "Imprisoned" or "imprisonment" shall have the same meaning as in
ORC 1.05.
      (11)   "Internet" means the international computer network of both
federal and nonfederal interoperable packet switched data networks, including
the graphical subnetwork known as the worldwide web.
      (12)   "Keeper" or "proprietor" includes all persons, whether acting by
themselves or as a servant, agent, or employee.
      (13)   "Land" and "real estate" includes rights and easements of
incorporeal nature.
      (14)   "Legislative authority" means the City Council as the governing
body of the City.
      (15)   "Municipal ordinance" refers to any ordinance passed by the City
of Xenia or a municipal ordinance passed by another Ohio municipality.
      (16)   "OAC" refers to the Ohio Administrative Code.
      (17)   "Oath" includes affirmation, and "swear" includes affirm.
      (18)   "Of unsound mind" includes all forms of derangement or
intellectual disability.
      (19)   "ORC," or "Ohio R.C.," or "Revised Code" refers to the Ohio
Revised Code.
      (20)   "Owner," when applied to property, includes any part owner, joint
owner or tenant in common of the whole or part of such property.
      (21)   "Person" includes an individual, corporation (whether public or
private), business trust, estate, trust, partnership, and association.
      (22)   "Personal property" includes all property, except real property.
      (23)   "Plan of sewerage," "system of sewerage," "sewer," and "sewers"
includes sewers, sewage disposal works and treatment plants, and sewage pumping
stations, together with facilities and appurtenances necessary and proper
therefor.
      (24)   "Plat" means a map of a tract or parcel of land.
      (25)   "Population" means that shown by the most recent regular federal
census.
      (26)   "Premises," as applied to real property, includes land and
buildings.
      (27)   "Property" includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
      (28)   "Public authority" means the State of Ohio, a state institution of
higher education, a county, a township, a municipal corporation, a school
district or other political subdivision of Ohio, or any officer, board or
commission thereof.
      (29)   "Public place" includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery,
school yard, body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other
place for the sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
      (30)   "Real property" includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
      (31)   "Registered mail" includes certified mail, and "certified mail"
includes registered mail.
      (32)   "Rule" includes regulation.
      (33)   "Sidewalk" means that portion of the street between the curb line
and the adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      (34)   "State" when applied to a part of the United States, includes any
state, district, commonwealth, territory, insular possession thereof and any
area subject to the legislative authority of the United States of America.
"This State" or "the State" means the State of Ohio.
      (35)   "State law" refers to the laws of the State of Ohio.
      (36)   "Street" includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads,
highways, viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the City.
      (37)   "Tenant" or "occupant," as applied to premises, includes any
person holding a written or oral lease or who actually occupies the whole or
any part of such premises, alone or with others.
      (38)   "Undertaking" includes a bond.
      (39)   "United States" or "U.S." includes all the states.
      (40)   "USC" refers to the United States Code.
      (41)   "Week" means seven (7) consecutive days.
      (42)   "Whoever" includes all persons, natural and artificial, partners,
principals, agents and employees, and all officials, public or private.
      (43)   "Will" includes codicil.
      (44)   "Writing" includes printing.
      (45)   "Written" or "in writing" includes any representation of words,
letters, symbols or figures; however, this provision does not affect any law
relating to signatures.
      (46)   "Year" means twelve (12) consecutive months.
      Statutory References: ORC 1.02, 1.03, 1.05, 1.44, 1.59, 701.01, 711.001
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
§ 200.03   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
These rules apply to the Xenia City Code and its component codes, titles,
chapters, sections, and divisions, and to any rules or regulations promulgated
under them, unless otherwise stated therein.
Statutory Reference: ORC 1.41
   (a)   Common and Technical Usage. Words and phrases shall be read in context
and construed according to the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and
phrases that have acquired a technical or particular meaning, whether by
legislative definition or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
Statutory reference: ORC 1.42
   (b)   Singular and Plural; Gender; Tense. As used in the Xenia City Code,
unless the context otherwise requires:
      (1)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular;
      (2)   Words of one gender include the other genders; and
      (3)   Words in the present tense include the future tense.
         Statutory reference: ORC 1.43
   (c)   Mandatory or Discretionary.
      (1)   The words "shall" or "will" are mandatory and not discretionary.
      (2)   The word "may" is permissive and discretionary.
   (d)   Conflict in the Expression of Numbers. If there is a conflict between
figures and words in expressing a number, the words govern.
      Statutory reference: ORC 1.46
   (e)   Construction of References to Sections.
      (1)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
series of sections, or of divisions or subdivisions of a section, such
reference shall be construed to mean a violation of any section, division or
subdivision included in such reference.
      (2)   References in the Xenia City Code to action taken or authorized
under designated sections of the Xenia City Code include, in every case, action
taken or authorized under any applicable, prior section which has been
superseded.
         Statutory Reference: ORC 1.23
      (3)   A reference to any title, chapter, section, or division of the
Xenia City Code applies to all reenactments or amendments thereof.
         Statutory Reference: ORC 1.55
      (4)   If a section of the Xenia City Code refers to a series of numbers
or letters, the first and the last numbers or letters are included.
         Statutory Reference: ORC 1.56
      (5)   Whenever in any title, chapter, section, or division of the Xenia
City Code reference is made to another title, chapter, section, or division,
the reference shall extend and apply to the title, chapter, section, or
division referred to as subsequently amended, revised, recodified, or
renumbered, unless the subject matter was changed or materially altered by the
amendment or revision.   
   (f)   References to Offices or Officers. Reference to a public department,
division or office or department head, division head or officer shall be deemed
to apply to any department, division, office, officer, or employee of the City
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the reference,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the department, division, office, officer, or employee.
   (g)   Errors and Omissions. If a manifest error is discovered consisting of
the misspelling of any word or words, the omission of any word or words
necessary to express the intention of the provisions affected, the use of a
word or words to which no meaning can be attached, or the use of a word or
words when another word or words was clearly intended to express such intent,
such spelling shall be corrected and such word or words supplied, omitted or
substituted as will conform with the manifest intention, and the provision
shall have the same effect as though the correct words were contained in the
text as originally published. No such alteration shall be made or permitted if
any question exists regarding the nature or extent of such error.
   (h)   Authorized Agents. When the law requires an act to be done which may
by law as well be done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall
be construed to include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (i)   Exceptions. These rules of construction shall not apply to any
chapter, section, or division of the Xenia City Code that contains any express
provision excluding such construction, or which provides for its own rules of
construction, or when the subject matter or context of such law may be
repugnant thereto.
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
§ 200.04   EFFECT OF REENACTMENT, AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (a)   Reenactment.
      (1)   No ordinance shall reenact or revive any title, chapter, section,
or division of the Xenia City Code unless the new ordinance contains the entire
title, chapter, section, or division to be revived, with the reenacted or
revived matter indicated by underscoring or by italics.
      (2)   Any ordinance that is reenacted is intended to be a continuation of
the prior ordinance and not a new enactment, so far as it is the same as the
prior ordinance.
         Statutory Reference: ORC 1.54
   (b)   Amendments.
      (1)   When any title, chapter, section, or division of the Xenia City
Code is being amended, the ordinance amending the title, chapter, section, or
division shall set forth the entire title, chapter, section, or division being
amended and shall indicate the matter to be omitted or deleted by enclosing it
in brackets or by strikeout and shall indicate the new matter by underscoring
or by italics.
         (Charter 5.03)
      (2)   When any title, chapter, section, or division of the Xenia City
Code is being amended, the ordinance so amending shall also repeal the existing
title, chapter, section, or division. The word "existing" shall be used to
indicate that the title, chapter, section, or division is being repealed to
amend it.
         Statutory Reference: ORC 731.19
      (3)   Any ordinance that is amended is intended to be a continuation of
the prior ordinance and not a new enactment, so far as it is the same as the
prior ordinance.
         Statutory Reference: ORC 1.54
      (4)   If amendments to the same title, chapter, section, or division of
the Xenia City Code are enacted at the same or different meetings of the
Council, one amendment without reference to another, the amendments are to be
harmonized, if possible, so that effect may be given to each. If the amendments
are substantively irreconcilable, the latest in date of enactment prevails.
Amendments are irreconcilable only when the changes made by each cannot
reasonably be put into simultaneous operation.
         Statutory Reference: ORC 1.52
   (c)   Repeals.
      (1)   When any title, chapter, section, or division of the Xenia City
Code is being repealed without amending or replacing it, the ordinance
repealing the title, chapter, section, or division shall set forth the entire
title, chapter, section, or division being repealed and shall indicate the
matter to be omitted or deleted by enclosing it in brackets or by strikeout.
      (2)   When any title, chapter, section, or division of the Xenia City
Code is being repealed without amending or replacing it, the words "is hereby
repealed in its entirety" shall be used in the ordinance to indicate the title,
chapter, section, or division is being repealed without amendment or
replacement.
      (3)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not reenact or revive the
title, chapter, section, or division of the Xenia City Code originally
repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
         Statutory Reference: ORC 1.57
   (d)   Effect.
      (1)   The reenactment, amendment, or repeal of any provision, title,
chapter, section, or division of the Xenia City Code does not, except as
provided in division (d)(2) of this section:
         A.   Affect the prior operation of the provision, title, chapter,
section, or division or any prior action taken thereunder;
         B.   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded, or incurred thereunder;
         C.   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
         D.   Affect any investigation, proceeding, or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment; and the
investigation, proceeding, or remedy may be instituted, continued, or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment imposed, as if the provision, title,
chapter, section, or division had not been repealed or amended.
      (2)   If the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for any offense is
reduced by a reenactment or amendment of the Xenia City Code, the penalty,
forfeiture, or punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according
to the title, chapter, section, or division as amended.
         Statutory Reference: ORC 1.58
   (e)   Not a Limitation. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prevent the passage of an ordinance that, in any combination, enacts new
titles, chapters, sections or divisions; amends existing titles, chapters,
sections or divisions; and repeals in their entirety various titles, chapters,
sections or divisions, so long as the enactment, amendment and repeal all
relate to the same subject.
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
§ 200.05   COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (a)   Computing Time in which an Act is to be Done.
      (1)   The time within which an act is required by any provision of the
Xenia City Code to be done shall be computed by excluding the first and
including the last day; except that, when the last day falls on Sunday or a
legal holiday, the act may be done on the next succeeding day that is not
Sunday or a legal holiday.
      (2)   When a public office in which an act, required by the Xenia City
Code, is to be performed is closed to the public for the entire day that
constitutes the last day for doing the act or before its usual closing time on
that day, the act may be performed on the next succeeding day that is not a
Sunday or a legal holiday.
      (3)   For the purposes of this section, "legal holiday" shall be as
defined in Section
202.03 of these General Provisions.
         Statutory Reference: ORC 1.14
   (b)   Effective Date. When any title, chapter, section, or division of the
Xenia City Code is to become operative beginning on a date named, the title,
chapter, section, or division shall become effective at 12:01 a.m. on the day
so named.
   (c)   Computing Months. If a number of months is to be computed by counting
the months from a particular day, the period ends on the same numerical day in
the concluding month as the day of the month from which the computation is
begun, unless there are not that many days in the concluding month, in which
case the period ends on the last day of that month.
Statutory Reference: ORC 1.45
   (d)   Definition of Reasonable Time. In all cases where the law shall
require any act to be done in a reasonable time or reasonable notice to be
given, such reasonable time or notice shall mean such time only as may be
necessary for the prompt performance of such duty or compliance with such
notice.
   (e)   Priority of Legal Rights. If priority of legal rights depends upon the
order of events on the same day, such priority shall be determined by the times
in the day which they respectively occurred.
Statutory Reference: ORC 1.15
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
§ 200.06   DETERMINATION OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT; CONFLICTS OF LAW.
   (a)   Intent. In enacting any provision, title, chapter, section, or
division of the Xenia City Code, it is presumed that:
      (1)   Compliance with the constitutions of the State and of the United
States is intended;
      (2)   The entire provision, title, chapter, section, or division is
intended to be effective;
      (3)   A just and reasonable result is intended; and
      (4)   A result feasible of execution is intended.
      Statutory Reference: ORC 1.47
   (b)   Presumed Prospective. All provisions, titles, chapters, sections, and
divisions of the Xenia City Code shall be presumed to be prospective in their
operation unless expressly made retrospective.
Statutory Reference: ORC 1.48
   (c)   Construction by the Court. If any provision, title, chapter, section,
or division of the Xenia City Code is ambiguous, the court, in determining the
intention of the Council, may consider among other matters:
      (1)   The object sought to be attained;
      (2)   The circumstances under which the provision, title, chapter,
section, or division was enacted;
      (3)   The legislative history;
      (4)   The common law or former legislative provisions, including laws
upon the same or similar subjects;
      (5)   The consequences of a particular construction; and/or
      (6)   The administrative construction of the provision, title, chapter,
section, or division.
         Statutory Reference: ORC 1.49
   (d)   Conflicts.
      (1)   If the provisions of any title(s), chapter(s), section(s) or
division(s) of the Xenia City Code, which are enacted at different meetings of
Council are irreconcilable, the ordinance latest in date of enactment prevails.
      (2)   In the event of a conflict between any of the provisions of the
Xenia City Code, or between any of the provisions of the Xenia City Code and a
provision of any technical code adopted in accordance with Section
5.08 of the City Charter, the provision that establishes the higher or stricter
standard shall control.
      (3)   In the event of a conflict between any of the provisions of the
Xenia City Code and any provision of state law, including rules and regulations
promulgated pursuant to state law, the provisions of the Xenia City Code shall
control and be deemed to be a valid exercise of the City's home rule authority
under Article XVIII of the Ohio Constitution, unless the state law is a valid
general law, in which case the state law shall control.
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
§ 200.07    SEVERABILITY.
   If the provisions of any title, chapter, section, or division of the Xenia
City Code or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held
invalid, the invalidity does not affect other provisions or applications of the
title, chapter, section, or division or related sections that can be given
effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end the
provisions are severable.
Statutory reference: ORC 1.50
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
§ 200.99   GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whenever, in the Xenia City Code or in any ordinance of the City, any act is
prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful, an offense or a misdemeanor,
or whenever the doing of any act is required and the failure to do any act is
declared to be unlawful, and where no specific penalty is otherwise provided,
whoever violates any such provision shall be guilty of a unclassified
misdemeanor and the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to ORC 2929.21 to
2929.28; except that the offender shall not be sentenced to a jail term, nor
shall the offender be sentenced to a community residential sanction pursuant to
ORC 2929.26. Notwithstanding ORC 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up
to one thousand dollars ($1,000), and notwithstanding ORC 2929.27(A)(3), the
offender may be ordered pursuant to division (C) of that section to serve a
term of community service of up to five hundred (500) hours. The failure of an
offender to complete a term of community service imposed by the court may be
punished as indirect criminal contempt under ORC 2705.02(A) that may be filed
in the underlying case. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day
during or on which the violation occurs or noncompliance continues, unless
otherwise provided in the relevant title, chapter, section, or division.
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
CHAPTER 202
Official Standards
202.01   Project Datum
202.02   Standard of Time
202.03   Legal Holidays
202.04   City Seal
202.05   City Logo
202.06   City Flag
202.07   Legal Publication
   CROSS REFERENCES
   See sectional histories for similar state law
§ 202.01   PROJECT DATUM.
   (a)   Datum. The vertical and horizontal positioning for all public works
and engineering projects shall be furnished using the latest datum produced by
the National Geodetic Survey (NGS). The project datum is to be collected
following the latest version of the Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT)
Survey and Mapping Specifications.
   (b)   Surveys. Surveyors shall use:
      (1)   ODOT Path 1, 2 or 3;
      (2)   Survey grade Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) receivers
and antennas;
      (3)   The United States Continuously Operating Reference Stations (CORS);
and
      (4)   Shall process the data using the Online Positioning User Service
(OPUS) for all control points.
      (5)   Any other survey methods to establish project datum requires the
approval of the City Engineer.
   (c)   Grades. All grades hereafter established by the City shall refer to
this process to establish a project datum.
(1964 Code 103.01; Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
§ 202.02   STANDARD OF TIME.
   (a)   Official Time. Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Standard Daylight
Savings Time, when in force, shall be the official time of the City of Xenia
for the transaction of all City business, the operation of the various City
Departments and offices, the application of any laws that specify time, and for
all legal and official proceedings.
   (b)   Clocks. Every clock or timepiece maintained at the public expense or
upon any public building belonging to the City shall be set, run, and operated
according to Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Standard Daylight Savings Time,
when in force, by the person in charge or control thereof.
Statutory Reference: ORC 1.04
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
§ 202.03   LEGAL HOLIDAYS.
   (a)   Legal Holidays. The following days represent the legal holidays of the
City solely for the purposes of computing time under Section 200.05:
      (1)   New Year's Day                      January 1st
      (2)   Martin Luther King, Jr. Day                  Third Monday in
January
      (3)   Presidents Day                       Third Monday in February
      (4)   Memorial Day                      Last Monday in May
      (5)   Juneteenth National Independence Day            June 19th
      (6)   Independence Day                     July 4th
      (7)   Labor Day                         First Monday in September
      (8)   Columbus Day                      Second Monday in October
      (9)   Veterans Day                      November 11th
      (10)   Thanksgiving Day                     Fourth Thursday in November
      (11)   Day after Thanksgiving Day               Fourth Friday in November
      (12)   Christmas Day                     December 25th
      (13)   Any day that the City Administration Building is closed for a
whole day or part of a day in observance of a holiday.
   (b)   Observance. If any day designated in this section as a legal holiday
falls on a Sunday, the next succeeding day is a legal holiday.
Statutory Reference: ORC 1.14
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
§ 202.04   CITY SEAL.
   (a)   Official Seal. The following is hereby adopted and made the official
seal of the City:
 
 
   (b)   Use of Seal. The seal may be used on official documents of the City,
but the failure to affix the seal to documents of the City shall in no way
affect their validity. The design of the City seal is the property of the City
and shall not be reproduced or used for, or in conjunction with, merchandise
for sale, advertisements, political campaigning, nor for any other purpose not
associated with official City business.
   (c)   Penalty. Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of an
unclassified misdemeanor and the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to ORC
2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be sentenced to a jail
term nor sentenced to a community residential sanction pursuant to ORC 2929.26.
Notwithstanding ORC 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to one
thousand dollars ($1,000) and, notwithstanding ORC 2929.27(A)(3), the offender
may be ordered pursuant to division (C) of that section to serve a term of
community service of up to five hundred (500) hours. The failure of an offender
to complete a term of community service imposed by the court may be punished as
indirect criminal contempt under ORC 2705.02(A) and may be filed in the
underlying case.
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
§ 202.05   CITY LOGO.
   (a)   Use of Logo. The design of the official logo(s) of the City is the
property of the City and shall only be used for official City business. Such
logo(s) shall not be reproduced or used by City officials or employees for
matters that are not related to official City business. Such logo(s) shall not
be used by any person not affiliated with the City, except as otherwise
authorized by the City Manager, who may authorize reproduction of the City logo
when the purpose is to:
      (1)   Aid educational or historical programs;
      (2)   Promote economic or cultural development of the City in a manner
deemed appropriate by the City Manager;
      (3)   On clothing to be worn by City officials or employees while
performing their official duties; or
      (4)   Any other purpose deemed appropriate and approved by the City
Manager.
   (b)   Penalty. Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of an
unclassified misdemeanor and the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to ORC
2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be sentenced to a jail
term nor sentenced to a community residential sanction pursuant to ORC 2929.26.
Notwithstanding ORC 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to one
thousand dollars ($1,000) and, notwithstanding ORC 2929.27(A)(3), the offender
may be ordered pursuant to division (C) of that section to serve a term of
community service of up to five hundred (500) hours. The failure of an offender
to complete a term of community service imposed by the court may be punished as
indirect criminal contempt under ORC 2705.02(A) and may be filed in the
underlying case.
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
§ 202.06   CITY FLAG.
   (a)   City Flag. The official City flag will have a white background with
the City Seal in the center.
   (b)   Use of City Flag. The use of the City flag shall be subject to the
following conditions:
      (1)   The design of the City flag, including the City Seal, is the
property of the City and shall not be reproduced, except as authorized by the
City Manager or his designee.
      (2)   The City flag shall not be used as, or in conjunction with,
merchandise for sale, or advertisements, or political campaigns.
      (3)   Citizens, organizations, interested groups, or individuals may
purchase a City flag from the office of the City Manager at cost.
   (c)   Display of City Flag. The display of the City flag at all City
buildings and other public institutions within the City is encouraged, subject
to the following conditions:
      (1)   If the City flag is displayed, it may be flown every day either
from a flagpole or a staff, when weather permits, from sunrise until sunset.
The City flag shall only be flown at night when properly lighted. Any flagpole
or staff upon which the City flag is flown shall be at least two and one-half
(2½) times as long as the City flag.
      (2)   When the City flag and the United States flag are displayed at the
same time, the City flag shall not be larger than the United States flag. When
the City flag and the United States flag are displayed together against a wall
from crossed staffs, the City flag shall be on the left of the United States
flag, and the staff supporting the City flag shall be behind the staff
supporting the United States flag. When the City flag is flown from the same
halyard as the United States flag, the City flag shall be displayed beneath the
United States flag. When the City flag is carried in a procession in which the
United States flag is unfurled, the City flag shall be displayed on the
marching left of the United States flag.
      (3)   The City flag shall be displayed at half-staff on the following
days, from sunrise to sunset, unless otherwise indicated:
         A.   When displayed with the United States flag, at any time the
United States flag is to be flown at half-staff pursuant to 4 USC §7 or upon a
Presidential Order; or
         B.   At any time the United States flag is ordered to be flown at
half-staff pursuant to an order from the Ohio Governor.
         C.   The City flag (but not the United States flag) may also be flown
at half-staff pursuant to an administrative directive from the City Manager in
the event of a death of a present or former City official or employee.
   (d)   Repair or Destruction. The City flag should be cleaned in a manner
that is best suited to the material of the flag and may be repaired. When the
City flag is damaged beyond repair, it shall be destroyed privately either by
cutting it into small pieces and burning it until only ashes remain or by
sealing it in a plastic bag or box before discarding it in a trash collection,
or the flag may be returned to the City for appropriate disposal.
(Ord. 14-40. Adopted 10/09/14. Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
§ 202.07   LEGAL PUBLICATION.
   (a)   Newspaper of General Circulation. Whenever the City is required by law
to make any legal publication in a newspaper, the newspaper shall be a
newspaper of general circulation. As used in this section, "newspaper" or
"newspaper of general circulation," except daily law journals in existence on
or before July 1, 2011, and performing the functions described in ORC 2701.09
for a period of three (3) years immediately preceding any such legal
publication required to be made, is a publication bearing a title or name that
is regularly issued at least once a week, and that meets all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   It is printed in the English language using standard printing
methods, being not less than eight (8) pages in the broadsheet format or
sixteen (16) pages in the tabloid format;
      (2)   It contains at least twenty-five percent (25%) editorial content,
which includes, but is not limited to, local news, political information, and
local sports;
      (3)   It has been published continuously for at least three (3) years
immediately preceding legal publication by the City;
      (4)   The publication has the ability to add subscribers to its
distribution list; and
      (5)   The publication is circulated generally by United States mail or
carrier delivery in the City within the twelve (12) months immediately
preceding legal publication.
   (b)   Mediation of Disputes. A person who disagrees that a publication is a
"newspaper of general circulation" in which legal publication may be made under
this section may deliver a written request for mediation to the publisher of
the publication and to the Greene County Court of Common Pleas. The Court of
Common Pleas shall appoint a mediator, and the parties shall follow the
procedures of the mediation program operated by the Court.
Statutory Reference: ORC 7.12
   (c)   Multiple Notices. If a section of the ORC or of the Xenia City Code
requires publication of a notice or advertisement two (2) or more times in a
newspaper of general circulation, the first publication of the notice or
advertisement shall be made in its entirety in a newspaper of general
circulation in the City and may be made by a preprinted insert in the
newspaper, but the second publication otherwise required may be made in
abbreviated form in a newspaper of general circulation in the City and on the
newspaper's internet website, if the newspaper has one. Any further newspaper
publications may be eliminated provided that the second, abbreviated notice or
advertisement meets all of the following requirements:
      (1)   It is published in a newspaper of general circulation in which the
first publication of the notice or advertisement was made;
      (2)   It is posted by the publisher of the newspaper on the Ohio News
Media Association's Public Notices Ohio website. The publisher shall post the
required notice or advertisement on the website at no additional cost;
      (3)   It includes a title, followed by a summary paragraph or statement
that clearly described the specific purpose of the notice or advertisement, and
include a statement that the notice or advertisement is posted in its entirety
on the official public notice website. The notice or advertisement also may be
posted on the City's internet website; and
      (4)   It includes the internet address of the official public notice
website and the name, address, telephone number, and email address of the City.
   (d)   Posting on Website. A notice or advertisement published under this
section on an internet website shall be published in its entirety.
Statutory Reference: ORC 7.16
   (e)   Limitations. This section shall be applied in a manner that would
amend or lessen any publication requirements set forth in the Ohio Constitution
or the Xenia City Charter.
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
CHAPTER 204
Public Meetings and Public Records
204.01   Application
204.02   Open Meetings
204.03   Rules of Public Notice
204.04   Executive Sessions
204.05   Conduct at Meetings
204.06   Exceptions
204.07   Alternate Seat of City Government; Exercise of Powers
204.08   Public Records
   CROSS REFERENCES
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Availability of Public Records - see ORC 149.43
   Council Meetings - see CHTR. 4.14
   Disturbing a Lawful Meeting - see GEN. OFF.
648.05
   Open Meetings - see ORC 121.22
§ 204.01   APPLICATION.
   (a)   Application. This Chapter shall apply to the following public bodies:
      (1)   The City Council;
      (2)   The Planning & Zoning Commission;
      (3)   The Board of Zoning Appeals;
      (4)   The Civil Service Commission;
      (5)   The Charter Review Commission; and
      (6)   Any other board, commission, committee, or similar decision-making
body of the City, whether created by Charter, by ordinance, or by the Rules of
Council, including any subcommittee of any such board, commission, committee,
or similar decision-making body.
   (b)   Definitions.
      (1)   "Chair" means the President or Chairperson of the public body and
includes the Vice President or Vice Chairperson, when acting for the Chair, or
the Chair Pro Tem.
      (2)   "Deliberation" means the act of weighing and examining reasons for
or against a choice.
      (3)   "Discussing public business" means the exchange or words, comments,
or ideas by members of the public body on public business.
      (4)   "Executive session" is a conference between members of a public
body from which the public is excluded.
      (5)   "Meeting" means any prearranged discussion of the public business
of the public body by a majority of its members.
      (6)   "Public body" includes all those entities listed in division (a) of
this section.
      (7)   "Quasi-Judicial" means acting in a quasi-judicial capacity to
fulfill a public body's adjudicative duties, such as hearing appeals.
   (c)   Construction. This Chapter and any rules or regulations promulgated
hereunder shall be liberally construed to require all public bodies of the City
to take official action and to conduct all deliberations upon official business
only in open meetings unless the public body is acting in a quasi-judicial
manner or if the subject matter under consideration is specifically exempted by
City Charter or state law.
Statutory Reference: ORC 121.22(A), (B)
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
§ 204.02   OPEN MEETINGS.
   (a)   Open Meetings. All meetings of any public body of the City at which
public business is discussed or deliberated upon are declared to be public
meetings open to the public at all times, excepting when that body has properly
exited into executive session or when that body is exercising its quasi-
judicial functions and is deliberating in private.
   (b)   Presence Required. A member of the public body must be present in
person at a meeting to be considered present, to vote on any official business,
or for the purpose of determining whether a quorum is present at the meeting.
   (c)   Exempted Gatherings.
      (1)   Gatherings of a strictly investigative and information-seeking
nature which do not involve actual deliberations of public business are not
meetings for the purposes of this section. Examples of such gatherings include,
but are not limited to, question-and-answer sessions between the public body
and others, conversations between employees of a public body, a presentation to
a public body by its legal counsel when the public body is receiving legal
advice, or a press conference.
      (2)   The quasi-judicial deliberations of quasi-judicial bodies whose
responsibilities include adjudicative duties, when acting in their quasi-
judicial capacity, are not meetings for the purposes of this section.
      (3)   Collective bargaining meetings with employee organizations are not
meetings for the purposes of this section.
   (d)   Invalidity.
      (1)   A resolution, rule or formal action of any kind is invalid unless
adopted in an open meeting of the public body. A resolution, rule or formal
action adopted in an open meeting that results from deliberations in a meeting
not open to the public is invalid unless the deliberations were for a purpose
specifically for and conducted in an executive session or when such
deliberations were undertaken by a public body acting in a quasi-judicial
capacity.
      (2)   A resolution, rule or formal action adopted in an open meeting is
invalid if the public body that adopted the resolution, rule or formal action
violated the rules of public notice contained in Section 204.03.
         Statutory Reference: ORC 121.22(C), (H)
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
§ 204.03   RULES OF PUBLIC NOTICE.
   (a)   Regular Meetings.
      (1)   Date and Time: Every public body of the City shall set dates and
times for their regular meetings unless such body meets only on an "as-needed"
basis.
      (2)   Place: Every public body of the City that holds regular meetings
shall set a regular location for such meetings, which location shall be the
City Administration Building, unless the City Manager determines that such
location is not practicable due to scheduling conflicts or security issues.
      (3)   Notice: By December 1st of each year, the secretary of each public
body that holds regular meetings shall give notice to the City Clerk of the
public body's regular meeting schedule for the following year. The City Clerk
shall then give notice of the public body's regular meetings by posting the
same at the City Administration Building and on the City's website.
      (4)   Change in Date, Time or Location: If the date, time or location of
a regular meeting is changed, the secretary of the public body shall
immediately give notice of the same to the City Clerk, and the Clerk shall give
notice of the change by notifying the news media and by posting notice of the
change at the City Administration Building and on the City's website as far in
advance of the meeting as possible, but not less than twenty-four (24) hours
prior to the meeting.
      (5)   City Council: Regular meetings of Council and standing committees
of the Council shall be called and held in accordance with the City Charter and
the Rules of Council.
   (b)   Special Meetings.
      (1)   Purpose: Any meeting other than a regularly scheduled meeting is a
special meeting. The meetings of public bodies that meet on an "as-needed"
basis shall be considered special meetings. No business or action other than
that stated as the purpose of such special meeting shall be conducted at such
meeting. The stated purpose may be for general purposes.
      (2)   How Called: Special meetings of any public body of the City may be
held at the call of the public body's Chair or upon a majority vote of the
public body taken at any regular or special meeting. The call for a special
meeting shall specify the date, time, location, and purposes of the meeting.
Unless otherwise provided, special meetings will be held at the same location
as regular meetings.
      (3)   Notice:
         A.   The secretary of the public body shall immediately give notice of
the date, time, location, and purpose of the special meeting to the City Clerk.
The Clerk, or the Finance Director in the Clerk's absence, incapacity, or
refusal to act, shall give notice of the date, time, location, and purposes of
a special meeting by posting notice in the same locations as provided for
posting notice of regular meetings. Notice shall be posted as far in advance of
the meeting as practicable, but not less than twenty-four (24) hours prior to
the meeting.
         B.   A public body shall not hold a special meeting unless it gives at
least twenty-four (24) hours' advanced notice to the news media that have
requested notification.
      (4)   City Council: Special meetings of Council and standing committees
of the Council shall be called and held in accordance with the City Charter and
the Rules of Council.
   (c)   Emergency Meetings.
      (1)   Purpose: Emergency meetings are special meetings that, due to an
emergency requiring immediate official action, must be held without the
required twenty-four hours' notice for a special meeting. No business or action
other than that stated as the purpose for holding such emergency meeting shall
be conducted at such meeting. The stated purpose may not be for general
purposes.
      (2)   How Called: Emergency meetings of a public body may be held at the
call of the public body's Chair. The call for an emergency meeting shall
specify the date, time, location, and purposes of the meeting. Unless otherwise
provided, emergency meetings will be held at the same location as regular
meetings.
      (3)   Notice:
         A.   The secretary of the public body shall immediately give notice of
the date, time, location, and purpose of the special meeting to the City Clerk.
The Clerk, or the Finance Director in the Clerk's absence, incapacity, or
refusal to act, shall give notice of the date, time, location, and purpose of
an emergency meeting by immediately posting notice of the meeting at the City
building and on the City's website.
         B.   The secretary of the public body or the City Clerk immediately
shall notify the news media that have requested notification of the time,
place, and purpose of the emergency meeting.
         C.   A public body shall not hold a special meeting unless it gives at
least twenty-four (24) hours' advanced notice to the news media that have
requested notification.
      (4)   City Council: Emergency meetings of the City Council and the
standing committees of Council shall be called in accordance with the City
Charter and the Rules of Council.
   (d)   Notification to News Media. The news media may, by written notice to
the City Clerk, request notification of all special meetings of all or any of
the public bodies of the City, including City Council. Such notification may be
given by the City Clerk in writing, which includes email, by fax, or by
telephone.
   (e)   Notice of Meetings to Discuss Particular Business.
      (1)   The City Clerk shall give reasonable advance notice of any regular
or special meeting of any public body of the City, including City Council, at
which a particular type of public business is to be discussed to any person who
has requested such notice. If time permits, such notice shall be by email;
otherwise, such notice shall be given by telephone. A request for such advance
notice shall be made in writing, and shall state the requestor's name, address,
email address, telephone number, and the nature of the public business in which
the requestor has a particular interest and desires notice. Any such request
shall remain in effect until December 31st of the then current year. There
shall be no charge to the requestor for such notice.
      (2)   Any person who requests advance notice of meetings of a public body
at which particular public business will be discussed may also request that the
agenda for such meetings be mailed to them. Such request shall be in writing
and shall only become effective upon the payment of the fee established for
such mailings in the City's Fee Schedule (Section 298.01).
         Statutory Reference: ORC 121.22(F)
   (f)   Notice of Cancelled Meetings. If a meeting is cancelled due to
inclement weather or other unforeseen circumstances, or if the meeting of any
public body that maintains a regular meeting schedule is cancelled due to a
lack of agenda items, the secretary of the public body shall immediately notify
the City Clerk, who shall give notice of the cancellation by posting it in the
lobby of the City Administration Building, by posting it on the City's website,
and by notifying any news media or other person to whom notice of the meeting
was already given.
   (g)   Special Notice Required by Law. When a particular form or method of
notice is otherwise required by law for a public hearing or meeting of any
public body of the City, notice of the hearing or meeting shall be given in the
form and manner prescribed by statute, in addition to the notice otherwise
required under this section.
(Ord. 88-82. Adopted 08/11/88; Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
§ 204.04   EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (a)   Executive Session. The members of a public body may hold an executive
session at a regular, special, or emergency meeting of the public body for the
purposes set forth in ORC 121.22(G). Other, intertwined issues may be discussed
in executive session, but only if those issues have a direct bearing on the
topic that is a permissible subject of executive session discussion.
   (b)   Method.
      (1)   Motion: A motion for executive session must state which one or more
of the approved matters listed in ORC 121.22(G) are to be considered in the
executive session.
      (2)   Roll Call Vote: Members of the public body may adjourn into
executive session only after a majority of a quorum of the public body approves
the motion by roll call vote, and the vote must be recorded in the minutes of
the public body.
      (3)   Persons Present: The public shall be excluded from a properly
called executive session; however, the public body may invite anyone it chooses
to attend the executive session.
      (4)   Exiting: The Chair of the public body may call the return to open
session. A motion to end the executive session is not necessary.
      (5)   Minutes: The minutes need only reflect the motion and roll call
vote, as the motion will indicate the general subject matter of purpose of the
executive session.
   (c)   Effect. A resolution, rule or any other formal action of any kind is
invalid unless adopted in an open meeting of the public body. A resolution,
rule or formal action adopted in an open meeting that results from deliberation
in a meeting not open to the public is invalid unless the deliberations were
for a purpose specifically authorized under ORC 121.22(G) and conducted at an
executive session held in compliance with this section.
Statutory Reference: ORC 121.22
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
§ 204.05   CONDUCT AT MEETINGS.
   (a)   Venue. All public bodies of the City shall conduct their meetings in a
venue that is open to the public.
   (b)   Right to be Heard. In any meeting of any City public body that is open
to the public, any person shall have the right to attend and observe said
meeting; however, this does not bestow the right to be heard at the meeting,
except during public hearings. Any person who is disruptive may be removed from
an open meeting at the request of the presiding officer of the public body. The
presiding officer of any public body that takes audience comments may place
limitations on the time and manner in which members of the public may have the
right to address the public body.
   (c)   Recording. Audio and video recording of an open meeting of any City
public body is permitted; provided, however, that any recording equipment used
for such purposes shall be silent, unobtrusive, self-contained and self-powered
to limit interference with the meeting. Furthermore, if the recording of the
meeting interferes with the ability of others to hear, see, and/or participate
in the meeting, the Chair of the public body may order such recording to be
stopped. Any person who unreasonably interferes with an open meeting or refuses
to cease recording after being so ordered by the Chair may be removed from the
meeting at the request of the Chair of the public body.
   (d)   Minutes.
      (1)   All public bodies of the City shall keep full and accurate minutes
of its meetings. The minutes may be the approved recording of the meeting. If
the recording of the meeting is not used, the written minutes must include
enough facts and information to permit the public to understand and appreciate
the rationale behind the public body's decision, but need not be a verbatim
transcript.
      (2)   The minutes need only reflect the motion, including the stated
purpose therefor, to adjourn into executive session and the roll call vote
thereon.
      (3)   The minutes of the City's public bodies shall be promptly prepared,
filed and maintained and shall be open to public inspection.
         Statutory Reference: ORC 121.22(C)
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
§ 204.06   EXCEPTIONS.
   The requirements of this Chapter do not include notice of meetings which are
exempted from such requirements under City Charter, ORC 121.22, or other
applicable law.
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
§ 204.07   ALTERNATE SEAT OF GOVERNMENT; EXERCISE OF POWERS.
   (a)   Designation of Alternate Seat of City Government. The City Council, by
ordinance or resolution, may establish and designate alternate or substitute
sites or places, within or without the territorial limits of the City, as the
emergency location(s) of City government and may make necessary arrangements
for the use of those sites or places, whether such location(s) are within or
without the City's territorial limits.
   (b)   Exercise of Powers.
      (1)   If, during a declared emergency, it becomes imprudent, inexpedient
or impossible to conduct the affairs of the City at the regular or usual place
(s) thereof, the City Council may meet at previously designated alternate sites
or places, or at any other convenient site or place, on the call of the
presiding officer of the Council or any two (2) members of the Council, as the
emergency location of City government.
      (2)   All or any part of the public business of the City may be conducted
at the emergency location(s) during the declared emergency. During such time,
the City's Council and its public officers shall have and possess and shall
exercise, at the emergency location(s), all of the executive, legislative and
judicial powers and functions conferred upon them under the City's Charter, the
laws of the State, or the laws of the City. Such powers and functions may be
exercised in the light of the exigencies of the emergency without regard to, or
compliance with, this Chapter, including the rules of public notice, or with
ORC 121.22, and all acts of that public body and officers shall be as valid and
binding as if performed within the territorial limits of the City.
         Statutory Reference: ORC 5502.24
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
§ 204.08   PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (a)   Public Records Policy. City Council, by resolution, shall adopt a
public records policy in compliance with ORC 149.43 for responding to public
records requests. In accordance with ORC 149.43, such public records policy
shall be distributed to each City employee who is a records custodian, records
manager, or otherwise has custody of the records of that City department or
division. Each such employee shall be required to acknowledge receipt of the
policy.
   (b)   Posting. At each City building or facility open to the public, there
shall be posted a poster that describes the City's public records policy, which
shall be posted in a conspicuous place. The policy shall also be posted on the
City's website and shall be included in the City's Personnel Manual or other
manual or handbook that contains employee policies and procedures.
   (c)   Training. In accordance with ORC 149.43, all elected officials of the
City or their appropriate designee(s) shall attend public records training
approved by the Ohio Attorney General.
   (d)   Materials Submitted in Response to Competitive Solicitation.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (d)(2) of this section,
materials submitted in response to a competitive solicitation shall not be
considered public records for the purposes of ORC 149.43 until the date the
City Council awards the contract based on the competitive solicitation or upon
the cancellation of the competitive solicitation.
      (2)   If all bids or proposals received in response to a competitive
solicitation are rejected and, concurrently with the announcement of the
rejection the City gives notice of its intent to reissue the solicitation, the
materials submitted in response to the original competitive solicitation shall
not be considered public records for the purposes of ORC 149.43 until the date
the City Council announce the award of a contract based on the reissued
competitive solicitation or the cancellation of the reissued competitive
solicitation.
      (3)   For the purposes of this division, "competitive solicitation" means
a request for proposals or any other solicitation or announcement by the City
requiring bids or proposals for the provision of goods or services to the City.
         Statutory Reference: ORC 9.28
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
CHAPTER 206
Miscellaneous
206.01   Gifts, Devises, and Bequests
206.02   Bond Issuance for Other Entities
206.03   Liability for Public Moneys; Unclaimed Moneys
206.04   Witness's Right to Counsel
   CROSS REFERENCES
   See sectional histories for similar state law
§ 206.01   GIFTS, DEVISES, AND BEQUESTS.
   The City, through the City Council, may receive by gift, devise, or bequest
moneys, lands, and other properties for the City's benefit and may hold and
apply the moneys, lands, or properties according to the terms of the gift,
devise, or bequest. The gifts or devises of real estate may be in fee simple or
of any lesser estate and may be subject to any reasonable reservation. This
section does not affect any state statutory provisions as to devises or
bequests for such purposes.
Statutory reference: ORC 9.20
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
§ 206.02   BOND ISSUANCE FOR OTHER ENTITIES.
   (a)   Authority to Issue. If the City, pursuant to state law, created or
participated in the creation of any board, authority, commission, district,
agency, body, corporation, or other entity which is authorized to issue bonds,
notes, or other obligations, the City may act for such issuer as the
governmental unit on behalf of which such issuer issues bonds, notes, or other
obligations or as the next higher governmental unit from which the authority of
that issuer is derived for purposes of any federal law or United States
treasury regulation which requires that bonds, notes, or other obligations of
such issuer be approved by the applicable elected representative of such
governmental unit or that other conditions be met in order for the interest
income on such obligations to be exempt from federal income tax.
   (b)   Applicable Elected Representatives. For purposes of this section,
"applicable elected representatives" means the City Council and any appointed
officer(s) designated by the Council to act on behalf of the City.
   (c)   Approvals. Approvals under this section shall be based solely upon
findings of fact made by the issuer, shall be solely for the purposes of
satisfying requirements of the federal law and United States treasury
regulations, shall be final and conclusive for such purpose, and shall not
constitute an exercise of functions conferred by law upon the issuer, which
functions shall remain in the issuer.
   (d)   Not a Limitation. The authority granted by this section is in addition
to and not a limitation upon other authorization granted by or pursuant to law
or the constitution, and does not preclude any other actions by the designated
or other bodies or officials which would satisfy the requirements of the
federal law or United States treasury regulations, which actions are hereby
authorized.
Statutory reference: ORC 9.97
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
§ 206.03   LIABILITY FOR PUBLIC MONEYS; UNCLAIMED MONEYS.
   (a)   Liability. All public officials of the City are liable for all public
money received or collected by them or by their subordinates under color of
office.
   (b)   Unclaimed Moneys. All money received or collected by a public official
under color of office and not otherwise paid out according to law shall be paid
into the City treasury to the credit of a trust fund and shall be retained
there until claimed by its lawful owner. If not claimed within a period of five
(5) years, the money shall revert to the City's General Fund.
Statutory Reference: ORC 9.39
   (c)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section:
      (1)   "Color of office" means actually, purportedly, or allegedly done
under any law, ordinance, resolution, order, or other pretension of official
right, power, or authority.
      (2)   "Public money" has the same meaning as in ORC 117.01.
      (3)   "Public official" means any officer, employee, or duly authorized
representative or agent of the City.
         Statutory Reference: ORC 117.01
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
§ 206.04   WITNESS'S RIGHT TO COUNSEL.
   (a)   Right to Counsel. Except as otherwise provided in division (b) of this
section, any person appearing as a witness before a public body or public
official of this City in an administrative or executive proceeding or
investigation, public or private, shall be permitted to be accompanied,
represented, and advised by an attorney, if the witness so requests. Such
attorney's participation shall be limited to the protection of the rights of
the witness, and the attorney may not examine or cross-examine witnesses. The
witness shall be advised of the right to counsel before the witness is
interrogated.
   (b)   Exceptions. This section does not apply to a City employee who appears
only as a witness in an employment interview, investigation, or proceeding
conducted by or for the employee's appointing authority.
Statutory Reference: ORC 9.84
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
TITLE FOUR: LEGISLATIVE CODE
CHAPTER 210
City Council
210.01   Oath of Office
210.02   Members
210.03   Rules of Council
210.04   Meetings
210.05   Compensation
210.06   Expenses
210.07   Use of Personal Communication Devices
   CROSS REFERENCES
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Compensation - see CHTR.
4.03,
4.04
   Elections - see
CHTR. Art. XI
   Ethics Law - see ORC Ch. 102; 2921.42, 2921.43
   Expenses - see CHTR.
4.07
   Forfeiture of Office for Misconduct - see ORC 3.07 - 3.10
   Meetings - see CHTR. 4.14
   Prohibitions - see CHTR.
4.03,
7.02
   Qualifications of Members - see
CHTR. 4.01
   Suspension when Charged with Felony - see ORC 3.24
   Vacancies - see CHTR.
4.05,
4.09
§ 210.01   OATH OF OFFICE.
   (a)   Oath. Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, each
member of Council and the Mayor, whether elected or appointed, shall take and
subscribe to an oath or affirmation that he or she will support the
constitution of the United States and the constitution of Ohio, support the
Charter and ordinances of the City, and that he or she will faithfully,
honestly, and impartially discharge the duties of his or her office.
Reference: Ohio Constitution, Article XV, Section 7
   (b)   Kept on File. The sworn oaths of each member of Council shall be filed
and kept in the office of the City Clerk.
   (c)   Failure to Take Oath. City Council may declare vacant the office of
any person elected or appointed to Council who fails to take the required Oath
of Office before his or her term begins.
Statutory Reference: ORC 731.49
   (d)   Administration of Oaths. Each member of Council, including the Mayor,
as a person holding elective office under the constitution or laws of Ohio may
administer oaths of office to persons holding elected or appointed to offices
under the constitution or laws of Ohio within the geographical limits of the
City. Nothing in this section shall prohibit any judge of a court established
by the constitution of Ohio or a notary public commissioned in Ohio from
administering an oath to any person.
Statutory Reference: ORC 3.24
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
§ 210.02   MEMBERS.
   (a)   Qualifications.
      (1)   Only qualified electors of the City who have physically lived in
the City for at least two (2) years immediately preceding the filing of a
nominating petition or declaration of intent to be a write-in candidate shall
be eligible to hold the office of Council member or Mayor.
         (Charter 4.01)
      (2)   No member of the Council or the Mayor shall hold any other elective
public office with Greene County, the State of Ohio or the United States, or
any other office or employment that has been found to be incompatible with the
position of Council member or Mayor by the Ohio Attorney General or the Ohio
Ethics Commission, except where otherwise authorized by this Charter.
         Statutory Reference: ORC 731.02
         (Charter 4.01)
      (3)   No person who has pled guilty to a disqualifying offense, as the
same is defined in ORC 2961.02, and whose plea is accepted by the court or any
person against whom a verdict of finding of guilt for committing a
disqualifying offense is returned is incompetent to hold the office of member
of Council or the office of Mayor. This prohibition does not apply if a plea or
verdict is reversed, expunged, or annulled or if the person is granted a full
pardon.
         Statutory reference: ORC 2961.02
   (b)   Successors. Every member of Council, including the Mayor, shall
continue in office until his or her successor is elected or appointed and
qualified, unless otherwise provided in the Ohio Constitution, the Xenia City
Charter, or the Xenia City Code.
Statutory Reference: ORC 3.01
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
§ 210.03   RULES OF COUNCIL.
   (a)   Rules of Council. As authorized by the Xenia City Charter, the Council
may adopt Rules of Council to govern the procedures and order for all its
meetings; to establish its duties and privileges; to establish the duties and
privileges of its officers and appointed officials; to establish standing
committees and the procedures for the establishment of select committees; to
establish the procedures for investigations by the Council; and to address any
other items related to the organization or business of the Council. Such Rules
may be adopted, rescinded, or amended by motion.
(Charter 4.14(E))
   (b)   Code of Conduct. Such Rules of Council may also set forth specific
standards of conduct for the members of Council, beyond those specified in the
Charter, and may provide sanctions for the violations of such code of conduct,
as the Council deems appropriate.
(Charter 4.10)
   (c)   Limitations. Any such Rules of Council shall be in compliance with the
Xenia City Charter and any applicable provisions of the Xenia City Code or Ohio
Revised Code.
   (d)   Robert's Rules of Order. In the absence of any Rules of Council, the
procedures and order for all meetings of the Council shall be governed by
Robert's Rules of Order.
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
§ 210.04   MEETINGS.
   Regular, special, and emergency meetings shall be called and conducted in
accordance with the Rules of Council. Notice of such meetings shall be given to
the members of Council and the public in accordance with the Rules of Council
or, when there are no Rules of Council in force, in accordance with Section
204.03 of the Xenia City Code.
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
§ 210.05   COMPENSATION.
   (a)   Terms beginning January 1, 2020. Members of Council, including the
Mayor, whose terms begin on or after January 1, 2020, shall receive an annual
salary as follows:
      (1)   For 2020, four thousand four hundred two dollars ($4,402);
      (2)   For 2021, four thousand five hundred thirty-four dollars ($4,534);
      (3)   For 2022, four thousand six hundred seventy dollars ($4,670);
      (4)   For 2023, four thousand eight hundred and ten dollars ($4,810).
In accordance with the City Charter, these increases do not exceed three
percent (3%) per year.
   (b)   Terms beginning January 1, 2022. Members of Council, including the
Mayor, whose terms begin on or after January 1, 2022, shall receive an annual
salary as follows:
      (1)   For 2022, four thousand four hundred two dollars ($4,402);
      (2)   For 2023, four thousand five hundred thirty-four dollars ($4,534);
      (3)   For 2024, four thousand six hundred seventy dollars ($4,670);
      (4)   For 2025, four thousand eight hundred and ten dollars ($4,810).
   In accordance with the City Charter, these increases do not exceed three
percent (3%) per year.
   (c)   Terms beginning January 1, 2024. Members of Council, including the
Mayor, whose terms begin on or after January 1, 2024, shall receive an annual
salary as follows:
      (1)   For 2024, four thousand nine hundred fifty-four dollars and thirty
cents ($4,954.30);
      (2)   For 2025, five thousand one hundred two dollars and ninety-three
cents ($5,102.93);
      (3)   For 2026, five thousand two hundred fifty-six dollars and two cents
($5,256.02);
      (4)   For 2027, five thousand four hundred and thirteen dollars and
seventy cents ($5,413.70).
In accordance with Section 4.05 of the City Charter, these increases do not
exceed three percent (3%) a year.
   (d)   Terms beginning January 1, 2026. Members of Council, including the
Mayor, whose terms begin on or after January 1, 2026, shall receive an annual
salary as follows:
      (1)   For 2026, four thousand nine hundred fifty-four dollars and thirty
cents ($4,954.30);
      (2)   For 2027, five thousand one hundred two dollars and ninety-three
cents ($5,102.93);
      (3)   For 2028, five thousand two hundred fifty-six dollars and two cents
($5,256.02);
      (4)   For 2029, five thousand four hundred and thirteen dollars and
seventy cents ($5,413.70).
In accordance with Section 4.05 of the City Charter, these increases do not
exceed three percent (3%) a year.
   (e)   Mayor and Council President. In addition to the compensation received
as a Council member, the Mayor and the President of Council shall each receive
an additional five hundred dollars ($500) per year, as set forth in City
Charter Section 4.05. If the Mayor is elected as the President of Council, he
or she shall be entitled to receive an additional one thousand dollars ($1,000)
a year in total.
   (f)   Limitations. Any adjustment to the compensation of the members of City
Council, including the Mayor, shall be subject to the limitations contained in
ORC 102.03 and the Council is prohibited from enacting any ordinance that
grants any member of Council, including the Mayor, an in-term increase in
compensation.
Statutory Reference: ORC 731.07
(Ord. 01-07. Adopted 02/08/01; Ord. 03-01. Adopted 01/09/03; Ord. 05-05.
Adopted 02/10/05; Ord. 07-05. Adopted 02/08/07; Ord. 13-20. Adopted 04/11/13;
Ord. 17-17. Adopted 04/27/17. Ord. 19-12. Adopted 05/23/19; Ord. 2021-23.
Adopted 12/29/21; Ord. 2023-12. Adopted 05/11/23)
Statutory Reference: ORC 731.07
(Ord. 01-07. Adopted 02/08/01; Ord. 03-01. Adopted 01/09/03; Ord. 05-05.
Adopted 02/10/05; Ord. 07-05. Adopted 02/08/07; Ord. 13-20. Adopted 04/11/13;
Ord. 17-17. Adopted 04/27/17. Ord. 19-12. Adopted 05/23/19; Ord. 2021-23.
Adopted 12/29/21)
§ 210.06   EXPENSES.
   (a)   Expenses. Members of Council, including the Mayor, shall receive their
actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their official
duties, when appropriations for such expenses have been made by the City
Council. Such expenses, or reimbursements for the same, shall comply with the
City's Purchasing Manual.
(Charter 4.07)
   (b)   Expenditures for Guests. The Director of Finance is hereby authorized
to expend city funds, when appropriations for such expense have been made by
the City Council, for food and nonalcoholic beverages consumed by guests of
members of the City Council, including the Mayor, at civic and governmental
meetings, conferences and seminars, when such expenditures are in the
furtherance of city affairs. Such expenses, or reimbursements for the same,
shall comply with the City's Purchasing Manual.
   (c)   Disputes. The Finance Director shall not pay or reimburse any expenses
under this section for which appropriations have not been made or that are not
submitted in compliance with the City's Purchasing Manual. In the case of a
dispute regarding any expense or reimbursement, the Finance Director shall, at
the next regular meeting of the Council, present the matter to City Council for
its determination. The Council shall either approve the expense or
reimbursement, approve the expense or reimbursement with modification, or deny
the expense or reimbursement. Such determination by the Council shall be made
by motion and shall be final.
(Ord. 83-33. Adopted 06/23/83; Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
§ 210.07   USE OF PERSONAL COMMUNICATION DEVICES.
   (a)   Provision of City-Owned Personal Communication Devices.
      (1)   The City will purchase, or otherwise provide under other
contractual arrangements, personal communication devices for members of Council
who request such devices under the provisions stated herein. Because of the
very nature of the need for these devices, Council members should consider
always having it on his or her person, with the exception of safety-related
occasions and occasions where the equipment would be subjected to probable
damage from water or other hazards or lost.
      (2)   The selection of specific rate plans will be made by the IT
Department. Rate plans will be adjusted from time to time as business usage
dictates and contracts allow. Rate plans will not be adjusted for the sole
purpose of avoiding personal phone call charges.
   (b)   Acquisition of Personal Communication Devices.
      (1)   City Council members will follow the guidelines and procedures set
forth by the IT Department for the purchase and general use of the personal
communication device. If a Council member needs a City-issued personal
communication device, an upgrade for an existing device, or other equipment, a
written request should be submitted by the Council member to the IT Department.
      (2)   After receiving the request, the IT Department will arrange for the
acquisition of an appropriate device through a vendor approved by the
Department. IT Department personnel will be responsible for coordinating the
billing, training, and technical support.
      (3)   Upon leaving office for any reason, a Council member who is issued
a City-owned personal communication device shall return that device to the
City's IT Department within three (3) business days of the expiration or
termination of the Council member's tenure. Failure to return a City-owned
personal communication device may result in the filing of criminal charges.
   (c)   Use of City-Provided Personal Communication Devices.
      (1)   The use of personal communication devices provided by the City
shall be limited to official City business. The use of City-provided personal
communication devices for personal calls is prohibited, except in cases of
emergency. Under no circumstances are City-provided personal communication
devices to be used for any private commercial enterprise in which the Council
member may hold an interest.
      (2)   The City subscribes to a communications plan with specific services
(data, minutes, etc.). The services provided in the plan are those which the
City has deemed to be necessary in the performance of the Council members'
official duties. The City may seek to recoup costs incurred when a member of
Council uses a personal communication device for personal reasons or utilizes a
service on the device that is not included in the plan. The City may require a
reimbursement of plan overages on personal calls and any amount due for service
not covered by the plan. It is the Council members' responsibility to know what
services are available to them for the purpose of performing their official
duties.
      (3)   Council members shall, by the acceptance of a City-issued personal
communication device, confirm that they are responsible for adhering to the
requirements of this section and any subsequent amendments.
      (4)   The City's IT Department shall have the right to implement any
programs, apps, or tools for the administration, security, and protection of
City-provided personal communication devices or other devices as it deems
necessary. This includes City data, documents, or intellectual property of any
kind. The City's IT Department shall also have the right to use GPS or location
services for legitimate City purposes including circumstances where the device
is lost, misplaced, or stolen.
      (5)   The City's IT Department shall have the right to "wipe" (remove all
data and reset) any City-issued personal communication device. In the event of
a lost, misplaced, or stolen personal communication device, or upon a Council
member leaving his or her office, the City's IT Department shall perform a
partial "wipe" (remove all data and reset) on the City-issued personal
communication device.
   (d)   Stipend for Council Member-Owned Personal Communication Devices.
      (1)   A Council member may elect to receive a stipend in lieu of
receiving a City-issued personal communication device. The monthly stipend
shall be the same as that received by City employees and is taxable. The
payment shall be made once each month. In no case shall the City be responsible
for any payment to the Council member's service provider, and the Council
member shall remain responsible for timely payment of his or her monthly
service bill. In addition, the Council member shall remain solely responsible
for buying, maintaining, insuring and, if necessary, replacing his or her own
personal communication device.
      (2)   A Council member who elects to receive a stipend shall provide the
City Clerk with the phone number of the personal communication device for which
the stipend is being issued. It is expected that the Council member will
receive email communications from the City network via the device. In addition,
the IT Department may request the ability to protect City data, documents, or
intellectual property on a Council member's personal device and/or the
installation of a device management tool in exchange for the stipend.
      (3)   A personal communication device owned by a Council member for which
a stipend is issued shall remain the property of the Council member; provided,
however, that any records related to City business are public and the Council
member shall provide, if requested, any public information stored on the
device.
      (4)   Any Council member who receives a stipend under this section shall
immediately report to the City's IT Department if his or her device is lost,
misplaced, or stolen.
      (5)   Any Council member's stipend may be suspended or cancelled by the
City's IT Department for any of the following reasons:
         A.   Service to the Council member's personal communication device is
discontinued or disconnected for any reason;
         B.   The device is damaged beyond use, lost, or stolen and is not
replaced in a timely manner;
         C.   The phone number associated with the device is changed and the
City Clerk is not notified in a timely manner; or
         D.   The Council member removes any device management software
installed by the City's IT Department or refuses the installation of such
software.
      (6)   In cases of major emergencies, such as major weather events, or
when an emergency is declared by the federal government, state government or
City Manager, a Council member may incur a substantial increase in usage of his
or personal communication device for which he or she receives a stipend. In
such cases, the Council member may submit a written request, with supporting
documentation, to the Finance Director requesting reimbursement of the overage
calls and/or data usage that resulted from the use of the device for the
Council member's official duties.
   (e)   Public Records. Council members are reminded that any emails, text
messages or phone calls or other electronic communications, whether received or
sent on a City-provided personal communication device or a Council member's own
personal communication device, that meet the definition of a public record
under ORC 149.43 must be retained in accordance with the records retention
schedule for City Council.
   (f)   Violations. Violations of this section may be punished by censure, in
accordance with the Rules of Council. Any violation that results in the loss of
City-owned property, including any data or documents, may be punished under
appropriate State law.
   (g)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions apply:
      (1)   "Council member" means a duly elected or appointed member of the
City Council, including the Mayor, who is serving his or her current term of
office.
      (2)   "IT Department" means the Information Technology Department of the
City.
      (3)   "Personal Communication Device" means any cellular phone, smart
phone, tablet, or other similar electronic device.
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
CHAPTER 212
Ordinances, Resolutions, and Motions
212.01   Legislative Actions
212.02   Legislation
212.03   Procedural Motions
212.04   Posting Places for Publication
212.05   Determination of Legislative Intent
212.06   Effect of Reenactment, Amendment or Repeal
212.07   Authentication
   CROSS REFERENCES
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Ordinances and resolutions generally - see
CHTR. Art. V
   Publication - see CHTR.
5.07
   Signing and authentication of - see CHTR.
5.06
212.01   LEGISLATIVE ACTIONS.
   (a)   Legislative Actions. The legislative power of the City shall be
exercised by the City Council through the adoption of ordinances and the
passage of resolutions, as set forth in Article V of the City Charter.
   (b)   Ordinances. Ordinances shall be the formal, written enactment of the
City Council's exercise of a governmental power vested by the Ohio
Constitution, the Xenia City Charter, or state law in the City for the
regulation of the conduct of its citizens, for the regulation of the conduct or
functions of City government, or other subjects under its control. Ordinances
are intended to be of a permanent duration and shall have the full force and
effect of law.
   (c)   Resolutions. Resolutions shall be the formal, written enactment of the
City Council's legislative or administrative authority of a less permanent
nature or to dispose of a specific matter not required by the Ohio
Constitution, the Xenia City Charter, or state law to be done by ordinance.
Resolutions may prescribe administrative rules and regulations when such rules
and regulations are promulgated pursuant to the authority granted under the
Xenia City Code or state law.
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21; Ord. 2022-20. Adopted 06/23/22)
212.02   LEGISLATION.
   (a)   Appointed Officials. The City Manager, Finance Director and/or Law
Director shall have the privilege of presenting ordinances and resolutions to
the City Council as the same may be required for the ordinary and regular
transaction of the business and affairs of the City.
   (b)   Members of Council. Any member of Council, including the Mayor, may
request the City Manager, the Finance Director and/or the Law Director to
present to the City Council any ordinance or resolution on a matter referred to
the Appointed Official by the Council member. The City Manager, the Finance
Director and/or the Law Director shall have the right to request approval, by
procedural motion, of a majority of the Council before preparing any ordinance
or resolution for formal presentation to the Council.
   (c)   Form. All ordinances and resolutions presented to the City Council
shall be in writing, and shall be in the form prescribed by the City Charter.
(Charter 5.02; 5.03)
   (d)   Presentation to City Council. Ordinances and resolutions shall be
presented to the City Council by the presiding officer, who shall present the
ordinance or resolution by reading the title thereof. Once an ordinance has
been presented to Council, it shall follow the procedure set forth in Section
5.02 of the City Charter. Once a resolution has been presented to Council, it
shall follow the procedure set forth in Section 5.05 of the City Charter.
   (e)   Duty of the Law Director. The Law Director shall review all ordinances
and resolutions before they are presented to the City Council for correct legal
form and possible contradiction with existing ordinances or conflict with
provisions of the City Charter, the U.S. or Ohio Constitution, or applicable
state law.
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21; Ord. 2022-20. Adopted 06/23/22)
212.03   PROCEDURAL MOTIONS.
   (a)   Procedural Motions. City Council may use procedural motions to conduct
its own affairs in all procedural matters. Actions that are considered
procedural in nature and may be approved by procedural motion include, but are
not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Approval of minutes and excusal of absences;
      (2)   Approval of the schedule of bills;
      (3)   Appointments to any board, commission, or committee;
      (4)   Election of the Council Chair and Vice Chair (or President and Vice
President);
      (5)   Adoption of or amendment to the Rules of Council;
      (6)   Approval of the sale of alcohol as a part of any special event
permit approved by the City Manager under Section 1062.21 of the Xenia City
Code; and
      (7)   Changing or rescheduling any scheduled regular meeting of the
Council.
   (b)   Requests for Procedural Motions. The City Manager, the Finance
Director, the Law Director, or any member of the Council may request procedural
motions. Requests for procedural motions from the Appointed Officials may be
presented to the City Council in writing, but the motion itself need not be
presented in writing.
   (c)   Presentation to City Council. Requests for procedural motions from an
appointed official shall be presented to the City Council by the presiding
officer. Requests for procedural motions from a member of Council shall be
presented to the City Council upon approval of the presiding officer.
(Ord. 2022-20. Adopted 06/23/22)
212.04   POSTING PLACES FOR PUBLICATION.
   (a)   Ordinances. In accordance with Section
5.02 of the City Charter, any of the following locations within the City of
Xenia may be used as places for the public posting of ordinances:
      (1)   The lobby of the City Administration Building, 107 E. Main Street;
      (2)   The first-floor lobby of the Greene County Courthouse, 45 N.
Detroit Street;
      (3)   The first-floor lobby of the Greene County Administration Building,
69 Greene Street;
      (4)   The lobby of the Greene County Library, 76 E. Market Street; and
      (5)   The lobby of the United States Post Office, 189 E. Main Street.
   (b)   Other Documents. The locations listed in division (a) of this section
may also be used as posting places for other City documents and official papers
that are required by law to be publicly posted.
(Ord. 93-55. Adopted 09/09/93; Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21; Ord. 2022-20.
Adopted 06/23/22)
212.05   DETERMINATION OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   (a)   Intent. By the enactment of any ordinance or the passage of any
resolution by the City Council, it is presumed that:
      (1)   Compliance with the constitutions of Ohio and of the United States
is intended;
      (2)   The entire ordinance or resolution is intended to be effective;
      (3)   A just and reasonable result is intended; and
      (4)   A result feasible of execution is intended.
         Statutory Reference: ORC 1.47
   (b)   Presumed Prospective. All ordinances and resolutions shall be presumed
to be prospective in their operation unless expressly made retrospective.
Statutory Reference: ORC 1.48
   (c)   Construction by the Court. If ordinance or resolution is ambiguous,
the court, in determining the intention of the Council, may consider among
other matters:
      (1)   The object sought to be attained;
      (2)   The circumstances under which the ordinance was adopted or
resolution passed;
      (3)   The legislative history;
      (4)   The common law or former legislative provisions, including laws
upon the same or similar subjects;
      (5)   The consequences of a particular construction; and/or
      (6)   The administrative construction of the ordinance or resolution.
         Statutory Reference: ORC 1.49
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
212.06   EFFECT OF REENACTMENT, AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (a)   Continuation of Prior Legislation. An ordinance or resolution that is
reenacted or amended is intended to be a continuation of the prior ordinance or
resolution and not a new enactment, so far as it is the same as the prior
ordinance or resolution.
Statutory Reference: ORC 1.54
   (b)   Amendments.
      (1)   When any ordinance amends an existing ordinance, it shall set forth
in full the ordinance being amended and shall indicate the matter to be omitted
or deleted by enclosing it in brackets or by strikeout and shall indicate the
new matter by underscoring or by italics.
         (Charter 5.02)
      (2)   When any ordinance is being amended, the ordinance so amending
shall also repeal the existing ordinance. The word "existing" shall be used to
indicate that the ordinance is being repealed to amend it.
         Statutory Reference: ORC 731.19
      (3)   If amendments to the same ordinance are enacted at the same or
different meetings of the Council, one amendment without reference to another,
the amendments are to be harmonized, if possible, so that effect may be given
to each. If the amendments are substantively irreconcilable, the latest in date
of enactment prevails. Amendments are irreconcilable only when the changes made
by each cannot reasonably be put into simultaneous operation.
         Statutory Reference: ORC 1.52
   (c)   Repeals.
      (1)   When any ordinance is being repealed without amending or replacing
it, the ordinance so repealing shall set forth the entire ordinance being
repealed and shall indicate the matter to be omitted or deleted by enclosing it
in brackets or by strikeout.
         (Charter 5.03)
      (2)   When any ordinance is being repealed, the words "is hereby repealed
in its entirety" shall be used in the ordinance to indicate that the ordinance
is being repealed without amendment.
         Statutory Reference: ORC 731.19
      (3)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not reenact or revive the
ordinance originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause
therein.
         Statutory Reference: ORC 1.57
   (d)   Effect. The amendment or repeal of any ordinance does not affect the
prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action taken thereunder nor
affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or liability
previously acquired, accrued, accorded, or incurred thereunder.
Statutory Reference: ORC 1.58
   (e)   Limitations. Ordinances shall only be reenacted, amended, or repealed
by ordinance and resolutions shall only be reenacted, amended, or repealed by
resolution.
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21; Ord. 2022-20. Adopted 06/23/22)
212.07   AUTHENTICATION.
   In accordance with Section
5.07 of the City Charter, all ordinances and resolutions adopted or passed by
the City Council shall be signed by the presiding officer and authenticated by
the City Clerk; however, the failure or refusal of the presiding officer or the
City Clerk to sign or authenticate such ordinance or resolution shall not
invalidate an otherwise properly enacted ordinance or resolution.
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21; Ord. 2022-20. Adopted 06/23/22)
CHAPTER 214
Contracts, Purchasing, and Sale of Personal Property
214.01   Threshold for Bidding and Expenditures
214.02   Competitive Bidding
214.03   Advertisement for Competitive Bids or Proposals
214.04   Preference System for Resident Businesses
214.05   Joint Purchasing Programs
214.06   Disposal of Personal Property
   CROSS REFERENCES
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Construction Management - see ORC 9.33 - 9.335
   Contracts for Water Quality Management - see ORC 9.29
   Design-Build - see ORC 153.694
   Joint Purchasing Programs - see ORC 9.48
   Professional Design Services - see ORC 153.65 - 153.73
   Public Records and Bids - see GEN. PROV.
204.08
   Public Works Contracts - see ORC 153.581 - 153.60
§ 214.01   THRESHOLD FOR BIDDING AND EXPENDITURES.
   (a)   Threshold for Competitive Bidding. As required by Section
9.08 A. of the City Charter, Council hereby sets the threshold for competitive
bidding at seventy-five thousand dollars ($75,000), beginning May 1, 2024. For
each calendar year thereafter, the threshold for competitive bidding shall be
the amount for the previous calendar year increased by three percent (3%).
Statutory reference: ORC 9.17
   (b)   Council Approval of Expenditures. Council approval for expenditures
shall not be required for purchases or contracts made that do not exceed the
threshold for competitive bidding established under division (a) of this
section; provided, however, that Council approval shall be required for any
expenditure that exceeds the threshold established under division (a) of this
section even if competitive bidding is not required pursuant to Section
9.08 B. or C. of the City Charter.
(Ord. 2012-22. Adopted 05/10/12; Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21; Ord. 2024-05.
Adopted 03/28/24)
§ 214.02    COMPETITIVE BIDDING.
   (a)   When Required. Except as provided in division (b) of this section, all
contracts for the purchase of materials, supplies, equipment, services, and/or
labor which are estimated to exceed fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) shall be
awarded only after competitive bidding, or in the case of services only, after
a competitive request for proposals.
   (b)   When Not Required. Competitive bidding or a competitive request for
proposals shall not be required, even when the estimated cost is to exceed
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000), in the following specific cases:
      (1)   When competitive bidding is not required under the Ohio Revised
Code or common law of the State;
      (2)   When the expenditure is for personal or professional services of a
specialized nature;
      (3)   When Council has determined that an item is available and can only
be purchased from a single source or the purchase consists of services related
to information technology that are proprietary or limited to a single source;
      (4)   When the purchase is made through a cooperative or joint purchasing
program where the cost has already been set by competitive bid;
         Statutory Reference: ORC 9.48
      (5)   When the purchase is from the federal government, the State, a
county, a municipality, a township, a board of education, an educational
service center, or other political subdivision;
         Statutory Reference: ORC 9.25, ORC 713.23
      (6)   When the purchase is for used equipment and/or supplies;
         Statutory Reference: ORC 735.052
      (7)   When the purchase is for utility services;
         Statutory Reference: ORC 9.30
      (8)   When the purchase is for supplies or materials and is made due to a
real and present emergency arising in connection with the maintenance or repair
of a City-owned and operated utility;
         Statutory Reference: ORC 735.051, ORC 743.11
      (9)   When contracting for electronic data processing, payroll, or
computer services to perform necessary mechanical, clerical, or record-keeping
services;
         Statutory Reference: ORC 9.35
      (10)   When the Council determines, by resolution, that a waiver of
competitive bidding is in the best interest of the City or is necessary due to
a real and present emergency.
         (Charter 9.16)
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
§ 214.03   ADVERTISEMENT FOR COMPETITIVE BIDS OR PROPOSALS.
   (a)   Public Notice. Whenever competitive bidding is required, public notice
of the time and place when and where the bids or proposals will be received
shall be advertised not less than once in a newspaper of general circulation in
the City and/or on the City's website for at least fourteen (14) calendar days
preceding the date stated in the public notice for the opening of bids or the
receipt of proposals.
   (b)   Exceptions. Division (a) of this section shall not apply when other
public notice requirements must be met on contracts being funded with federal
or state funds.
(Ord. 96-2. Adopted 02/13/92; Ord. 03-23. Adopted 05/08/03; Ord. 08-28. Adopted
05/08/08; Ord. 2021- 23. Adopted 12/29/21)
§ 214.04   PREFERENCE SYSTEM FOR RESIDENT BUSINESSES.
   (a)   Purpose. The intent of this section and the preference system
established hereunder is to benefit the local economy. For the purposes of this
preference system, "local bidder" shall be deemed to be a resident business of
the City of Xenia, Ohio, or Xenia Township, Greene County, Ohio, and "local
bid" shall mean a bid submitted by a local bidder.
   (b)   System of Preferences.
      (1)   Subject to the system of preferences as set forth in this Chapter,
contracts for the purchase of all equipment, materials, supplies, insurance, or
services other than construction services for public improvements shall be
awarded to the lowest and best bidder.
      (2)   Prior to awarding such a contract, the City shall evaluate the bids
received to determine whether a bid response is from a local bidder.
Information furnished in the bid response shall be relied upon but may be
verified in making the determination. Any bid response that does not meet this
requirement may be removed, except in those circumstances where the City
determines compliance would result in the payment of an excessive price or
acquiring an inferior product.
   (c)   Local Bidder Preference.
      (1)   Following the determination required by division (b)(2) of this
section, the bids shall be evaluated so as to give preference to local bidders.
      (2)   Where the preliminary analysis of bids identifies the apparent low
bidder as a local bidder, the City shall proceed with its standard contract
award procedures. Where the preliminary analysis of bids identifies that no
local bidders submitted any bids, the City shall proceed with its standard
contract award procedures without regard to this system of preferences.
      (3)   Where the preliminary analysis identifies the apparent low bidder
as one other than a local bidder, the City shall apply the following
preferences:
         A.   A credit equal to three percent (3%) of the lowest bid submitted
by a non-local bidder will be given to local bidders for contracts that are
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) or less.
         B.   A credit equal to two percent (2%) of the lowest bid submitted by
a non-local bidder will be given to local bidders for contracts that are
between fifty thousand and one dollars ($50,001.00) and two hundred fifty
thousand dollars ($250,000.00).
         C.   A credit equal to one percent (1%) of the lowest bid submitted by
a non-local bidder will be given to local bidders for contracts that are
greater than two hundred fifty thousand ($250,000.00) or ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00), whichever is less.   
      (4)   If sufficient competition does not exist, or if it is determined
that the prices or bids submitted by the local bidders are excessive, or where
it is determined that selection of the lowest local bidder will result in a
disproportionately inferior product or service, the City may cancel the bid in
its entirety, may rebid the intended contract, or may award the contract to the
lowest and best nonlocal bidder. For the purposes of this section, a price is
excessive if the lowest price or bid submitted by a local bidder exceeds the
apparent low bid submitted by a nonlocal bidder by more than five percent (5%).
   (d)   Other Considerations.
      (1)   If, after applying the credits provided in division (c)(3) of this
section, the analysis of bids still identifies the apparent low bidder as one
other than a local bidder, the City shall consider the following factors:
         A.   Whether the goods or services can be procured from a local bidder
in sufficient and reasonably available quantities and of satisfactory quality;
         B.   Whether a local bid has been submitted;
         C.   Whether the lowest local bid offers a price deemed to be an
excessive price;
         D.   Whether the lowest local bid offers a disproportionately inferior
product or service.
      (2)   Where the City determines the selection of the lowest local bidder
will not result in an excessive price or disproportionately inferior product or
service, the City may award the contract to the lowest local bidder at the bid
price quoted.
   (e)   Not a Limitation. Where the City otherwise determines that it is not
advantageous to award the contract to a local bidder, the City may proceed
award the contract to the lowest and best nonlocal bidder.
   (f)   Notice to Bidders; Bidder Certifications. When the preference system
outlined in this section is to be applied on any bid, the City shall:
      (1)   Indicate in its invitations to bid that it will apply a local
bidder preference, as outlined in this section, in the evaluation and award of
bids received.
      (2)   Assure that the bid packets require all bidders to complete and
attest to a local bidder's certification form, which shall be provided in the
bid packet and returned with the bidder's bid.
   (g)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section do not apply to the
following contracts or situations:
      (1)   State and federally funded projects, where prohibited by state or
federal law, regulations, or rules;
      (2)   Emergency procurement situations;
      (3)   Direct awards;
      (4)   Sole source purchases;
      (5)   Purchases made through joint purchasing programs or State
cooperative purchasing programs;
      (6)   Requests for proposals or requests for qualifications; and/or
      (7)   When there are no local bidders that provide the particular goods
or services being sought.
(Ord. 12-36. Adopted 07/26/12; Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
§ 214.05   JOINT PURCHASING PROGRAMS.
   (a)   Authority. Council may, by resolution, authorize the City to:
      (1)   Participate in any joint purchasing program operated by or through
a national or state association of political subdivisions in which the City is
eligible for membership;
      (2)   Participate in contract offerings from the federal government
including, but not limited to, contract offerings from the General Services
Administration;
      (3)   Participate in contracts with another political subdivision, as the
same is defined in ORC 2744.01, for the acquisition of equipment, material,
supplies, or services;
      (4)   Participate in any joint or cooperative purchasing programs
operated by the State of Ohio or any of its agencies; and/or
      (5)   Participate in any other joint or cooperative purchasing programs
or contracts authorized under ORC 9.48.
   (b)   Exempt from Competitive Bidding Requirements. Acquisition of any
equipment, materials, supplies, or services through the participation in a
contract of another political subdivision or participation in any of the
programs listed in division (a) of this section is exempt from any competitive
selection requirements otherwise required by law, so long as the contract in
which the City is participating was awarded pursuant to a publicly solicited
request for a proposal or a competitive selection procedure.
   (c)   Purchase of Supplies or Services from Another Party. The City may
purchase supplies or services from another party instead of through
participation in the contracts authorized under division (a) of this section if
the City can purchase those supplies or services from the other party upon
equivalent terms, conditions, and specifications but at a lower price than it
can through participation in those contracts. Purchases made under this
division are exempt from any competitive bidding procedures otherwise required
by law. For any purchase made under this division, the City shall maintain
sufficient information regarding the purchase to verify it satisfied the
conditions for making a purchase under this division.
Statutory Reference: ORC 9.48
   (d)   Not a Limitation. The authorization granted under this section shall
be in addition to, and not in derogation of, any other powers or authority
granted to the City by State law, the Ohio Constitution, City Charter, or the
provisions of any ordinance or resolution.
(Ord. 2021-23. Adopted 12/29/21)
§ 214.06   DISPOSAL OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (a)   Personal Property Having No Value. Upon a recommendation from the
department head or division head that has management or supervision of personal
property belonging to the City that such personal property is not needed for
any municipal purpose, is obsolete or unfit for the use for which it was
acquired, and that the property has no value, the City Manager is hereby
authorized to discard or salvage such property by administrative directive.
   (b)   Estimated Value of Less Than $25,000. Personal property belonging to
the City that is not needed for any municipal purpose, the estimated value of
which is less than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) per item, may be sold
by the department or officer having supervision or management of the property,
upon the approval of the City Manager by administrative directive, without
advertising for bids, by competitive bidding, by auction, or by internet
auction, in accordance with division (d) of this section.
   (c)   Estimated Value of $25,000 or More. Personal property belonging to the
City, the estimated value of which is twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) or
more per item, that is no longer needed for any municipal purpose or that is
obsolete or unfit for the use for which it was acquired may be sold pursuant to
a resolution passed by Council authorizing such sale. Council shall indicate in
the resolution whether the property shall be sold by competitive bidding, by
auction, or by internet auction, in accordance with division (d) of this
section.
   (d)   Methods of Sale of Personal Property.
      (1)   Competitive Bids: Bids shall be taken after advertising once in a
newspaper of general circulation within the City and for no less than two (2)
weeks on the City's website. When the estimated value of the personal property
is less than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000), per item, the City Manager
shall sell the property to the highest and best bidder. When the estimated
value of the personal property is twenty-five thousand ($25,000) or more, per
item, the bids submitted shall be referred to Council and Council may accept
the bid which it considers highest and best. Council shall, after it deems the
bid price acceptable, authorize the City Manager to execute a contract with the
highest and best bidder. In all bid solicitations, the City shall reserve the
right to reject all bids and in the event all bids are rejected, the City shall
have no duty to bid the property again.
      (2)   Auctions: The services of an auctioneer may be retained to sell
personal property at a public auction, which shall be advertised once in a
newspaper of general circulation within the City and for no less than two (2)
weeks on the City's website.
      (3)   Internet Auctions: The City may contract with a third-party to sell
personal property by internet auction, upon such general terms and conditions,
including a minimum price, as are set by the City. Notice of the internet
auction shall be advertised once in a newspaper of general circulation within
the City and for no less than two (2) weeks on the City's website.
   (e)   Refuse.
      (1)   The Public Service Director is hereby authorized to sell refuse,
street scrapings or ashes which the Director determines, in his sole
discretion, are not necessary for the improvement of City property and that are
under charge of the Street Division and not necessary for the purposes of that
Division, without competitive bidding.
         Statutory Reference: ORC 721.16
      (2)   Money arising from a sale under (e)(1) of this section shall be
deposited in the treasury of the City, in the Street Fund, and shall be
immediately available, in addition to the appropriations by Council, for the
current expenses of the Street Division of the Public Service Department and
may be withdrawn upon the warrant of the Finance Director for such purpose.
Such money shall not be considered a source of revenue subject to appropriation
by Council and may be expended as provided in this section without having been
appropriated by Council.
         Statutory Reference: ORC 721.17
   (f)   Sale Without Competitive Bidding. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in this Chapter and regardless of the property's value, Council may,
by resolution, authorize the sale of personal property owned by the City that
is not needed for a municipal purpose to the United States government or any
agency thereof, to the State of Ohio or any agency thereof, to any other
political subdivision, or to any corporation or quasi-corporation not for
profit, organized for a public or charitable purpose, upon such terms as may be
deemed proper by Council, without competitive bidding.
   (g)   Trade-Ins.
      (1)   When the City has vehicles, equipment, or machinery that is
obsolete, unneeded or unfit for public use, or which needs to be replaced with
other vehicles, equipment or machinery of the same type, and when it is in the
best interest of the City that the sale of the obsolete, unneeded or unfit
vehicles, equipment or machinery be made simultaneously with the purchase of
new vehicles, equipment or machinery of the same type, those vehicles,
equipment or machinery may be sold by trade in and the selling price credited
against the purchase price of the new vehicles, equipment, or machinery.
      (2)   Such sale and purchase shall be consummated by a single contract
with the lowest and best bidder, to be determined by subtracting from the
selling price of the vehicles, equipment, or machinery to be purchased the
purchase price offered for the City-owned vehicles, equipment, or machinery.
      (3)   When advertising for bids for the purchase of vehicles, equipment
or machinery, such advertisements may include a notice of willingness to accept
bids for the purchase of the City-owned vehicles, equipment, or machinery as a
"trade-in credit" against the purchase price.
(Ord. 03-09, Adopted 02/27/03; Ord. 12-24. Adopted 05/10/12; Ord. 2021-23.
Adopted 12/29/2021)
TITLE SIX: ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
CHAPTER 219
City Manager's Office
219.01   Establishment
219.02   City Manager
219.03   Assistant City Manager
219.04   Rental of City Facilities
219.05   Authority in an Emergency
219.06   Suspension of City Services due to Inclement Weather or Other
Disruption
219.07   Acting and Interim City Manager
   CROSS REFERENCES
      Acting City Manager - CHTR. §
6.02
      Administrative Steering Committee - CHTR. §
6.01; ADMIN. §
260.90
      Business Regulations and Licenses - see BUS. REG. & TAX CODE
      Charter Review Commission - CHTR. §
8.06
      City Manager
         Appointment and Qualifications - CHTR. §§
6.01,
6.02
         Appointment of Department and Division Heads - CHTR. §
7.01
         As Public Safety Director - ADMIN.
Ch. 240
         Powers and Duties - CHTR. §
6.02
         Removal - CHTR. §
6.01
      Disposal of Personal Property - LEGIS. §
214.06
      Hunting - GEN. OFF. §
618.11
      Interim City Manager - CHTR. §
6.02
      Operating Budget - CHTR. §
9.04
      Ordinances, Resolutions & Motions - LEGIS. §
212.02
      Parks - ST., UTIL. & PUB. SERV. Ch. 1062
      Records Commission - BDS. & COMMS.
Ch. 286
      ROW Administration - ST., UTIL. & PUB. SERV. Ch. 1028
      Street Banners - ST., UTIL. & PUB. SERV. Ch. 1026
      Unclassified Service - see CHTR. §
10.02
219.01   ESTABLISHMENT.
   In accordance with Section
7.01 of the City Charter, there is hereby established the City Manager's
Office, to be headed by the City Manager. The City Manager's Office shall
include the Assistant City Manager, the Secretary to the City Manager, and such
other employees as may from time-to-time be determined by the City Council.
(Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
219.02   CITY MANAGER.
   (a)   Appointment. The City Manager shall be appointed by City Council and
shall be under the direct supervision of the City Council.
(Charter 6.02)
   (b)   Powers and Duties.
      (1)   The City Manager shall be the chief administrative, operating, and
executive officer of the City, and shall have those powers and duties assigned
to him or her by the City Charter, the Xenia City Code, by other ordinances or
resolutions, or by the City Council.
      (2)   The City Manager shall be recognized as the head of the municipal
government for all administrative purposes and for the purpose of legal service
upon the City.
      (3)   The City Manager shall be the contracting officer of the City,
except for outside legal counsel, and shall execute all contracts and
agreements on behalf of the City in accordance with the City Charter.
      (4)   The City Manager shall have the supervision of and direct all
activities of the City Manager's Office, the Administrative Services
Department, the Development Services Department, and the Public Service
Department.
      (5)   The City Manager shall have the direct supervision and control of
the City Manager's Office, and shall appoint or hire, and may remove, all
employees within the Office.
      (6)   The City Manager shall serve as the head of the Public Safety
Department, as the Public Safety Director, in accordance with City Charter.
      (7)   The City Manager shall appoint, and may suspend or remove without
showing cause, notice, or hearing, the Directors of all departments, except for
the Public Safety Director, the Finance Director, and the Law Director. Each
department head appointed by the City Manager shall have supervision and
control of the Department he or she heads, subject to the direction of the City
Manager.
      (8)   The City Manager shall appoint, and may suspend or remove without
showing cause, notice, or hearing, all division heads, except for those
divisions within the Finance Department and Law Department.
      (9)   The City Manager may appoint the Assistant City Manager as the
Director of any department, except for the Public Safety Department, the
Finance Department, and the Law Department.
         (Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
      (10)   The City Manager may designate himself or herself or some officer
or employee to perform the duties of any office or position in the
administration of the City under his or her control that is vacant or which
lacks administration due to the absence or disability of the officer.
         (Ord. 63-43. Adopted 10/10/63; Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
   (c)   Unclassified Service. In accordance with Section
10.02 of the City Charter, the position of City Manager shall be in the
unclassified service.
(Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
219.03   ASSISTANT CITY MANAGER.
   (a)   Appointment. The City Manager may appoint an Assistant City Manager,
who shall be under the direct supervision and control of the City Manager, and
who shall perform such duties as are assigned by the City Manager.
(Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
   (b)   Compensation. For any period in which the office of the City Manager
is vacant for a period of thirty (30) days or more and the Assistant City
Manager is executing the functions of the City Manager, he or she shall be paid
for his or her services as Acting City Manager at the base annual rate of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) above his or her regular salary for said period.
(Ord. 89-38. Adopted 06/08/89; Ord. 01-46. Adopted 11/08/01; Ord. 2022-40.
Adopted 10/27/22)
   (c)   Unclassified Service. In accordance with Section
10.02 of the City Charter, the position of Assistant City Manager shall be in
the unclassified service.
(Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
219.04   RENTAL OF CITY FACILITIES.
   The City Manager is hereby authorized to rent, for a period of one (1) year
or less, any City-owned facilities, including recreational facilities. The
amount for such rentals shall be as determined by the City Manager by
administrative directive.
(Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
219.05   AUTHORITY IN AN EMERGENCY.
   (a)   Powers Granted. The City Manager is granted the authority and power to
invoke, by administrative directive, a state of emergency in the City in any of
the following situations:
      (1)   A state of emergency has been declared by the Governor of this
State;
      (2)   A state of emergency has been declared by the Board of County
Commissioners of Greene County, Ohio; or
      (3)   The City Manager, in his or her own discretion, determines that an
emergency exists because of any natural disaster or man-made calamity, or clear
and present danger thereof, or riot, insurrection, mob action or other civil
disturbance causing, or having the probable danger of causing, injury or damage
to persons or property.
      (4)   In the event the City Manager is absent, a state of emergency may
be proclaimed, in accordance with this section, by the Acting or Interim City
Manager, or by a majority vote of the City Council.
   (b)   Regulations During Emergency. The City Manager is granted the
authority and power to impose, by administrative directive, any or all of the
following regulations necessary to restore the peace and order of the City:
      (1)   Order all nonessential services to close including, but not limited
to, all business establishments, commercial establishments, industrial centers,
factories, entertainment centers, recreational facilities, schools and
churches. The City Manager may allow retail food establishments to remain open
on a limited basis, as well as drug stores and medical facilities or other
essential services as deemed necessary in his or her own discretion;
      (2)   Establish a curfew, during hours of the day or the night, which
prohibits or limits the number of persons from being out-of-doors, or in
certain areas, or upon public highways during the curfew;
      (3)   Restrict or prohibit movement within, above or beneath the area or
areas that are imperiled by the public danger or emergency or within the City
as a whole;
      (4)   Suspend or modify for the duration of the emergency or any part
thereof, the due dates or collection of rents due for water, sewer or any other
municipal utility, or the required filing dates for any City permit, license or
tax filing;
      (5)   Suspend or modify for the duration of the emergency or any part
thereof any personnel policy or regulation, whether set by Council or by
administrative directive;
      (6)   Call upon all necessary personnel, equipment and supplies from any
department of the City to aid in emergency operations;
      (7)   Call upon any auxiliary law enforcement agencies and organizations
within or without the City to assist in preserving and keeping the peace and
order within the City; and/or
      (8)   Any other powers or authority conferred by federal law, state
statute, City ordinance, resolution or as otherwise authorized by Council.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to modify or limit such authority,
powers or duties and responsibilities of any officer or public official as may
be provided by law.
   (c)   Notice of Emergency.
      (1)   When the City Manager declares an emergency exists, as set forth in
division (a) hereof, he or she shall immediately proclaim in writing the
existence of the emergency and the time of its inception and shall issue an
administrative directive thereof to the public through the news media and other
such means of dissemination as are available and, when practical, shall notify
all businesses and establishments affected.
      (2)   When a state of emergency is proclaimed, the City Manager, or his
or her appointee who proclaimed it, shall immediately notify all the members of
Council who can be reached of the administrative directive, the reasoning
behind it and the status of the emergency. Throughout the duration of the
emergency, the City Manager shall keep the members of Council informed as to
the status of the emergency and efforts to mitigate the situation.
   (d)   Termination of Emergency. Any emergency proclaimed in accordance with
the provisions of this section shall terminate on the issuance of an
administrative directive determining an emergency no longer exists or upon a
determination by Council, by a majority vote of the members present, that the
emergency no longer exists.
   (e)   Prohibitions. No person shall fail to obey the lawful order of any
police officer, firefighter, member of the National Guard or other authorized
person acting under the orders or authority of an administrative directive
issued pursuant to this section.
   (f)   Penalties. Whoever violates any prohibition contained in, or knowingly
fails to perform any duty required by, administrative directive, order or
regulation issued and in effect pursuant to this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree, and each day the violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2020-06. Adopted 03/12/20; Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
219.06   SUSPENSION OF CITY SERVICES DUE TO INCLEMENT WEATHER OR OTHER
DISRUPTION.
   (a)   Powers Granted. The City Manager is granted the authority and power to
delay, suspend, cancel, or close daily services, municipal facilities, or
planned community activities as he or she deems necessary in order to minimize
risk of harm or inconvenience to City employees or the general public that may
result from inclement or hazardous weather, disruption to public utilities,
outages of municipal digital systems or networks, protests or riots, or any
other general security threats.
   (b)   Notice of Impact to Services. Whenever the City Manager, in his or her
own discretion, determines that conditions exist or may exist necessitating
delay, suspension, cancellation or closure of City services, activities, or
facilities, he or she shall make immediate notice to the public through the
news media and other such means of dissemination as are available of the
measures being taken and note the expected duration of the actions.
(Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
219.07   ACTING AND INTERIM CITY MANAGER.
   (a)   Acting City Manager. In cases where the City Manager is vacant from
his or her office for a period of less than thirty (30) days due to vacation,
illness or other leave, the Assistant City Manager shall serve as the Acting
City Manager, unless the City Manager appoints another to serve as Acting City
Manager in his or her absence, by administrative directive.
   (b)   Interim City Manager. Should a vacancy in the office of the City
Manager occur, or during periods of temporary absence or disability of the City
Manager lasting thirty (30) days or more, the Assistant City Manager shall
serve as the Interim City Manager, unless a majority of the Council appoints
another Interim City Manager to fill the temporary vacancy.
(City Charter Section 6.02 C.)
(Ord. 2023-06. Adopted 04/13/23)
CHAPTER 220
Department of Administrative Services
220.01   Establishment
220.02   Administrative Services Director
   CROSS REFERENCES
   Appointment of Department Head - CHTR. §
7.02
   Establishment - CHTR. §
7.01
   Unclassified Service - CHTR. §
10.02
220.01   ESTABLISHMENT.
   (a)   Establishment. In accordance with Section
7.01 of the City Charter, a Department of Administrative Services, which may
also be known as the Administrative Services Department, to be headed by a
Director of Administrative Services, who may also be known as the
Administrative Services Director, is hereby established. The Department of
Administrative Services shall have such employees as may from time-to-time be
determined by the City Council.
   (b)   Divisions. The Department of Administrative Services shall include the
following Divisions:
      (1)   The Support Services Division;
      (2)   The Public Relations Division;
      (3)   The Personnel Management Division; and
      (4)   The Information Technology Division.
(Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
220.02   ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES DIRECTOR.
   (a)   Appointment. The Administrative Services Director shall be appointed
by, and under the direct supervision and control of, the City Manager.
   (b)   Powers and Duties. The Administrative Services Director is hereby
authorized to have the following powers and to perform the following duties:
      (1)   The Administrative Services Director shall have supervision and
control of the Administrative Services Department and its Divisions.
      (2)   The Administrative Services Director shall have the supervision and
direction of all division heads within the Administrative Services Department,
and the direct supervision of all employees in any division without a division
head.
      (3)   The Administrative Services Director shall assure that all
functions of the Administrative Services Department are conducted in accordance
with the City Charter, the Xenia City Code, all applicable federal and state
laws, and any other ordinances or resolutions, and as directed by the City
Manager.
      (4)   Any additional powers or duties as may be necessary to carry out
the duties assigned by the City Manager to the Administrative Services
Director.
   (c)   Unclassified Service. In accordance with Section
10.02 of the City Charter, the position of Administrative Services Director
shall be in the unclassified service.
(Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
CHAPTER 221
Support Services Division
221.01   Establishment
221.02   Functions
   CROSS REFERENCES
      Business Regulations and Licenses - see BUS. REG. & TAX CODE
      Establishment - CHTR. §
7.01
      Hunting - GEN. OFF. §
618.11
      Parking Permits - TRAFF. § 238.02
      Parks - ST., UTIL. & PUB. SERV. Ch. 1062
      Street Banners - ST., UTIL. & PUB. SERV. Ch. 1026
222.01   ESTABLISHMENT.
   In accordance with Section
7.01 of the City's Charter, a Division of Support Services, which may also be
known as the Support Services Division, is hereby created within the Department
of Administrative Services, which shall have such employees as may from time-
to-time be determined by the City Council. All such employees shall be
appointed by the City Manager and shall be under the supervision and control of
the Administrative Services Director.
(Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
221.02   FUNCTIONS.
   (a)   Powers and Duties. The Support Services Division, under the
supervision and direction of the Administrative Services Director, shall
perform the following functions:
      (1)   Manage the permitting process for any permits issued by the City
Manager including applications therefor, the permit review process, and the
issuance or denial of any permit, all in accordance with the Xenia City Code
and any administrative directives issued by the City Manager;
      (2)   Manage the rental process of City facilities including applications
therefor and any rental agreements that may be necessary, all in accordance
with the Xenia City Code and any administrative directives issued by the City
Manager;
      (3)   Provide day-to-day clerical and administrative support to various
other departments, divisions, or offices under the auspices of the City Manager
as assigned;
      (4)   Receive and account for all moneys derived or received from permit
and/or rental fees; and
      (5)   Manage the various intergovernmental and service accounts for the
City.
   (b)   Additional Powers and Duties. The Support Services Division may also
perform any other functions as may be necessary to support the functions of the
City Manager's Office and the various Departments and Divisions of the City
that are under the supervision and control of the City Manager.
(Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
CHAPTER 222
Public Relations Division
222.01   Establishment
222.02   Public Relations Coordinator
222.03   Functions
   CROSS REFERENCES
      Appointment of Division Head - CHTR. §
7.02
      City Logo - GEN. PROV. §
202.05
      City Seal - GEN. PROV. §
202.04
      Division Emblems - ADMIN. §
240.08
      Establishment - CHTR. §
7.01
      Unclassified Service - CHTR. §
10.02
222.01   ESTABLISHMENT.
   In accordance with Section
7.01 of the City's Charter, a Division of Public Relations, which may also be
known as the Public Relations Division, is hereby created within the Department
of Administrative Services, which shall have such employees as may from time-
to-time be determined by the City Council. All such employees shall be
appointed by the City Manager and shall be under the supervision and control of
the Public Relations Coordinator.
(Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
222.02   PUBLIC RELATIONS COORDINATOR.
   (a)   Appointment. The Public Relations Coordinator shall be appointed by
the City Manager and shall be under the supervision and control of the
Administrative Services Director.
   (b)   Powers and Duties. The Public Relations Coordinator shall perform such
duties and have such obligations and responsibilities as are set forth in the
Xenia City Code, the laws of the State of Ohio, and all other ordinances and
resolutions passed by the City Council, or as assigned to him or her by the
Administrative Services Director. The Public Relations Coordinator shall direct
the work of the Public Relations Division and shall control the assignment and
training of all Division personnel, subject to the approval of the
Administrative Services Director.
   (c)   Unclassified Service. In accordance with Section
10.02 of the City's Charter, the position of Public Relations Coordinator shall
be in the unclassified service.
(Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
222.03   FUNCTIONS.
   (a)   Powers and Duties. The Public Relations Division, under the
supervision and direction of the Public Relations Coordinator, shall perform
the following functions:
      (1)   Serve as the public information officer for the official
communications of the City;
      (2)   Undertake and oversee all public relations functions, including
media releases, digital publications, and management of any City social media
accounts;
      (3)   Oversee the management and use of official City branding elements
and ensure the lawful and proper display of official City logos, seal, emblems
and insignia through the publication and maintenance of brand use guidelines;
      (4)   Maintain and update the City's website and its various components;
and
      (5)   Coordinate and assist the Community Development Division with
special events within the City, whether such events are sponsored by the City,
by another public entity, by a private entity, or any combination thereof.
   (b)   Additional Powers and Duties. The Public Relations Division may also
perform any other functions as may be necessary to undertake the public
relations functions.
(Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
CHAPTER 223
Personnel Management Division
223.01   Establishment
223.02   Personnel Management Administrator
223.03   Functions
   CROSS REFERENCES
      Administrative Steering Committee - ADMIN. §
260.90
      Appointment of Division Head - CHTR. §
7.02
      Civil Service Commission - BDS. & COMMS.
Ch. 282
      Establishment - CHTR. §
7.01
      Personnel - CHRT. Art. X; ADMIN.
Ch. 260
      Unclassified Service - CHTR. §
10.02
223.01   ESTABLISHMENT.
   In accordance with Section
7.01 of the City's Charter, a Division of Personnel Management, which may also
be known as the Personnel Management Division, is hereby created within the
Department of Administrative Services, which shall have such employees as may
from time-to-time be determined by the Council. All such employees shall be
appointed by the City Manager and shall be under the supervision and control of
the Personnel Management Administrator.
(Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
223.02   PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT ADMINISTRATOR.
   (a)   Appointment. The Personnel Management Administrator shall be appointed
by the City Manager and shall be under the supervision and control of the
Administrative Services Director.
   (b)   Powers and Duties.
      (1)   The Personnel Management Administrator shall perform such duties
and have such obligations and responsibilities as are set forth in the Xenia
City Code, the laws of the State of Ohio, and all other ordinances and
resolutions passed by the City Council, as the same are assigned to him or her
by the Administrative Services Director.
      (2)   The Personnel Management Administrator shall direct the work of the
Personnel Management Division and shall control the assignment and training of
all Division personnel, subject to the approval of the Administrative Services
Director.
      (3)   The Personnel Management Administrator shall manage and administer
the City's Organizational Plan, as approved by Council, and shall coordinate
with the Administrative Steering Committee for the maintenance of the Personnel
Manual and job descriptions for the various positions in the City's departments
and divisions.
      (4)   Manage the affairs of the Administrative Steering Committee related
to information technology matters including scheduling meetings, agenda
preparation, and the preparation of materials for the Committee.
   (c)   Unclassified Service. In accordance with Section
10.02 of the City's Charter, the position of Personnel Management Administrator
shall be in the unclassified service.
(Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
223.03   FUNCTIONS.
   (a)   Powers and Duties. The Personnel Management Division shall perform the
following functions:
      (1)   Coordinate and manage the recruitment and hiring of employees;
      (2)   Coordinate and manage the evaluation, discipline, and separation of
employees;
      (3)   In cooperation with the Finance Department, undertake labor
negotiations with the various collective bargaining units of the City;
      (4)   Undertake and promote activities, programs, and services which are
of importance to the wellbeing of City employees;
      (5)   Manage and maintain employee personnel files;
      (6)   Coordinate and assist the Civil Service Commission in the
administration of the City's Civil Service Rules and Regulations; and
      (7)   Manage and oversee workers' compensation claims filed by City
employees;
      (8)   Coordinate with the Insurance Review Committee and make
recommendations to the Appointed Officials regarding health insurance, dental
insurance, vision insurance, and life insurance for the City's employees;
      (9)   Assure City compliance with the Fair Labor Standards Act, Family
and Medical Leave Act, Affordable Care Act, and any other applicable federal or
state laws;
      (10)   Assure compliance with the City's equal opportunity policies and
affirmative action programs; and
      (11)   Handle general employee relations matters as requested by the
appointed officials.
   (b)   Additional Powers and Duties. The Personnel Management Division may
also perform any other functions consistent with the management of personnel
and the administration of personnel programs as may be necessary or as the
Xenia City Code, state law, or other ordinances or resolutions of the Council
may designate, or as requested by the Administrative Steering Committee.
(Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
CHAPTER 224
Information Technology Division
224.01   Establishment
224.02   Chief Technology Officer
224.03   Functions
   CROSS REFERENCES
      Appointment of Division Head - CHTR. §
7.02
      Establishment - CHTR. §
7.01
      Information Technology Fund - ADMIN. §
251.03(d)
      Unclassified Service - CHTR. §
10.02
      Use of Personal Communication Devices - LEG. §
210.07
224.01   ESTABLISHMENT.
   In accordance with Section
7.01 of the City's Charter, a Division of Information Technology, which may
also be known as the Information Technology Division, is hereby created within
the Department of Administrative Services, which shall have such employees as
may from time-to-time be determined by the Council. All such employees shall be
appointed by the City Manager and shall be under the supervision and control of
the Chief Technology Officer.
(Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
224.02   CHIEF TECHNOLOGY OFFICER.
   (a)   Appointment. The Chief Technology Officer shall be appointed by the
City Manager and shall be under the supervision and control of the
Administrative Services Director.
   (b)   Powers and Duties.
      (1)   The Chief Technology Officer shall perform such duties and have
such obligations and responsibilities as are set forth in the Xenia City Code,
the laws of the State of Ohio, and all other ordinances and resolutions passed
by the City Council, as the same are assigned to him or her by the
Administrative Services Director.
      (2)   The Chief Technology Officer shall direct the work of the IT
Division and shall control the assignment and training of all Division
personnel, subject to the approval of the Administrative Services Director.
      (3)   The Chief Technology Officer shall evaluate the City's information
technology needs, develop Citywide information technology strategies, plans,
policies, and procedures, and shall coordinate with the Administrative Steering
Committee for the implementation of the same and to ensure the security of the
City's digital systems.
      (4)   Manage the affairs of the Administrative Steering Committee related
to information technology matters including scheduling meetings, agenda
preparation, and the preparation of materials for the Committee.
   (c)   Unclassified Service. In accordance with Section
10.02 of the City's Charter, the position of Chief Technology Officer shall be
in the unclassified service.
(Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
224.03   FUNCTIONS.
   (a)   Powers and Duties. The Information Technology Division shall perform
the following functions:
      (1)   Provide, manage, support, and promote the use of cost-effective,
reliable, and secure data communications, telecommunications and other
technological systems for the City's departments and divisions;
      (2)   Plan, install, maintain, and upgrade all information technology
hardware and software including, but not limited to, computers, printers,
servers, and modems to assure the efficient operation of the City's information
technology software, hardware, and networks;
      (3)   Train, orient, and educate City employees in the proper operation
and use of the City's information technology assets;
      (4)   Coordinate and manage the needs of the various City employees for
communications equipment, computer hardware and computer software;
      (5)   Oversee, manage, and assure the security of the City's networks and
information technology assets in accordance with federal and state laws and
regulations;
      (6)   Assure the daily service and maintenance needs of the City for
communications equipment, hardware and software are met;
      (7)   Provide user support and troubleshooting for the computer hardware,
software, networking and application needs of the employees of the City; and
      (8)   Configure and maintain all user accounts and provide regular
backups of data.
   (b)   Additional Powers and Duties. The Information Technology Division may
also perform any other functions consistent with the installation, provision
and management of the City's information technology assets and networks as may
be necessary or as the Xenia City Code, federal or state law, or other
ordinances or resolutions may designate, or as requested by the Administrative
Steering Committee.
(Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
CHAPTER 230
Department of Development Services
230.01   Establishment
230.02   Development Services Director
230.03   Economic Impact Analysis Policy
   CROSS REFERENCES
      Appointment of Department Head - CHTR. §
7.02
      Community Reinvestment Areas - BUS. REG. & TAX
Ch. 886
      Establishment - CHTR. §
7.01
      Property Improvements Fund - ADMIN. §
251.05(c)
      Sale of Real Estate - CHTR. §
4.01G.
      Unclassified Service - CHTR. §
10.02
230.01   ESTABLISHMENT.
   (a)   Establishment. In accordance with Section
7.01 of the City's Charter, a Department of Development Services, which may
also be known as the Development Services Department, to be headed by a
Director of Development Services, who may also be known as the Development
Services Director, is hereby established. The Department of Development
Services shall have such employees as may from time-to-time be determined by
the City Council.
   (b)   Divisions. The Department of Development Services shall include the
following Divisions:
      (1)   The Community Development Division;
      (2)   The Economic Development Division;
      (3)   The Planning and Zoning Division; and
      (4)   The Building Division.
(Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
230.02   DEVELOPMENT SERVICES DIRECTOR.
   (a)   Appointment. The Development Services Director shall be appointed by,
and under the direct supervision and control of, the City Manager.
   (b)   Powers and Duties. The Development Services Director is hereby
authorized to have the following powers and to perform the following duties:
      (1)   The Development Services Director shall have supervision and
control of the Development Services Department and its Divisions.
      (2)   The Development Services Director shall have the supervision and
direction of all division heads within the Development Services Department, and
the direct supervision of all employees in any division without a division
head.
      (3)   The Development Services Director shall assure that all functions
of the Development Services are conducted in accordance with the City Charter,
the Xenia City Code, all applicable federal and state laws, and any other
ordinances or resolutions.
      (4)   The Development Services Director shall oversee and manage the sale
of properties that are acquired by the City through the tax foreclosure process
to encourage the return of such properties to productive use;
      (5)   Any additional powers or duties as may be necessary to carry out
the duties assigned by the City Manager to the Development Services Director.
   (c)   Unclassified Service. In accordance with Section 10.02 of the City
Charter, the position of Development Services Director shall be in the
unclassified service.
(Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
230.03   ECONOMIC IMPACT ANALYSIS POLICY.
   City Council shall adopt and approve, by resolution, an Economic Impact
Analysis Policy establishing criteria for evaluating a proposed annexation,
joint economic development district, and/or major subdivision for the purpose
of determining the value of the proposed annexation, joint economic development
district, and/or major subdivision to the City. The policy shall include
analysis of tax revenues, assessments, and user fees, increased demands on
service, the acquisition and maintenance costs of infrastructure, and the
impacts on market conditions and quality of life.
(Ord. 13-12. Adopted 02/28/13; Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
CHAPTER 231
Community Development Division
231.01   Establishment
231.02   Community Development Coordinator
231.03   Functions
   CROSS REFERENCES
      Appointment of Division Head - CHTR. §
7.02
      Community Development Grant Fund - ADMIN. §
251.03(b)
      Establishment - CHTR. §
7.01
      Special Grants Fund - ADMIN. §
251.03(g)
      Unclassified Service - CHTR. §
10.02
231.01   ESTABLISHMENT.
   In accordance with Section
7.01 of the City's Charter, a Division of Community Development, which may also
be known as the Community Development Division, is hereby created within the
Department of Development Services, which shall have such employees as may from
time-to-time be determined by the Council. All such employees shall be
appointed by the City Manager and shall be under the supervision and control of
the Community Development Coordinator.
(Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
231.02   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT COORDINATOR.
   (a)   Appointment. The Community Development Coordinator shall be appointed
by the City Manager and shall be under the supervision and control of the
Development Services Director.
   (b)   Powers and Duties. The Community Development Coordinator shall perform
such duties and have such obligations and responsibilities as are set forth in
the Xenia City Code, the laws of the State of Ohio, and all other ordinances
and resolutions passed by the City Council, as the same are assigned to him or
her by the Development Services Director. The Community Development Coordinator
shall direct the work of the Community Development Division and shall control
the assignment and training of all Division personnel, subject to the approval
of the Development Services Director.
   (c)   Unclassified Service. In accordance with Section
10.02 of the City's Charter, the position of Community Development Coordinator
shall be in the unclassified service.
(Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
231.03   FUNCTIONS.
   (a)   Powers and Duties. The Community Development Division shall perform
the following functions:
      (1)   Coordinate and manage development activities in the downtown
including, but not limited to, redevelopment, economic initiatives, historical
preservation, and events;
      (2)   Act as the City's liaison for the Main Street Program and provide
policy guidance and administrative support for downtown revitalization
organizations and activities;
      (3)   Coordinate and manage the City's fair housing and housing
assistance activities;
      (4)   Coordinate and manage City programs and projects made available
through grant awards from state or federal resources for the purposes of
improving housing availability and diversity, reducing slum and blight
conditions, replacing deteriorating infrastructure, and removing obstacles
which adversely impact quality of life, including the proper preparation,
submission, monitoring and reporting for all grant requests for said purposes,
in accordance with all federal and state regulations and guidelines;
      (5)   Oversee and manage the competitive bidding, contract award, and
construction processes for all community-related grant projects;
      (6)   Coordinate community and neighborhood development including, but
not limited to, redevelopment, economic initiatives, and historical
preservation;
      (7)   Assist the Planning and Zoning Division in residential and
subdivision reviews; and
      (8)   Oversee and manage, with the assistance of the Public Relations
Division, special events within the City, whether such events are sponsored by
the City, by another public entity, by a private entity, or any combination
thereof.
   (b)   Additional Powers and Duties. The Community Development Division may
also perform any other functions consistent with the neighborhood development
services, housing, downtown development activities, and federal and state grant
programs as may be necessary or as the Xenia City Code, state law, or other
ordinances or resolutions of the Council may designate, or as directed by the
Development Services Director.
(Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
CHAPTER 232
Economic Development Division
232.01   Establishment
232.02   Economic Development Coordinator
232.03   Functions
   CROSS REFERENCES
      Appointment of Division Head - CHTR. §
7.02
      Economic Development Loan Programs Fund - ADMIN. §
251.03(c)
      Economic Impact Analysis Policy - ADMIN. §
230.03
      Establishment - CHTR. §
7.01
      Public Improvement Tax Increment Equivalent Fund - ADMIN. §
251.05(d)
      Unclassified Service - CHTR. §
10.02
232.01   ESTABLISHMENT.
   In accordance with Section
7.01 of the City's Charter, a Division of Economic Development, which may also
be known as the Economic Development Division, is hereby created within the
Department of Development Services, which shall have such employees as may from
time-to-time be determined by the Council. All such employees shall be
appointed by the City Manager and shall be under the supervision and control of
the Economic Development Coordinator.
(Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
232.02   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COORDINATOR.
   (a)   Appointment. The Economic Development Coordinator shall be appointed
by the City Manager and shall be under the supervision and control of the
Development Services Director.
   (b)   Powers and Duties. The Economic Development Coordinator shall perform
such duties and have such obligations and responsibilities as are set forth in
the Xenia City Code, the laws of the State of Ohio, and all other ordinances
and resolutions passed by the City Council, as the same are assigned to him or
her by the Development Services Director. The Economic Development Coordinator
shall direct the work of the Economic Development Division and shall control
the assignment and training of all Division personnel, subject to the approval
of the Development Services Director.
   (c)   Unclassified Service. In accordance with Section
10.02 of the City's Charter, the position of Economic Development Coordinator
shall be in the unclassified service.
(Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
232.03   FUNCTIONS.
   (a)   Powers and Duties. The Economic Development Division shall perform the
following functions:
      (1)   Coordinate and manage commercial and industrial development
activities in the City including, but not limited to, business attraction,
expansion, and retention programs and initiatives;
      (2)   Administer and manage all economic development initiatives, tax
incentives, and economic development loan programs in accordance with federal
or state guidelines and program guidelines established by City Council;
      (3)   Act as the City liaison to communicate and coordinate the City's
development activities with federal, state, county and township officials, the
Chamber of Commerce, universities and colleges, and other governmental or
nonprofit development agencies;
      (4)   Coordinate and facilitate initiatives for job training and
employment creation and enhancement with other public and private entities;
      (5)   Coordinate and manage any brownfield remediation programs and
grants including the preparation, submission, monitoring and reporting for all
grant requests in accordance with all federal and state regulations and
guidelines;
      (6)   Oversee and manage the competitive bidding, contract award, and
construction processes for all brownfield remediation projects;
      (7)   Assure completion of an economic impact analysis for proposed
development projects, in accordance with the City's Economic Impact Analysis
Policy;
      (8)   Provide staff support to City Council's Economic Development
Committee, including the preparation of agendas and materials for meetings and
giving public notice of said meetings;
      (9)   Serve as the City's liaison to the Dayton Development Coalition,
JobsOhio, and other agencies or entities charged with the promotion of economic
development and jobs creation; and
      (10)   Coordinate and maintain, with the assistance of the Public
Relations Division, marketing to promote the City and local development and
investment opportunities.
   (b)   Additional Powers and Duties. The Economic Development Division may
also perform any other functions consistent with the commercial and industrial
development, business expansion and retention, and federal and state grant
programs as may be necessary or as the Xenia City Code, state law, or other
ordinances or resolutions of the Council may designate, or as directed by the
Development Services Director.
(Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
CHAPTER 233
Planning & Zoning Division
233.01   Establishment
233.02   City Planner
233.03   Functions
   CROSS REFERENCES
      Appointment of Division Head - CHTR. §
7.02
      Board of Zoning Appeals - BDS. & COMMS. Ch. 281
      Establishment - CHTR. §
7.01
      Land Development Code - XCC Part Twelve
      Planning & Zoning Commission - BDS. & COMMS.
Ch. 280
      Property Maintenance Code - XCC Part Fourteen, Title Six
      Unclassified Service - CHTR. §
10.02
233.01   ESTABLISHMENT.
   In accordance with Section
7.01 of the City's Charter, a Division of Planning & Zoning, which may also be
known as the Planning & Zoning Division, is hereby created within the
Department of Development Services, which shall have such employees as may from
time-to-time be determined by the Council. All such employees shall be
appointed by the City Manager and shall be under the supervision and control of
the City Planner.
(Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
233.02   CITY PLANNER.
   (a)   Appointment. The City Planner shall be appointed by the City Manager
and shall be under the supervision and control of the Development Services
Director.
   (b)   Powers and Duties. The City Planner shall perform such duties and have
such obligations and responsibilities as are set forth in the Xenia City Code
and City Land Development Code, the laws of the State of Ohio, and all other
ordinances and resolutions passed by the City Council, as the same are assigned
to him or her by the Development Services Director. The City Planner shall
direct the work of the Planning & Zoning Division and shall control the
assignment and training of all Division personnel, subject to the approval of
the Development Services Director.
   (c)   Unclassified Service. In accordance with Section
10.02 of the City's Charter, the position of City Planner shall be in the
unclassified service.
(Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
233.03   FUNCTIONS.
   (a)   Powers and Duties. The Planning & Zoning Division shall perform the
following functions:
      (1)   Manage and administer the application and review process for all
zoning permits, in accordance with the City's Land Development Code;
      (2)   Enforce the provisions of the City's Land Development Code,
including the issuance of citations;
      (3)   Enforce the provisions of the City's Property Maintenance Code,
including the issuance of citations;
      (4)   Conduct inspections to ensure compliance with the City's Land
Development Code, approved plans, and the Property Maintenance Code;
      (5)   Receive and account for all moneys derived or received from
application or permit fees;
      (6)   Maintain adequate records of zoning permits issued, subdivision
plats, and construction plans;
      (7)   Administer and manage subdivision development agreements;
      (8)   Provide staff support to the Planning and Zoning Commission and the
Board of Zoning Appeals, including the preparation of agendas and materials for
meetings and giving public notice of said meetings;
      (9)   Administer and maintain the City's Comprehensive Land Use Plan and
related long-range or strategic development plans;
      (10)   Coordinate with and assist the Community Development Division and
the Economic Development Division in data and policy analysis regarding
development-related decisions;
      (11)   Administer and maintain the City's official Zoning map and make
recommendations to the Planning and Zoning Commission regarding appropriate
zoning districts;
      (12)   Collaborate with other City departments and divisions regarding
the implementation of strategic civic, economic development or community
development projects; and
      (13)   Serve as the City's liaison/local agent for United States Census
functions.
   (b)   Additional Powers and Duties. The Planning & Zoning Division may also
perform any other functions consistent with zoning, platting, subdivision,
permitting and inspections as may be necessary or as the Xenia City Code, state
law, or other ordinances or resolutions of the Council may designate, or as
directed by the Development Services Director.
(Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
CHAPTER 234
Building Division
234.01   Establishment
234.02   Chief Building Official
234.03   Functions
   CROSS REFERENCES
      Adoption of Technical Codes by Reference - CHTR. §
5.09
      Appointment of Division Head - CHTR. §
7.02
      Board of Zoning Appeals - BDS. & COMMS. Ch. 281
      Building Codes - BUILDING & PROPERTY MAINT. CODES
      Establishment - CHTR. §
7.01
      Unclassified Service - CHTR. §
10.02
234.01   ESTABLISHMENT.
   In accordance with Section
7.01 of the City's Charter, a Division of Building, which may also be known as
the Building Division, is hereby created within the Department of Development
Services, which shall have such employees as may from time-to-time be
determined by the Council. All such employees shall be appointed by the City
Manager and shall be under the supervision and control of the Development
Services Director.
(Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
234.02   CHIEF BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (a)   Appointment. For the purposes of administering and enforcing the
City's Building Codes, the City Manager shall appoint a Chief Building Official
or, upon the recommendation of the City Manager, City Council may contract for
the services of a Chief Building Official and related support services.
   (b)   Powers and Duties. The Chief Building Official shall perform such
duties and have such obligations and responsibilities as are set forth in the
City's Building Codes, the laws and regulations of the State of Ohio, and all
other ordinances and resolutions passed by the City Council, as the same are
assigned to him or her by the Development Services Director.
   (c)   Reports to Development Services Director. The Chief Building Official
shall be under the supervision and control of the Development Services
Director.
   (d)   Unclassified Service. In accordance with Section
10.02 of the City's Charter, the position of Chief Building Official shall be
in the unclassified service, unless the City contracts for building official
services, in which case the Chief Building Official shall be an independent
contractor and not an employee of the City.
(Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
234.03   FUNCTIONS.
   (a)   Powers and Duties. The Building Division shall perform the following
functions:
      (1)   Enforce and administer all laws, statutes and regulations as
provided and authorized in the Ohio Revised Code and the Ohio Administrative
Code pursuant to the certification approved by the Ohio Board of Building
Standards;
      (2)   Administer the application and review process for all building
permits, in accordance with the City's building codes and adopted standards;
      (3)   Conduct construction inspections to assure compliance with the
City's building codes and adopted standards and approved building plans;
      (4)   Issue certificates of occupancy and enforce all laws relative to
the use and occupancy of any structure;
      (5)   Conduct inspections to assure existing structures are in compliance
with the City's building codes and adopted standards;
      (6)   Issue repair or condemnation orders and adjudication orders in
accordance with the City's building codes and adopted standards;
      (7)   Coordinate and work with the Planning & Zoning Division and the
Fire & EMS Division regarding building projects, inspections, and repair or
condemnation orders; and
      (8)   Keep adequate records of building permits issued or denied and
certificates of occupancy issued.
   (b)   Additional Powers and Duties. The Building Division may also perform
any other functions consistent with building plan review, the issuance of
building permits and certificates of occupancy, and the issuance of orders as
may be necessary or as the City's building codes and adopted standards, the
Ohio Revised Code, the Ohio Administrative Code, or other ordinances or
resolutions of the Council may designate, or as directed by the Development
Services Director.
(Ord. 2022-40. Adopted 10/27/22)
CHAPTER 240
Department of Public Safety
240.01   Establishment
240.02   Public Safety Director; Assistant
240.03   Animal Control
240.04   Emergency Police Officers and Firefighters
240.05   Emergency Preparedness
240.06   Residency
240.07   Indigent Burials
240.08   Use of Division Emblems
240.09   False Alarms
   CROSS REFERENCES
      Adoption of Technical Codes by Reference - CHTR. §
5.09
      Appointment of Division Head - CHTR. §
7.02
      Authority to Establish Rules & Regulations - see ORC 737.022
      Burial of Unclaimed Indigent - see ORC 9.15
      City Manager as Director - CHTR. §
6.02B.(9)
      Establishment - CHTR. §
7.01
      Public Safety Fund - ADMIN. §
251.06(e)
      Public Safety Permanent Improvement Fund - ADMIN. §
251.06(f)
      Residency Requirements for Certain Employees - see ORC 9.481
      Unclassified Service - CHTR. §
10.02
240.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (a)   Establishment. In accordance with Section
7.01 of the City Charter, a Department of Public Safety, which may also be
known as the Public Safety Department, to be headed by a Director of Public
Safety, who may also be known as the Public Safety Director, is hereby
established. The Department of Public Safety shall have such employees as may
from time-to-time be determined by the City Council.
   (b)   Divisions. The Department of Public Safety shall include the following
Divisions:
      (1)   The Police Division;
      (2)   The Fire & EMS Division;
      (3)   The Emergency Communications Division.
(Ord. 2018-31. Adopted 10/25/18; Ord. 2022-28. Adopted 08/25/22)
240.02 PUBLIC SAFETY DIRECTOR; ASSISTANT.
   (a)   Appointment. The City Manager is hereby appointed as the Public Safety
Director, acting ex-officio, in accordance with Section
6.02B.(9) of the City Charter.
   (b)   Powers and Duties. The Public Safety Director is hereby authorized to
have the following powers and to perform the following duties:
      (1)   The Public Safety Director shall have supervision and control of
the Public Safety Department and its Divisions, except that the Division Heads
shall have the exclusive control of the stationing and transfer of all officers
and employees of their respective Divisions, under such general rules and
regulations as the Public Safety Director prescribes.
      (2)   The Public Safety Director shall be responsible for providing for,
and ensuring the security of, all City buildings and facilities and safety and
security of the general public and employees at such buildings and facilities.
      (3)   The Public Safety Director, upon the review and recommendation of
the City Engineer, shall make and issue rules and regulations concerning:
         A.   The number, type and location of traffic control devices and
signs;
         B.   The regulation or prohibition of parking on public ways and/or
public property, including the authority to establish permit parking and the
fee for such permits;
         C.   The creation or abolition of disability parking spaces on public
ways and/or public property, in accordance with state law and, when requested
by private individuals, upon the recommendation of the Council’s Public Service
& Utilities Standing Committee;
         D.   The regulation of the right-of-way at intersections of streets,
alleys, and highways;
         E.   The regulation or prohibition of turns at intersections;
         F.   The creation, abolition, and regulation of through routes and
truck routes, pedestrian crosswalks and safety zones, bus loading and unloading
zones, business loading zones, and traffic lanes and passing zones;
         G.   The regulation of the direction of traffic on public ways and the
creation and abolition of one-way public streets, roads, alleys, courts or
drives; and
         H.   The establishment of snow routes and regulation of parking on
those designated routes.
            (Statutory reference ORC 737.022)
      (4)   The Public Safety Director shall have the authority to establish
guidelines, rules, and fees by administrative directive for the rental or use
of any of the Divisions' facilities by another governmental entity or
corporation when such rental or use will not interfere with the daily, usual
operations of the respective Division.
      (5)    Any additional powers or duties relative to police, fire and EMS,
or emergency communication services as may be necessary to carry out the duties
placed upon the Public Safety Director pursuant to the City's Charter, by City
Council or by applicable state law.
   (c)   Assistant Public Safety Director. The City Manager may appoint an
Assistant Public Safety Director, who shall be under the direct supervision and
control of the Public Safety Director, and who shall perform such duties as
assigned by the Public Safety Director.
   (d)   Unclassified Service. In accordance with Section
10.02 of the City Charter, the positions of Public Safety Director and
Assistant Public Safety Director shall be in the unclassified service.
(Ord. 2018-31. Adopted 10/25/18; Ord. 2021-04. Adopted 02/11/21; Ord. 2022-28.
Adopted 08/25/22)
240.03 ANIMAL CONTROL.
   The Public Safety Director is hereby authorized to contract for the services
of an animal control officer, who shall be under the supervision and control of
the Director.
(Ord. 2018-31. Adopted 10/25/18; Ord. 2022-28. Adopted 08/25/22)
240.04 EMERGENCY POLICE OFFICERS AND FIREFIGHTERS.
   (a)   Emergency Police Officers and Firefighters. In case of riot or other
like emergency, the Public Safety Director may appoint additional police
officers and officers for temporary service in the Police Division and/or
additional firefighters, EMTs, paramedics, and officers for temporary service
in the Fire & EMS Division, who need not be in the classified list of such
Divisions. Such additional persons shall be employed only for the time during
which the emergency exists.
   (b)   Cooperation with Other Agencies. In case of riot or other like
emergency, the Public Safety Director may call upon other political
subdivisions within Greene County or any adjacent county to furnish such law
enforcement, fire protection and/or emergency medical services personnel,
together with appropriate equipment and apparatus, as may be necessary to
preserve the public peace and to protect persons and property. Such request
shall be made in accordance with any mutual aid contract the City has entered
into or, if no contract with the other political subdivision exists, then such
request shall be made in accordance with state law.
(Ord. 2018-31. Adopted 10/25/18; Ord. 2022-28. Adopted 08/25/22)
240.05   EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS.
   The Public Safety Director is hereby authorized to undertake any and all
actions necessary for the preparation and/or maintenance of any required
disaster plans, hazard mitigation plans, or other such plans that may be
required by federal or state law, subject only to the appropriation authority
of the City Council.
(Ord. 2022-28. Adopted 08/25/22)
240.06 RESIDENCY.
    (a)   Adequate Response Times. To ensure adequate response times to
emergencies or disasters, the full-time employees of the Police Division and
the Fire & EMS Division of the Department of Public Safety shall, as a
condition of employment, reside either within Greene County or a county
adjoining Greene County. Persons may be appointed who certify, in writing, that
they will satisfy all residency requirements within six (6) months after
appointment. Appointees who fail to acquire or retain their residence within
the required limits shall be dismissed from employment.
   (b)   Collective Bargaining Agreements. If an employee who is covered by
this section is also covered by an applicable collective bargaining agreement,
the terms of the collective bargaining agreement regarding residency
requirements shall control. In no instance shall the collective bargaining
agreement applicable to an employee covered by this section impose residency
requirements on the employee that are more restrictive than those provided
under division (a) of this section.
   (c)   Exceptions. If an unusual hardship or emergency is found to exist by
the Public Safety Director, the Director may, in his or her discretion, permit
an employee to live temporarily outside the residency limits prescribed by
division (a) of this section for a period of no longer than six (6) months.
Failure of the employee to resume his or her proper residency by the end of
such six-month period shall result in termination of his or her employment.
(Ord. 00-34. Adopted 08/10/00; Ord. 2018-31. Adopted 10/25/18; Ord. 2022-28.
Adopted 08/25/22)
240.07 INDIGENT BURIALS.
   The Director of Public Safety is hereby designated as the proper officer of
the City of Xenia to carry out those duties imposed on the City by ORC 9.15 and
shall establish and maintain an indigent burial policy to carry out those
duties, in accordance with ORC 9.15.
(Ord. 2018-31. Adopted 10/25/18; Ord. 2022-28. Adopted 08/25/22)
240.08 USE OF DIVISION EMBLEMS.
   (a)   Use. The design of the official emblems of the Divisions of the
Department of Public Safety is the property of the City and shall only be used
for official City business. Such emblems shall not be reproduced or used by
employees for matters that are not related to official City business, nor shall
they be used by any person not affiliated with the respective Division, except
as otherwise authorized by the Director of Public Safety.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
an unclassified misdemeanor and the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to ORC
2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be sentenced to a jail
term nor sentenced to a community residential sanction pursuant to ORC 2929.26.
Notwithstanding ORC 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to one
thousand dollars ($1,000) and, notwithstanding ORC 2929.27(A)(3), the offender
may be ordered pursuant to division (C) of that section to serve a term of
community service of up to five hundred (500) hours. The failure of an offender
to complete a term of community service imposed by the court may be punished as
indirect criminal contempt under ORC 2705.02(A) and may be filed in the
underlying case.
(Ord. 2020-19. Adopted 08/13/20; Ord. 2022-28. Adopted 08/25/22)
240.09   FALSE ALARMS.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to protect the services
provided by the Public Safety Department's Divisions from misuse by responding
to defective alarm systems and excessive false alarms. This section governs and
regulates alarm systems, alarm users and alarm businesses.
   (b)   Requirements.
      (1)   Alarm systems that automatically dial or call the Emergency
Communications Division must occur on a special telephone line designated for
that purpose and shall comply with the following regulations:
         A.   The total length of the recorded message being transmitted to the
Emergency Communications Division, including repetition of the message, shall
not exceed thirty (30) seconds in length.
         B.   The recorded message being transmitted shall be repeated not less
than three (3) nor more than four (4) times and shall have an automatic abort
feature to ensure compliance herewith.
         C.   The recorded message being transmitted shall incorporate language
specifically identifying the message as a recording, with the balance of the
message identifying, by street number and street name, the location of the
emergency and the nature of the event (intrusion or fire) which caused the
alarm system to activate. If the location of the event signaled by the alarm
system is in a multi-family building, the message shall also identify, by
number and floor, the particular dwelling unit, office unit or commercial unit
in which the event occurred.
         D.   The recorded message being transmitted shall be appropriate for
the purpose for which the alarm system was installed, and the message, in its
entirety, shall be intelligible and spoken in the English language.
         E.   Each alarm system shall comply with applicable building codes and
fire codes.
      (2)   Alarms shall not resemble the sound of any emergency signal or
civil defense alarm or siren in use by the Emergency Communications Division.
All alarms, except fire alarm systems, shall have the capacity to reset
themselves within fifteen (15) minutes from the time they are received.
      (3)   Emergency Contact Requirements:
         A.   Every business alarm user shall have at least one (1) person on
the premises at all times the business is occupied, who is knowledgeable in the
operation of the alarm system.
         B.   Every business alarm user shall provide to the Emergency
Communications Division a current list of three (3) emergency contacts,
including their names, email addresses and telephone numbers, who are
knowledgeable in the operation of the alarm system and can provide access to
the building or structure affected.
         C.   Any change in emergency contacts shall be reported to the
Emergency Communications Division within three (3) business days of such
change.
   (c)   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided, whoever violates any of the
provisions of this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor and shall
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50) nor more than one hundred dollars
($100) for a first offense. For a second or subsequent offense within one (1)
calendar year, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2023-33. Adopted 11/21/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
240.09   FALSE ALARMS.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to protect the services
provided by the Public Safety Department's Divisions from misuse by responding
to defective alarm systems and excessive false alarms. This section governs and
regulates alarm systems, alarm users and alarm businesses.
   (b)   Requirements.
      (1)   Alarm systems that automatically dial or call the Emergency
Communications Division must occur on a special telephone line designated for
that purpose and shall comply with the following regulations:
         A.   The total length of the recorded message being transmitted to the
Emergency Communications Division, including repetition of the message, shall
not exceed thirty (30) seconds in length.
         B.   The recorded message being transmitted shall be repeated not less
than three (3) nor more than four (4) times and shall have an automatic abort
feature to ensure compliance herewith.
         C.   The recorded message being transmitted shall incorporate language
specifically identifying the message as a recording, with the balance of the
message identifying, by street number and street name, the location of the
emergency and the nature of the event (intrusion or fire) which caused the
alarm system to activate. If the location of the event signaled by the alarm
system is in a multi-family building, the message shall also identify, by
number and floor, the particular dwelling unit, office unit or commercial unit
in which the event occurred.
         D.   The recorded message being transmitted shall be appropriate for
the purpose for which the alarm system was installed, and the message, in its
entirety, shall be intelligible and spoken in the English language.
         E.   Each alarm system shall comply with applicable building codes and
fire codes.
      (2)   Alarms shall not resemble the sound of any emergency signal or
civil defense alarm or siren in use by the Emergency Communications Division.
All alarms, except fire alarm systems, shall have the capacity to reset
themselves within fifteen (15) minutes from the time they are received.
      (3)   Emergency Contact Requirements:
         A.   Every business alarm user shall have at least one (1) person on
the premises at all times the business is occupied, who is knowledgeable in the
operation of the alarm system.
         B.   Every business alarm user shall provide to the Emergency
Communications Division a current list of three (3) emergency contacts,
including their names, email addresses and telephone numbers, who are
knowledgeable in the operation of the alarm system and can provide access to
the building or structure affected.
         C.   Any change in emergency contacts shall be reported to the
Emergency Communications Division within three (3) business days of such
change.
   (c)   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided, whoever violates any of the
provisions of this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor and shall
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50) nor more than one hundred dollars
($100) for a first offense. For a second or subsequent offense within one (1)
calendar year, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2023-33. Adopted 11/21/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
CHAPTER 241
Police Division
241.01   Establishment
241.02   Police Chief; Assistants
241.03   Functions
241.04   Requirements for Original Appointments
241.05   Police Cadet Program
241.06   Reserve Police Officers
241.07   Offenses Affecting Employment
241.08   Special Duty
241.09   Volunteer Peace Officers' Dependents Fund
241.10   Court Fees
241.11   Citizens' Reward Program
241.12   Court Security Officers
   CROSS REFERENCES
      (Alcohol) Enforcement and Education Fund - ADMIN. §
251.06(b)
      Appointment of Division Head - CHTR. §
7.02
      Cadet Program - see ORC 124.41
      Court Fees - see ORC 1901.26
      Criminal Offenses Affecting Employment - see ORC 737.052
      Drug Law Enforcement Fund - ADMIN. §
251.06(a)
      Establishment - CHTR. §
7.01
      General Duties of Police - see ORC 737.11
      Law Enforcement Trust Fund - ADMIN. §
251.06(c)
      Parking Violations Bureau - see TRAFF.
Ch. 450
      Qualifications - see ORC 124.41
      Required Certification - see ORC 109.77
      Residency Requirements for Certain Employees - see ORC 9.481
      Unclassified Service - CHTR. §
10.02
      Volunteer Peace Officers' Dependents Fund - see ORC Ch. 143
241.01   ESTABLISHMENT.
   In accordance with Section
7.01 of the City Charter, a Division of Police (or Police Division) is hereby
created within the Department of Public Safety, which shall have a Police Chief
and such ranks, officers, employees, and reserve officers as may from time-to-
time be determined by the City Council. All personnel of the Police Division
shall be appointed by the City Manager and shall be under the supervision and
control of the Police Chief.
(Ord. 96-61. Adopted 07/11/96; Ord. 2022-28. Adopted 08/25/22)
241.02   POLICE CHIEF; ASSISTANTS.
   (a)   Appointment. In accordance with Section
7.01 of the City Charter, the Police Chief shall be appointed by the City
Manager.
   (b)   Powers and Duties.
      (1)   The Police Chief shall perform such duties and have such
obligations and responsibilities as are set forth in the Xenia City Code or the
laws of the State of Ohio, and all other ordinances and resolutions passed by
the Council or applicable statutes of this State.
      (2)   The Police Chief shall direct the police work of the City and
control the assignment, stationing, transferring, and training of all police
personnel, subject to the approval of the Public Safety Director.
      (3)   The Police Chief shall establish Division policies, rules and
regulations for the working conditions, training courses, organization, and
operation of the Police Division, subject to the approval of the Public Safety
Director.
      (4)   The Police Chief shall have charge and control of the City's police
vehicles and equipment and assure the same are kept in good condition and
repair.
   (c)   Reports to Public Safety Director. The Police Chief shall be under the
supervision and control of the Public Safety Director.
   (d)   Assistant Police Chiefs. The City Manager may appoint persons to the
position of Assistant Police Chief, which position shall be known as Major, and
the Major(s) shall be under the supervision and control of the Police Chief and
shall perform such duties as are assigned by the Police Chief.
   (e)   Unclassified Service. In accordance with Section
10.02 of the City Charter, the positions of Police Chief and Major shall be in
the unclassified service.
(Ord. 2022-28. Adopted 08/25/22)
241.03   FUNCTIONS.
   (a)   Powers and Duties. The Police Division, under the supervision and
direction of the Police Chief, shall perform the following functions:
      (1)   Preserve the peace, protect persons and property, and obey and
enforce all ordinances of the City, all criminal laws of the state and the
United States, all court orders issued and consent agreements approved pursuant
to ORC 2929.26 and 3113.31, all protection orders issued pursuant to ORC
2903.213 or 2903.214, and protection orders issued by courts of another state,
as defined in ORC 2919.27;
      (2)   Be responsible for law enforcement and the maintenance of law in
the City, including traffic and parking regulations, crime prevention and the
investigation, identification and detention of suspects and offenders; and
      (3)   The Chief or any officer may participate, as the director of an
organized crime task force established under ORC 177.02 or as a member of the
investigatory staff of such task force, in an investigation of organized
criminal activity in any county or counties in this State under ORC 177.01 to
177.03.
         (Statutory Reference ORC 737.11)
   (b)   Additional Powers and Duties. The Police Division may also perform any
other functions consistent with law enforcement as may be necessary or as the
Council, City ordinances or state law may designate.
(Ord. 2022-28. Adopted 08/25/22)
241.04   REQUIREMENTS FOR ORIGINAL APPOINTMENTS.
   (a)   Age Requirements. No person shall be eligible to receive an original
appointment to the Police Division as a police officer unless the person has
reached the age of twenty-one (21) years. No person is eligible to receive an
original appointment when the person is fifty (50) years of age or older, and
no person can be declared disqualified as over age prior to that time. This
maximum age restriction shall not apply to lateral hires.
   (b)   Physical Examination Requirements. No person shall be eligible to
receive an original appointment to the Police Division as a police officer
unless the person has, not more than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the
date of such appointment, passed a physical examination given by a licensed
physician, a physician's assistant, a clinical nurse-specialist, a certified
nurse-practitioner or a certified nurse-midwife certifying that the applicant
is free of cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases and showing that the applicant
meets the physical requirements necessary to perform the duties of a police
officer, as established by the City. The fee for such examination shall be paid
by the City.
   (c)   Ohio Police and Fire Pension Fund. Prior to making any original
appointment, the City shall file with the Ohio Police and Fire Pension Fund a
copy of the report or findings of the licensed physician, physician assistant,
clinical nurse-specialist, certified nurse-practitioner, or certified nurse-
midwife required under division (b) of this section.
(Statutory reference: ORC 124.41)
   (d)   Required Certification.
      (1)   No person shall receive an original appointment as a full-time
police officer with the Police Division unless the person previously has been
awarded a certificate by the Executive Director of the Ohio Peace Officer
Training Commission attesting to the person's satisfactory completion of an
approved state, county, or municipal peace officer basic training program, in
accordance with ORC 109.77.
      (2)   No person may serve as a police officer of the City unless the
person has received training in the handling of missing children and child
abuse and neglect cases from an approved state, county, township, or municipal
police officer basic training program or receives the training within the time
prescribed by the rules adopted by the Ohio Attorney General pursuant to ORC
109.741.
      (3)   The revocation or suspension of the certification required under
division (d)(1) of this section shall result in immediate termination from the
position of police officer.
(Statutory reference: ORC 109.77)
(Ord. 2022-28. Adopted 08/25/22)
241.05   POLICE CADET PROGRAM.
   The Police Division is hereby authorized to establish a Police Cadet Program
and employ persons as police cadets at age eighteen (18) for the purposes of
training persons to become police officers. Any person participating in such
Police Cadet Program shall not be permitted to carry or use a firearm in the
performance of the person's duties, except that the person may be taught the
proper use of firearms as part of the person's training.
(Statutory reference: ORC 124.41)
(Ord. 2022-28. Adopted 08/25/22)
241.06   RESERVE POLICE OFFICERS.
   (a)   Creation. There is hereby created the unclassified position of reserve
police officer within the Police Division. Reserve police officers shall be
sworn and certified law enforcement officers who possess the same law
enforcement or police powers as full-time police officers but shall perform
only such police duties as are assigned by the Chief of Police and shall act
only when in the prescribed uniform. Reserve police officers shall not be
eligible for membership in the Ohio Police and Fire Pension Fund or the Ohio
Public Employees Retirement System nor eligible for benefits available to full-
time employees of the Police Division.
   (b)   Appointment. Reserve police officers shall be appointed by the Public
Safety Director and shall be under the supervision and control of the Police
Chief.
   (c)   Term of Service. Reserve police officers shall serve at the pleasure
of the Public Safety Director, or until a resignation submitted by such officer
is accepted by the Public Safety Director.
   (d)   Qualifications.
      (1)   To be qualified for appointment as a reserve police officer, the
applicant must:
         A.   Be verified as eligible for employment by the Department of
Homeland Security, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services and reside within
a reasonable distance from the City, as determined by the Public Safety
Director;
         B.   Have attained the age of twenty-one (21) years;
         C.   Have a valid Ohio driver's license and have a driving record that
will allow the applicant to be covered under the City's insurance;
         D.   Submit to and successfully complete any tests requested by the
Police Division including, but not limited to, a physical examination, a
personal background investigation, a polygraph or VSA, or a psychological
profile.
         E.   Be a person of high moral character; and
         F.   Has previously been awarded a certificate by the Executive
Director of the Ohio Peace Officer Training Commission attesting to the
person's satisfactory completion of an approved state, county or municipal
peace officer basic training program, or has previously completed
satisfactorily or, within the time prescribed by the rules adopted by the Ohio
Attorney General pursuant to ORC 109.74, satisfactorily completes a State,
county or municipal peace officer basic training program for probationary or
temporary officers, and is awarded a certificate by the Executive Director of
the Ohio Peace Officers Training Commission attesting to the satisfactory
completion of the program. If the person does not satisfactorily complete an
approved basic training program within the time prescribed by the rules adopted
by the Ohio Attorney General, that person shall immediately forfeit his or her
position as a reserve police officer.
      (2)   Every person who is appointed as a police officer with the Police
Division for a probationary term, as a Reserve Officer or on any basis other
than a full-time basis, shall forfeit the appointed position unless the person
previously has completed satisfactorily or, within the time prescribed by the
rules adopted by the Ohio Attorney General pursuant to ORC 109.74,
satisfactorily completes a state, county municipal or Ohio Department of
Natural Resources peace officer basic training program for temporary or
probationary officers and is awarded a certificate by the Executive Director of
the Ohio Peace Officer Training Commission attesting to the satisfactory
completion of the program.
(ORC 109.77)
   (e)   Supervision. The Chief of Police shall have control of the assignment,
training, stationing, and direction of the reserve police officers, who shall
have all police powers, but shall perform only such police duties as are
assigned by the Chief of Police and shall act only when in the prescribed
uniform or portion of uniform. Reserve police officers shall obey the chain of
command of the Division of Police and shall take orders from all regularly
appointed officers thereof.
   (f)   Rules and Regulations. The Chief of Police, with the approval of the
Director of Public Safety, shall prescribe rules and regulations governing the
administration, conduct, hours of work and work rules for reserve police
officers within the Police Division.
   (g)   Service and Compensation.
      (1)   All services performed by reserve police officers, except those
hired under State or Federal programs, shall be on a paid volunteer basis with
the City. Reserve police officers will be utilized to supplement the Police
Division's day-to-day operations.
      (2)   Reserve police officers, except those hired under State and Federal
programs, shall be paid at an hourly rate set by the Council in the annual Pay
Plan.
      (3)   Reserve police officers hired under State or Federal programs shall
receive compensation in accordance with City, State and Federal regulations.
   (h)   Court Duty. Any reserve police officer who is required to appear in
Court as a witness as a result of his or her work with the City as a reserve
police officer shall be paid by the City at the rate established by Police
Division policy, for the time he or she is absent from his or her other
employment. Proof of lost wages shall be in the form of a wage statement from
the reserve officer's employer. To be eligible for pay for court duty under
this section, the reserve officer shall apply for subpoena or witness fees and
all moneys received as compensation for court service shall be turned over in
full to the City.
   (i)   Employment Status. The position of reserve police officer is an
unclassified, at-will paid volunteer position.
   (j)   Nonliability. This section is hereby declared to be an exercise by the
City of its police powers for the protection of the public peace, health,
property, safety and general welfare, and neither the City, nor any agent or
representative of the City, nor any reserve police officer appointed under the
provisions of this section, nor any individual, firm, partnership or
corporation, nor the receiver, trustee or any other agent thereof who, in good
faith, executes any executive order, rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to
the provisions of this section shall be liable for injury or damage sustained
to any person or property as the direct or proximate result of such action.
(Ord. 89-43. Adopted 06/08/89; Ord. 2022-28. Adopted 08/25/22)
241.07   OFFENSES AFFECTING EMPLOYMENT.
   (a)   Appointments. The City Manager shall not appoint any person in the
Police Division on a permanent basis, on a temporary basis, for a probationary
term or on any other basis if that person's peace officer training certificate
has been revoked because of a criminal conviction or plea of guilty to a
felony.
   (b)   Continued Employment. The City Manager shall terminate the employment
of any peace officer in the Police Division, including the Police Chief, if
that officer's certificate is revoked pursuant to ORC 109.77.
   (c)   Suspension. The City Manager shall suspend any officer in the Police
Division, including the Police Chief, whose certificate is suspended pursuant
to ORC 109.77.
   (d)   Procedures. The suspension or the termination of employment under this
section shall be in accordance with the procedures set forth in the City's
Personnel Policy Manual and any applicable collective bargaining agreement.
(ORC 109.77)
(Ord. 2022-28. Adopted 08/25/22)
241.08   SPECIAL DUTY.
   (a)   Special Duty Agreements. The City Manager is hereby authorized to
enter into written agreements with public or private organizations or
businesses for the assignment of police officers to special police duty with
those organizations where, in the opinion of the Chief of Police, this duty
serves the purpose of public safety, traffic control or the public welfare. The
written agreements shall be approved by the Law Director, and shall contain,
among others, the following provisions:
      (1)   The police officer shall be specifically assigned to duty by and
under the control of the Chief of Police, and shall at all times be considered
as being on official police duty;
      (2)   The police officer may or may not be in full uniform, depending
upon the nature of the assignment;
      (3)   The organization or business shall pay the City for the police
officer(s) performing the special duty at a rate not lower than the police
officer(s)' pay rates as established by the officer's applicable collective
bargaining agreement;
      (4)   The organization or business shall reimburse the City for any
damages or loss to City property or equipment that is incurred as a result of
the special duty;
      (5)   The duties shall be restricted to the limits of the City, unless
the special duty is requested by another police agency; and
      (6)   The City will agree to furnish manpower only to the extent of its
availability.
(Ord. 2022-28. Adopted 08/25/22)
241.09   VOLUNTEER PEACE OFFICERS' DEPENDENTS FUND.
   (a)   Volunteer Peace Officers' Dependents Fund Board.
      (1)   There is hereby established a Volunteer Peace Officers' Dependents
Board, which shall consist of five (5) members, chosen as follows:
         A.   Two (2) members elected by the Council;
         B.   Two (2) members elected by the volunteer police officers of the
Police Division; and
         C.   One (1) member elected by the Board members who were elected
pursuant to divisions (a)(1)A. and (a)(1)B. of this section. This member shall
be an elector of the City, but not a public employee, nor a member of the
Council or a police officer of the Police Division.
      (2)   Any vacancy occurring on the Board shall be filled at a special
election called by the secretary of the Board.
         (ORC 143.02)
   (b)   Election and Term of Board Members.
      (1)   The term of each Volunteer Peace Officers' Dependents Fund Board
member shall be one (1) year and shall begin the first (1st) day of January.
      (2)   The election of two (2) members by the Council shall be held each
year no earlier than the first (1st) day of November and no later than the
second (2nd) Monday in December.
      (3)   The election of two (2) members by the volunteer police officers of
the Police Division shall be held on or before the second (2nd) Monday in
December, and shall be conducted as follows:
         A.   The secretary of the Board shall give notice of the election by
posting it in a conspicuous place at the Police Division. Between 9:00 a.m. and
9:00 p.m. on the day designated, each volunteer police officer of the Police
Division shall send in writing the name of two (2) persons who are the
officer's choices. The two (2) named persons must be volunteer police officers
of the Police Division.
         B.   All votes cast at the election shall be counted and recorded by
the Board, which shall announce the result. The two (2) members receiving the
highest number of votes are elected. If any two (2) persons receive a tie vote,
it shall be decided by lot or in any other way agreed upon by the persons for
whom such tie vote was cast.
      (4)   The election of one (1) member by the Board members shall be held
on or before the thirty-first (31st) day of December.
         (ORC 143.02)
   (c)   Organization; Rules.
      (1)   The Volunteer Peace Officers' Dependents Fund Board shall meet on
or after the first (1st) day of January and organize. A Chairperson and a
Secretary shall be elected. The Secretary shall keep a complete record of the
proceedings of the Board, which record shall be maintained as a permanent file.
      (2)   The Secretary of the Board shall, no later than the first (1st) of
February, submit to the Director of the State Commerce Department the names and
addresses of the members of the Board, by whom they were elected, and the names
of the chairperson and secretary. The secretary shall also forward a
certificate prepared by the City Clerk indicating the current assessed property
valuation of the City.
         (ORC 143.03)
      (3)   The Board may adopt rules necessary for the handling and processing
of claims for benefits and shall perform such other duties as are necessary to
carry out its duties under ORC Chapter 143.
         (ORC 143.04)
   (d)   Compensation and Expenses; Legal Advisor.
      (1)   The members of the Volunteer Peace Officers' Dependents Fund Board
shall serve without compensation.
      (2)   The City shall provide the Board with a meeting place, stationary,
postage and supplies for the sufficient conduct of the Board's business.
         (ORC 143.03)
      (3)   The Greene County Prosecuting Attorney shall serve as the legal
advisor for the Board.
         (ORC 143.05)
   (e)   Payment to the Fund. The City shall pay to the State Treasurer, to the
credit of the Volunteer Peace Officers' Dependent Fund, an initial premium in
the amount required under ORC 143.06. Thereafter, the City shall pay all
assessments certified to the City by the Ohio Director of Commerce in
accordance with ORC 143.07.
   (f)   Benefits.
      (1)   A volunteer police officer who, on or after December 22, 2015, is
totally and permanently disabled as a result of discharging the duties of a
volunteer police officer shall receive a benefit from the Volunteer Peace
Officers' Dependents Fund of three hundred dollars ($300) per month, except
that no payment shall be made to a volunteer police officer who is receiving
the officer's full salary during the time of the officer's disability.
      (2)   Regardless of whether the volunteer police officer received a
benefit under division (f)(1) of this section, death benefits shall be paid
from the Fund to the surviving spouse and dependent children of a volunteer
police officer who, on or after December 22, 2015, is killed in the line of
duty.
      (3)   Death benefits shall be paid as follows:
         A.   To the surviving spouse of a volunteer police officer killed in
the line of duty, an award of one thousand dollars ($1,000), and in addition, a
benefit of three hundred dollars ($300) per month;
         B.   To the parent, guardian or other persons on whom a child of a
volunteer police officer killed in the line of duty is dependent for chief
financial support, a benefit of one hundred twenty-five dollars ($125) per
month for each dependent child under age eighteen (18), or under age twenty-two
(22) if attending an institution of learning or training pursuant to a program
designed to complete in each school year the equivalent of at least two-thirds
(2/3) of the full-time curriculum requirements of the institution.
            (ORC 143.09)
   (g)   Claims. An individual eligible for benefits payable under this section
shall file a claim for benefits with the City's Volunteer Peace Officers'
Dependents Fund Board on a form provided by the Board. All of the following
information shall be submitted with the claim:
      (1)   In the case of a totally and permanently disabled volunteer police
officer, the following:
         A.   The name of the Xenia Police Division;
         B.   The date of injury; and
         C.   Satisfactory medical evidence that the officer is totally and
permanently disabled.
      (2)   In the case of a surviving spouse or a parent, guardian or other
person in charge of a dependent child, the following:
         A.   The full name of the deceased volunteer police officer;
         B.   The name of the Xenia Police Division;
         C.   The name and address of the surviving spouse, if applicable;
         D.   The names, ages and addresses of any dependent children; and
         E.   Any other evidence required by the Board.
      (3)   All claimants shall certify that neither the claimant nor the
person on whose behalf the claim is filed qualifies for other benefits from any
of the following based on the officer's service as a volunteer police officer:
the Ohio Public Employees Retirement System, Ohio Police and Fire Pension Fund,
State Highway Patrol Retirement System, Cincinnati Retirement System, or Ohio
Public Safety Officers Death Benefit Fund.
      (4)   Initial claims shall be filed with the City's Volunteer Peace
Officers' Dependents Fund Board. Thereafter, on request of the claimant or the
Board, claims may be transferred to a board near the claimant's current
residence, if the boards concerned agree to the transfer.
         (ORC 143.09)
   (h)   Procedure for Processing Claims.
      (1)   The Volunteer Peace Officers' Dependents Fund Board shall meet
within five (5) days after the receipt of a claim for benefits to determine the
validity of the claim.
      (2)   If the Board determines the claim is valid, it shall make a
determination of the amount due and certify its determination to the Director
of Commerce for payment. The certification shall show the name and address of
the Board, the name and address of each beneficiary, the amount to be received
by or on behalf of each beneficiary, and the name and address of the person to
whom payments are to be made.
      (3)   If the Board determines that a claimant is ineligible for benefits,
the Board shall deny the claim and issue to the claimant a copy of its order.
      (4)   The Board may make a continuing order for monthly payment to a
claimant for a period not exceeding three (3) months from the date of
determination. The determination may be modified after issuance to reflect any
changes in the claimant's eligibility. If no changes occur at the end of the
three-month period, the Director of Commerce may provide for payment if the
Board certifies that the original certification is continued for an additional
three-month period.
         (ORC 143.10)
   (i)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "Killed in the line of duty" means either of the following:
         A.   Death in the line of duty; or
         B.   Death from injury sustained in the line of duty, including heart
attack or other fatal injury or illness caused while in the line of duty.
      (2)   "Totally and permanently disabled" means unable to engage in any
substantial gainful employment for a period of not less than twelve (12) months
by reason of a medically determinable physical impairment that is permanent or
presumed to be permanent.
      (3)   "Volunteer Peace Officer" or "Volunteer Police Officer" means any
person who is employed as a police officer in a part-time, reserve or volunteer
capacity by the Division of Police and is not either of the following:
         A.   A member of the Ohio Public Employees Retirement System, Ohio
Police and Fire Pension Fund, State Highway Patrol Retirement System or the
Cincinnati Retirement System; or
         B.   A retirant, as defined in ORC 145.01.
(ORC 143.01)
(Ord.2022-28. Adopted 08/25/22)
241.10   COURT FEES.
   (a)   Fee Schedule. There is hereby established a schedule of fees to be
taxed as costs in any civil, criminal or traffic action or proceeding in the
Xenia Municipal Court for the performance by officers or other employees of the
City's Division of Police. The applicable fees and any other extraordinary
expenses, including overtime, shall be taxed as costs in the case. The Clerk of
the Court shall pay those fees and other expenses, when collected, to the
City's Finance Director for payment into the City's General Fund.
   (b)   Fees. For the services specified in this section, the City's Police
Division shall charge the following fees, which the Court or its Clerk shall
tax in the bill of costs against the judgment debtor or those legally liable
therefor for the judgment:
      (1)   For the service and return of the following writs and orders:
         A.   Warrant to arrest, for each person named in the writ, twenty
dollars ($20).
         B.   Attachment for contempt, for each person named in the writ, six
dollars ($6).
         C.   Writ of possession or restitution, sixty dollars ($60).
         D.   Subpoena, for each person named in the writ in either a civil or
criminal case, ten dollars ($10).
         E.   Summoning each juror, six dollars ($6).
         F.   Copy of indictment, for each defendant, five dollars ($5).
         G.   All summons, writs, orders or notices, for the first name, six
dollars ($6), and for each additional name, one dollar ($1).
         H.   Writ of attachment for the purpose of garnishment, ten dollars
($10).
         I.   Writ of attachment of property, except for the purpose of
garnishment, forty dollars ($40).
         J.   Writ of replevin, forty dollars ($40).
         K.   Writ of execution:
            (i)   When money is paid without levy or when no property is found,
thirty dollars ($30);
            (ii)   When levy is made on real property, for the first tract,
twenty-five dollars ($25), and for each additional tract, ten dollars ($10);
            (iii)   When levy is made on goods and chattels, including
inventory, fifty dollars ($50).
      (2)   In addition to the fee for service and return:
         A.   On each summons, writ, order or notice, a fee of two dollars ($2)
per mile for the first mile, and one dollar ($1) per mile for each additional
mile, going and returning, actual mileage to be charged on each additional
name.
         B.   Taking bail bond, three dollars ($3).
         C.   Taking a prisoner before a judge or court, per day, five dollars
($5).
         D.   Poundage on all moneys actually made and paid to the Police
Division on execution, decree or sale of real estate, one and one-half percent
(1½%).
      (3)   When any of the services described in division (b)(1) or (b)(2) of
this section are rendered by an officer or employee of the Xenia Police
Division, the applicable legal fees and any other extraordinary expenses,
including overtime, provided for the service shall be taxed in the costs in the
case.
(ORC 1901.26)
(Ord. 2022-28. Adopted 08/25/22)
241.11   CITIZENS' REWARD PROGRAM.
   If the City has received notice that a Citizens' Reward Program has been
established by the Board of Commissioners of Greene County under ORC 9.92,
after the payment of expenses of any property disposed of pursuant to ORC
2981.11, the City shall pay twenty-five percent (25%) of any moneys acquired
from the sale or auction of any property so disposed of to the Citizens' Reward
Program.
(Statutory reference: ORC 2981.11)
(Ord. 2022-28. Adopted 08/25/22)
241.12   COURT SECURITY OFFICERS.
   (a)   Creation. There is hereby created the classified position of court
security officer within the Police Division. Court security officers shall
perform only such court security duties as are assigned by the Chief of Police
and shall act only when in the prescribed uniform. Court security officers
shall not be eligible for membership in the Ohio Police and Fire Pension Fund
nor eligible for benefits available to full-time employees of the Police
Division.
   (b)   Appointment. Court security officers shall be appointed by the Public
Safety Director and shall be under the supervision and control of the Chief of
Police.
   (c)   Powers and Duties. Court security officers assigned to the Xenia
Justice Center shall provide security services, as are assigned by the Chief of
Police and in compliance with any orders of the Xenia Municipal Court, and
shall have the authority to preserve the peace, maintain order, screen all
persons entering the Xenia Justice Center, eject unruly persons from the Xenia
Justice Center and its grounds, and to seize weapons and contraband attempted
to be brought into the Xenia Justice Center. Court security officers who are
OPOTC peace officer certified shall have the authority to arrest and detain,
and court security officers who are OPOTC court officer basic certified shall
have the authority to detain only, any person at the Xenia Justice Center and
its grounds who is violating any law of this state or any ordinance of this
City.
   (d)   Contracting for Services. The Public Safety Director is hereby
authorized to contract for security services with a contractor licensed to
provide the business of security services pursuant to ORC Chapter 4749 if the
Public Safety Director determines such services are needed to provide adequate
security at the Xenia Justice Center. Any contract for such security services
shall require that all employees of the Class A or Class C licensed contractor
who are assigned to provide security services at the Xenia Justice Center have
the required identification card, with firearm bearer notation, issued pursuant
to ORC 4749.06. Such employees shall have the same powers and duties as the
City's court security officers except that such employees shall only have the
power to detain, but not arrest, any person at the Xenia Justice Center and its
grounds who is violating any law of this state or any ordinance of this City.
(Ord. 2024-14. Adopted 07/11/24)
CHAPTER 242
Fire & EMS Division
242.01   Establishment
242.02   Fire Chief; Assistants
242.03   Functions
242.04   Stationing; Work Period
242.05   Requirements for Original Appointments
242.06   Fire & EMS Cadet Program
242.07   Offenses Affecting Employment
242.08   Conversion of Sick and Vacation Leave
242.09   User Fees
   CROSS REFERENCES
      Appointment of Division Head - CHTR. §
7.02
      Criminal Records Check - see ORC 737.081
      Establishment - CHTR. §
7.01
      Qualifications - see ORC 124.42
      Required Certification - see ORC 4765.30
      Residency Requirements for Certain Employees - see ORC 9.481
      Unclassified Service - CHTR. §
10.02
242.01   ESTABLISHMENT.
   (a)   Establishment. In accordance with Section
7.01 of the City Charter, a Division of Fire & EMS (Fire & EMS Division) is
hereby created within the Department of Public Safety, which shall have a Fire
& EMS Chief and such ranks, officers, employees, and volunteers as may from
time-to-time be determined by the Council. All personnel of the Fire & EMS
Division shall be appointed by the City Manager and shall be under the
supervision and control of the Fire & EMS Chief.
(Ord.74-52. Adopted 06/27/74; Ord. 2019-19. Adopted 09/26/19; Ord. 2022-28.
Adopted 08/25/22)
242.02   FIRE CHIEF; ASSISTANTS.
   (a)   Appointment. In accordance with Section
7.01 of the City Charter, the Fire & EMS Chief shall be appointed by the City
Manager.
   (b)   Powers and Duties.
      (1)   The Fire & EMS Chief shall perform such duties and have such
obligations and responsibilities as are set forth in the Xenia City Code or the
laws of the State of Ohio, and all other ordinances and resolutions adopted by
the Council or applicable statutes of this State.
      (2)   The Fire & EMS Chief shall direct the work of the Fire & EMS
Division and control the assignment, stationing, transferring, and training of
all Fire & EMS personnel, subject to the approval of the Public Safety
Director.
      (3)   The Fire & EMS Chief shall establish Division policies, rules and
regulations for the working conditions, training courses, organization, and
operation of the Fire & EMS Division, subject to the approval of the Public
Safety Director.
      (4)   The Fire & EMS Chief shall have charge and control of the City's
fire and EMS apparatus and equipment, assuring the same are kept in good
condition and repair.
   (c)   Reports to Safety Director. The Fire & EMS Chief shall be under the
supervision and control of the Public Safety Director.
   (d)   Assistant Fire & EMS Chiefs. The City Manager may appoint persons to
the position of Assistant Fire & EMS Chief, which shall be known as Deputy Fire
& EMS Chief, and the Deputy Fire & EMS Chief(s) shall report to the Fire & EMS
Chief and shall perform such duties as are assigned by the Fire & EMS Chief.
   (e)   Unclassified Service. In accordance with Section
10.02 of the City Charter, the positions of Fire & EMS Chief and Deputy Fire &
EMS Chief shall be in the unclassified service.
(Ord. 2019-19. Adopted 09/26/19; Ord. 2022-28. Adopted 08/25/22)
242.03   FUNCTIONS.
   (a)   Powers and Duties. The Fire & EMS Division, under the supervision and
direction of the Fire & EMS Chief, shall perform the following functions:
      (1)   Fire Services: The Fire & EMS Division shall be responsible for the
protection of the lives and property of the people of the City in case of fire,
shall investigate the causes of fires and existing fire hazards within the
City, and shall endeavor to prevent fires by education and other such methods
as may be possible.
      (2)   EMS Services: The Fire & EMS Division shall be the primary provider
of emergency medical services (EMS), ambulance services and rescue services in
the City.
      (3)   Fire Code: The Fire & EMS Division shall be responsible for the
enforcement of the Ohio Fire Code, and any inspections required thereunder.
   (b)   Additional Powers and Duties. The Fire & EMS Division may also perform
any other functions consistent with fire protection, fire suppression and
prevention, and the provision of emergency medical services as may be necessary
or as the City Council, Public Safety Director, City ordinances or State law
may designate.
(1964 Code 125.03; Ord. 2019.19. Adopted 09/26/19; Ord. 2022-28. Adopted 08/25/
22)
242.04   STATIONING; WORK PERIOD.
   (a)   Stationing. The Fire & EMS Chief shall have the exclusive control of
the stationing and transferring of all Fire & EMS Division personnel, under
such general rules and regulations as the Director of Public Safety prescribes.
   (b)   Work Period. The standard work period within the Fire & EMS Division
shall be 212 hours per twenty-eight (28) days; provided, however, that the Fire
& EMS Chief, Deputy & EMS Chief, Captains, or Inspectors may work a forty (40)
hour per week work period, as recommended by the Fire & EMS Chief and approved
by the Public Safety Director.
(Ord. 74-78. Adopted 08/08/74; Ord. 10-20. Adopted 06/10/10; Ord. 2019-19.
Adopted 09/26/19; Ord. 2022-28. Adopted 08/25/22)
242.05   REQUIREMENTS FOR ORIGINAL APPOINTMENTS.
   (a)   Age Requirements. No person shall be eligible to receive an original
appointment as a full-time, paid firefighter in the Fire & EMS Division unless
the person has reached the age of eighteen (18) years. No person is eligible to
receive an original appointment when the person is forty-one (41) years of age
or older, and no person can be declared disqualified as over age prior to that
time. This maximum age restriction shall not apply to lateral hires.
   (b)   Physical Examination Requirements. No person shall be eligible to
receive an original appointment as a full-time, paid firefighter in the Fire &
EMS Division unless the person has, not more than one hundred twenty (120) days
prior to the date of such appointment, passed a physical examination given by a
licensed physician, a physician's assistant, a clinical nurse-specialist, a
certified nurse-practitioner, or a certified nurse-midwife certifying that the
applicant is free of cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases and showing that the
applicant meets the physical requirements necessary to perform the duties of a
firefighter, as established by the City. The fee for such examination shall be
paid by the City.
   (c)   Ohio Police and Fire Pension Fund. Prior to making any original
appointment, the City shall file with the Ohio Police and Fire Pension Fund a
copy of the report or findings of the licensed physician, physician assistant,
clinical nurse-specialist, certified nurse-practitioner, or certified nurse-
midwife required under division (b) of this section.
(Statutory reference: ORC 124.42)
   (d)   Required Certifications. No person shall be appointed as a full-time,
paid firefighter unless:
      (1)   The person has received a certificate issued under former ORC
3303.07 or ORC 4765.55 evidencing satisfactory completion of a firefighter
training program; and
         (Statutory Reference: ORC 737.08)
      (2)   The person holds a current, valid certificate issued under ORC
4765.30 to practice as an EMT or as an EMT-paramedic. Preference in hiring will
be given to those persons who are certified as paramedics. Upon appointment,
the person must maintain all State-required certifications for continued
employment at the highest level of EMT certification obtained or held upon his
or her appointment or during his or her employment.
(Ord. 2019-19. Adopted 09/26/19; Ord. 2022-28. Adopted 08/25/22)
242.06 FIRE & EMS CADET PROGRAM.
   The Fire & EMS Division is hereby authorized, with the approval of the
Public Safety Director, to establish a Fire & EMS Cadet Program to employ
persons as fire cadets at age eighteen (18) or above for the purpose of
training them to become firefighters. Any such Fire & EMS Cadet Program shall
be governed by the rules and regulations established therefor by the Fire & EMS
Chief, with the approval of the Public Safety Director.
(Ord. 2019-19. Adopted 09/26/19; Ord. 2022-28. Adopted 08/25/22)
242.07   OFFENSES AFFECTING EMPLOYMENT.
   (a)   Request for Criminal Records Check.
      (1)   The Fire & EMS Chief may request a criminal records check with
respect to any person who is under consideration for appointment or employment
as a permanent, full-time employee of the Fire & EMS Division.
      (2)   If the Fire & EMS Chief intends to request a criminal records check
for an applicant, the Chief shall inform each applicant, at the time of the
person's initial application for appointment or employment, that the applicant
is required to provide a set of impressions of the person's fingerprints and
that the Fire & EMS Chief requires a criminal records check to be conducted and
satisfactorily completed as a part of the employment or appointment application
process.
   (b)   Required Forms.
      (1)   If the Fire & EMS Chief requests a criminal records check under
division (a) of this section, the Chief shall provide to each person the
required form and a standard impression sheet to obtain fingerprint
impressions.
      (2)   Any person subject to a criminal records check who receives a copy
of the form and a copy of the impression sheet pursuant to division (b)(1) of
this section and who is requested to complete the form and provide a set of
fingerprint impressions shall complete the form or provide all the information
necessary to complete the form and shall provide the impression sheet with the
impressions of the person's fingerprints. If a person fails to provide the
information necessary to complete the form, or fails to provide impressions of
the person's fingerprints, the Public Safety Director shall not appoint or
employ the person as a permanent full-time employee of the Fire & EMS Division.
   (c)   Restrictions on Appointment.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(2) of this section,
the Public Safety Director shall not appoint or employ a person as a permanent,
full-time employee of the Fire & EMS Division if the Fire & EMS Chief has
requested a criminal records check pursuant to division (a) of this section and
the criminal records check indicates that the person previously has been
convicted of or pled guilty to any of the following:
         A.   A felony;
         B.   A violation of ORC 2909.03 (Arson); or
         C.   A violation of an existing or former law of this State, any other
state or the United States that is substantially equivalent to any of the
offenses described in division (c)(1)A. or (c)(1)B. of this section.
      (2)   If the Fire & EMS Chief requests a criminal records check pursuant
to division (a) of this section, the City Manager may appoint or employ a
person as a permanent, full-time employee of the Fire & EMS Division
conditionally until the criminal records check is completed and the Chief
receives the results. If the results of the criminal records check indicate
that, pursuant to division (c)(1) of this section, the person subject to the
criminal records check is disqualified from appointment or employment, the
person shall immediately be released from appointment or employment.
(Statutory reference: ORC 737.081)
(Ord. 2019-19. Adopted 09/26/19; Ord. 2022-28. Adopted 08/25/22)
242.08   CONVERSION OF SICK AND VACATION LEAVE.
   (a)   Conversion of Leave. Whenever an employee of the Fire & EMS Division,
through reassignment or Departmental/Division transfer, converts from a 53-hour
work week to a 40-hour work week, he or she shall have sick leave and vacation
leave converted in the following manner:
      (1)   Sick leave: Accrual accumulation rate is three (3) hours for one
(1) hour for job changes between the Fire & EMS Division and another City
Department or Division, not to exceed a maximum allowable accrual balance after
conversion; and
      (2)   Vacation leave: Accrual accumulation rate is twelve (12) hours for
eight (8) hours for job changes between the Fire & EMS Division and another
City Department or Division, not to exceed a maximum allowable accrual balance
after conversion.
    (b)   Authority of Finance Director. The Finance Director, through pay
adjustments, is hereby authorized and directed to implement this policy.
(Ord. 10-20. Adopted 06/10/10; Ord. 2019-19. Adopted 09/26/19; Ord. 2022-28.
Adopted 08/25/22)
242.09   USER FEES.
   (a)   Establishment.
      (1)   The Public Safety Director, in conjunction with the Fire & EMS
Chief, shall establish and publish user fees for ambulance services, EMS
services, and fire services provided by the Fire & EMS Division. The Public
Safety Director shall periodically review and adjust such fees to reflect any
rate changes, state/federal reimbursement schedule changes, or increases in
cost.
      (2)   All user fees for ambulance services shall be comparable to the
usual, customary and reasonable (UCR) fee schedule as may be established from
time-to-time by either a State or Federal agency, or by an insurance trade
association as may be recognized or otherwise authorized by law to establish
such UCR fee schedule.
      (3)   All user fees for EMS services shall be comparable to the usual,
customary and reasonable (UCR) fee schedule as may be established from time-to-
time by either a State or Federal agency, or by an insurance trade association
as may be recognized or otherwise authorized by law to establish such UCR fee
schedule.
      (4)   The rate of the user fee for fire services may include the costs of
any services, personnel, supplies and equipment the Fire & EMS Division incurs
in responding to the call for service.
      (5)   User fees may also be established for hazmat situations, refusal of
treatment and non- transports, false alarm calls, fire inspections or any other
service provided by the Fire & EMS Division for which the Public Safety
Director, in conjunction with the Fire & EMS Chief, finds reasonable and
necessary.
   (b)   Billing. The Public Safety Director, in consultation with the Fire &
EMS Chief and Finance Director, shall develop billing and collection procedures
for the established user fees. The City may enter into an agreement with a
billing and/or collection agency or third-party administrator to implement the
billing and collection of the user fees. The user fees may be charged to and
billed to:
      (1)   The person being treated, attended to or rescued by Fire & EMS
Division personnel or who otherwise requested or has need of EMS Services, or
the person who may be responsible for such person being treated, attended or
rescued or who requested or has need of EMS Services, or the insurance carrier
of said persons;
      (2)   The person, organization, facility, hospital or other entity who
requests the provision of Ambulance Services for its patient;
      (3)   The owner of the motor vehicle when spills or debris around the
vehicle are cleaned up, fires are extinguished or the site of the accident
around the vehicle is secured, or the insurance carrier of said owner; and/or
      (4)   The owner of property requiring the control or extinguishment of
fires and other emergency services as provided by Fire & EMS Division
personnel, or the insurance carrier of said owner. When the user fee is billed
to the insurance carrier, it shall be considered an add-on cost of the
individual's, persons' or company's claim for damages of the vehicles, property
and/or for injuries.
   (c)   Mutual Aid. When EMS Services are provided by the Fire & EMS Division
to persons outside the City's limits pursuant to a mutual aid agreement, the
City's established user fee may be charged to the person receiving such EMS
Services in accordance with the City's billing procedures, unless otherwise
provided in the mutual aid agreement. When EMS services are provided within the
City's limits by another entity pursuant to a mutual aid agreement, the entity
may charge the person receiving such services its established user fee in
accordance with that entity's billing practices, unless otherwise provided in
the mutual aid agreement.
   (d)   Authority of the Public Safety Director. The Public Safety Director
shall have following authority in administering the user fees and billing and
collection of the same under this section:
      (1)   To make all final determinations in the event of a disagreement or
disputed charge;
      (2)   To waive the user fee or any portion thereof where he or she finds
and determines that the person who received the services is indigent or
otherwise unable to pay for such services and there is no other source for the
payment thereof.
   (e)   Revenue. All amounts collected by or for the user fees established
under the authority of this section shall be placed into the City's Police and
Fire Fund for use only by the Fire & EMS Division for personnel costs and for
the purchase of supplies, equipment, and vehicles or other necessary expenses.
   (f)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "Ambulance Services" include, but are not limited to, transports of
patients from nursing homes, treatment facilities, or assisted living services
to a hospital or other medical facility.
      (2)   "EMS Services" means any of the services described in ORC 4765.35,
4765.37, 4764.38 and 4765.39 that are performed by the Fire & EMS Division and
includes such services performed before or during any transport of a patient,
including transports between hospitals and transports to and from helicopters,
or when such services are performed by the Fire & EMS Division when the patient
then refuses transport.
      (3)   "Fire Services" include, but are not limited to, extinguishment of
fires, extrication of entrapped individuals, cleaning of spills and debris,
structure fires and other services which may be needed at the scene of motor
vehicle accidents, vehicle fires, structure fires or other emergency scenes.
(Ord. 02-21. Adopted 07/11/02; Ord. 2019-19. Adopted 09/26/19; Ord. 2022-28.
Adopted 08/25/22)
CHAPTER 243
Emergency Communications Division
243.01   Establishment
243.02   Emergency Communications Administrator
243.03   Functions
243.04   Xenia-Greene Central Communications Center
   CROSS REFERENCES
      Appointment of Division Head - CHTR. §
7.02
      Establishment - CHTR. §
7.01
      9-1-1 Fund - ADMIN. §
251.06(d)
      Residency Requirements for Certain Employees - see ORC 9.481
      Unclassified Service - CHTR. §
10.02
243.01   ESTABLISHMENT.
   (a)   Establishment. In accordance with Section
7.01 of the City Charter, a Division of Emergency Communications (Emergency
Communications Division) is hereby created within the Department of Public
Safety, which shall have an Emergency Communications Administrator and such
ranks, supervisors, and employees as may from time-to-time be determined by the
Council. All personnel of the Emergency Communications Division shall be
appointed by the City Manager and shall be under the supervision and control of
the Emergency Communications Director.
(Ord. 2022-28. Adopted 08/25/22)
243.02   EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS ADMINISTRATOR.
   (a)   Appointment. In accordance with Section
7.01 of the City Charter, the Emergency Communications Administrator shall be
appointed by the City Manager.
   (b)   Powers and Duties.
      (1)   The Emergency Communications Administrator shall perform such
duties and have such obligations and responsibilities as are set forth in the
Xenia City Code or the laws of the State of Ohio, and all other ordinances and
resolutions adopted by the Council or applicable statutes of this State.
      (2)   The Emergency Communications Administrator shall direct the work of
the Emergency Communications Division and control the assignment, stationing,
transferring, and training of all Division personnel, subject to the approval
of the Public Safety Director.
      (3)   The Emergency Communications Administrator shall establish Division
policies, rules and regulations for the working conditions, training courses,
organization, and operation of the Division, subject to the approval of the
Public Safety Director.
      (4)   The Emergency Communications Administrator shall have charge and
control of the City's emergency communications apparatus and equipment,
assuring the same are kept in good condition and repair.
   (c)   Reports to Safety Director. The Emergency Communications Administrator
shall be under the supervision and control of the Public Safety Director.
   (d)   Assistant Administrator. The City Manager may appoint a person to the
position of Assistant Emergency Communications Administrator, which position
shall be known as the Public Safety Technology Officer, and the Public Safety
Technology Officer shall report to the Emergency Communications Administrator
and shall perform such duties as are assigned by Emergency Communications
Administrator.
   (e)   Unclassified Service. In accordance with Section
10.02 of the City Charter, the positions of Emergency Communications
Administrator and Public Safety Technology Officer shall be in the unclassified
service.
(Ord. 2022-28. Adopted 08/25/22)
243.03   FUNCTIONS.
   (a)   Powers and Duties. The Emergency Communications Division, under the
supervision and direction of the Emergency Communications Administrator, shall
perform the following functions:
      (1)   The provision of dispatch services, as the same are defined in the
Consolidated Dispatch Agreement between the City and Greene County.
      (2)   Administration of the use of the LEADS system through the Emergency
Communications Division;
      (3)   Administration of the use of the NCIC system through the Emergency
Communications Division;
      (4)   Maintaining and administering copies of warrants and no contact
orders issued by the courts;
      (5)   Maintenance of the PSISN system;
      (6)   Maintenance of all required licenses and records as may be required
by local, state, or federal law.
   (b)   Additional Powers and Duties. The Emergency Communications Division
may also perform any other functions consistent with dispatch services, 9-1-
1 services, or radio communications with law enforcement as may be necessary or
as the City Council, Public Safety Director, City ordinances or state law may
designate.
(Ord. 2022-28. Adopted 08/25/22)
243.04   XENIA-GREENE CENTRAL COMMUNICATIONS CENTER.
   The Emergency Communications Division may also be known as the Xenia-Greene
Central Communications Center, as the same is defined and authorized pursuant
to the Consolidated Dispatch Agreement between the City of Xenia and the Board
of Commissioners of Greene County, and the Emergency Communications Division
shall perform such duties and have such authorities as are granted pursuant to
said Agreement.
(Ord. 2022-28. Adopted 08/25/22)
CHAPTER 244
Department of Public Service
244.01   Establishment; Composition; Duties of Director
244.02   Supervision of Public Property
244.03   Division of Utilities Management
244.04   Division of Engineering
244.05   Division of Public Service Maintenance
244.06   Charges for Services in City Garage
244.07   Construction Contract Standard
   CROSS REFERENCES
      Appointment of Division Head - CHTR. §
      Capital (Permanent) Improvement Fund - ADMIN. §
251.05(a)
      Establishment - CHTR. §
7.01
      Excavations in Public Right of Way - see S.U. & P.S.
Ch. 1020
      Issue II Improvement Fund - ADMIN. §
251.05(b)
      Sidewalks, Curbs & Gutters - see S.U. & P.S. Ch. 1022
      Sewer Fund - ADMIN. §
251.03(c)
      Sewers - see S.U. & P.S. Ch. 1044, Ch. 1046
      State Route Repair Fund - ADMIN. §
251.05(e)
      Stormwater Fund - ADMIN. §
251.03(d)
      Street Fund - ADMIN. §
251.03(f)
      Water - see S.U. & P.S. Ch. 1042
      Water Fund - ADMIN. §
251.03(f)
      Unclassified Service - CHTR. §
10.02
244.01   ESTABLISHMENT; COMPOSITION; DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (a)   Establishment. There is hereby established a Department of Public
Service, which shall be administered by a Director of Public Service. The
Department of Public Service shall include the following divisions: Utilities
Management, Engineering, and Public Service Maintenance. Subdivisions of
Utilities Management are Wastewater Treatment; Water Treatment; Landfill
Mitigation; and Industrial Pretreatment. Engineering includes Construction
Inspection. Public Service Maintenance includes Water Distribution; Park
Maintenance; Facility Maintenance; Sanitation; Streetscape Maintenance; Sewer
Collection; Street Maintenance; Fleet/City Garage; and Stormwater Maintenance.
   (b)   Director of Public Service. The Director of Public Service shall
manage and supervise all public works and public improvements having to do with
the foregoing divisions and shall have the management and supervision of such
offices and divisions. He or she shall make rules and regulations for the
administration of the affairs under his or her supervision. The Director of
Public Service shall continue to maintain the divisions of the Department of
Public Service and shall exercise control over the employment of such
superintendents, deputies, inspectors, clerks, laborers, and other persons
necessary for the execution of the work and performance of the duties of the
Department.
(Ord. 96-100. Adopted 12/12/96; Ord. 09-16. Adopted 04/09/09)
244.02   SUPERVISION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   The Director of Public Service shall supervise the improvement and repair of
streets, avenues, alleys, lands, lanes, squares, bridges, viaducts, sidewalks,
sewers, drains, ditches, culverts, streams and watercourses; the lighting,
sprinkling and cleaning of public places; and the construction of public
improvements and public works. He or she shall manage vehicle equipment
maintenance, municipal water, sewage, refuse utility operations, and sewage
disposal plants and farms; and shall have charge of the maintenance of public
buildings and other property of the City not otherwise specifically provided
for.
(Ord. 96-100. Adopted 12/12/96)
244.03   DIVISION OF UTILITIES MANAGEMENT.
   (a)   Establishment. There is hereby established within the Department of
Public Service, a Division of Utilities Management, which shall be under the
direction and control of the City Manager and is administered by the Utilities
Manager.
   (b)   Utilities Manager. The Utilities Manager shall oversee the general
operations of the water and wastewater treatment functions, maintaining
accurate records and ensuring compliance of said operations with state and
federal environmental and safety requirements. The Utilities Manager shall
participate in the capital planning functions related to all water and
wastewater treatment functions, providing plans for recommended improvement
programs; shall oversee matters pertaining to landfill post-closure mitigation
needs and industrial pretreatment programs; shall advise Council and City
officials on all matters related to local utilities functions referred to him
or her; and shall perform such duties as are provided by law or ordinance; and,
in addition thereto, such other duties as from time to time may be imposed upon
him or her by the Public Service Director.
(Ord. 09-16. Adopted 04/09/09)
244.04   DIVISION OF ENGINEERING.
   (a)   Establishment. There is hereby established within the Department of
Public Service, a Division of Engineering, which shall be under the direction
and control of the City Manager and is administered by the City Engineer.
   (b)   City Engineer. The City Engineer shall keep accurate maps, plats, and
records of all public works, land, or property owned by City. The City Engineer
shall make certain that building inspection services are provided for the City
in a manner deemed effective to ensure enforcement of codified and statutory
requirements. The City Engineer shall advise the Council and City officials on
all engineering matters referred to him or her; shall perform such duties as
are provided by law or ordinance; and, in addition thereto, such other duties
as from time to time may be imposed upon him or her by the Public Service
Director. He or she shall, from time to time as required by the Council, make
reports regarding public improvements, repairs of streets, bridges, and
sidewalks or such other work as the Council may request, and shall make such
suggestions to the City Council regarding the same as shall in his or judgment
seem best and proper.
(Ord. 09-16. Adopted 04/09/09)
244.05 DIVISION OF PUBLIC SERVICE MAINTENANCE.
   (a)   Establishment. There is hereby established with the Department of
Public Service, a Division of Public Service Maintenance, which shall be under
the direction and control of the City Manager and is administered by the Public
Service Maintenance Superintendent.
   (b)   Public Service Maintenance Superintendent. The Public Service
Maintenance Superintendent shall oversee the proper maintenance of all streets,
streetscape appurtenances, parks, City facilities, fleet and related
apparatuses, water distribution, sewer collection, and storm sewer collection
appurtenances. The Public Service Maintenance Superintendent shall maintain
accurate records and ensure compliance of said operations with state and
federal environmental and safety requirements; shall participate in the capital
planning functions related to infrastructure systems for which he or she has
maintenance responsibilities, providing plans for recommend improvement
programs; shall advise Council and City officials on all matters related to
maintenance functions referred to him or her; shall perform such duties as are
provided by law or ordinance; and, in addition thereto, such other duties as
from time to time may be imposed upon him or her by the Public Service
Director.
(Ord. 09-16. Adopted 04/09/09)
244.06 CHARGES FOR SERVICES IN CITY GARAGE.
   Charges for services performed by the City Garage for other City operating
divisions and departments shall be certified monthly to the Director of Finance
based on a rate schedule recommended by the Director of Public Service and
approved by the City Manager.
(Ord. 96-100. Adopted 12/12/96; Ord. 09-16. Adopted 04/09/09)
244.07 CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT STANDARD.
   All construction contracts entered into by the City shall be in accordance
with the City of Xenia General Provisions for Construction Contracts, as
amended, heretofore approved by the City Council and on file in the office of
the City Engineer, the provisions of which are hereby adopted by reference and
made a part hereof.
(Ord. 09-16. Adopted 04/09/09)
CHAPTER 245
Department of Law
245.01   Establishment
245.02   Law Director
245.03   City Prosecution Division
245.04   Victim Advocate Division
245.05   Assistants; Special Counsel
245.06   Acting and Interim Law Director
   CROSS REFERENCES
      Administrative Steering Committee - CHTR. §
6.01; ADMIN. §
260.90
      Charter Review Commission - CHTR. §
8.06
      Criminal Prosecution - CHTR. §
6.04B.(4); ORC 1901.34
      Endorsement on Contracts - CHTR. §
6.04B.(3)
      Law Director
         Appointment and Qualifications - CHTR. §§
6.01,
6.04
         Powers and Duties - CHTR. §
6.04
         Removal - CHTR. §
6.01
      Marsy's Law - OH. CONST. Art. I § 10a
      Ordinances, Resolutions & Motions - CHTR. -
6.04B.(2); LEGIS. §
212.02
      Records Commission - BDS. & COMMS.
Ch. 286
      Rights of Crime Victims - see ORC Ch. 2930
      Unclassified Service - CHTR. §
10.02
245.01   ESTABLISHMENT.
   (a)   Establishment. In accordance with Section
6.04 and Section
7.01 of the City Charter, a Department of Law, which may also be known as the
Law Department, to be headed by the Director of Law, who may also be known as
the Law Director, is hereby established. The Department of Law shall have such
employees as may from time to time be determined by the City Council.
   (b)   Divisions. The Department of Law shall include the following
Divisions:
      (1)   The City Prosecution Division;
      (2)   The Victim Advocate Division.
(Ord. 2018-27. Adopted 09/13/18; Ord. 2022-28. Adopted 08/25/22)
245.02   LAW DIRECTOR.
   (a)   Appointment. The Law Director shall be appointed by City Council and
shall be under the direct supervision of the City Council.
(Charter 6.04)
   (b)   Powers and Duties.
      (1)   The Law Director shall be the Head of the Department of Law. He or
she shall have supervision of all legal affairs of the City and direct all
activities of the Department of Law, including supervision of the City
Prosecution Division, the Victim Advocate Division, all assistants and
employees of the Department of Law and its Divisions, and special counsel.
      (2)   The Law Director shall have those powers and duties assigned to him
or her by Section
6.04 of the City's Charter and any additional duties or powers assigned by the
Council.
      (3)   The Law Director shall be an administrative officer of the City.
      (4)   Unless a City Prosecutor has been provided for by the City Council,
the Law Director shall also serve as City Prosecutor, in accordance with ORC
Section 1901.34.
   (c)   Additional Powers and Duties. Council hereby assigns the following
powers and duties to the Director of Law:
      (1)   Prepare, review and approve all ordinances, resolutions, deeds,
contracts and other legal documents.
      (2)   Attend all meetings of the City Council, unless excused by the
President of Council, and attend meetings of other City Boards and Commissions
when requested by that body or by Council or as necessary.
   (d)   Unclassified Service. In accordance with Section
10.02 of the City's Charter, the position of Law Director shall be in the
unclassified service.
   (e)   Acting Law Director.
      (1)   During the temporary absence or disability of the Director of Law
or if there is a vacancy in the office of the Director of Law for any reason
lasting thirty (30) days or more, a majority of the City Council shall appoint
an Acting Law Director for the period of the temporary absence, disability, or
vacancy.
      (2)   In cases where the Law Director is vacant from his or her office
for a period of less than thirty (30) days due to vacation, illness or other
leave, the Law Director shall appoint an Acting Law Director to serve in his or
her absence by administrative directive.
(Ord. 90-15. Adopted 04/12/90; Ord. 99-54. Adopted 10/28/99; Ord. 2018-27.
Adopted 09/13/18; Ord. 2022-28. Adopted 08/25/22)
245.03   CITY PROSECUTION DIVISION.
   (a)   City Prosecution Division. A City Prosecution Division is hereby
created within the Department of Law, which shall have such officers,
assistants and other employees as may from time-to-time be determined by the
Law Director, with the approval of the City Council. All employees shall be
appointed by the Law Director and shall be under the supervision and control of
the City Prosecutor, who shall be under the supervision and direction of the
Director of Law.
   (b)   City Prosecutor:
      (1)   Appointment: The City Prosecutor shall be the head of the City
Prosecution Division and shall be under the supervision and control of the Law
Director.
      (2)   Powers and Duties: The City Prosecutor shall perform such duties
and have such obligations and responsibilities as are set forth in this Section
and all other ordinances and resolutions adopted by the City Council or
applicable statutes of this State relative to prosecution, and as assigned and
directed by the Law Director.
      (3)   Unclassified Service: In accordance with Section
10.02 of the City's Charter, the position of City Prosecutor shall be in the
unclassified service.
   (c)   Functions. The City Prosecution Division, under the supervision and
direction of the City Prosecutor, shall perform the following functions:
      (1)   Represent the City and/or the State in the prosecution of all
violations of codes, regulations, laws and ordinances that occur within the
City's jurisdiction;
      (2)   Represent the City and/or the State in administrative appeals under
ORC Chapter 4510.;
      (3)   Represent the City and/or the State in appeals from the Xenia
Municipal Court, including the preparation of briefs and legal documents;
      (4)   Advise the City's law enforcement officers; and
      (5)   Prosecute criminal cases in the Xenia Municipal Court, which
includes consultations with complaining witnesses and police officers, both
prior to trial and prior to filing charges; holding of pre-trial conferences;
presentation of prosecution witnesses and evidence at trials; preparation and
filing of trial briefs and other necessary papers; and negotiations with
attorneys for various defendants pertaining to changes and trial of the same.
   (d)   Additional Powers and Duties. The City Prosecution Division may also
perform any other functions consistent with prosecution as may be necessary or
as the Law Director, the City's ordinances, or State law may designate.
(Ord. 73-51. Adopted 11/08/73; Ord. 2018-27. Adopted 09/13/18; Ord. 2022-28.
Adopted 08/25/22)
245.04   VICTIM ADVOCATE DIVISION.
   (a)   Victim Advocate Division. A Victim Advocate Division is hereby created
within the Department of Law, which shall have such officers, assistants and
other employees as may from time-to-time be determined by the Law Director,
with the approval of the City Council. All employees shall be appointed by the
Law Director and shall be under the supervision and control of the Law
Director.
   (b)   Victim Advocate Supervisor.
      (1)   Appointment: The Victim Advocate Supervisor shall be the head of
Victim Advocate Division and shall be under the supervision and control of the
Law Director.
      (2)   Powers and Duties: The Victim Advocate Supervisor shall perform
such duties and have such obligations and responsibilities as are set forth in
this Section and all other ordinances and resolutions adopted by the City
Council or applicable statutes of this State relative to victim advocate
services, and as assigned and directed by the Law Director.
      (3)   Unclassified Service: In accordance with Section
10.02 of the City's Charter, the position of Victim Advocate Program Supervisor
shall be in the unclassified service.
   (c)   Functions. The Victim Advocate Division, under the supervision and
direction of the Victim Advocate Supervisor, shall perform the following
functions:
      (1)   Provide support and court advocacy for victims of misdemeanor
crimes that are prosecuted through the Xenia Municipal Court;
      (2)   Assist victims with their legal rights and protections, provide
victims information on the criminal justice process, assist victims with
finding shelter, transportation and other needs;
      (3)   Act as a liaison between victims of crime, their families, and the
City Prosecution Division;
      (4)   Make service referrals, such as counseling and public services; and
      (5)   Notify victims of court hearings and other court-related
appearances.
   (d)   Additional Powers and Duties. The Victim Advocate Division may also
perform any other functions consistent with victim advocate services as may be
necessary or as the Law Director, the City's ordinances, or State law may
designate.
(Ord. 73-51. Adopted 11/08/73; Ord. 2018-27. Adopted 09/13/18; Ord. 2022-28.
Adopted 08/25/22)
245.05 ASSISTANTS; SPECIAL COUNSEL.
   (a)   Assistants. In accordance with Section 6.04 of the City's Charter, the
Law Director may appoint or employ assistants or employees to assist the Law
Director when such positions have been authorized by Council. All such
assistants and employees shall be responsible to the Law Director, and when
authorized by him or her, may exercise all or any part of the powers, duties,
and functions granted to the Law Director under the City's Charter, this
Chapter or relevant State statute.
   (b)   Special Counsel. As provided in Section 6.04 of the City's Charter,
with the consent of Council, the Law Director may employ special counsel to
handle particular legal matters for the City, and such special counsel may
perform those powers, duties and functions as authorized by and in the manner,
subject to the direction of the Law Director.
(Ord. 2018-27. Adopted 09/13/18; Ord. 2022-28. Adopted 08/25/22)
245.06 ACTING AND INTERIM LAW DIRECTOR.
   (a)   Acting Law Director. In cases where the Law Director is vacant from
his or her office for a period of less than thirty (30) days due to vacation,
illness or other leave, the Law Director may appoint special counsel to serve
in his or her absence.
   (b)   Interim Law Director. Should a vacancy in the office of the Law
Director occur, or during periods of temporary absence or disability of the Law
Director lasting thirty (30) days or more, the City Council, by majority vote,
may appoint special counsel to serve as the Interim Law Director to fill the
temporary vacancy.
(Ord. 2023-06. Adopted 04/13/23)
CHAPTER 250
Department of Finance
250.01   Establishment
250.02   Finance Director; Assistant
250.03   Required Policies
250.04   Assessments
250.05   Debt Collection; Bad Checks
250.06   Loan Review Advisory Committee
250.07   Acting and Interim Finance Director
   CROSS REFERENCES
      Acting Finance Director - CHTR. §
6.03
      Administrative Steering Committee - CHTR. §
6.01; ADMIN. §
260.90
      Charter Review Commission - CHTR. §
8.06
      Finance Director
         Appointment and Qualifications - CHTR. §§
6.01,
6.03
         Powers and Duties - CHTR. § Chtr.
6.03
         Removal - CHTR. §
6.01
      Finances - CHTR. Art. IX
      Hotel/Motel Tax - BUS. REG. & TAX CODE
Ch. 882
      Income Tax - BUS. REG. & TAX CODE
      Interim Finance Director - CHTR. §
6.03
      Ordinances, Resolutions & Motions - LEGIS. §
212.02   
      Records Commission - BDS. & COMMS.
Ch. 286
      Unclassified Service - CHTR. §
10.02
      Uniform Tax Levy Law - see ORC Ch. 5705
      Utility Billing - see S.U. & P.S. Ch. 1040
250.01   ESTABLISHMENT.
   (a)   Establishment. In accordance with Section
6.03 and Section
7.01 of the City Charter, a Department of Finance, which may also be known as
the Finance Department, to be headed by the Director of Finance, who may also
be known as the Finance Director, is hereby established. The Department of
Finance shall have such employees as may from time-to-time be determined by the
City Council.
   (b)   Divisions. The Department of Finance shall include the following
Divisions:
      (1)   The Accounting Division;
      (2)   The Accounts Receivable & Billing Division;
      (3)   The Tax Division;
      (4)   The Payroll & Benefits Division; and
      (5)   The City Clerk’s Office.
(Ord. 2022-35. Adopted 09/22/22)
250.02   FINANCE DIRECTOR; ASSISTANT.
   (a)   Appointment. The Finance Director shall be appointed by City Council
and shall be under the direct supervision of the City Council.
(Charter 6.03)
   (b)   Powers and Duties.
      (1)   The Finance Director shall be the head of the Finance Department
and its Divisions. He or she shall have supervision of all fiscal matters of
the City and direct all activities of the Department of Finance, including the
supervision of its Divisions, Division heads, and all employees of the
Department and its Divisions.
      (2)   The Finance Director shall be the fiscal officer of the City and
shall have those powers and duties assigned to him or her by Section
6.03 and
Article IX of the City Charter, by the Xenia City Code, or by other ordinances
or resolutions. The Finance Director shall exercise those powers and have those
duties assigned to municipal auditors or municipal treasurers under the general
laws of the State.
      (3)   The Finance Director is hereby appointed as the City official with
the authority to open and close bank accounts and to manage such accounts, in
accordance with the City's Deposit and Investment Policy.
      (4)   The Finance Director shall be an administrative officer of the
City.
      (5)   The Finance Director shall have any additional powers and duties
relative to the City's fiscal matters as may be necessary to carry out the
duties of his or her office as required by City Charter, the Xenia City Code,
the Uniform Tax Levy Law, or other applicable state statute.   
         (Charter 6.03)
   (c)   Assistant Finance Director. The Finance Director may appoint an
Assistant Finance Director, who shall be under the direct supervision and
control of the Finance Director, and who shall perform such duties as are
assigned by the Finance Director.
   (d)   Unclassified Service. In accordance with Section
10.02 of the City Charter, the position of Finance Director and Assistant
Finance Director shall be in the unclassified service.
(Ord. 2022-35. Adopted 09/22/22)
250.03   REQUIRED POLICIES.
   (a)   Deposit and Investment Policy. City Council shall adopt and approve,
by ordinance, a Deposit and Investment Policy to establish the method and
manner in which City moneys shall be deposited and invested to provide the
highest investment return while preserving principal and maintaining adequate
daily cash flow for the City.
      (1)   The Deposit and Investment Policy shall define the parameters for
eligible institutions that may hold public deposits, standards for securing
those deposits, and the process by which such eligible institutions are
selected for deposit.
      (2)   The Deposit and Investment Policy shall identify permitted
investment instruments, the maximum term of those investments, and the process
for selecting the investments, as well as custody, safekeeping, and the
licensing and registration of broker dealers.
      (3)   All investments made by the City shall conform to the City's
Investment Policy and the Finance Director shall, at least annually, provide
regular reports to City Council about the City's investment activities,
including details of the City's portfolio of investments by instrument type.
      (4)   The Finance Director shall make all deposits and investment in
accordance with the Deposit and Investment Policy. The Finance Director is
hereby authorized to pool cash balances from the several different funds of the
City for investment purposes, in accordance with the City's Deposit and
Investment Policy, and unless such pooling of a particular fund is prohibited
by federal or state law.
      (5)   The Finance Director shall file a copy of the City's Deposit and
Investment Policy, and any amendments thereto, with the Auditor of the State of
Ohio.
         (Ord. 98-14. Adopted 03/26/98; Ord. 2022-35. Adopted 09/22/22)
   (b)   Debt Administration Policy. City Council shall adopt and approve, by
resolution, a Debt Administration Policy establishing criteria for the
selection of bond counsel, underwriters, and financial advisers. The policy
shall identify the various debt instruments permitted for use and the process
for soliciting proposals for debt financing. The Policy shall also identify
metrics for evaluating debt coverage ratios, establish maximum maturities, and
address financial disclosures. The Policy may provide for additional guidance
related to credit ratings, refunds, and other debt related topics.
(Ord. 12-19. Adopted 04/26/12; Ord. 2022-35. Adopted 09/22/22)
   (c)   Purchasing Manual. The Finance Director shall establish a Purchasing
Manual, in consultation with the Administrative Steering Committee, which
Manual shall set forth the policies and procedures for all purchases and
expenditures and to provide guidelines on the competitive bidding process.
      (1)   The Manual shall set forth policies and procedures regarding
procurement, requisitions, purchase orders, receipts, payment authorization,
the use of City credit cards, travel expenses, contracting for services,
supplies and equipment, and any other appropriate fiscal matter. The policies
and procedures set forth in the Manual shall conform to the Ohio Uniform Tax
Levy Law, where applicable.
      (2)   All elected officials, appointed officials, department heads,
division heads, and City employees shall comply with the Purchasing Manual in
making any expenditure of public funds that is not made pursuant to competitive
bid.
         (Ord. 2022-35. Adopted 09/22/22)
   (d)   Sensitive Information Policy and Identity Theft Prevention Program. In
accordance with Section 114 of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transaction Act of
2003, and any amendments thereto, and the Red Flag Program Clarification Act of
2010, and any amendments thereto, the Finance Department shall establish a
Sensitive Information Policy and Identity Theft Prevention Program to help
protect customers, reduce the risk of identity fraud, and to minimize potential
damage to the City from fraudulent new accounts.
      (1)   The Sensitive Information Policy will define sensitive information;
describe the physical security of data when printed on paper; describe the
electronic security of data when stored and distributed; and will place the
City in compliance with state and federal laws regarding identity theft
protection.
      (2)   The Identity Theft Prevention Program will assist the City in
identifying risks that signify potentially fraudulent activity within new or
existing covered accounts; detect risks when they occur in covered accounts;
and respond to risks to determine if fraudulent activities have occurred and
act if fraud has been attempted or committed. The Program shall be updated
periodically, including reviewing accounts that are covered by the Program and
the identified risks that are a part of the Program.
      (3)   The Policy and Program shall apply to all City employees,
contractors, consultants, and all personnel affiliated with third parties.
      (4)   The Finance Director shall manage the Policy and Program and shall
ensure all appropriate City personnel are trained in overseeing the Program in
accordance with the Policy.
      (5)   The Policy and Program shall be considered security records and may
be exempted from disclosure under the Ohio Public Records Act.
(Ord. 2022-35. Adopted 09/22/22)
250.04   ASSESSMENTS.
   (a)   Tax Liens for Unpaid Water Utility Usage Fees. The Finance Director is
hereby designated as the City official with the authority to assess unpaid
water utility usage fees pursuant to ORC 743.04, and such assessments shall not
require separate approval by City Council.
      (1)   When water utility usage fees are not paid, the Finance Director
shall certify them, together with any penalties and late fees, to the County
Auditor. The County Auditor shall place the certified amount on the real
property tax list and duplication against the property in the manner prescribed
by ORC 743.04.
      (2)   The amount placed on the tax list and duplicate shall be a lien on
the property served from the date placed on the list and duplicate and shall be
collected in the same manner as other taxes, except that, notwithstanding ORC
323.15, the County Treasurer shall accept a payment in such amount when
separately tendered as payment for the full amount of such unpaid water utility
usage fees and associated penalties and/or late fees. The lien shall be
released immediately upon payment in full of the certified amount.
      (3)   The Finance Director shall not certify to the County Auditor, and
the County Auditor shall not place upon the tax list and duplicate as a charge
against the property, the amount of any unpaid water utility usage fees
together with any penalties and/or late fees if any of the following apply:
         A.   The property served by the connection has been transferred or
sold to an electing subdivision, as defined in ORC 5722.01, regardless of
whether the electing subdivision is still the owner of the property, and the
unpaid water utility usage fees together with any penalties and/or late fees
have arisen from a period of time prior to the transfer or confirmation of sale
to the electing subdivision;
         B.   The property served by the connection has been sold to a
purchaser at sheriff's sale or auditor's sale, the unpaid water utility usage
fees together with any penalties and/or late fees have arisen from a period of
time prior to the confirmation of sale, and the purchaser is not the owner of
record of the property immediately prior to the judgment of foreclosure nor any
of the following:
            (i)   A member of that owner's immediate family;
            (ii)   A person with a power of attorney appointed by that owner
who subsequently transfers the land to the owner;
            (iii)   A sole proprietorship owned by that owner or a member of
that owner's immediate family; or
            (iv)   A partnership, trust, business trust, corporation or
association of which the owner or member of the owner's immediate family owns
or controls directly or indirectly more than fifty percent (50%).
         C.   The property served by the connection has been forfeited to the
State of Ohio for delinquent taxes, unless the owner of record redeems the
property.
   (b)   Tax Liens for Unpaid Sanitary Sewer Utility Usage Fees or Stormwater
Management Utility Fees or Surcharges. The Finance Director is hereby
designated as the City official with the authority to assess unpaid sanitary
sewer utility usage fees or stormwater management utility fees or surcharges
pursuant to ORC 729.49, and such assessments shall not require separate
approval by City Council.
      (1)   When usage fees or surcharges for sanitary sewer utility or
stormwater management utility are not paid, the Finance Director shall certify
them, together with any penalties and late fees, to the County Auditor in the
same manner as unpaid water user fees. The County Auditor shall place the
certified amount on the real property tax list and duplication against the
property in the same manner.
      (2)   The amount placed on the tax list and duplicate shall be a lien on
the property served from the date placed on the list and duplicate and shall be
collected in the same manner as other taxes, except that, notwithstanding ORC
323.15, the County Treasurer shall accept a payment in such amount when
separately tendered as payment for the full amount of such unpaid usage fees or
surcharges and associated penalties and/or late fees. The lien shall be
released immediately upon payment in full of the certified amount.
   (c)   Tax Liens for Unpaid Solid Waste Collection Fees or Sanitation
Surcharges. The Finance Director is hereby designated as the City Official with
the authority to assess unpaid solid waste collection fees or sanitation
surcharges pursuant to ORC 701.10, and such assessments shall not require
separate approval by City Council.
      (1)   When solid waste collection fees or sanitation surcharges are not
paid, the Finance Director shall certify them, together with any penalties and
late fees, to the County Auditor in the same manner as unpaid water user fees.
The County Auditor shall place the certified amount on the real property tax
list and duplication against the property in the same manner.
      (2)   The amount placed on the tax list and duplicate shall be a lien on
the property served from the date placed on the list and duplicate and shall be
collected in the same manner as other taxes, except that, notwithstanding ORC
323.15, the County Treasurer shall accept a payment in such amount when
separately tendered as payment for the full amount of such unpaid solid waste
collection fees or sanitation surcharges and associated penalties and/or late
fees. The lien shall be released immediately upon payment in full of the
certified amount.
      (3)   No lien for unpaid solid waste collection fees or sanitation
surcharges shall be assessed unless the unpaid amount is equal to or greater
than Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250) or the unpaid amount is equal to or
greater than the applicable annual fee, rate or charge imposed upon the
property using the refuse collection service, regardless of the actual cost
incurred by the City in providing the refuse collection services.
   (d)   Tax Liens for Unpaid Mowing Services or Property Maintenance Abatement
Charges. The Finance Director is hereby designated as the City Official with
the authority to assess unpaid mowing charges or unpaid charges for abatement
activities pursuant to ORC 715.261, 715.47, and/or 731.54, and such assessments
shall not require separate approval by City Council.
      (1)   When charges for mowing or abatement activities are not paid, the
Finance Director shall certify them, together with any penalties and late fees,
to the County Auditor in the same manner as unpaid water service charges. The
County Auditor shall place the certified amount on the real property tax list
and duplication against the property in the same manner.
      (2)   The amount placed on the tax list and duplicate shall be a lien on
the property served from the date placed on the list and duplicate and shall be
collected in the same manner as other taxes, except that, notwithstanding ORC
323.15, the County Treasurer shall accept a payment in such amount when
separately tendered as payment for the full amount of such unpaid charges and
associated penalties. The lien shall be released immediately upon payment in
full of the certified amount.
(Ord. 2022-35. Adopted 09/22/22; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
250.05   DEBTS AND BAD CHECKS.
   (a)   Collection. The Finance Director is hereby authorized to use any debt
collection service to collect unpaid amounts due and owing to the City, which
amounts may include, but are not limited to, unpaid utility bills, unpaid
income taxes, unpaid parking tickets, unpaid mowing or property abatement
charges.
(Ord. 2022-35. Adopted 09/22/22)
   (b)   Bad Checks. The Finance Director is hereby authorized to establish, by
administrative directive, a service fee for any bad or dishonored check issued
to the City for payment. The Finance Director shall establish a process to be
used by the Finance Department when a bad or dishonored check is received,
which shall include referral of the matter to the Law Department for
prosecution if the issuer of the check does not make full restitution,
including the service fee, to the Finance Department within sixty (60) days.
(Ord. 08-25. Adopted 04/24/08; Ord. 2022-35. Adopted 09/22/22)
   (c)   Uncollectable Charges. The Finance Director may submit a list of
uncollectible fees or service charges including, but not limited to, water,
sewer, stormwater, or refuse collection services, uncollectible taxes, loans,
or parking tickets to the City Council, along with his or her recommendation to
waive such uncollectible amounts. Upon receipt of the Finance Director's
recommendation, Council may, by resolution, and with or without amendment,
waive such uncollectible amounts, which waiver shall act to remove such
uncollectible amounts from the active records of the applicable fund to which
such amount(s) is due.
(Ord. 15-59. Adopted 11/24/15; Ord. 2022-35. Adopted 09/22/22)
250.06   LOAN REVIEW ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   (a)   Establishment. The Finance Director is hereby authorized to establish
a Loan Review Advisory Committee, to advise the Director and City staff, as
needed, on the granting of a loan under any loan program established by the
City Council. Such Committee shall consist of three (3) members, to be
appointed by the Finance Director, who shall have banking or other relevant
financial expertise and preference shall be given to persons who are either
residents of the City or who work in the City but no member shall hold elective
office or employment with the City. Other City staff members may participate at
the Finance Director's request in Committee meetings in a nonvoting advisory
capacity.
   (b)   Functions. The Loan Review Advisory Committee shall review all
applications for economic development loans including, but not limited to,
industrial loans, commercial loans, and micro-loans submitted to the City and
make recommendations on whether to grant or deny the requested loan.
   (c)   Confidentiality. The Loan Review Advisory Committee shall not be
subject to the Ohio Open Meetings Act, and due to the sensitive and personal
financial information reviewed by the Committee, the Committee's meetings shall
not be open to the public. The Finance Director shall assure that all
information of a sensitive or personal financial nature presented to the
Committee is appropriately safeguarded and retained by the Finance Department.
(Ord. 2022-35. Adopted 09/22/22)
250.07 ACTING AND INTERIM FINANCE DIRECTOR.
   (a)   Acting Finance Director. In cases where the Finance Director is vacant
from his or her office for a period of less than thirty (30) days due to
vacation, illness or other leave, the Assistant Finance Director shall serve as
the Acting Finance Director, unless the Finance Director appoints another to
serve as Acting Finance Director in his or her absence, by administrative
directive.
   (b)   Interim Finance Director. Should a vacancy in the office of the
Finance Director occur, or during periods of temporary absence or disability of
the Finance Director lasting thirty (30) days or more, the Assistant Finance
Director shall serve as the Interim Finance Director, unless a majority of the
Council appoints another Interim Finance Director to fill the temporary
vacancy.
(City Charter Section 6.03 C.)
(Ord. 2023-06. Adopted 04/13/23)
CHAPTER 251
Funds
251.01   Establishment of City Funds
251.02   Required Funds
251.03   Special Funds
251.04   Utility Funds
251.05   Public Improvement Funds
251.06   Public Safety Funds
251.07   Court Funds
251.90   Definitions
   CROSS REFERENCES
      Uniform Tax Levy Law - see ORC Ch. 5705.
251.01   ESTABLISHMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (a)   Required Funds. The Finance Director shall maintain any fund required
by the Uniform Tax Levy Law or other state statute, and such funds shall be
maintained and used in accordance with the requirements of the Ohio Revised
Code. Any transfer between City funds shall be made in accordance with ORC
5705.14 to 5705.16.
   (b)   Special Funds.
      (1)   The Finance Director is hereby authorized to create any special
fund which is required by ORC 5705.09(D) to (H) or other provision of state
law, either specifically or in general.
         (ORC 5705.09)
      (2)   Council may establish, by ordinance or resolution, any special
fund, the establishment of which is discretionary under the Uniform Tax Levy
law. Special funds which are needed for a period of less than five (5) years
may be established by resolution, and special funds which are needed for a
period of five (5) years or more shall be established by ordinance.
         (ORC 5705.121)
      (3)   Council may also establish, by ordinance or resolution and with the
approval of and in the manner prescribed by the Ohio State Auditor, other such
special funds that are not established or authorized by state law, either
specifically or in general, as may be needed or desirable. Special funds which
are needed for a period of less than five (5) years may be established by
resolution, and special funds which are needed for a period of five (5) years
or more shall be established by ordinance. Any ordinance or resolution
establishing a special fund may provide that money derived from specified
sources other than the general property tax shall be paid directly into such
special fund.
         (ORC 5705.12)
   (c)   Reserve Balance Accounts.
      (1)   City Council, by ordinance or resolution, may establish reserve
balance accounts to accumulate currently available resources for purposes
listed in ORC 5705.13(A).
      (2)   The ordinance or resolution establishing a reserve balance account
shall state the purpose for which the account is established, the fund in which
the account is to be established, and the total amount of money to be reserved
in the account. Money to the credit of a reserve balance account may be
expended only for the purpose for which the account was established.
      (3)   City Council, may, in the same manner the reserve balance account
was created, rescind a reserve balance account, and upon such rescission, the
Finance Director shall transfer the money that has accumulated in the account
to the fund or funds from which the money was originally transferred.
         (ORC 5705.13(A))
   (d)   Capital Project Funds. Council, by resolution, may establish one or
more capital project funds for the purpose of accumulating resources for the
acquisition, construction, or improvement of fixed assets of the City. For the
purposes of this division, "fixed assets" include motor vehicles. More than one
(1) capital project fund may be established and may exist at any time.
      (1)   The resolution establishing the capital project fund shall identify
the source of the money to be used to acquire, construct, or improve the fixed
assets identified in the resolution, the amount of money to be accumulated for
that purpose, the period of time over which that amount is to be accumulated,
and the fixed assets that the City intends to acquire, construct, or improve
with the money to be accumulated in the fund.
      (2)   No capital project fund shall accumulate money for more than ten
(10) years after the resolution establishing the fund is passed. If the City
has not entered into a contract for the acquisition, construction, or
improvement of fixed assets for which money was accumulated in such a fund
before the end of that ten-year period, the Finance Director shall transfer all
money in the fund to the fund or funds from which that money originally was
transferred or the fund that originally was intended to receive the money.
      (3)   Notwithstanding ORC 5705.14, 5705.15, and 5705.16, City Council, by
appropriation ordinance or resolution, may transfer money to a capital project
fund from any other City fund that may lawfully be used for the purpose of
acquiring, constructing, or improving the fixed assets identified in the
ordinance or resolution.
      (4)   City Council may, by resolution, rescind a capital project fund. If
the fund is so rescinded, the Finance Director shall transfer the money that
has accumulated in the fund to the fund or funds from which the money was
originally transferred.
      (5)   Notwithstanding ORC 5705.14, 5705.15, and 5705.16, the City
Council, by resolution, may transfer money to a Capital Project Fund from any
other fund of the City that may lawfully be used for the purpose of acquiring,
constructing, or improving the fixed assets identified in the resolution.
         (ORC 5705.13(C))
   (e)   Nonexpendable Trust Funds. City Council may establish, by ordinance, a
nonexpendable trust fund for the purpose of receiving donations or
contributions that the donor or contributor requires to be maintained intact.
The principal of such fund may be invested in accordance with the City's
Deposit and Investment Policy, and the investment earning on the principal
shall be credited to the trust fund. The principal of the fund, and any
additions to the principal arising from sources other than the reinvestment of
investment earnings arising from the fund, shall not be considered part of the
unencumbered balance or revenue of the City under ORC 5705.35(A) or 5705.36(A)
(1). Only investment earnings arising from investment of the principal or
investment of such additions to the principal may be considered an unencumbered
balance or revenue of the City under those ORC sections.
(ORC 5705.131)
   (f)   Sale of Permanent Improvements. If a permanent improvement of the City
is sold, the amount received from the sale shall be paid into the Sinking Fund,
the Bond Retirement Fund, or the Capital (Permanent) Improvements Fund;
provided, however, that the proceeds from the sale of a public utility shall be
paid into the Sinking Fund or Bond Retirement Fund to the extent necessary to
provide for the retirement of the outstanding indebtedness incurred in the
construction or acquisition of such utility. Proceeds from the sale of property
other than a permanent improvement shall be paid into the fund from which such
property was acquired or is maintained or, if there is no such fund, into the
General Fund.
(ORC 5705.10(F))
   (g)   Interest on Inactive Interim Deposits. Except as otherwise provided in
any section or division of this Chapter, the proceeds from the investment made
of the inactive interim deposits of any City fund shall be credited to that
fund upon receipt.
   (h)   Authority of Finance Director. The Finance Director may create cost
centers within any fund to properly account for activity within that fund. The
Finance Director may transfer funds between cost centers unless otherwise
prohibited by law or unless such a transfer is restricted by financial
management policies approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 2022-44. Adopted 11/22/22)
251.02   REQUIRED FUNDS.
   In accordance with the requirements of the Ohio Revised Code, the following
funds are hereby established:
   (a)   Bond Retirement Fund.
      (1)   The Bond Retirement Fund shall be used for the retirement of serial
bonds, notes or certificates of indebtedness. All revenue derived from general
or special levies for debt charges, whether within or in excess of the ten-mill
limitation, which is levied for the debt charges on serial bonds, notes or
certificates of indebtedness having a life of less than five (5) years, shall
be paid into the Bond Retirement Fund.
      (2)   Upon the issuance of any serial bonds, notes or certificates of
indebtedness, City Council, in the ordinance issuing such bonds, notes or
certificates of indebtedness, shall authorize the creation of a specific cost
center within the Bond Retirement Fund for each issuance.
         (ORC 5705.09; 5705.10)
         (Ord. 15-08. Adopted 04/09/15; Ord. 2022-44. Adopted 11/22/22)
   (b)   General Fund.
      (1)   All revenue derived from the general levy for current expenses
within the ten-mill limitation, from any general levy for current expenses
authorized by vote in excess of the ten-mill limitation, and from sources other
than the general property tax, unless its use for a particular purpose is
prescribed by law, shall be paid into the General Fund.
         (ORC 5705.09; 5705.10)
      (2)   All moneys received from the collection of the City's income tax
shall be paid into the General Fund; provided, however, that:
         A.   The proceeds from one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the
increase in the income tax rate pursuant to Ordinance 91-24, and the proceeds
resulting from changes in the credit for tax paid to another municipality, be
used solely for the purpose of employing police and fire personnel, and that
the proceeds from one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the increase in the
income tax rate pursuant to Ordinance 10-27 be used solely for the purpose of
maintaining current police and fire service levels;
         B.   The proceeds from one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the
increase in the income tax rate pursuant to Ordinance 10-27 shall be used
solely for capital improvements.
      (3)   The General Fund shall also be used to receipt and account for all
fines, charges, and fees that are directed to be paid into the Fund under any
section of the Xenia City Code.
         (ORC 718.04; XCC 880.14(b))
         (ORC 5705.10(F))
   (c)   Insurance Reserve Fund. The Insurance Reserve Fund shall be used to
account for insurance proceeds received pursuant to ORC 3929.86. Moneys in the
Insurance Reserve Fund shall only be used as security against the total cost
incurred by the City in removing, repairing, or securing a building, dwelling
or structure damaged or destroyed by fire.
(ORC 3929.86(D))
   (d)   Sinking Fund.
      (1)   The Sinking Fund shall be used when the City has outstanding bonds
other than serial bonds. All revenue derived from general or special levies for
debt charges, whether within or in excess of the ten-mill limitation, which is
levied for the debt charges on all bonds, other than serial bonds, notes or
certificates of indebtedness that have a life of five (5) years or more, shall
be paid into the Sinking Fund.
      (2)   Upon the issuance of any bonds other than serial bonds, notes or
certificates of indebtedness, City Council, in the ordinance issuing such
bonds, notes or certificates of indebtedness, shall authorize the creation of a
specific cost center (line item) within the Sinking Fund for each issuance.
         (ORC 5705.09; 5705.10)
   (e)   Special Improvements Fund.
      (1)   The Special Improvements Fund may be used for the receipt and
accounting of special assessments collected pursuant to ORC Chapters 727 or 729
for any improvement authorized under those ORC Chapters.
      (2)   If special assessments are to be received in the Special
Improvements Fund, the ordinance levying the special assessments pursuant to
ORC Chapters 727 or 729 shall establish the name of the cost center in the
Special Improvements Fund for the specific project for which the special
assessments are levied.
      (3)   The cost centers shall be used to receipt assessments levied and
collected for the improvement project for which they were levied, and may be
used to pay costs associated with the improvement project, including any
required City share of the project cost, or to make debt service payments on
any bonds or notes issued in anticipation of collection of the special
assessments for the improvement project.
         (ORC 5705.09; 5705.10)
   (f)   Unclaimed Moneys Fund. The Unclaimed Moneys Fund shall be used to
account for moneys paid by or to the City that are unclaimed by the lawful
owner thereof, whether from a City-issued check or from a bond or check of the
Xenia Municipal Court.
      (1)   The Finance Director shall pay any moneys from a City-issued check
that were paid into the Unclaimed Moneys Fund to the lawful owner thereof, if
such owner makes a claim within five (5) years of the date of issuance of the
check. Amounts paid into the Unclaimed Moneys Fund for moneys paid by or to the
City that are not claimed within a period of five (5) years shall revert to the
General Fund.
         (ORC 9.39)
      (2)   All moneys paid into the Xenia Municipal Court that, by the first
Monday in January of each year, the Clerk of Court determines have remained
unclaimed for more than one (1) year and which remain unclaimed on the first
day of April of each year, after the Clerk has given notice to lawful owners
thereof, shall be paid into the Unclaimed Moneys Fund. The Finance Director
shall pay any part of such moneys at any time to the person who has the right
to the money upon proper certification of the Clerk of Courts.
(ORC 1901.31(G))
(Ord. 2022-44. Adopted 11/22/22)
251.03   SPECIAL FUNDS.
   The following special funds are hereby established:
   (a)   City Garage Revenue Fund. The Director of Finance shall have the
authority to make the necessary entries from the various departmental funds to
the City Garage Revenue Fund. The funds so transferred shall be kept by the
Director of Finance in a separate and distinct fund known as the City Garage
Revenue Fund.
(ORC 5705.12)
(1964 Code; Ord. 75-30. Adopted 04/10/75; Ord. 96-100. Adopted 12/12/96; Ord.
2022-44. Adopted 11/22/22)
   (b)   Community Development Grants Fund.
      (1)   The Community Development Grants Fund shall be used to account for
federal, state, and/or county grant funds received for community development.
      (2)   The Finance Director shall create specific cost centers, when such
cost centers are required to ensure for the proper accounting and reporting of
grant proceeds, for the CDBG revolving loan, for other specific CDBG projects,
housing rehab grants, brownfield remediation grants, any other federal, state,
or county grants received specifically for community development, remediation
projects, or for the abatement of slum or blight.
      (3)   Grant moneys in the Community Development Grants Fund shall be used
only in accordance with the terms of the grant.
      (4)   It is the intent of this division to combine the funds formerly
known as the CDBG Revolving Loan Fund and the Housing Rehab Grant Fund.
         (ORC 5705.09(F))
   (c)   Economic Development Loan Programs Fund.
      (1)   The Economic Development Loan Programs Fund shall be used to
receive and account for moneys appropriated by City Council for economic
development loans made pursuant to any Loan Programs established by the
Council, loan payments, and transfers from the General Fund or other funding
for Loan Programs.
      (2)   The Finance Director may create specific cost centers within the
Economic Development Loan Programs Fund for each separate Loan Program
established by the City Council.
      (3)   Moneys in the Economic Development Loan Programs Fund shall only be
used in accordance with the Loan Program guidelines established by the City
Council.
         (ORC 5705.12)
         (Ord. 2022-44. Adopted 11/22/22)
   (d)   Information Technology Fund. The Information Technology Fund is hereby
established for the purpose of centralizing I.T. related purchases. The Finance
Director may transfer moneys to cover expenditures in the Information
Technology Fund and may charge appropriate funds for services provided by the
Information Technology Fund.
(ORC 5705.12)
(Ord. 14-41. Adopted 10/09/14; Ord. 2022-44. Adopted 11/22/22)
   (e)   Insurance Fund. The Insurance Fund shall be used for the purpose of
accounting for health and life insurance transactions including the payment of
claims, premiums, program expenses, and administration fees. The Insurance Fund
may charge other appropriate City funds for health insurance and/or life
insurance expenditures related to that other fund's operations. The Insurance
Fund will receive premiums paid by the employee via payroll deduction when the
employee is a participant in the City's health insurance plans.
(ORC 5705.13)
(Ord. 14-51. Adopted 11/25/14; Ord. 2022-44. Adopted 11/22/22)
   (f)   OneOhio Fund. The OneOhio Fund shall be used to receipt and account
for moneys received pursuant to the OneOhio Opioid Settlement Agreement and
moneys in the Fund shall be used only for the "Approved Purposes" set forth in
the OneOhio Memorandum of Understanding.
(ORC 5705.09(F); AOS Bulletin 2022-003)
   (g)   Special Grants Fund. The Special Grants Fund shall be used to receipt
and account for federal, state, or local grant moneys that are required to be
kept in a separate fund, or that are one-time grants, or that otherwise should
not be placed in an enterprise fund or public improvement fund. The Finance
Director may create specific cost centers within the Special Grants Fund when
such costs centers are required to ensure for the proper accounting and
reporting of grant proceeds.
(Ord. 2022-44. Adopted 11/22/22)
251.04   UTILITY FUNDS.
   The following utility (enterprise) funds are hereby established:
   (a)   Parking Revenue Fund.
      (1)   The Parking Revenue Fund shall be used to receipt and account for
moneys received from the collection of payment for parking on City-owned or
leased properties, or upon right-of-way over which the City has the supervision
or control, including money from metered parking and the issuance of parking
permits or the lease of parking, and from the payment of parking tickets.
      (2)   The Parking Revenue Fund shall be used for the payment of costs and
expenses, including administration and personnel, related to the operation and
maintenance of the City's parking facilities, parking lots, on-street parking,
and off-street parking including, but not limited to, the acquisition, repair,
replacement, and/or operation of parking meters, and the enforcement of the
City's parking regulations.
         (Ord. 2022-44. Adopted 11/22/22)
   (b)   Sanitation Services Fund.
      (1)   The Sanitation Services Fund shall be used to receipt and account
for moneys received from the collection of charges for the provision of refuse
and recycling collection services, street cleaning services, leaf and brush
collection, garbage and property maintenance code abatements, landfill
maintenance, and sanitation assessments. The Sanitation Services Fund may also
be used to receipt and account for other moneys directed to be deposited
therein by the City Council or as deemed proper by the Finance Director.
      (2)   The Sanitation Services Fund shall be used for the payment of costs
and expenses, including administration and personnel expenses, related to
contracting for the provision of refuse and recycling collection, costs
associated with customer billing for refuse and recycling collection services,
capital improvements, and the implementation and enforcement of any sanitation
or refuse collection regulations.
      (3)   The Finance Director shall establish separate cost centers to
account for operating costs and permanent improvements.
      (4)   It is the intent of this division to combine the funds formerly
known as the Sanitation Fund and the Sanitation Capital Improvements Fund.
         (ORC 5705.09(G))
         (Ord. 89-86. Adopted 12/28/89; Ord. 2022-44. Adopted 11/22/22)
   (c)   Sewer Fund.
      (1)   The Sewer Fund shall be used to receipt and account for moneys
received from the collection of charges for the use of the City's sanitary
sewer utility, including the sanitary sewer system, wastewater treatment plants
and sewage disposal, along with other amounts as are collected for tap-in fees,
connection charges, extra strength surcharges, sewer assessments, or other fees
associated with the use of the City's sanitary sewer utility system.
      (2)   The Sewer Fund may also be used to receive federal or state grants
and/or loan moneys for permanent improvements to the City's sanitary sewer
system and/or wastewater treatment plants. Any moneys received from a federal
or state grant and/or loan shall only be used in accordance with the terms of
the grant and/or loan.
      (3)   The Finance Director shall create a specific cost center within the
Sewer Fund for operating costs associated with the City's sanitary sewer
utility system, which cost center shall be used for the payment of costs and
expenses related to the management, operation, maintenance, repair, and
expansion of the sanitary sewer system and wastewater treatment plants
including, but not limited to, debt service, administration and personnel
expenses, capital improvements, equipment costs, the acquisition of land needed
for the sanitary sewer utility, receipt and accounting for operating grants
and/or loans, and costs associated with customer billing for the use of the
City's sanitary sewer utility system.
      (4)   The Finance Director shall create a specific cost center within the
Sewer Fund for costs associated with permanent improvements to the City's
sanitary sewer utility system, including receipt and accounting for permanent
improvement grants and/or loans received, transfers made from the General Fund,
and penalties and late fees to be paid to the cost center in accordance with
Section
1030.04(d) of the Xenia City Code, which cost center shall be used for the
payment of costs and expenses for permanent improvements to the City's sanitary
sewer system and/or wastewater treatment plants including, but not limited to,
the installation, improvement, repair and maintenance of the system or plants;
or the acquisition of property or materials having a life expectancy of over
five (5) years; or the purchase of vehicles or equipment having a life
expectancy of over five (5) years; and services related to planning,
engineering, legal, or other services required for installation, improvement,
repair, and maintenance projects.
      (5)   It is the intent of this division to combine the funds formerly
known as the Sewer Fund and the Sewer Plant and Trunk Expansion Fund.
(ORC 5705.09(G))
(Ord. 1113. Adopted 02/12/53; Ord. 80-28. Adopted 05/28/80; Ord. 2022-44.
Adopted 11/22/22)
   (d)   Stormwater Fund.
      (1)   The Stormwater Fund shall be used to receipt and account for
revenues generated by or on behalf of the City's stormwater management utility,
including stormwater management fees, direct charges collected from owners or
developers for the cost of designing, constructing, and/or administering
stormwater management facilities, abatement fees, stormwater assessments,
stormwater permit fees, and interest earnings on those revenues.
      (2)   The Stormwater Fund may also be used to receive federal or state
grant and/or loan moneys for permanent improvements to the City's stormwater
management system. Any moneys received from a federal or state grant and/or
loan shall only be used in accordance with the terms of the grant and/or loan.
      (3)   The Finance Director shall create a specific cost center within the
Stormwater Fund for operating costs associated with the stormwater management
utility system, which cost center shall be used for the payment of costs and
expenses related to the management, operation, maintenance, repair, and
expansion of the stormwater management system including, but not limited to,
debt service, administration and personnel expenses, capital improvements,
equipment costs, the acquisition of land needed for the stormwater management
system, costs associated with customer billing for stormwater management fees,
the implementation and enforcement of the City's illicit discharge and illegal
connection control regulations, the receipt and accounting for operating grants
and/or loans received, and compliance with the City's NPDES permit.
      (4)   The Finance Director shall create a specific cost center within the
Sewer Fund for costs associated with permanent improvements to the City's
sanitary sewer utility system, including receipt and accounting for permanent
improvement grants and/or loans received, transfers made from the General Fund,
and penalties and late fees to be paid to the cost center in accordance with
Section 1030.05(d) of the Xenia City Code, which cost center shall be used for
the payment of costs and expenses for permanent improvements to the City's
sanitary sewer system and/or wastewater treatment plants including, but not
limited to, the installation, improvement, repair and maintenance of the system
or plants; or the acquisition of property or materials having a life expectancy
of over five (5) years; or the purchase of vehicles or equipment having a life
expectancy of over five (5) years; and services related to planning,
engineering, legal, or other services required for installation, improvement,
repair, and maintenance projects.
      (5)   It is the intent of this division to combine the funds formerly
known as the Stormwater Utility Fund and the Stormwater Replacement and
Improvement Fund.
         (ORC 5705.09(G))
   (e)   Utility Billing Internal Service Fund.
      (1)   The Utility Billing Internal Service Fund shall be used to receipt
and account for moneys paid into the Fund pursuant to Section 1030.11 of the
Xenia City Code.
      (2)   Moneys in the Utility Billing Internal Service Fund shall be used
to pay costs and expenses related to utility billing functions including, but
not limited to, administration and personnel expenses, postage, equipment
costs, and capital improvement costs.
(Ord. 2022-44. Adopted 11/22/22)
   (f)   Water Fund.
      (1)   The Water Fund shall be used to receipt and account for moneys
received from the collection of charges for the use of the City's water
utility, including the water system and water treatment plants, along with such
other amounts as are collected for tap-in fees, connection charges, water
assessments, or other fees associated with the use of the City's water utility
system.
      (2)   The Water Fund may also be used to receive federal or state grant
and/or loan moneys for permanent improvements to the City's water system and/or
water treatment plants. Any moneys received from a federal or state grant and/
or loan shall only be used in accordance with the terms of the grant and/or
loan.
      (3)   The Finance Director shall create a specific cost center within the
Water Fund for operating costs associated with the City's water utility system,
which cost center shall be used for the payment of costs and expenses related
to the management, operation, maintenance, repair, and expansion of the water
system and water treatment plants including, but not limited to, debt service,
administration and personnel expenses, capital improvements, equipment costs,
the acquisition of land needed for the water system, and costs associated with
customer billing for the use of the City's water utility system.
      (4)   The Finance Director shall create a specific cost center within the
Water Fund for costs associated with permanent improvements to the City's water
utility system, including receipt and accounting for permanent improvement
grants and/or loans received, transfers made from the General Fund, and
penalties and late fees to be paid to the cost center in accordance with
Section 1030.04(d) of the Xenia City Code, which cost center shall be used for
the payment of costs and expenses for permanent improvements to the City's
water system and/or water treatment plants including, but not limited to, the
installation, improvement, repair and maintenance of system or plants; or the
acquisition of property or materials having a life expectancy of over five (5)
years; or the purchase of vehicles or equipment having a life expectancy of
over five (5) years; and services related to planning, engineering, legal, or
other services required for installation, improvement, repair, and maintenance
projects.
      (5)   It is the intent of this division to combine the funds formerly
known as the Water (Works System Revenue) Fund and the Water Capital
Improvement Fund.
(ORC 5705.09(G))
(Ord. 1113. Adopted 02/12/53; Ord. 80-28. Adopted 05/28/80; Ord. 2022-44.
Adopted 11/22/22)
251.05   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT FUNDS.
   (a)   Capital (Permanent) Improvements Fund.
      (1)   CIP Cost Center:
         A.   The Finance Director shall create a specific cost center in the
Capital (Permanent) Improvements Fund for capital (permanent) improvements, and
moneys in the CIP Cost Center shall be used for the construction or acquisition
of permanent improvements, including any property, asset or improvement with an
estimated life or usefulness of five (5) years or more, including land and
interests therein, and reconstruction, enlargements and extensions thereof
having an estimated life or usefulness of five (5) years or more.
            (ORC 5705.01(E))
         B.   Upon the sale of a permanent improvement of the City, the amount
received from the sale shall be paid into the CIP Cost Center in the Capital
(Permanent) Improvements Fund; provided, however, that proceeds from the sale
of a permanent improvement shall be paid into the Sinking Fund or the Bond
Retirement Fund to the extent necessary to provide for the retirements of the
outstanding indebtedness incurred in the construction or acquisition of such
permanent improvement. Proceeds from the sale of property shall be paid into
the CIP Cost Center if such property was acquired or maintained with moneys
from the Capital (Permanent) Improvements Fund or shall be paid into the fund
from which such property was acquired or maintained, or if there is no such
fund, into the General Fund.
            (ORC 5705.10)
      (2)   Issue II Improvements Cost Center:
         A.   The Finance Director shall create a specific cost center in the
Capital (Permanent) Improvements Fund for Issue II funds, and the Issue II
Improvements Cost Center shall be used to receive and account for Issue II
moneys received from the Ohio Public Works Commission (OPWC) for specific
capital improvement projects and for the expenditure of Issue II moneys and any
required local matching share.
         B.   Moneys in the Issue II Improvements Cost Center shall be expended
only to pay for the costs associated with OPWC approved capital improvement
projects, which may include engineering costs and any required local matching
share and shall only be used in accordance with the terms of the Issue II
grant.
            (ORC 5705.09(F))
      (3)   Public Safety Permanent Improvements Cost Center:
         A.   The Finance Director shall create a specific cost center in the
Capital (Permanent) Improvements Fund for permanent improvements for the Public
Safety Department and its Divisions, and the Public Safety Permanent
Improvements Cost Center shall be used for the receipt and accounting of grant
moneys, including federal or state grants, related to permanent improvement
expenditures of the Public Safety Department and its Divisions. The Public
Safety Permanent Improvements Cost Center shall also be used for the receipt
and accounting of moneys transferred from the City's General Fund by City
Council, by appropriation ordinance. Moneys in the Public Safety Permanent
Improvements Cost Center shall only be used on permanent improvements for the
Public Safety Department and its Divisions.
         B.   Amounts within the Public Safety Permanent Improvements Cost
Center shall be allocated by Council in accordance with the terms of the grant,
and all grant money received shall be receipted directly into the Cost Center.
         C.   If the grant program is funded on a reimbursement basis, the
grant moneys received may be paid from the Public Safety Permanent Improvements
Cost Center to the City Fund from which the share to be reimbursed by the grant
moneys has already been paid.
         D.   All grant program expenditures may be accounted for in the Public
Safety Permanent Improvements Cost Center and any moneys representing the local
share may be transferred by the Council, by resolution or ordinance, into the
Public Safety Permanent Improvements Cost Center. If the grant program is
funded on a reimbursement basis, the amount representing the grant-covered
share may be advanced to the Public Safety Permanent Improvements Fund and then
repaid once the grant money is received.
      (4)   The Finance Director may establish separate cost centers in the
Capital (Permanent) Improvements Fund to receive and account for revenues, or
to account for costs and expenses related to specific capital improvement
projects.
      (5)   It is the intent of this division to combine the funds formerly
known as the Issue II Improvements Fund (362) and Public Safety Permanent
Improvements Fund (364) into the Capital (Permanent) Improvements Fund (361).
The Finance Director is hereby authorized to report to the State Auditor the
Capital (Permanent) Improvements Fund as a single fund with multiple cost
centers beginning with the 2023 fiscal year.
         (Ord. 61-85. Adopted 11/28/61; Ord. 78-15. Adopted 05/11/78; Ord. 79-
15. Adopted 03/08/79; Ord. 79-28. Adopted 05/17/79; Ord. 89-61. Adopted 09/07/
89; Ord. 2014-41. Adopted 10/09/14; Ordinance 2022-44. Adopted 11/22/22; Ord.
2023-36. Adopted 12/14/23)
   (b)   Property Improvements Fund.
      (1)   The Property Improvements Fund shall be used to receive and account
for moneys collected through payments to the City under leases or rents of, or
use agreements for, City-owned land.
      (2)   Moneys deposited in the Fund may be used and disbursed to the pay
the costs associated with any obligations placed upon the City under any lease
of or use agreement for City-owned land.
      (3)   Surplus moneys in the Property Improvements Fund may be used for
the following purposes:
         A.   Acquiring, purchasing and/or constructing permanent improvements,
including land acquisition costs, for any public purpose; or
         B.   Paying the cost of maintaining and operating, including the
payment of taxes, property purchased for any public purpose pending the use of
such property for the purpose for which it was acquired.
(Ord. 78-15. Adopted 05/11/78; Ord. 79-15. Adopted 03/08/79; Ord. 79-28.
Adopted 05/17/79; Ord. 2022-44. Adopted 11/22/22; Ord. 2023-36. Adopted 12/14/
23)
   (c)   Public Improvement Tax Increment Equivalent Fund.
      (1)   The Public Improvement Tax Increment Equivalent Fund, which may
also be known as the TIF Fund, shall be used to receive and account for service
payments in lieu of taxes distributed to the City under ORC 5709.42 on
applicable public infrastructure improvements and housing renovations, and each
tax exemption granted by City Council pursuant to ORC 5709.40(B) shall require
the creation of a specific cost center (line item) within the TIF Fund.
      (2)   The ordinance granting a tax exemption pursuant to ORC 5709.40(B)
shall establish the name of the cost center for that specific tax exemption
within the TIF Fund, shall specify that any payments in lieu of taxes received
from that tax exemption be credited to that specific cost center, may designate
a portion of the income taxes received from the granting of the tax exemption
to be paid into the specific cost center, and shall specify the improvements
and renovations for which the moneys in the specific cost center may be used.
      (3)   Moneys in the specific cost centers for tax exemptions granted by
City Council pursuant to ORC 5709.40(B) shall be used to finance the public
infrastructure improvements designated in the ordinance by which the tax
exemption was granted and the cost center established.
      (4)   If City Council creates an incentive district pursuant to ORC
5709.40(C), a specific cost center shall be established within the TIF Fund for
each such district, and if the ordinance adopted pursuant to ORC 5709.40(C)
also authorizes the use of service payments for housing renovations within the
district, separate cost centers for service payments designated for public
infrastructure improvements and for service payments authorized for the purpose
of housing renovations shall be established.
      (5)   Money in a specific cost center for an incentive district
established by City Council pursuant to ORC 5709.40(C) shall be used to finance
public infrastructure improvements designated in, or the housing renovations
authorized by, the ordinance by which the tax exemption was granted and the
cost center was established.
      (6)   Moneys in the specific cost centers may also be used to make
distributions in accordance with ORC 5709.43(C).
      (7)   The TIF Fund may also be used to receive and account for income tax
revenue that has been designated by ordinance to finance public infrastructure
improvements and housing renovations.
      (8)   Any incidental surplus remaining in a cost center, upon dissolution
of the cost center, shall be transferred to the General Fund.
         (ORC 5705.43)
   (d)   State Route Repair Fund. The State Route Repair Fund shall be used to
receive and account for the required seven and one-half percent (7½%) of the
amount paid to the City pursuant to ORC 4501.04 and 5735.27. Moneys in the
State Route Repair Fund shall be used only to construct, reconstruct, repave,
widen, maintain, and repair state highways within the City; to purchase, erect,
and maintain traffic lights and signals and to erect and maintain street and
traffic signs and markers on state highways within the City; or to pay
principal, interest, and charges on bonds and other obligations issued pursuant
to ORC Chapter 133 or incurred pursuant to ORC 5531.09 for such purposes.
(ORC 5735.28)
   (e)   Street Fund.
      (1)   The Street fund shall be used to receive and account for disbursed
allocations from:
         A.   Disbursed allocations from the State Gasoline Excise Tax Fund
and/or State Highway Operating Fund (ORC 5735.27), the State Auto Registration
Distribution Fund (ORC 4501.04), or any other State fund that requires the
proceeds therefrom be used for street purposes;
         B.   Disbursed allocations of the Greene County Motor Vehicle License
Tax Fund or any other county fund that requires the proceeds therefrom be used
for street purposes;
         C.   Amounts collected from the City's Motor Vehicle License Tax
imposed by the City;
         D.   Amounts from fees received from payments of City street cut
permits;
         E.   Any moneys or receipts which are derived from a City license fee
implemented under ORC 715.66;
         F.   Any transfers or appropriations made by City Council for street
purposes; and/or
         G.   Any other revenues which the law requires be used only for street
purposes.
      (2)   Moneys in the Street Fund may only be used for street purposes, as
defined in division (f)(3) of this section, which may include operating and/or
maintenance expenses or improvement projects.
      (3)   For the purposes of this division, "street purposes" includes, but
is not limited to, the planning, construction, reconstruction, repaving,
widening, maintaining, repairing, clearing or cleaning of public streets and
highways; the maintenance and repair of bridges and viaducts; the purchase,
erection, and maintenance of street and traffic signs and markers; to pay the
costs apportioned to the City under ORC 4907.47; to purchase, erect, and
maintain traffic lights and signals; to pay the principal, interest, and
charges on bonds and other obligations issued pursuant to ORC Chapter 133 or
incurred pursuant to ORC 5531.09 for the purpose of acquiring or constructing
streets, highways, bridges, or viaducts or acquiring or making other street or
highway improvements for which the City may issue bonds.
      (4)   The Finance Director may establish separate cost centers in the
Street Fund to receive and account for revenues, or to account for cost and
expenses related to specific street improvement projects.
      (5)   It is the intent of this division to combine the funds formerly
known as the State Gas and Vehicle License Tax Fund, Municipal Motor Vehicle
License Tax Fund, and County Motor Vehicle License Tax Fund into a single
Street Fund.
(ORC 5705.09(F); 5735.27; 4504.172)
(Ord. 2022-44. Adopted 11/22/22; Ord. 2023-36. Adopted 12/14/23)
251.06   PUBLIC SAFETY FUNDS.
   (a)   Drug Law Enforcement Fund.
      (1)   The Drug Law Enforcement Fund shall be used for the receipt and
accounting of fine moneys paid to the City pursuant to ORC 2925.03 and 2925.42.
      (2)   Amounts within the Drug Law Enforcement Fund shall be allocated by
the Council only to the Police Division, and the Police Division shall adopt a
written internal control policy that addresses the use and disposition of fine
moneys received from the Fund.
      (3)   The fine moneys allocated from the Drug Law Enforcement Fund shall
be expended in accordance with the Police Division's internal control policy,
and shall only be used to subsidize the Police Division's efforts that pertain
to drug offenses.
      (4)   Prior to receiving any fine moneys under ORC 2925.03 or 2925.42,
the Police Division shall adopt a written internal control policy that
addresses the Division's use and disposition of all fine moneys so received.
         A.   The internal control policy required under this section shall
provide for the keeping of detailed financial records of the receipts of fine
moneys, the general types of expenditures made out of those fine moneys, and
the specific amount of each general type of expenditure. The policy shall not
provide for or permit the identification of any specific expenditure that is
made in an ongoing investigation.
         B.   All financial records of the receipts of fine moneys, the general
types of expenditures made out of the fine moneys, and the specific amount of
each general type of expenditure by the Police Division are public records open
for inspection under the City's Public Records Policy and ORC 149.43.
         C.   Additionally, the written internal control policy itself is a
public record.
            (ORC 2925.03; 2925.42)
            (Ord. 86-98. Adopted 11/13/86; Ord. 06-69. Adopted 07/13/06; Ord.
2022-44. Adopted 11/22/22)
   (b)   (Alcohol) Enforcement and Education Fund.
      (1)   The (Alcohol) Enforcement and Education Fund shall be used for the
receipt and accounting of fine moneys paid to the City pursuant to ORC 4511.19.
      (2)   Amounts within the (Alcohol) Enforcement and Education Fund shall
be allocated by City Council only to the Police Division and such amounts shall
only be used for the purpose of paying those costs the Police Division incurs
in enforcing ORC 4511.19 or the City's OVI ordinance, as contained in the
City's Traffic Code, and in informing the public of the laws governing the
operation of a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, the dangers of the
operation of a vehicle under the influence of alcohol, and other information
relating to the operation of a vehicle under the influence of alcohol and the
consumption of alcoholic beverages.
         (ORC 4511.19(G)(5)(a))
         (Ord. 90-41. Adopted 08/23/90; Ord. 06-69. Adopted 07/13/06; Ord.
2022-44. Adopted 11/22/22)
   (c)   Law Enforcement Trust Fund.
      (1)   The Law Enforcement Trust Fund shall be used for the receipt and
accounting of the collection of the proceeds from the sale of property ordered
forfeited as contraband, proceeds or an instrumentality pursuant to ORC Chapter
2981., when disposed of as required by ORC 2981.13.
      (2)   Amounts within the Law Enforcement Trust Fund shall be allocated by
City Council only to the Police Division, and the Police Division shall adopt a
written internal control policy that addresses the use of moneys received from
the Fund.
      (3)   The moneys allocated from the Law Enforcement Trust Fund shall be
expended in accordance with the Police Division's internal control policy, and
shall only be expended for the following authorized purposes:
         A.   To pay the cost of protracted or complex investigations or
prosecutions;
         B.   To provide reasonable technical training or expertise;
         C.   To provide matching funds to obtain federal grants to aid law
enforcement, in the support of DARE programs or other programs designed to
educate adults or children with respect to the dangers associated with the use
of drugs of abuse;
         D.   To pay the costs of emergency action taken under ORC 3745.13
relative to the operation of an illegal methamphetamine laboratory, if the
forfeited property or money involved was that of a person responsible for the
operation of the laboratory; and
         E.   For other law enforcement purposes that City Council deems to be
appropriate; provided, however, that the fund shall not be used to meet
operating costs of the City that are unrelated to law enforcement.
      (4)   Internal Control Policy.
         A.   The written internal control policy required under this section
shall provide that at least ten percent (10%) of the first one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000) of amounts deposited during each calendar year in the Law
Enforcement Trust Fund, and at least twenty percent (20%) of the amounts
exceeding one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) that are so deposited, shall
be used in connection with community preventive education programs. The manner
of use shall be determined by the Police Chief, with the approval of the Public
Safety Director, after receiving and considering advice on appropriate
community preventive education programs from the County's Board of Alcohol,
Drug Addiction and Mental Health Services, from the County's Alcohol and Drug
Addiction Services Board, or through appropriate community dialogue.
         B.   The financial records kept under the internal control policy
shall specify the amount deposited during each calendar year in the portion of
that amount that was used pursuant to this division, and the programs in
connection with which the portion of that amount was so used.
         C.   As used in this division, "community preventive education
programs" include, but are not limited to, DARE programs and other programs
designed to educate adults or children with respect to the dangers associated
with using drugs of abuse.
      (5)   Yearly Report: If the Police Division receives amounts from the Law
Enforcement Trust Fund, the Police Chief shall file a report with the Council,
no later than the thirty-first (31st) day of January of the next calendar year,
verifying that the moneys were expended only for the purposes authorized by ORC
2981.13 or other relevant statute, and specifying the amounts expended for each
authorized purpose.
         (ORC 2981.13)
         (Ord. 93-3. Adopted 01/28/93; Ord. 06-69. Adopted 07/13/06; Ord. 2022-
44. Adopted 11/22/22)
   (d)   9-1-1 Fund.
      (1)   The 9-1-1 Fund shall be used for the receipt of the disbursed
allocations of state E9-1-1 funds, next generation 9-1-1 funds, and/or wireless
9-1-1 government assistance funds.
      (2)   Amounts within the 9-1-1 Fund shall only be used for the purposes
of providing basic or enhanced 911 by the Emergency Communications Division.
Moneys within the 9-1-1 Fund shall be used solely for the purpose of
maintaining the Emergency Communications Division, which may include personnel
costs, upgrading or maintaining the necessary data, hardware, software, and
trunking required, staff training costs, and costs for equipment, materials, or
supplies for the Emergency Communications Division.
         (Statutory reference: ORC Chapter 128)
         (Ord. 09-78. Adopted 11/24/09; Ord. 2022-44. Adopted 11/22/22)
   (e)   Public Safety Fund.
      (1)   Property Taxes: The Public Safety Fund shall be used for the
receipt of property tax moneys from the property tax levy of six-tenths of one
mill upon all the real and personal property listed for taxation in the City
for the purpose of paying the police officer and firefighter employers'
contributions required under 742.33(A) and 742.34(A), and the City's accrued
liability for its former police and fire relief and pension fund and interest
thereon, and of defraying the current operating expenses of the City. The
annual revenues derived from the property tax in the Public Safety Fund shall
be used in the following order:
         A.   First, to pay the current police officer and firefighter
employers' contributions to the Ohio Police & Fire Pension Fund, and any
interest related thereto;
         B.   Second, to pay any accrued liability chargeable to the City
during the current calendar year for its former police and fire relief and
pension fund or any interest related thereto; and
         C.   Third, to defray the current operating expenses of the City.
            (ORC 742.33)
      (2)   Income Taxes: The Public Safety Fund shall also be used for the
receipt and accounting of income taxes dedicated pursuant to Xenia City Code
Section 880.14(b) to the employment of Police and Fire & EMS personnel. Income
taxes in the Public Safety Fund shall only be used for the purpose of employing
police and fire personnel.
         (XCC 880.14(b))
      (3)   User Fees:  The Public Safety Fund shall also be used for the
receipt and accounting of user fees charged and collected pursuant to XCC
Section 242.09. User fees in the Public Safety Fund shall only be used by the
Fire & EMS Division for personnel costs and the purchase of supplies,
equipment, and vehicles or other necessary expenses.
         (XCC 242.09(e))
      (4)   Contracts: The Public Safety Fund shall also be used for the
receipt and accounting of moneys derived from contracts under which the Public
Safety Department's Divisions provide services to other public or private
entities. Contract moneys in the Public Safety Fund shall only be used for
costs associated with the Public Safety Department.
      (5)   Grants: The Public Safety Fund shall also be used for the receipt
and accounting of grant funds received for operating costs (personnel,
training, supplies, nonpermanent improvements) of the Public Safety Department
or any of its Divisions. Grant funds in the Public Safety Fund shall only be
used for the purposes indicated in the grant.
(Ord. 2009-78. Adopted 11/24/09; Ord. 2022-44. Adopted 11/22/22)
251.07   COURT FUNDS.
   In accordance with, and as required by the ORC, the following Xenia
Municipal Court funds are hereby established:
   (a)   Clerk's Computerization Fund.
      (1)   All court costs/fees collected by the Xenia Municipal Court
pursuant to ORC 1901.261(B) on the filing of each cause of action or appeal, on
the filing, docketing, and endorsing of each certificate of judgment, or on the
docketing and indexing of each aid in execution or petition to vacate, revive,
or modify a judgment shall be paid to the Finance Director for deposit into the
Clerk's Computerization Fund.
      (2)   All court costs/fees collected by the Xenia Municipal Court
pursuant to ORC 1901.261(B) shall be paid to the Finance Director for placement
in the Clerk's Computerization Fund on or before the twentieth day of the month
following the month in which such fees were collected.
      (3)   Moneys from the Clerk's Computerization Fund shall be disbursed
upon an order from the Court, subject to an appropriation by the City Council,
in an amount not greater than the actual cost to the Court of procuring and
maintaining computer systems for the office of the Clerk of the Court.
         (ORC 1901.261(B))
   (b)   Court's Computerization Fund.
      (1)   All court costs/fees collected by the Xenia Municipal Court
pursuant to ORC 1901.261(A) on the filing of each cause of action or appeal
shall be paid to the Finance Director for deposit into the Court's
Computerization Fund.
      (2)   All court costs/fees collected by the Xenia Municipal Court
pursuant to ORC 1901.261(A) shall be paid to the Finance Director for placement
in the Court's Computerization Fund on or before the twentieth day of the month
following the month in which such fees were collected.
      (3)   Moneys from the Court's Computerization Fund shall be disbursed
upon an order from the Court, subject to an appropriation by the City Council,
in an amount not greater than the actual costs to the Court of computerizing
the Court, procuring and maintaining computerized legal research services, or
both.
      (4)   If the Court determines that the funds in the Court Computerization
Fund are more than sufficient to satisfy the purpose for which the additional
fee described in division (a) of this section was imposed, the Court may
declare a surplus in the fund and, subject to an appropriation by the City
Council, expend those surplus funds for other appropriate technological
expenses of the Court.
      (5)   A disbursement of funds under subdivision (b)(3) or the declaration
of a surplus under subdivision (b)(4), may be made upon an order of the Court
without an appropriation by the City Council only if the Court makes an annual
report available to the public listing the use of all such funds.
         (Statutory Reference ORC 1901.261(A))
   (c)   Court Special Projects Fund.
      (1)   All fees and/or special assessments collected by the Xenia
Municipal Court pursuant to ORC 1901.26(B) shall be paid to the Finance
Director for deposit into the Court Special Projects Fund.
      (2)   The Finance Director may create one or more specific cost centers
within the Court Special Projects Fund for the receipt of moneys for specific
special projects, including special programs or services established by the
Court, as directed by order of the Court. The amounts placed in such specific
cost centers for specific special projects shall be as set forth in the order
of the Court. If a specific cost center is terminated because of the
discontinuance of a program or service for which the specific cost center was
created, the Court may order that moneys remaining in that specific cost center
be transferred to another cost center for a similar purpose.
      (3)   Moneys from the Court Special Projects Fund shall be disbursed upon
an order from the Court and may only be used for the one or more allowable
purposes, as listed in ORC 1901.26(B)(1)(a), or if the moneys were placed in a
specific cost center for a specific special project, the funds in the specific
cost center may only be used for the special project for which they were
charged or assessed. No disbursement shall be in an amount greater than the
actual cost to the Court of the purpose for which the disbursement is made.
      (4)   Moneys in specific cost centers for specific special projects shall
be disbursed upon an order from the Court and may only be used for the specific
special project for which the cost center was established, and such
disbursement shall not be in an amount greater than the actual cost to the
Court for the specific special project for which the disbursement is made.
         (ORC 1901.26(B))
   (d)   IDAT (Indigent Drivers Alcohol Treatment) Fund.
      (1)   The IDAT (Indigent Drivers Alcohol Treatment) Fund shall be used to
receive and account for all revenue appropriated by the Ohio General Assembly
to the State Indigent Drivers Alcohol Treatment Fund for transfer, all portions
of fees and fines that are to be paid to the IDAT Fund under the ORC,
specifically under Chapters 4510. and 4511., and all portions of additional
costs imposed under ORC 2949.094 that are specified for deposit in the IDAT
Fund.
      (2)   The Xenia Municipal Court Judge, by order, may make expenditures
from the IDAT Fund with respect to an indigent person, as defined in ORC
4511.191(H)(3), for any of the purposes set forth in ORC 4511.191(H)(3).
      (3)   Upon the exhaustion of moneys in the IDIAM Fund for the use of an
alcohol monitoring device, the Xenia Municipal Court Judge may use moneys in
the IDAT Fund as set forth in ORC 4511.191(H)(3)(c).
      (4)   If the Xenia Municipal Court determines, in consultation with the
alcohol and drug addiction services board or the board of alcohol, drug
addiction, and mental health services serving the district in which the court
is located, that the funds in the IDAT Fund are more than sufficient to satisfy
the purpose for which the IDAT Fund was established, the Court may declare a
surplus in the IDAT Fund. If the Court declares a surplus in the IDAT Fund, the
Court may take any of the actions with regard to the amount of the surplus as
outlined in ORC 4511.191(H)(4).
         (ORC 4511.191(H))
   (e)   IDIAM (Indigent Drivers Interlock & Alcohol Monitoring) Fund.
      (1)   The IDIAM (Indigent Drivers Interlock & Alcohol Monitoring) Fund
shall be used to receive and account for all revenue appropriated by the Ohio
General Assembly to the State Indigent Drivers Interlock and Monitoring Fund
for transfer and all portions of fees and fines that are to be paid to the
IDIAM Fund under the ORC, specifically license reinstatement fees and fines
under ORC 4511.191(F) and ORC 4511.19(G).
      (2)   The Xenia Municipal Court Judge, by order, may make expenditures
from the IDIAM Fund to pay the cost of an immobilizing or disabling device,
including a certified ignition interlock device, or an alcohol monitoring
device used by an offender who is ordered to use the device by the Judge and
who is determined by the Judge to be an indigent person, as the same is defined
in ORC 4511.191.
      (3)   If the Municipal Court determines that the moneys in the IDIAM Fund
are more than sufficient to satisfy the purpose for which the Fund was
established, the Court may declare a surplus in the Fund. The Court then may
order the transfer of a specified amount into the IDAT Fund.
         (ORC 4511.19(G); 4511.191(F) and (I))
         (Ord. 2022-44. Adopted 11/22/22)
   (f)   Municipal Court Victim Advocate Fund.
      (1)   The Municipal Court Victim Advocate Fund shall be used to receive
and account for all fees or special assessments collected by the Xenia
Municipal Court pursuant to ORC 1901.26(A) to provide supplemental funding for
the Victim Advocate Program administered by the Law Department.
      (2)   Moneys deposited into the Fund shall be used to provide victim
advocate services, as required by the Ohio Constitution, to victims of crime,
in whatever fashion deemed appropriate by the Law Director.
         (Ord. 96-6. Adopted 01/25/96; Ord. 2022-44. Adopted 11/22/22)
   (g)   Municipal Court Probation Services Fund.
      (1)   Monthly probation supervision fees collected by the Xenia Municipal
Court pursuant to ORC 2951.021 shall be paid to the Finance Director for
deposit into the Municipal Court Probation Services Fund.
      (2)   The Municipal Court Probation Services Fund may also be used to
receive federal or state grant moneys.
      (3)   Moneys within this Fund shall be disbursed upon the request of the
Xenia Municipal Court Probation Department, for use only by that Department for
specialized staff, purchase of equipment, purchase of services, reconciliation
programs for offenders and victims, other treatment programs, including
community addiction service providers, determined appropriate by the Chief
Probation Officer, and other similar expenses related to placing offenders
under a community control sanction.
      (4)   Any moneys received from a federal or state grant and/or loan shall
only be used in accordance with the terms of the grant and/or loan. The Finance
Director may create specific cost centers when required for the purpose of
accounting for grants or loans.
      (5)   Any money in the Municipal Court Probation Services Fund at the end
of the fiscal year shall not revert to the City's General Fund but shall be
retained in the Municipal Court Probation Services Fund.
(ORC 737.41)
(Ord. 2022-44. Adopted 11/22/22)
251.90   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
   (a)   Current Operating Expenses. "Current operating expenses" and "current
expenses" mean the lawful expenditures of the City, except those for permanent
improvements, and except payments for interest, sinking fund, and retirement of
bonds, notes, and certificates of indebtedness of the City.
   (b)   Debt Charges. "Debt charges" means interest, sinking fund, and
retirement charges on bonds, notes, or certificates of indebtedness.
   (c)   Permanent Improvement. "Permanent improvement" or "improvement" mean
any property, assets, or improvement with an estimated life or usefulness of
five (5) years or more, including land and interests therein, and
reconstructions, enlargements, and extensions thereof having an estimated life
or usefulness of five (5) years or more.
(ORC 5705.01)
(Ord. 2022-44. Adopted 11/22/22)
CHAPTER 252
Accounting Division
252.01   Establishment
252.02   Functions
   CROSS REFERENCES
      Duties of Finance Director - CHTR. §
6.03
      Electric Aggregation - see ORC 4929.20 et seq.
      Emergency Ordinances for Appropriations - CHTR. §
5.04
      Finances - CHTR.
Art. IX
      Gas Aggregation - see ORC §§ 4929.26 et seq.
      Purchasing Manual - ADMIN. §
250.03(c)
      Uniform Tax Levy Law - see ORC Ch. 5705
252.01   ESTABLISHMENT.
   In accordance with Section
7.01 of the City's Charter, a Division of Accounting (Accounting Division) is
hereby created within the Department of Finance, which shall have such
employees as may from time-to-time be determined by the City Council. All such
employees shall be appointed by the Finance Director and shall be under the
supervision and control of the Finance Director.
(Ord. 2022-35. Adopted 09/22/22)
252.02   FUNCTIONS.
   (a)   Powers and Duties. The Accounting Division, under the supervision and
direction of the Finance Director, shall perform the following functions:
      (1)   Keep financial records giving a full and accurate account of the
moneys received and disbursed by, or on behalf of, the City;
      (2)   Receive and have custody of all moneys paid to the City and those
moneys payable from the Xenia Municipal Court, as required by law;
      (3)   Disburse moneys when the claim thereon has been submitted in the
proper form, correctly computed, fully approved, and when an appropriation has
been made for the same;
      (4)   Provide fiscal supervision over all Departments and Divisions of
the City regarding proper management of their fiscal concerns and oversee the
distribution and use of City credits cards in accordance with the Purchasing
Manual;
      (5)   Examine and audit the accounts of the City's various Departments
and Divisions, oversee required financial reporting and compliance audits;
      (6)   Process all purchase orders and invoices and payments on the same
in accordance with the Purchasing Manual;
      (7)   Keep all general accounts and any special accounts of the City and
of its respective Departments, Divisions, Boards and Commissions;
      (8)   Prepare estimates of revenues, make fiscal projections and
forecasting regarding City finances, and oversee the preparation of the yearly
budget, prepare or review all appropriation ordinances;
      (9)   Keep all Departments and Divisions, as well as the City Manager,
currently and fully informed of its unencumbered appropriation balances;
      (10)   Manage facility utility contracts, the fleet leasing program,
propane procurement, gas aggregation, and electric aggregation; and
      (11)   Assist the Finance Director in the management of cash, deposits,
investments, assets, debt, and supply inventory.
   (b)   Additional Powers and Duties. The Accounting Division may also perform
any other functions as may be necessary to carry out the duties placed on the
Finance Director pursuant to the City's Charter, or by the Council or by State
law.
(Ord. 2022-35. Adopted 09/22/22)
CHAPTER 253
Accounts Receivable & Billing Division
253.01   Establishment
253.02   Accounts Receivable Manager
253.03   Functions
   CROSS REFERENCES
      Duties of Finance Director - CHTR. §
6.03
      Parking Revenue Fund - ADMIN. §
251.04(a)
      Parking Tickets - see TRAFF.
Ch. 450
      Sanitation Services Fund - ADMIN. §
251.04(b)
      Sewer Fund - ADMIN. §
251.04(c)
      Stormwater Fund - ADMIN. §
251.04(d)
      Unclassified Service - CHTR. §
10.02
      Utility Billing - see S.U. & P.S. Ch. 1040
      Utility Billing Internal Service Fund - ADMIN. §
251.04(e)
      Water Fund - ADMIN. §
251.04(f)
253.01   ESTABLISHMENT.
   In accordance with Section
7.01 of the City's Charter, a Division of Accounts Receivable & Billing
(Accounts Receivable & Billing Division) is hereby created within the
Department of Finance, which shall have such employees as may from time-to-time
be determined by the Council. All such employees shall be appointed by the
Finance Director and shall be under the supervision and control of the Accounts
Receivable Manager.
(Ord.79-61. Adopted 09/13/79; Ord. 2022-35. Adopted 09/22/22)
253.02   ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE MANAGER.
   (a)   Appointment. The Accounts Receivable Manager shall be appointed by the
Finance Director and shall be under the supervision and control of the Finance
Director.
   (b)   Powers and Duties. The Accounts Receivable Manager shall perform such
duties and have such obligations and responsibilities as are set forth in the
Xenia City Code, the laws of the State of Ohio, and all other ordinances and
resolutions passed by the City Council, as the same are assigned to him or her
by the Finance Director. The Accounts Receivable Manager shall direct the work
the Accounts Receivable & Billing Division and shall control the assignment and
training of all Division personnel, subject to the approval of the Finance
Director.
   (c)   Unclassified Service. In accordance with Section
10.02 of the City's Charter, the position of Accounts Receivable Manager shall
be in the unclassified service.
(Ord. 2022-35. Adopted 09/22/22)
253.03   FUNCTIONS.
   (a)   Powers and Duties. The Accounts Receivable & Billing Division shall
perform the following functions:
      (1)   Oversee and administer the billing of customers of the City's
utility systems (water, sewer, stormwater, trash collection), in accordance
with the City's Utilities and Public Services Code, other applicable sections
of the Xenia City Code, and the policies and procedures of the Finance
Department;
      (2)   Collect all moneys due and payable to the City for the use of the
City's utility systems and account for all moneys collected through utility
billing;
      (3)   Maintain utility customer accounts and deposits in accordance with
the City's Utilities and Public Services Code and the policies and procedures
of the Finance Department;
      (4)   Process utility customer disputes regarding billing;
      (5)   Oversee and administer the billing of user fees for services
provided by the Fire & EMS Division in accordance with XCC Section
242.09 and the policies and procedures of the Finance Department;
      (6)   Oversee the collection of unpaid parking tickets in accordance with
the City's Traffic Code;
      (7)   Oversee and administer the collection of any amount due to the City
for services provided by the City pursuant to contract;
      (8)   Keep adequate records and accounts of all moneys due and payable to
the City and all payment received;
      (9)   Pursue the collection of any unpaid amount due to the City through
court action or a collection agency; and
      (10)   Make reports to the Finance Director regarding moneys collected.
   (b)   Additional Powers and Duties. The Accounts Receivable & Billing
Division may also perform any other functions consistent with billing and
collection as may be necessary or as the Xenia City Code, state law, or other
ordinances or resolutions of the Council may designate.
(Ord. 2022-35. Adopted 09/22/22)
CHAPTER 254
Tax Division
254.01   Establishment
254.02   Tax Administrator
254.03   Functions
254.04   Criminal Records Check
   CROSS REFERENCES
      Duties of Finance Director - CHTR. §
6.03
      Hotel/Motel Tax - BUS. REG. & TAX CODE
Ch. 882
      Income Tax - BUS. REG. & TAX CODE
      Municipal Income Tax - see ORC Ch. 718.
      Unclassified Service - CHTR. §
10.02
254.01   ESTABLISHMENT.
   In accordance with Section
7.01 of the City's Charter, a Division of Tax (Tax Division) is hereby created
within the Department of Finance, which shall have such employees as may from
time-to-time be determined by the Council. All such employees shall be
appointed by the Finance Director and shall be under the supervision and
control of the Finance Director.
(Ord. 2022-35. Adopted 09/22/22)
254.02   TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (a)   Appointment. For the purposes of administering and enforcing the City
of Xenia's Income Tax Code, the Finance Director shall appoint a Tax
Administrator, or, upon the recommendation of the Finance Director, City
Council may contract with a regional council of governments for the
administration and enforcement of the City's Tax Code regarding municipal
income taxes under the direction of the Tax Administrator.
   (b)   Powers and Duties. The Tax Administrator shall perform such duties and
have such obligations and responsibilities as are set forth in Chapters
880. and
881. of the City's Tax Code and all other ordinances and resolutions passed by
the Council or applicable statutes of this State relative to municipal income
taxes and/or municipal income tax administrators.
   (c)   Reports to Finance Director. The Tax Administrator shall be under the
supervision and control of the Finance Director.
   (d)   Unclassified Service. In accordance with Section
10.02 of the City's Charter, the position of Tax Administrator shall be in the
unclassified service, unless the City contracts for services regarding the
administration of the City's Income Tax Code under division (a) of this
Section, in which case the Tax Administrator shall be an independent contractor
and not an employee of the City.
(Ord. 2022-35. Adopted 09/22/22)
254.03   FUNCTIONS.
   (a)   Powers and Duties. The Tax Division, under the supervision and
direction of the Finance Director, shall perform the following functions:
      (1)   Administer and enforce the City's Income Tax Code and keep accurate
records showing amounts due from each taxpayer required to file a declaration
or make a return, including taxes withheld, and show the dates and amounts of
payments thereof;
      (2)   Administer and enforce the City's hotel/motel tax and keep accurate
records showing amounts due from each hotel/motel and show the dates and
amounts of payments thereof;
      (3)   Make reports to the Finance Director regarding moneys collected, as
requested.
   (b)   Additional Powers and Duties. The Tax Division may also perform any
other functions consistent with income tax billing and collection and hotel/
motel tax billing and collection as may be necessary or as the Council, the
City Tax Code, or State law may designate.
(Ord. 2022-35. Adopted 09/22/22)
254.04   CRIMINAL RECORDS CHECK.
   (a)   Required Criminal Records Check. Any City employee who has or, in the
case of a prospective employee, will have access to or the use of federal tax
information, the Tax Administrator shall request that the superintendent of the
bureau of criminal identification and investigation conduct a criminal records
check based on the individual's fingerprints in accordance with ORC 109.572.
The Tax Administrator shall request that criminal record information from the
FBI be obtained as a part of the criminal records check.
   (b)   Requests from the FBI. The person for whom the check is required and
the Tax Administrator shall also comply with any separate request by the FBI to
conduct a national criminal records check.
   (c)   Authority of the Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator may adopt
any rules or policies necessary to implement this section.
(Source: ORC 718.131)
(Ord. 2023-31. Adopted 11/21/23)
CHAPTER 255
Payroll & Benefits Division
255.01   Establishment
255.02   Functions
   CROSS REFERENCES
      Administrative Steering Committee - CHTR. §
6.01; ADMIN. §
260.90
      Duties of Finance Director - CHTR. §
6.03
      Insurance Fund - ADMIN. §
251.03(e)
      Pay Plan and Fringe Benefits - CHTR. §
10.06
      Personnel - ADMIN.
Ch. 260
255.01   ESTABLISHMENT.
   In accordance with Section
7.01 of the City's Charter, a Division of Payroll & Benefits (Payroll &
Benefits Division) is hereby created within the Department of Finance, which
shall have such employees as may from time-to-time be determined by the
Council. All such employees shall be appointed by the Finance Director and
shall be under the supervision and control of the Finance Director.
(Ord. 2022-35. Adopted 09/22/22)
255.02   FUNCTIONS.
   (a)   Powers and Duties. The Payroll & Benefits Division, under the
supervision and direction of the Finance Director, shall perform the following
functions:
      (1)   Oversee and administer the compensation and payroll of the City's
employees including, but not limited to, reconciling payroll data, paycheck
deposits, wage deductions, pension payments, bonuses, overtime, holiday pay,
leave usage, and reporting taxes;
      (2)   Oversee and maintain employee payroll files including recording of
new hires and editing of existing employee payroll files;
      (3)   Oversee and administer City employee timekeeping, leave banks and
leave usage;
      (4)   Oversee and administer enrollment of employees in the City's health
insurance plans;
      (5)   Oversee the City's compliance with all income tax laws and
reporting and with all pension system requirements and reporting;
      (6)   Keep adequate records of all employees' compensation and benefits
in accordance with Xenia City Code, the Personnel Manual, directives of the
Administrative Steering Committee, applicable collective bargaining agreements,
and the policies and procedures set forth by the Finance Director;
      (7)   Maintain records for exempt and nonexempt employees in accordance
with the Fair Labor Standards Act;
      (8)   Assist the appropriate City official(s) with labor negotiations;
and
      (9)   Maintain and administer the employee apparel program.
   (b)   Additional Powers and Duties. The Payroll & Benefits Division may also
perform any other functions consistent with employee payroll and benefits as
may be necessary or as the City Council, the City's ordinances, federal law, or
applicable state law may designate.
(Ord. 2022-35. Adopted 09/22/22)
CHAPTER 256
City Clerk's Office
256.01   Establishment
256.02   City Clerk; Deputies
256.03   Acting City Clerk
   CROSS REFERENCES
      Acting City Clerk - CHTR. §
4.10C.
      Authenticating Ordinances and Resolutions - CHTR. §
5.07
      City Clerk
         Appointment - CHTR. §
4.10A.
         Duties - CHTR. §
4.10B.
      Clerk's Journal - CHTR. §
4.11D.
      Keeping Oaths of Office - LEG. §
210.01
      Legislation - CHTR.
Art. V
      Notice of Meetings - CHTR. §
4.11A.
      Ordinances, Resolutions and Motions - LEG.
Ch. 212
256.01   ESTABLISHMENT.
   In accordance with Sections
4.10 and
7.01 of the City Charter, there is hereby created within the Department of
Finance a City Clerk's Office, which shall have such employees as may from
time-to-time be determined by the Council.
(Ord. 2022-35. Adopted 09/22/22)
256.02   CITY CLERK; DEPUTIES.
   (a)   Appointment. The City Clerk shall be appointed by City Council, in
accordance with Section
4.10 of the City Charter.
   (b)   Powers and Duties. The City Clerk shall perform such duties and have
such obligations and responsibilities as are set forth in the City Charter, the
Xenia City Code, and all other ordinances and resolutions passed by the Council
or applicable statutes of this State relative to clerks of council. The City
Clerk may also perform any other functions as may be necessary or as assigned
by the Finance Director or City Council.
   (c)   Reports to Finance Director. The City Clerk shall be under the
supervision and control of the Finance Director.
   (d)   Deputy City Clerks. The Finance Director may appoint assistants to the
City Clerk, who shall be known as Deputy City Clerks, and who shall be under
the direct supervision and control of the City Clerk. Deputy City Clerks shall
perform such duties as are assigned by the City Clerk or the Finance Director.
   (e)   Unclassified Service. In accordance with Section
10.02 of the City's Charter, the position of City Clerk and Deputy City Clerk
shall be in the unclassified service.
(Ord. 2022-35. Adopted 09/22/22)
256.03   ACTING CITY CLERK.
   Should a vacancy in the office of City Clerk, or during periods of absence
or disability of the City Clerk lasting thirty (30) days or more, the Council
shall, by a majority vote of the members present, appoint an Acting City Clerk.
In cases where the City Clerk is absent from his or her office for a period of
less than thirty (30) days due to vacation, illness or other leave, the Finance
Director shall appoint, by administrative directive, an Acting City Clerk to
fill the temporary vacancy. The Acting City Clerk shall have all the duties and
functions of the City Clerk while so acting.
(Charter 4.10)
(Ord. 2022-35. Adopted 09/22/22)
CHAPTER 260
Personnel
260.01   Applicability
260.02   Oath of Office
260.03   Bonds; Liability Insurance
260.04   Organizational Plan; Pay Plan
260.05   Pay Sources
260.06   Pay Period
260.07   Retirement Contributions
260.08   Overtime and Comp Time
260.09   Health Insurance
260.10   Life Insurance
260.11   Holidays
260.12   Sick Leave
260.13   Vacation
260.14   Other Approved Leaves
260.15   Longevity
260.16   Tuition Reimbursement
260.17   Uniforms and Equipment
260.18   Certain Personnel Expenses
260.19   Personnel Policy Manual
260.20    Payment of Leave Upon Retirement
260.21   Rehire of Retired Employees
260.22   Temporary Assignments
260.90   Administrative Steering Committee
260.91   Definitions
   CROSS REFERENCES
      Administrative Departments - CHTR.
Art. VII
      Administrative Steering Committee - CHTR. §
6.01
      Appointment and Removal of Employees - CHTR. §
4.08B.
      City Management - CHTR.
Art. VI
      Fringe Benefits - CHTR. §
10.06C.
      Interference with Administration - CHTR. §
4.08C.
      Organizational Plan - CHTR. §
10.06A.
      Ohio Ethics Law - See ORC Chapter 102
      Pay Plan - CHTR. §
10.06B.
      Personnel Manual - CHTR. §
10.07
      Strikes by Public Employees - see ORC 4117.15
      Workers' Compensation - see ORC Chapter 4123
260.01   APPLICABILITY.   
   (a)   Applicability. Except as otherwise provided in divisions (b) and (c)
of this section, the wage and fringe benefit provisions of this chapter shall
apply to all part-time and full-time unclassified employees of the City and all
part-time and full-time classified employees of the City who are not actively
represented by an employee organization/union who has been certified as the
exclusive representative for the purposes of collective bargaining, pursuant to
ORC 4117.05.
   (b)   Collective Bargaining Agreements. Where a City employee's employment
is covered by a collective bargaining agreement entered into between the City
and an employee organization/union, the employee's wages and fringe benefits
shall be as set forth in the applicable collective bargaining agreement and
only Sections
260.02 to
260.07,
260.18 to
260.21,
260.90, and
260.91 of this chapter shall apply to such employee.
   (c)   Employment Contracts. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to
any City employee whose employment is subject to an individual employment
contract, except as otherwise specifically set forth in the employee's
employment contract.
(Ord. 2022-13. Adopted 05/26/22)
260.02   OATH OF OFFICE.
   (a)   Administrative Officers. The appointed officials, department heads,
division heads, and other supervisors, or any employee authorized to make
expenditures of public moneys, before entering upon the duties of his/her
office, shall take and subscribe to an oath or affirmation, which shall be
filed and kept in the employee's personnel file, that he/she will:
      (1)   Support the Constitution of the United States and of Ohio, and the
City Charter and ordinances of the City;
      (2)   Not be influenced by any consideration except that of merit and
fitness in the appointment and discharge of employees;
      (3)   Not make or authorize the expenditure of public money otherwise
than for adequate consideration and efficient service to the City; and
      (4)   Faithfully, in all other respects, discharge the duties of his/her
office.
      Statutory reference ORC 705.28
   (b)   Other Employees. All City officers and employees, except those
administrative officers covered by Section 260.02(a), before entering upon the
duties of his/her office, shall take and subscribe to an oath or affirmation,
which shall be filed and kept in the employee's personnel file, that he/she
will support the Constitution of the United States and of Ohio, and the City
Charter and ordinances of the City, and will faithfully, honestly, and
impartially discharge the duties of his/her office.
(Ohio Constitution Article XV, § 7)
(Ord. 2022-13. Adopted 05/26/22)
260.03   BONDS; LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (a)   Liability Insurance. All officers and employees of the City shall be
covered by a policy or policies of insurance against liability for injury,
death, or loss to person or property that occurs in the course of their
employment or official responsibilities for the City.
Statutory reference: ORC 9.83
   (b)   Faithful Performance Insurance Policy. All officers and employees of
the City, including employees of the Xenia Municipal Court, shall be covered by
a faithful performance of duty policy of insurance to protect against losses
that would otherwise be protected under a surety bond, as set forth in ORC
3.061.
Statutory reference: ORC 3.061
   (c)   Individual Bonds Required. Notwithstanding any other division of this
section, the Xenia Municipal Court Judge may, in his or her discretion, require
an individual bond from the Clerk of Courts, as set forth in ORC 1901.31.
(Ord. 2022-13. Adopted 05/26/22)
260.04   ORGANIZATIONAL PLAN; PAY PLAN.
   (a)   Organizational Plan.
      (1)   The Administrative Steering Committee shall recommend to City
Council an Organizational Plan, including any amendments thereto, for all City
positions, whether classified or unclassified, considering the duties,
authority and responsibility for each position. Council shall approve the
Organizational Plan, with or without amendment, by resolution.
      (2)   The Administrative Steering Committee shall establish, and may
amend, position descriptions for each position listed in the Organizational
Plan, which descriptions shall include the employment requirements, licensure
requirements, essential functions, and other responsibilities for each
position.
   (b)   Pay Plan. City Council shall, by resolution, approve a yearly Pay Plan
setting forth the compensation, including the minimum and maximum for each pay
grade or pay range, for all positions within the Organizational Plan. Such Pay
Plan may be for a single year or multiple years, but in no case shall the Pay
Plan set wages for a period longer than three (3) years.
(Ord. 2022-13. Adopted 05/26/22)
260.05   PAY SOURCES.
   City Council shall, by resolution, establish a pay source policy whereby
certain employees shall have their compensation, including fringe benefits,
distributed among the various City funds for which the employee provides
services by the percentages per fund established by Council in the resolution.
(Ord. 2022-13. Adopted 05/26/2022)
260.06   PAY PERIOD.
   (a)   Pay Period. The compensation provided for in the annual Pay Plan shall
be paid to the respective officials and employees on a bi-weekly basis, based
on a fourteen (14) day pay period, beginning 12:01 a.m. on Sunday and ending at
midnight on Saturday, unless otherwise provided in the annual Pay Plan or the
affected employee's collective bargaining agreement.
   (b)   Direct Deposit Policy. Council hereby adopts a direct deposit payroll
policy, whereby all compensation shall be paid to all City officials and
employees by direct deposit. All officials and employees of the City shall
provide a written authorization designating a financial institution and an
account number to which payment of the official's or employee's compensation
shall be credited. Such written authorization shall not be considered a public
record.
Statutory reference: ORC 9.37
   (c)   Required Deductions. Payment of compensation to officials and
employees shall be made after withholding the appropriate deductions for:
      (1)   Federal income tax, state income tax, city income tax, Medicaid,
and Social Security contributions;
         Statutory reference: ORC 9.42
      (2)   Insurance contributions and retirement plan contributions, as
applicable;
      (3)   Other deductions that may be required by law or by court order; and
      (4)   Elective deductions by the employee for the purchase of U.S. saving
bonds.
         Statutory reference: ORC 9.40
   (d)   Elective Deductions. The Administrative Steering Committee may
establish a personnel policy allowing other elective deductions from the salary
or wages of any official or employee, which may include but is not limited to:
      (1)   Deductions for credit union savings;
         Statutory reference: ORC 9.43
      (2)   Deductions for payment to a nonprofit debt pooling company,
nonprofit budget and debt counseling service or for payment or compromise of
any account, note, or other indebtedness;
         Statutory reference: ORC 9.45
      (3)   Contributions to one (1) or more specified charitable agencies that
are corporations not-for-profit, community chests, united funds, or other
similar united community fund organizations; and/or
         Statutory reference: ORC 9.80, 9.81
      (4)   Contributions to Ohio's Deferred Compensation Plan or other
approved 457 deferred compensation plan.
(Ord. 2022-13. Adopted 05/26/22)
260.07   RETIREMENT CONTRIBUTIONS.
   (a)   Ohio Public Employee Retirement System. The full amount of the
statutorily required employee contribution to the Ohio Public Employee
Retirement System (OPERS) shall be withheld from the gross pay of each City
employee eligible to participate in OPERS.
   (b)   Ohio Police & Fire Pension Fund. The full amount of the statutorily
required employee contribution to the Ohio Police & Fire Pension Fund (OP&F)
shall be withheld from the gross pay of each City employee eligible to
participate in OP&F.
   (c)   Authority of the Finance Director. The Finance Director shall have the
authority to implement the deductions required by this section and is hereby
authorized to file any reports required by OPERS or OP&F, and to set any
policies, by administrative directive, as may be necessary to implement this
section.
(Ord. 2022-13. Adopted 05/26/22)
260.08   OVERTIME AND COMP TIME.
   (a)   Designation of Work Period. The Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA)
requires employers to designate a "work period" for purposes of calculating
overtime, which usually corresponds with the workweek, but need not do so. Only
covered, nonexempt employees are entitled to overtime. For the purposes of
payroll and for the calculation of overtime, the following are hereby
designated as work periods:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section,
for covered, nonexempt employees, the work period will be forty (40) hours
during a seven (7) consecutive day period, beginning at 12:01 a.m. on Sunday
and ending at midnight on Saturday.
      (2)   For covered, nonexempt employees in the City's Fire & EMS Division,
the work period will be two hundred twelve (212) hours in a twenty-eight (28)
consecutive day period, beginning at 7:00 a.m. on Sunday and ending at 6:59
a.m. on Sunday.
      (3)   For covered, nonexempt employees in the City's Police Division and
Emergency Communications Division, the work period will be eighty (80) hours in
a fourteen (14) consecutive day period, beginning at 12:01 a.m. on Sunday and
ending at midnight on Saturday.
   (b)   Calculation of Overtime. Except as provided in division (c) of this
section, each covered, nonexempt employee, as specified by the FLSA, who is in
active pay status shall be entitled to overtime compensation as follows:
      (1)   Nonexempt:
         A.   Any covered, nonexempt employee whose regularly scheduled work
period is as defined in division (a)(1) of this section shall receive
compensation at one and one-half (1.5) times his or her regular hourly rate, or
shall receive compensatory time off at one and one-half (1.5) hours, for each
hour or part thereof worked in excess of forty (40) hours per seven (7) day
work period.
         B.   Any covered, nonexempt employee whose regularly scheduled work
period is as defined in division (a)(2) of this section shall receive overtime
compensation as set forth in the employee's applicable collective bargaining
agreement.
         C.   Any covered, nonexempt employee whose regularly scheduled work
period is as defined in division (a)(3) of this section shall receive overtime
compensation as set forth in the employee's applicable collective bargaining
agreement.
      (2)   Exempt:  Employees in positions designated as exempt are not
governed by this policy and are not eligible for overtime pay; however, an
exempt employee may be granted time away from work without the use of paid
leave, at the discretion of the employee's appointed official, in recognition
of the extra time such employee works beyond the City's standard business
hours.
   (c)   Compensatory Time.
      (1)   Covered, nonexempt employees in active pay status may elect to
accrue compensatory time ("comp time") in lieu of overtime compensation, at the
rate of one and one-half (1.5) times the overtime worked by the employee, and
the accumulation of such comp time shall be limited to a maximum of one hundred
twenty (120) hours. Any overtime hours worked in excess of one hundred twenty
(120) hours shall automatically be paid as overtime in accordance with division
(b) of this section.
      (2)   An employee may carry over a maximum of forty (40) hours of comp
time to the next calendar year upon written request to the Finance Director on
or before November 1st of each year. All accumulated comp time that remains
unused as of November 1st of each year, excluding any amount that has been
requested for carry over in accordance with this section, shall be paid to the
employee on or before December 1st at the employee's current rate of pay.
      (3)   Upon separation of employment for any reason, the employee shall be
paid any accumulated comp time at the employee's then hourly rate.
   (d)   Flex Time. Council hereby authorizes the various departments and
divisions of the City to utilize "time-off," or "flexible hours," in order to
avoid having employees work in excess of their regular hours in a work period
in accordance with the personnel policy established by the Administrative
Steering Committee. This authorization of flex time is not designed to prohibit
overtime; rather, its purpose is to help the City avoid unnecessary overtime,
to the extent it can do so and still provide requisite levels of service,
without undue interruption to scheduling or service to the public.
   (e)   Personnel Policy. The Administrative Steering Committee shall
establish and maintain a policy or policies in the City's Personnel Policy
Manual regarding the calculation and payment of overtime; the calculation,
administration, approval, and use, and payment of compensatory time; the
administration and use of flex time, and other related matters.
(Ord. 2022-13. Adopted 05/26/22)
260.09   HEALTH INSURANCE.
   (a)   Health Insurance.
      (1)   The City shall provide a plan of group health insurance for all
eligible employees of the City, and such plan shall be approved by City
Council, by resolution. Dental, eye care, or other supplemental insurance may
be provided under the group plan or under separate policy, as approved by
Council in the resolution.
      (2)   The group health insurance plan may include health insurance
coverage for eligible employees, their spouses and dependents.
      (3)   If the group health insurance plan includes health savings accounts
(HSAs), the City may make pretax contributions to an employee's HSA in amounts
approved by Council in the Pay Plan or by separate resolution.
      (4)   City Council shall have the sole authority to determine the types
of health insurance benefits offered, to determine insurance carriers, to
establish a program of self-insurance, or to authorize participation in an
insurance pool.
   (b)   Insurance Premiums. The employee's share of the insurance premiums
shall be paid monthly, by payroll deduction made twice a month, as follows:
      (1)   Employees hired prior to September 1, 2003, shall pay fifteen
percent (15%) of the monthly premium(s).
      (2)   Employees hired on or after September 1, 2003, shall pay twenty
percent (20%) of the monthly premium(s).
      (3)   The City shall pay no more than fifty percent (50%) of any monthly
premiums for dental insurance.
   (c)   Compensation in Lieu of Benefits (Opt-Out Program).
      (1)   Council may, as a part of the Pay Plan or by separate resolution,
authorize an insurance "opt-out" program that provides compensation in lieu of
insurance coverage for eligible employees who voluntarily waive participation
in the City's group health insurance plan by enrolling in alternate health
insurance coverage.
      (2)   In the event spouses or a parent and eligible dependent are both
employed by the City, if the spouses, or parent and eligible dependent, are
enrolled on the City's group health insurance plan, neither spouse, nor the
parent or dependent child, shall be eligible for participation in any opt-out
program.
   (d)   Working Dependent Surcharge. Council may, as a part of the Pay Plan or
by separate resolution, authorize a working dependent surcharge program for
employees who have a dependent (spouse or child) who has access to health
insurance coverage through the dependent's employer. The amount of such
surcharge shall be deducted from the employee's paycheck biweekly or as
otherwise required.
   (e)   Personnel Policy. The Administrative Steering Committee shall
establish and maintain a policy or policies in the City's Personnel Policy
Manual regarding eligibility for and participation in the group health
insurance plan approved by the City Council, as well as any authorized opt-out
program, working dependent surcharge program, voluntary insurance program, and
any other related matters.
   (f)   City Council Members. Members of the City Council, including the
Mayor, may participate in the City's group health insurance plan, subject to
the same eligibility and participation requirements for City employees as set
forth in the City's Personnel Policy Manual; provided, however, that the
Council member's share of the insurance premiums shall be one hundred percent
(100%) of such premiums to be paid monthly, by payroll deduction.
(Ord. 2022-13. Adopted 05/26/22)
260.10   LIFE INSURANCE.
   (a)   Life Insurance.
      (1)   The City shall provide all full-time, nonunion employees with group
term life insurance in the amount of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000), and
accidental death and dismemberment insurance in the amount of fifty thousand
dollars ($50,000).
      (2)   Union employees may be provided group term life insurance and
accidental death and dismemberment insurance in the amounts agreed to in the
employee's applicable collective bargaining agreement.
   (b)   Personnel Policy. The Administrative Steering Committee shall
establish and maintain a policy or policies in the City's Personnel Policy
Manual regarding eligibility for and participation in the group term life
insurance, accidental death and dismemberment insurance, and other related
matters.
   (c)   City Council Members. Members of the City Council, including the
Mayor, may participate in the City's life insurance plan and/or accidental
death and dismemberment insurance, subject to the same eligibility and
participation requirements for City employees as set forth in the City's
Personnel Policy Manual; provided, however, that the Council member's share of
the insurance premiums shall be one hundred percent (100%) of the monthly
premiums to be paid monthly, by payroll deduction.
(Ord. 2022-13. Adopted 05/26/22)
260.11   HOLIDAYS.
   (a)   City Holidays. The following days are hereby designated as City
holidays for the purposes of setting work schedules for the various City
Departments and Divisions, and such days shall be deemed as paid holidays, to
be paid as regular hours, for all full-time City employees, and may be deemed
as paid holidays for all part-time City employees on a pro-rated basis, in the
discretion of the appropriate appointed official or the Municipal Court Judge,
except as otherwise provided herein or as otherwise provided in the employee's
applicable collective bargaining agreement:
New Year's Day                       January 1st (all day)
Martin Luther King Jr. Day           Third Monday in January (all day)
Presidents Day                       Third Monday in February (all day)
Memorial Day                         Last Monday in May (all day)
Juneteenth National Independence Day June 19th (all day)
Independence Day                     July 4th (all day)
Labor Day                            First Monday in September (all day)
Veterans Day                         November 11th (all day)
Thanksgiving Day                     Fourth Thursday in November (all day)
Day after Thanksgiving               Fourth Friday in November (all day)
Christmas Eve                        December 24th (half day)
Christmas Day                        December 25th (all day)
New Year's Eve                       December 31st (half day)
 
   (b)   Observance. If June 19th, July 4th or Veterans Day falls on a
Saturday, the holiday will be observed on the preceding day. If June 19th, July
4th or Veterans Day falls on a Sunday, the holiday will be observed on the next
succeeding day. If Christmas Eve/New Year's Eve and Christmas Day/New Year's
Day fall on Friday and Saturday, respectively, the Eve will be observed on
Thursday and the Day observed on Friday. If Christmas Eve/New Year's Eve and
Christmas Day/New Year's Day fall on a Saturday and Sunday, respectively, the
Eve will be observed on Friday and the Day observed on Monday. If Christmas
Eve/New Year's Eve and Christmas Day/New Year's Day fall on a Sunday and
Monday, respectively, the Eve will be observed on Friday and the Day observed
on Monday.
   (c)   Flex Holiday Time. In addition to the above-listed City holidays, each
appointed official, consisting of the City Manager, the Finance Director and
the Law Director, and the Judge of the Xenia Municipal Court, without order of
the Court, may set and grant an additional eight (8) hours of holiday pay per
year to their respective full-time employees, and may be deemed as paid
holidays for all part-time City employees on a pro-rated basis, in the
discretion of the appropriate appointed official or the Municipal Court Judge,
to be paid as regular hours, for the Departments and Divisions under their
control, except as otherwise provided herein or as otherwise provided in the
employee's applicable collective bargaining agreement. Such holiday time shall
be set in the discretion of the appointed official or the Xenia Municipal Court
Judge, but such time shall be scheduled and published for the various
Departments and Divisions no later than January 15th of each year.
   (d)   Pay. An employee who is not scheduled to work on a holiday shall be
paid at the employee's regular rate of pay, up to a maximum of eight (8) hours,
for the holiday. An employee who works on a holiday shall be paid at one and
one-half (1.5) times the employee's regular rate of pay for actual hours worked
on the holiday and at the employee's regular rate of pay for any remaining
hours, up to eight (8) hours total.
   (e)   Xenia Municipal Court. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to
affect or limit the authority of the Xenia Municipal Court Judge, in his sole
discretion, to set the Court's yearly work and holiday schedule, upon an order
from the Court.
   (f)   Personnel Policy. The Administrative Steering Committee shall
establish and maintain a policy or policies in the City's Personnel Policy
Manual regarding eligibility for holiday pay and other related matters.
(Ord. 2020-13. Adopted 05/28/20; Ord. 2022-05. Adopted 03/10/22; Ord. 2022-13.
Adopted 05/26/22)
260.12   SICK LEAVE.
   (a)   Award of Sick Leave Credits. Each regular, full-time employee of the
City shall be entitled to 0.0577 hours of sick leave credit for each completed
hour in active pay status. Part-time, seasonal, student, external, temporary,
volunteer, or other nonpermanent employees shall not be entitled to sick leave
credits.
   (b)   Accumulation. Sick leave accumulation for all full-time employees
shall be capped at a maximum of two thousand eighty (2,080) hours.
   (c)   Transfers. An employee who transfers to City employment from another
public agency shall be credited with the unused, accumulated balance of the
employee's accumulated sick leave with the other public agency, up to the
maximum accumulation permitted under division (b) of this section, upon proper
certification of the unused, accumulated sick leave balance from the employee's
prior public agency employer.
   (d)   Reinstatements. An employee's accumulated, unused sick leave that the
employee does not elect to be paid for under division (e) of this section shall
be placed to the employee's credit upon the employee's reemployment with the
City, provided that the reemployment takes place within ten (10) years of the
date on which the employee was separated from public service with the City. The
ten (10) year period shall be tolled for any period during which the employee
holds elective public office, whether by election or by appointment.
   (e)   Payment upon Separation.
      (1)   Upon separation of employment for any reason, subject to the
limitations of this division, an employee with at least one (1) full year of
employment with the City may elect to be paid for accumulated and unused sick
leave earned up to the date of separation. Such payment will be equal to the
employee's current hourly rate of pay, times the number of accumulated, unused
sick leave credits (up to a maximum of 1,400 hours), times a percentage credit.
The percentage credit will be a minimum of five percent (5%) plus an additional
one percent (1%) for every thirty-two (32) hours of accumulated, unused sick
leave expressed as:
         % credit = 5% + H/32
         where "H" is the accumulated, unused sick leave hours (up to a maximum
of 1,400 hours) at separation of employment. In all cases, the percentage
credit shall not exceed 48.75.
      (2)   In case of death of a current employee with at least one (1) full
year of employment with the City, payment will be made, in accordance with this
division, to the employee's estate or legal beneficiaries in accordance with
state law.
      (3)   Payment made for accumulated, unused sick leave shall eliminate all
sick leave credit accrued but unused by the employee at the time payment is
made.
      (4)   If the employee does not elect to receive payment, the employee's
unused sick leave shall remain to the employee's credit for a period of ten
(10) years from the date of the employee's termination or resignation, at which
time such sick leave shall expire and no longer be valid. The employee's sick
leave will credited to him or her upon his or her reemployment with the City or
transferred to another public agency within said ten (10) year period, in
accordance with ORC 124.38.
   (f)   Personnel Policy. The Administrative Steering Committee shall
establish and maintain a policy or policies in the City's Personnel Policy
Manual regarding the use of sick leave, donation of sick leave, wellness
incentives, any disciplinary procedures regarding the abuse or misuse of sick
leave, and other related matters.
(Ord. 2022-13. Adopted 05/26/22)
260.13   VACATION.
   (a)   Award of Vacation Credits.
      (1)   Each regular, full-time employee of the City shall be entitled to
vacation leave credit for each completed hour in active pay status as follows:
 
Length of Service   Hourly Accrual Rate Annual Rate Maximum      Maximum Payout
(Complete Years)                                    Accumulation
Less than 5 years   0.04616             12 days     240          240
5 years to 10 years 0.05769             15 days     240          240
10 years to 15      0.06924             18 days     360          360
years
15 years to 20      0.08076             21 days     360          360
years
Over 20 years       0.09231             24 days     360          360
 
      (2)   Part-time, seasonal, student, external, temporary, volunteer, or
other nonpermanent employees shall not be entitled to vacation leave credits.
   (b)   Accumulation. Vacation leave accumulation for all full-time employees
shall be capped as provided in division (a)(1) of this section based on an
employee's length of service.
   (c)   Prior Service Credit. Beginning on the effective date of this
division:
      (1)   A person employed by the City who is currently earning vacation
credits under employment with the State, any political subdivision of the
State, or the armed forces is entitled to have the employee's prior service
with the State, the political subdivision, or the armed forces counted as
service with the City for the purpose of computing the employee's hourly
vacation credit accrual rate upon hire and upon proper certification of the
employee's prior service from the State, the political subdivision of the
State, or the armed forces.
         Statutory reference: ORC 9.44
      (2)   The Administrative Steering Committee is hereby authorized to
establish a personnel policy whereby City Council, for employees appointed by
the City Council, or the appropriate appointed official may grant prior service
credit for prior non-Ohio public service or relevant private sector service to
a hiree for any nonunion position, for the purpose of computing the employee's
hourly vacation credit accrual rate upon hire.
      (3)   A nonunion employee hired prior to the effective date of this
division may submit documentation to receive credit for his or her total prior
non-Ohio public service or relevant private sector service for vacation accrual
computation purposes within sixty (60) days of the effective date of this
division. If such prior service credit is approved by City Council, for
employees appointed by City Council, or by the appropriate appointed official,
the employee's updated vacation credit accrual rate will be for future accruals
only and shall not apply retroactively.
   (d)   Transfers. For employees hired on or after the effective date of this
division:
      (1)   A person hired by the City who is currently earning vacation
credits under employment with the State, any political subdivision of the
State, or the armed forces may transfer up to a maximum of eighty (80) hours of
unused, accumulated vacation leave with the State, political subdivision, or
armed forces, upon proper certification of the unused, accumulated vacation
leave balance from the State, political subdivision or armed forces. Any hours
transferred shall not be eligible for payment under division (e) of this
section and shall be used before any vacation credits earned from City
employment.
      (2)   The Administrative Steering Committee is hereby authorized to
establish a personnel policy whereby City Council, for employees hired by
Council, or the hiree's appointed official, may authorize the transfer of up to
a maximum of eighty (80) hours of unused, accumulated vacation leave from the
hiree's then current non-Ohio public service or private sector service for
unclassified, nonunion positions.
   (e)   Payment upon Separation. An employee who resigns or dies is entitled
to payment, at his or her current rate of pay, for any accumulated, unused
vacation leave earned up to the time of resignation or death, up to a maximum
of two hundred forty (240) or three hundred sixty (360) hours, as applicable,
provided the following has occurred:
      (1)   The employee has successfully completed his or her probationary
period;
      (2)   The employee has given proper notice of resignation; and
      (3)   The employee has returned all City property in his or her
possession.
An employee who is terminated for just cause shall not be entitled to
compensation for any accumulated, unused vacation leave.
   (f)   Personnel Policy. The Administrative Steering Committee shall
establish and maintain a policy or policies in the City's Personnel Policy
Manual regarding the use of vacation leave, any disciplinary procedures
regarding the abuse or misuse of vacation leave, and other related matters.
(Ord. 2022-13. Adopted 05/26/22; Ord. 2024-10. Adopted 05/09/24)
260.14   OTHER APPROVED LEAVES.
   (a)   Personal Leave.
      (1)   Each regular, full-time employee of the City in active pay status
on January 1 shall receive sixteen (16) hours of personal leave per year.
Personal leave cannot be carried over to the next year and must be used in the
calendar year it is earned.
      (2)   Employees not in active pay status on January 1 on each year shall
receive a prorated amount of personal leave proportionate to the date of hire,
according to the following schedule:
         Hired in:   Quarter 1 - January 1 through March 31: Sixteen (16) hours
         Hired in:   Quarter 2 - April 1 through June 30: Twelve (12) hours
         Hired in:   Quarter 3 - July 1 through September 30: Eight (8) hours
         Hired in:   Quarter 4 - October 1 through December 31: Zero (0) hours
      (3)   Employees shall not be paid for unused personal leave upon their
separation from employment for any reason. Personal leave is not a cash benefit
and may not be cashed out.
   (b)   Injury Leave. Any regular, full-time or part-time employee who becomes
unable to perform the duties of his or her position due to a physical injury or
illness suffered in the discharge or performance of his or her official duties,
except for gross negligence, recklessness, or intentional self-injury, may be
placed on injury leave (i.e., salary continuation), up to a maximum of seven
hundred twenty (720) hours. Such employee shall continue to receive his or her
regular straight time daily rate of pay while on injury leave. Said injury
leave shall be paid in full by the City, shall be in lieu of Workers'
Compensation lost wage benefits or temporary total compensation chargeable to
the City, and the employee on injury leave may apply to the Bureau of Workers'
Compensation for medical benefits only.
   (c)   Military Leave.
      (1)   Leave of absence without loss of pay shall be provided for all
officers and employees of the City who are members of the Ohio organized
militia or other reserve components of the U.S. armed forces, including the
Ohio National Guard, for such time as they are performing service in the
uniformed services for periods of up to twenty-two (22) eight (8) hour work
days [176 hours], or for employees of the City's Fire Division, seventeen (17)
twenty-four (24) hour work days [408 hours] within one federal fiscal year
(October 1 - September 30).
         Statutory Reference: ORC 5923.05
      (2)   Any personnel policies established by the Administrative Steering
Committee regarding Military Leave shall also comply with the Uniformed
Services Employment and Re-Employment Rights Act of 1994 (USERRA).
   (d)   Family and Medical Leave. The Administrative Steering Committee shall
establish a family medical leave policy in the Personnel Policy Manual that
complies with the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 and the National Defense
Authorization Act.
   (e)   Other Leaves. Other leaves, such as court leave, bereavement leave,
disability leave, paid or unpaid administrative leave, or leaves of absence may
be established by the Administrative Steering Committee in the Personnel Policy
Manual.
   (f)   Personnel Policy. The Administrative Steering Committee shall
establish and maintain policies in the City's Personnel Policy Manual regarding
the use of any leave established or authorized under this section, return to
work provisions, any disciplinary procedures regarding the abuse or misuse of
such leave, and other related matters.
(Ord. 2022-13. Adopted 05/26/22)
260.15   LONGEVITY.
   (a)   Longevity Benefits. All nonunion, full-time and part-time employees of
the City shall be eligible for a longevity benefit based upon their length of
continuous employment with the City as of November 1st of each year. Such
longevity benefit shall be paid annually on the first pay period after November
1st and shall be computed as follows:
      (1)   Upon five (5) years of continuous service, the employee shall be
paid three hundred fifty dollars ($350).
      (2)   For each additional year of continuous service over five (5) years,
the employee's longevity benefit shall be increased by an additional thirty-
five dollars ($35) per year.
   (b)   Continuous Service. For the purposes of this section, when calculating
years of continuous service, two thousand eighty (2080) hours in active pay
status will be deemed the equivalent of one (1) year of continuous service.
   (c)   Seasonal and Temporary Employees. Employees who are employed on a
seasonal or temporary basis are not eligible for longevity benefits.
   (d)   Personnel Policy. The Administrative Steering Committee shall
establish and maintain policies in the City's Personnel Policy Manual regarding
payment of longevity pay and other related matters.
(Ord. 2022-13. Adopted 05/26/22; Ord. 2024-10. Adopted 05/09/24)
260.16   TUITION REIMBURSEMENT.
   (a)   Tuition Reimbursement Program. The Administrative Steering Committee
is hereby authorized to establish, by personnel policy in the Personnel Policy
Manual, a tuition reimbursement program to reward City employees' efforts to
further their education and improve their skills, thereby enhancing their job
performance. Such tuition reimbursement program shall be limited by Council's
appropriations for said program.
   (b)   Eligible Courses of Study. The established tuition reimbursement
program shall be limited to courses of study that are reasonably related to the
employee's job, as established by the Administrative Steering Committee.
   (c)   Maximum Reimbursement. The maximum amount an employee may be
reimbursed for tuition costs shall be limited to five thousand dollars ($5,000)
per calendar year, per employee.
(Ord. 2022-13. Adopted 05/26/22)
260.17   UNIFORMS AND EQUIPMENT.
   (a)   Furnished by City. A City employee who is required to wear City
uniforms and/or carry City equipment shall be furnished such uniforms and/or
equipment at City expense, or provided a stipend by the City for the employee
to furnish himself or herself with such required uniforms and/or equipment,
upon authorization of the employee's department or division head and the
employee's appointing authority.
   (b)   Return. Upon an employee's separation from City employment for any
reason, the employee shall return to the City any provided uniforms and/or
equipment, or any uniforms and/or equipment purchased with a City-provided
stipend, on or before the employee's last day of employment. The Finance
Director is hereby authorized to withhold an employee's final paycheck until
such items are returned to the City, and if the employee has not returned such
items within thirty (30) days of the employee's last day of employment, the
Finance Director is hereby authorized to deduct the cost of such items from any
final pay due to the employee.
   (c)   Personnel Policy. The Administrative Steering Committee shall
establish and maintain a policy or policies in the City's Personnel Policy
Manual regarding the provision of uniforms and/or equipment to employees, the
care and maintenance of such uniforms and/or equipment, disciplinary procedures
regarding the abuse or misuse of such items, and other related matters.
(Ord. 2022-13. Adopted 05/26/22)
260.18   CERTAIN PERSONNEL EXPENSES.
   (a)   Allowable Expenditures. The Finance Director is hereby authorized to
draw warrants on the General Fund for payment of the following personnel
expenditures, if funds for the same have been appropriated by the Council:
      (1)   Plaques, certificates, gift cards and other items of recognition
and appreciation;
      (2)   Cards, flowers and similar expressions of sympathy or get-well
wishes;
      (3)   Refreshments for general meeting purposes, retirement receptions,
employee recognition dinners, etc.; and/or
      (4)   Any other personnel expenditure specifically authorized by the
Council by resolution.
   (b)   Effect. Expenditures listed in division (a) of this section shall not
be considered personal gain or compensation for official duties.
   (c)   Personnel Policy. The Administrative Steering Committee shall
establish and maintain a policy or policies regarding the personnel
expenditures authorized by this section and other related matters.
(Ord. 2022-13. Adopted 05/26/22)
260.19   PERSONNEL POLICY MANUAL.
   (a)   Purpose. To provide quality services to the citizens of this City,
there is a need to provide guidance for the administration of those services
and to establish employment policies to bring a sense of order and unity to the
workplace. The purpose of the Personnel Policy Manual shall be to establish
policies, rules, and regulations governing the provision of high-quality
services to the citizens and to achieve a high degree of understanding,
cooperation, efficiency, and unity among the City's employees. The Personnel
Policy Manual is intended to establish systematic and equitable procedures and
regulations that provide uniform policies for the administration of all City
employees, within both the classified and unclassified service, and to promote
the professional management of the City's business.
   (b)   Development. The Administrative Steering Committee shall develop the
policies, rules and regulations, as well as any amendments thereto, pertaining
to the methods of compensation and fringe benefits approved by Council in this
chapter, along with personnel management policies in the Personnel Policy
Manual.
   (c)   Composition. The Personnel Policy Manual shall include:
      (1)   Provisions dealing with the administration and use of overtime,
holidays, personal days, vacation, compensatory time, flex time, sick leave,
family medical leave, injury leave, bereavement leave, longevity compensation,
retirement plans and insurance plans, and any other fringe benefits authorized
by Council under this chapter.
      (2)   Provisions providing policies and procedures for discipline of City
employees, including causes for, and suspension, demotion, or removal, as well
as for appeals to the Civil Service Commission from suspensions, demotions or
removals of all officers and employees in the classified service whose
employment is not covered by a collective bargaining agreement.
      (3)   Procedures for the in-house resolution of complaints or grievances
to ensure employees' questions, grievances or complaints arising from
misunderstandings and the application of the Manual's policies, procedures,
rules, and regulations are promptly heard, answered and action taken to resolve
the issues.
      (4)   Policies and procedures governing equal opportunity employment,
employment eligibility verification, nepotism, nondiscrimination, workers'
compensation, unemployment compensation, health insurance following separation,
and any other policies or procedures necessary to comply with federal or state
law.
      (5)   Any other practices and procedures necessary for the administration
and management of City personnel.
   (d)   Application.
      (1)   If there is a conflict between the provisions of the Manual and the
specific provision of a collective bargaining agreement entered into between
the City and a group of employees, the terms of the collective bargaining
agreement shall prevail only as to those employees covered by the agreement.
      (2)   If a collective bargaining agreement is silent as to any matter
covered by the Manual, the Manual shall prevail and apply to those employees
covered by that collective bargaining agreement, except as otherwise provided
in the Manual.
      (3)   The City Charter and any City ordinances shall prevail in the event
of a conflict between the policies, rules and procedures contained in the
Manual and the Charter or ordinance.
   (e)   Use of Manual. An up-to-date copy of the Personnel Policy Manual shall
be made readily available to all employees. Upon employment, all new hires will
be required to sign a statement that he or she is aware of the Manual and its
availability, and that he or she understands that his or her employment is
governed by the policies, rules, regulations, and procedures contained therein.
The signed employee statement shall be placed in the employee's personnel file.
(Ord. 2022-13. Adopted 05/26/22)
260.20   PAYMENT OF LEAVE UPON RETIREMENT.
   (a)   Sick Leave. Upon retirement, an employee may:
      (1)   Elect to receive payment for unused sick leave accrued up to the
employee's date of retirement in accordance with Section
260.12(e);
      (2)   If the employee is to be rehired pursuant to Section
260.21 of this chapter, the employee may elect to carry over all accrued unused
sick leave, up to a maximum of two thousand eighty (2080) hours, or the
employee may elect to carry over a maximum of seven hundred (700) hours of sick
leave and receive payment for the remaining balance up to the maximum allowed
under Section
260.12(e).
      (3)   If the employee does not elect to receive payment, the employee's
unused sick leave shall remain to the employee's credit for a period of ten
(10) years from the date of the employee's retirement, at which time such sick
leave shall expire and no longer be valid. The employee's sick leave will be
credited to him or her upon his or her reemployment with the City or
transferred to another public agency within said ten (10) year period, in
accordance with ORC 124.38.
   (b)   Vacation. Upon retirement, an employee may elect to receive payment
for all unused vacation leave accrued up to the employee's date of retirement,
up to a maximum of two hundred forty (240) or three hundred sixty (360) hours,
as applicable or, if the employee is to be rehired pursuant to Section
260.21 of this chapter, the employee may elect to carry over eighty (80) hours
of vacation leave and receive payment for the remaining balance.
   (c)   Longevity. Longevity benefits for eligible employees who retire from
the City's service shall be prorated to the nearest pay period for employees
retiring from City service prior to November 1st of the year.
   (d)   Comp Time. Upon retirement, an employee who has any accrued, unused
compensatory time shall be paid the entire accrued, unused balance at the
employee's then current rate of pay.
(Ord. 2022-13. Adopted 05/26/22)
260.21   REHIRE OF RETIRED EMPLOYEES.
   (a)   Rehire. The City may rehire retired employees who have met the age
and/or service requirements of their respective retirement systems and who are
receiving retirement benefits in accordance with the provisions of their
respective retirement system into unclassified or noncompetitive classified
positions. The employee's retirement shall be considered a break in service,
and the employee's new appointment date will be the date of rehire.
   (b)   Pay Rate. If a retired employee is rehired to the same position he or
she held at retirement, the employee's rate of pay shall not exceed the
employee's rate of pay at retirement. If the rehired employee is being rehired
but to a different position than he or she held at retirement, the rate of pay
shall not exceed the rate of pay that would be offered to a newly hired
employee in the same position.   
   (c)   Unused Leave. Employees who are rehired may have all accrued, unused
paid leave balances carried forward to the new rehire date, subject to any
restrictions contained in Section 260.20 of this chapter. Said balances may be
used by the employee after rehire and he or she may cash out those balances
upon final retirement or separation in accordance with City policy; provided,
however, that upon rehire, the employee shall accrue leave and be eligible for
benefits as a newly hired employee, in accordance with division (d) of this
section.
   (d)   Accrual of Leave.
      (1)   An employee who has retired in accordance with the provision of any
retirement plan offered by the State shall not have prior service with the
State, any political subdivision of the State (including the City), or a
regional council of government established in accordance with ORC Chapter 167.
counted for the purpose of computing vacation leave.
         Statutory reference: ORC 9.44(C)
      (2)   Upon rehire, the employee shall accrue all leave benefits as a
newly hired employee, in accordance with the Personnel Policy Manual.
      (3)   A retired employee who is rehired shall pay insurance premiums as a
newly hired employee based on his or her rehire date.
   (e)   Employees of Council. The reemployment of any employee appointed by
the City Council or by any board or commission of the City shall comply with
the requirements of ORC 145.381.
(Ord. 2022-13. Adopted 05/26/22)
260.22   TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENTS.
   (a)   Temporary Assignment. Effective January 1, 2023, an employee
temporarily assigned to a position with a classification that has a lower rate
of pay will not be reduced from his or her current rate of pay. An employee
temporarily assigned to a position with a classification that has a higher rate
of pay will be advanced to whichever is the greater of the following:
      (1)   The minimum rate for the classification of the position to which
the employee has been temporarily assigned; or
      (2)   $1.50 per hour increase over the employee's current rate of pay; or
      (3)   A rate of pay which is at least five percent (5%) greater than the
employee's current rate of pay.
   (b)   Definition. A temporary assignment is the act of assigning an employee
to a position with a higher or lower classification from the employee's current
position for a temporary period of time. Temporary assignments can occur
because of vacancies, illness, emergencies, or other special circumstances.
(Ord. 2023-06. Adopted 04/13/23)
260.90   ADMINISTRATIVE STEERING COMMITTEE.
   (a)   Establishment. There is hereby established an Administrative Steering
Committee of the City to provide policy direction and guidance on human
resources and personnel management, building security, information technology
issues and projects, and any other topics or issues affecting City Departments
and their Divisions that are under the direction and control of the Appointed
Officials.
   (b)   Composition. The Administrative Steering Committee shall consist of
the City Manager, the Finance Director, and the Law Director and, at the
discretion of the Xenia Municipal Court Judge, a representative of the Xenia
Municipal Court designated by the Judge.
   (c)   Duties. The Administrative Steering Committee shall:
      (1)   Recommend to Council an Organizational Plan, including any
amendments thereto, for all City positions, whether classified or unclassified;
      (2)   Establish and maintain, and may amend, position descriptions for
each position listed in the Organizational Plan;
      (3)   Recommend to Council a yearly Pay Plan for all compensated employee
positions in the City's service;
      (4)   Establish and maintain the Personnel Policy Manual.
(Ord. 2022-13. Adopted 05/26/22)
260.91   DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   Active Pay Status. Except as otherwise defined in this chapter,
"active pay status" shall mean conditions under which an employee is eligible
to receive pay directly from the City (i.e., the employee is not on an unpaid
leave of absence and/or suspension or paid administrative leave) and includes
hours worked, vacation leave, sick leave, comp time, personal leave, or other
approved paid leave.
   (b)   Armed Forces. Armed Forces includes the Ohio National Guard and the
active and reserve components of the United States Army, Navy, Air Force,
Marine Corps, Coast Guard, or Space Force.
   (c)   Continuous Service. Continuous service means regular, full-time or
part-time employment with the City without any break in service. Any
termination, separation, or retirement from City employment, other than a
layoff, is considered a break in service.
   (d)   Day or Days. Unless expressly provided as "workday(s)," a time
duration specified as a number of days shall be computed as calendar days.
   (e)   Employee Organization. Employee organization means any labor or bona
fide organization in which public employees participate and that exists for the
purpose, in whole or in part, of dealing with public employers concerning
grievances, labor disputes, wages, hours, terms, and other conditions of
employment.
Statutory reference: ORC 4117.01
   (f)   Exclusive Representative. Exclusive representative means the employee
organization certified or reorganized as an exclusive representative under ORC
4117.05.
Statutory reference: ORC 4117.01
   (g)   Exempt Employee. An employee whose position is exempt from the
overtime provisions of the FLSA.
   (h)   FLSA. The federal law(s) known as the Fair Labor Standards Act.
   (i)   Nonexempt Employee. An employee whose position is covered by the
overtime provisions of the FLSA.
   (j)   Political Subdivision. Political subdivision means a municipal
corporation, township, county, school district, special district, or other body
corporate and politic responsible for governmental activities in a geographic
area smaller than that of the State that pays into either the Ohio Public
Employees Retirement System or the Ohio Police & Fire Fund.
   (k)   Public Agency. Means the Ohio General Assembly, all courts, any
department, division, institution, board, commission, authority, bureau or
other instrumentality of the State of Ohio, a county, city, village, or
township, the five (5) state retirement systems, and a regional council of
governments established under ORC Chapter 167. Public agency does not include a
department, division, institution, board, commission, authority or other
instrumentality of the State or of a county, municipal corporation, township,
or other governmental entity that functions exclusively for cultural,
educational, historical, humanitarian, advisory, or research purposes; that
does not expend more than ten thousand dollars ($10,000) per calendar year,
excluding salaries and wages of employees; and whose members are uncompensated.
Public agency does also not include a nonprofit corporation formed under ORC
187.01.
Statutory reference: ORC 102.01
(Ord. 2022-13. Adopted 05/26/22)
TITLE EIGHT: BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
CHAPTER 280
Planning and Zoning Commission
280.01   Establishment; Organization
280.02   At-Large Members
280.03   Chairperson
280.04   Meetings; Rules of Order
280.05   Powers and Duties
   CROSS REFERENCES
      Creation - CHTR §
8.03
      Oath of Office - see ORC 733.68
      Open Meetings - CHTR §
13.03
      Plats - see ORC Ch. 711
      Planning Commissions - see ORC Ch. 713
      Planning functions - see OH CONST. ART. XVIII § 7
280.01   ESTABLISHMENT; ORGANIZATION.
   (a)   Establishment. A Planning and Zoning Commission was established
pursuant to Section
8.01 of the City of Xenia Charter.
   (b)   Membership. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall consist of five
(5) at-large members and a Chairperson who shall be a sitting member of the
City Council.
(Charter 8.03)
   (c)   Organization.
      (1)   At its first meeting of the year, the members of the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall elect a Vice Chairperson by a majority vote. When
acting as the presiding officer in the absence of the Chairperson, the Vice
Chairperson shall still be considered an at-large member and shall have full
voting privileges.
(Charter 8.03)
      (2)   The City Clerk, or his or her designee, shall serve as the
Secretary of the Commission. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep an
accurate record of the proceedings of the Commission.
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
280.02   AT-LARGE MEMBERS.
   (a)   Qualifications. The at-large members of the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall be qualified electors of the City and shall meet this
qualification for membership at the time of their appointment and during their
respective terms of office and shall not hold other elected office or
employment with the City.
(Charter 8.02)
   (b)   Oath of Office. Before entering upon the duties of his or her office,
each at-large member of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall take and
subscribe to an oath or affirmation, which shall be filed and kept in the
office of the City Clerk, that he or she will:
      (1)   Support the constitution of the United States and of this State,
and the Charter and ordinances of the City;
      (2)   Faithfully, honestly, and impartially discharge the duties of his
or her office.
         (Statutory Reference ORC 733.68)
   (c)   Term. The at-large members of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall
be appointed by City Council for four (4) year terms. The terms of the at-large
members shall be staggered so that not more than two (2) at-large members'
terms expire in the same year. Each member shall continue in office until his
or her successor is appointed.
(Charter 8.03)
   (d)   Forfeiture of Office; Removal. Any at-large member of the Planning and
Zoning Commission may be removed from office in accordance with Section
8.02D. of the City Charter.
   (e)   Vacancies. In the event an at-large member of the Planning and Zoning
Commission resigns, is unable to serve, forfeits his or her office by failing
to attend three (3) consecutive meetings when such absences are unexcused, or
is removed from office, the vacant seat shall be filled for the remainder of
its unexpired term by the appointment of a new member by the City Council.
(Charter 8.02)
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
280.03   CHAIRPERSON.
   (a)   Councilmember. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall be chaired by
a sitting member of the City Council, who shall be appointed by Council.
   (b)   Term. The term of the Chairperson shall be two (2) years, and the
Chairperson shall continue in office until his or her successor is appointed.
   (c)   Vacancy. In the event the Chairperson resigns, is unable to serve, is
disqualified to serve, or forfeits his or her office by failing to attend three
(3) consecutive meetings when such absences are unexcused by the Planning and
Zoning Commission, the City Council shall appoint a new Chairperson by majority
vote.
   (d)   Powers. The Chairperson shall approve the agenda for all meetings of
the Planning and Zoning Commission and, when present, shall be the presiding
officer at all meetings of the Commission. The Chairperson shall have no voting
privileges, except in the event of a tie.
(Charter 8.03)
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
280.04   MEETINGS; RULES OF ORDER.
   (a)   Open Meetings Act. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall comply
with Ohio's Open Meetings Act.
   (b)   Meeting Times. The Planning and Zoning Commission is hereby authorized
to conduct its meetings on the dates and at the times established by a majority
vote of the Commission, and the Commission shall meet as is necessary to
conduct and transact the business before it.
   (c)   Rules of Order. The Planning and Zoning Commission may adopt its own
rules providing for the conduct of its meetings. In the absence of adopting its
own rules, the Commission shall comply with the Rules of Council.
   (d)   Quorum. A majority of the at-large members of the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any
meeting of the Commission. The Chairperson shall not be counted towards the
quorum.
   (e)   Voting. A majority vote of the at-large members present at the meeting
is required to approve or disapprove any matter coming before the Planning and
Zoning Commission. In the event of a tie vote among the at-large members
present, the Chairperson may vote in the affirmative and the motion shall be
considered passed.
(Charter 8.02)
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
280.05   POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (a)   Powers and Duties.
      (1)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall perform all duties
assigned to it by the City Council, by ordinance or by resolution, related to
the planning or regulation of the growth, development, platting, subdivision,
and land use within the City.
      (2)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall continuously review and
report to the City Council its recommendations concerning the City's
subdivision, platting, thoroughfare plans, land use plans, and zoning
ordinances and regulations.
      (3)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may conduct such studies,
prepare such plans, maps, and reports related to the growth, development,
platting, subdivision, and land use within the City and may make such
recommendations relative thereto to the City Council as it feels are in the
best interests of the City.
         (Charter 8.03)
   (b)   Additional Powers and Duties. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall
also have any other powers or duties assigned to it by City Council, by
ordinance, or the laws of the State to the extent that those assigned powers or
duties do not conflict with the provisions of the City's Charter.
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
CHAPTER 281
Board of Zoning Appeals
281.01   Establishment; Organization
281.02   At-Large Members
281.03   Chairperson
281.04   Meetings; Rules of Order
281.05   Powers and Duties
   CROSS REFERENCES
      Creation - CHTR §
8.04
      Oath of Office - see ORC 733.68
      Open Meetings - CHTR §
13.03
      Plats - see ORC Ch. 711
      Boards of Zoning Appeals - see ORC Ch. 713
      Planning functions - see OH CONST. ART. XVIII § 7
281.01   ESTABLISHMENT; ORGANIZATION.
   (a)   Establishment. A Board of Zoning Appeals was established pursuant to
Section
8.01 of the City of Xenia Charter.
   (b)   Membership. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall consist of five (5) at-
large members and a Chairperson who shall be a member of the City Council.
(Charter 8.04)
   (c)   Organization.
      (1)   At its first meeting of the year, the members of the Board of
Zoning Appeals shall elect a Vice Chairperson by a majority vote. When acting
as the presiding officer in the absence of the Chairperson, the Vice
Chairperson shall still be considered an at-large member and shall have full
voting privileges.
         (Charter 8.04)
      (2)   The City Clerk, or his or her designee, shall serve as the
Secretary of the Board. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep an
accurate record of the proceedings of the Board.
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
281.02   AT-LARGE MEMBERS.
   (a)   Qualifications. The at-large members of the Board of Zoning Appeals
shall be qualified electors of the City and shall meet this qualification for
membership at the time of their appointment and during their respective terms
of office and shall not hold other elected office or employment with the City.
(Charter 8.02)
   (b)   Oath of Office. Before entering upon the duties of his or her office,
each at-large member of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall take and subscribe to
an oath or affirmation, which shall be filed and kept in the office of the City
Clerk, that he or she will:
      (1)   Support the constitution of the United States and of this State,
and the Charter and ordinances of the City;
      (2)   Faithfully, honestly, and impartially discharge the duties of his
or her office.
         (Statutory Reference ORC 733.68)
   (c)   Term. The at-large members of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be
appointed by City Council for four (4) year terms. The terms of the at-large
members shall be staggered so that not more than two (2) at-large members'
terms expire in the same year.
(Charter 8.04)
   (d)   Forfeiture of Office; Removal. Any at-large member of the Board of
Zoning Appeals may be removed from office in accordance with Section
8.02D. of the City Charter.
   (e)   Vacancies. In the event an at-large member of the Board of Zoning
Appeals resigns, is unable to serve, forfeits his or her office by failing to
attend three (3) consecutive meetings when such absences are unexcused, or is
removed from office, the vacant seat shall be filled for the remainder of its
unexpired term by the appointment of a new member by the City Council.
(Charter 8.02)
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
281.03   CHAIRPERSON.
   (a)   Councilmember. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall be chaired by a
current member of the City Council, who shall be appointed by Council.
   (b)   Term. The term of the Chairperson shall be two (2) years, and the
Chairperson shall continue in office until his or her successor is appointed.
   (c)   Vacancy. In the event the Chairperson resigns, is unable to serve, is
disqualified to serve, or forfeits his or her office by failing to attend three
(3) consecutive meetings when such absences are unexcused by the Board of
Zoning Appeals, the City Council shall appoint a new Chairperson by majority
vote.
   (d)   Powers. The Chairperson shall approve the agenda for all meetings of
the Board of Zoning Appeals and, when present, shall be the presiding officer
at all meetings of the Board. The Chairperson shall have no voting privileges,
except in the event of a tie.
(Charter 8.04)
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
281.04   MEETINGS; RULES OF ORDER.
   (a)   Open Meetings Act. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall comply with
Ohio's Open Meetings Act, except when acting in its quasi-judicial capacity
when hearing appeals.
   (b)   Meeting Times. The Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby authorized to
conduct its meetings on the dates and at the times established by a majority
vote of the Board, and the Board shall meet as is necessary to conduct and
transact the business before it.
   (c)   Rules of Order. The Board of Zoning Appeals may adopt its own rules
providing for the conduct of its meetings. In the absence of adopting its own
rules, the Board shall comply with the Rules of Council.
   (d)   Quorum. A majority of the at-large members of the Board of Zoning
Appeals shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any
meeting of the Board. The Chairperson shall not be counted towards the quorum.
   (e)   Voting. A majority vote of the at-large members present at a meeting
is required to approve or disapprove any matter coming before the Board of
Zoning Appeals. In the event of a tie vote among the at-large members present,
the Chairperson may vote in the affirmative and the motion shall be considered
passed.
(Charter 8.02)
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
281.05   POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (a)   Powers and Duties.
      (1)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the authority to hear and
decide appeals for exceptions to, and variances in, the application of
ordinances, resolutions, rules, regulations, and measures that govern zoning,
building, and housing in the City, subject to such standards as may be
prescribed by City Council.
      (2)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the authority to hear and
decide appeals from the orders of administrative officials related to the
application of ordinances, resolutions, rules, regulations, and measures that
govern zoning, building, and housing in the City, subject to such standards as
may be prescribed by City Council.
      (3)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall perform all duties assigned to it
by the City Council by ordinance or resolution related to the application of
City ordinances, resolutions, rules, regulations, and measures related to
zoning, building, and housing within the City.
      (4)   In any appeal from the decision of the order of any administrative
official or for exception to, and variances in, the application of any zoning,
building, or housing ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation, or measure, the
Board of Zoning Appeals shall be deemed to be acting as a quasi-judicial body.
         (Charter 8.04)
   (b)   Additional Powers and Duties. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall also
have any other powers or duties assigned to it by City Council, by ordinance,
or the laws of the State to the extent that those assigned powers or duties do
not conflict with the provisions of the City's Charter.
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
CHAPTER 282
Civil Service Commission
282.01   Establishment; Organization
282.02   Members
282.03   Chairperson
282.04   Meetings; Rules of Order
282.05   Powers and Duties
282.06   Rules and Regulations
282.07   Classification of Civil Service
   CROSS REFERENCES
      Civil Service - CHTR ART. X; OH CONST. ART. XV § 10
      Creation - CHTR §
8.05
      Oath of Office - see ORC 733.68
      Open Meetings - CHTR § 13.03
282.01   ESTABLISHMENT; ORGANIZATION.
   (a)   Establishment. A Civil Service Commission was established pursuant to
Section
8.01 of the City of Xenia Charter.
   (b)   Membership. The Civil Service Commission shall consist of five (5) at-
large members, who shall be appointed by the City Council.
   (c)   Organization.
      (1)   At its first meeting of the year, the members of the Civil Service
Commission shall elect, by majority vote, a Chairperson and a Vice Chairperson
from among its members. The Chairperson and the Vice Chairperson shall have
full voting privileges.
      (2)   At its first meeting of the year, the members of the Civil Service
Commission shall elect, by majority vote, a Secretary, who may be elected from
within or without the membership of the Commission and may hold other office or
employment with the City. The Secretary shall keep an accurate record of the
proceedings of the Commission, be responsible for the administration of
competitive examinations, and for communications between the Commission and the
City administration.
(Charter 8.05)
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/21)
282.02   MEMBERS.
   (a)   Members. The members of the Civil Service Commission shall be
qualified electors of the City and shall meet this qualification for membership
at the time of their appointment and during their respective terms of office
and shall not hold other elected office or employment with the City.
(Charter 8.02)
   (b)   Oath of Office. Before entering upon the duties of his or her office,
each member of the Civil Service Commission shall take and subscribe to an oath
or affirmation, which shall be filed and kept in the office of the City Clerk,
that he or she will:
      (1)   Support the constitution of the United States and of this State,
and the Charter and ordinances of the City;
      (2)   Faithfully, honestly, and impartially discharge the duties of his
or her office.
         (Statutory Reference ORC 733.68)
   (c)   Term. The members of the Civil Service Commission shall be appointed
by City Council for five (5) year terms, one member to be appointed every year.
(Charter 8.05)
   (d)   Forfeiture of Office; Removal. Any at-large member of the Civil
Service Commission may be removed from office in accordance with Section
8.02D. of the City Charter.
   (e)   Vacancies. In the event an at-large member of the Civil Service
Commission resigns, is unable to serve, forfeits his or her office by failing
to attend three (3) consecutive meetings when such absences are unexcused, or
is removed from office, the vacant seat shall be filled for the remainder of
its unexpired term by the appointment of a new member by the City Council.
(Charter 8.02)
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
282.03   CHAIRPERSON.
   (a)   Term. The Chairperson shall serve until his or her successor is
appointed.
   (b)   Vacancy. In the event the Chairperson resigns, is unable to serve, or
is disqualified to serve, the Civil Service Commission shall appoint a new
Chairperson and, if necessary, a new Vice Chairperson by majority vote.
   (c)   Powers. The Chairperson shall approve the agenda for all meetings of
the Civil Service Commission and, when present, shall be the presiding officer
at all meetings of the Commission. The Vice Chairperson shall act as the
presiding officer in the Chairperson's absence.
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
282.04   MEETINGS; RULES OF ORDER.
   (a)   Open Meetings Act. The Civil Service Commission shall comply with
Ohio's Open Meetings Act.
   (b)   Meeting Times. The Civil Service Commission is hereby authorized to
conduct its meetings on the dates and at times established by a majority vote
of the Commission, and the Commission shall meet as is necessary to conduct and
transact the business before it.
   (c)   Rules of Order. The Civil Service Commission may adopt its own rules
providing for the conduct of its meetings. In the absence of adopting its own
rules, the Commission shall comply with the Rules of Council.
   (d)   Quorum. A majority of the members of the Civil Service Commission
shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the
Commission. The Chairperson shall be counted towards the quorum.
   (e)   Voting. A majority vote of the members present at a meeting is
required to approve or disapprove any matter coming before the Civil Service
Commission.
(Charter 8.02)
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
282.05   POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (a)   Powers and Duties.
      (1)   The Civil Service Commission shall be responsible for the
administration of competitive examinations for original appointments and
promotions in the classified service of the City.
      (2)   The Civil Service Commission shall have the authority to hear
appeals from administrative determinations that result in suspensions,
demotions, and removals, made by an appointed official pursuant to any rules,
regulations or policies adopted by Council, any administrative rules,
regulations, or policies promulgated pursuant to authorization by Council, or
as otherwise permitted by the classified employee's applicable collective
bargaining agreement.
      (3)   The Civil Service Commission shall perform all duties assigned to
it by Article X of this Charter or by the City Council, by ordinance or
resolution, related to merit system and personnel management policies for
classified employees of the City.
         (Charter 8.05)
   (b)   Additional Powers and Duties. The Civil Service Commission shall also
have any other powers or duties assigned to it by City Council, by ordinance,
or the laws of the State to the extent that those assigned powers or duties do
not conflict with the provisions of the City's Charter.
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
282.06   RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Authority. The Civil Service Commission shall make, promulgate and,
when necessary, may amend rules and regulations in accordance with Section
10.03 of the City Charter, as well as any laws adopted by the City Council, by
ordinance, pertaining to the civil service.
   (b)   Collective Bargaining Agreements. Rules and regulations adopted by the
Civil Service Commission under the authority of Section
10.03 of the City Charter shall apply to all civil service matters, except to
the extent that the same are superseded or preempted by the specific terms,
provisions and/or content of a collective bargaining agreement between the City
and an employee bargaining unit, to the extent that said preemption is
permitted by law.
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
282.07   CLASSIFICATION OF CIVIL SERVICE.
   (a)   Competitive Class. The competitive class of the civil service shall
include all classified positions for which it is practicable to determine merit
and fitness by competitive examination.
   (b)   Noncompetitive Class. The noncompetitive class of the civil service
shall include all classified positions requiring peculiar and exceptional
qualifications of a scientific, managerial, professional, or educational
character, as may be determined by the Civil Service Commission.
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
CHAPTER 283
Charter Review Commission
283.01   Establishment; Organization
283.02   Members
283.03   Chairperson
283.04   Meetings; Rules of Order
283.05   Powers and Duties
   CROSS REFERENCES
      Amendment of City Charter - OH CONST. ART. XVIII § 9
      City Charter - OH CONST. ART. XVIII § 7
      Creation - CHTR §
8.06
      Oath of Office - see ORC 733.68
      Open Meetings - CHTR §
13.03
283.01   ESTABLISHMENT; ORGANIZATION.
   (a)   Establishment. A Charter Review Commission was established pursuant to
Section
8.01 of the City of Xenia Charter and shall be appointed at least every five
(5) years by the City Council, by majority vote.
   (b)   Membership. The Charter Review Commission shall consist of an odd
number of members, from a minimum of five (5) members to a maximum of eleven
(11) members, and no more than two (2) members shall hold other elective office
or employment with the City.
   (c)   Organization. At its first meeting, the members of the Charter Review
Commission shall elect a Chairperson, a Vice Chairperson and a Secretary by a
majority vote of the members appointed to the Commission. The Secretary may be
elected from within or without the membership of the Commission and may hold
other office or employment with the City. It shall be the duty of the Secretary
to keep an accurate record of the proceedings of the Commission.
   (d)   Advisors. The Law Director shall serve as legal counsel to the
Commission, and the City Manager and the Finance Director, or their designees,
may serve as advisors to the Commission.
(Charter 8.06)
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
283.02   MEMBERS.
   (a)   Qualifications. The at-large members of the Charter Review Commission
shall be qualified electors of the City at their time of appointment and during
their respective terms of office. Two (2) members of the Charter Review
Commission may hold other elective office or employment with the City, except
that the Law Director, the City Manager, the Finance Director, or their
designees, shall serve only as advisors to the Charter Review Commission.
   (b)   Term. The term of each member shall expire upon the deadline
designated by the Council for the Commission to report its recommendations to
the Council, including any extensions of time for the filing of such report
that are granted by Council, by resolution.
(Charter 8.06)
   (c)   Oath of Office. All members of the Commission, before entering upon
the duties of his or her office, shall take and subscribe to an oath or
affirmation, which shall be filed and kept in the office of the City Clerk,
that he or she will:
      (1)   Support the constitution of the United States and of this State,
and the Charter and ordinances of the City;
      (2)   Faithfully, honestly, and impartially discharge the duties of his
or her office.
         (Statutory Reference ORC 733.68)
   (d)   Forfeiture of Office; Removal. Any member of the Charter Review
Commission may be removed from office in accordance with Section
8.02D. of the City Charter.
   (e)   Vacancies. In the event a member of the Charter Review Commission
resigns, is unable to serve, forfeits his or her office by failing to attend
three (3) consecutive meetings when such absences are unexcused, or is removed
from office, the vacant seat shall be filled for the remainder of its unexpired
term by the appointment of a new member by the City Council.
(Charter 8.02)
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
283.03   CHAIRPERSON.
   (a)   Term. The Chairperson shall serve until his or her successor is
appointed or until his or her term expires in accordance with Section
283.02(b).
   (b)   Vacancy. In the event the Chairperson resigns, is unable to serve, or
is disqualified to serve, the Charter Review Commission shall appoint a new
Chairperson and, if necessary, a new Vice Chairperson by majority vote.
   (c)   Powers. The Chairperson shall approve the agenda for all meetings of
the Charter Review Commission and, when present, shall be the presiding officer
at all meetings of the Commission. The Vice Chairperson shall act as the
presiding officer in the Chairperson's absence.
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
283.04   MEETINGS; RULES OF ORDER.
   (a)   Open Meetings Act. The Charter Review Commission shall comply with
Ohio's Open Meetings Act.
   (b)   Meeting Times. The Charter Review Commission is hereby authorized to
conduct its meetings at the dates and times established by a majority vote of
the Commission and shall meet as is necessary to conduct and transact the
business before it.
   (c)   Rules of Order. The Charter Review Commission may adopt its own rules
providing for the conduct of its meetings. In the absence of adopting its own
rules, the Commission shall comply with the Rules of Council.
   (d)   Quorum. A majority of the members of the Charter Review Commission
shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the
Commission. The Chairperson shall be counted towards the quorum.
   (e)   Voting. A majority vote of the members present at the meeting is
required to approve or disapprove any motion before the Charter Review
Commission.
(Charter 8.02)
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/21)
283.05   POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Charter Review Commission shall review the City Charter and, within the
time designated by Council at the time the Commission members are appointed,
and shall recommend to Council such amendments, additions, or revisions, if
any, to the Charter that the Commission deems necessary or desirable. After the
consideration of the recommendations of the Commission, the City Council may
submit all or any of such proposed amendments, additions, or revisions to this
Charter to the electorate in the manner prescribed by the Constitution of the
State of Ohio.
(Charter 8.06)
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
CHAPTER 284
Xenia Recreation and Events Commission
284.01   Establishment; Organization
284.02   At-Large Members
284.03   Chairperson
284.04    Meetings; Rules of Order
284.05   Nonvoting Members
284.06    Powers and Duties
284.01   ESTABLISHMENT; ORGANIZATION.
   (a)   Establishment. There is hereby created a Xenia Recreation and Events
Commission (XREC) to plan, organize, and coordinate community events within the
City.
(Charter 8.01)
   (b)   Membership. The Xenia Recreation and Events Commission shall consist
of five (5) at-large members and a Chairperson who shall be a member of the
City Council. Council shall request the Xenia Community Schools Board of
Education to nominate a City resident for appointment as one of the at-large
members. If the Board of Education fails to make a nomination within sixty (60)
days of Council's request, the Council may appoint without a nomination from
the Board.
   (c)   Organization.
      (1)   At its first meeting of the year, the members of the Xenia
Recreation and Events Commission shall elect a Vice Chairperson by a majority
vote. When acting as the presiding officer in the absence of the Chairperson,
the Vice Chairperson shall still be considered an at-large member and shall
have full voting privileges.
      (2)   The City Clerk, or his or her designee, shall serve as the
Secretary of the Commission. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep an
accurate record of the proceedings of the Commission.
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
284.02   AT-LARGE MEMBERS.
   (a)   Qualifications. The at-large members of the Xenia Recreation and
Events Commission shall be residents of the City and shall meet this
qualification for membership at the time of their appointment and during their
respective terms of office and shall not hold other elected office or
employment with the City.
   (b)   Oath of Office. Before entering upon the duties of his or her office,
each at-large member of the Xenia Recreation and Events Commission shall take
and subscribe to an oath or affirmation, which shall be filed and kept in the
office of the City Clerk, that he or she will:
      (1)   Support the constitution of the United States and of this State,
and the Charter and ordinances of the City;
      (2)   Faithfully, honestly, and impartially discharge the duties of his
or her office.
         (Statutory Reference ORC 733.68)
   (c)   Term. The at-large members of the Xenia Recreation and Events
Commission shall be appointed by City Council for four (4) year terms. The
terms of the at-large members shall be staggered so that not more than two (2)
at-large members' terms expire in the same year.
   (d)   Forfeiture of Office; Removal. Any at-large member of the Xenia
Recreation and Events Commission may be removed from office in accordance with
Section
8.02D. of the City Charter.
   (e)   Vacancies. In the event an at-large member of the Xenia Recreation and
Events Commission resigns, is unable to serve, forfeits his or her office by
failing to attend three (3) consecutive meetings when such absences are
unexcused, or is removed from office, the vacant seat shall be filled for the
remainder of its unexpired term by the appointment of a new member by the City
Council.
(Charter 8.02)
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
284.03   CHAIRPERSON.
   (a)   Councilmember. The Xenia Recreation and Events Commission shall be
chaired by a current member of the City Council, who shall be appointed by
Council.
   (b)   Term. The term of the Chairperson shall be two (2) years, and the
Chairperson shall continue in office until his or her successor is appointed.
   (c)   Vacancy. In the event the Chairperson resigns, is unable to serve, or
is disqualified to serve, or forfeits his or her office by failing to attend
three (3) consecutive meetings when such absences are unexcused by the Xenia
Recreation and Events Commission, the City Council shall appoint a new
Chairperson by majority vote.
   (d)   Powers. The Chairperson shall approve the agenda for all meetings of
the Xenia Recreation and Events Commission and, when present, shall be the
presiding officer at all meetings of the Commission. The Chairperson shall have
no voting privileges, except in the event of a tie.
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
284.04   MEETINGS; RULES OF ORDER.
   (a)   Open Meetings Act. The Xenia Recreation and Events Commission shall
comply with Ohio's Open Meeting Act.
   (b)   Meeting Times. The Xenia Recreation and Events Commission is hereby
authorized to conduct its meetings on the days and at times established by a
majority vote of the Commission and shall meet as is necessary to conduct and
transact the business before it.
   (c)   Rules of Order. The Rules of Council shall apply to the conduct and
order of all meetings of the Xenia Recreation and Events Commission.
   (d)   Quorum. A majority of the at-large members of the Xenia Recreation and
Events Commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at
any meeting of the Commission. The Chairperson shall not be counted towards the
quorum.
   (e)   Voting. A majority vote of the at-large members present at the meeting
is required to approve or disapprove any matter coming before the Commission.
In the event of a tie vote among the at-large members present, the Chairperson
may vote in the affirmative and the motion shall be considered passed.
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
284.05   NONVOTING MEMBERS.
   The Xenia Recreation and Events Commission may, by majority vote, appoint up
to three (3) nonvoting members to the Xenia Recreation and Events Commission.
Such nonvoting members shall be students at Xenia High School and shall act as
student advisors to the Commission. The term of such nonvoting members may be
up to two (2) years.
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
284.06   POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (a)   Powers and Duties. The Xenia Recreation and Events Commission shall
have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   To study matters of recreation needs of the citizens of the City
and make recommendations to City Council in matters pertaining to the
supervision, use, maintenance and enhancements to the City's parks and
recreation facilities;
      (2)   To study matters regarding recreation programs and events to
enhance the use of the City's parks and recreation facilities and make
recommendations to City Council on the same;
      (3)   To conduct any form of recreation or cultural activity that will
employ the leisure time of people in a constructive and wholesome manner;
      (4)   To study and recommend to the City Council rules and regulations
regarding the use of the City's parks and recreation facilities by residents
and nonresidents;
      (5)   To advise the City's Planning and Zoning Commission and City
Council whether a subdivider or developer shall dedicate parkland, pay a fee in
lieu of dedication or provide a combination thereof, in accordance with the
City's Land Development Code; and
      (6)   Act as a liaison with the Xenia Community Schools and entities
providing, or seeking to provide recreation services, events, or activities in
the City regarding the administration, development, or conduct of such
services, events, or activities.
   (b)   Additional Powers and Duties. The Xenia Recreation and Events
Commission shall also have any other powers or duties assigned to it by City
Council, by ordinance, or the laws of the State of Ohio to the extent that
those assigned powers or duties do not conflict with the provisions of the
City's Charter.
   (c)   Limitations. All powers and duties of the Xenia Recreation and Events
Commission shall be subject to the appropriation authority of the City Council.
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
CHAPTER 285
Community Reinvestment Area Housing Council
285.01   Establishment; Organization
285.02   Members
285.03   Meetings
285.04   Powers and Duties
   CROSS REFERENCES
      Community Reinvestment Areas - see ORC CH. 3735
      Creation - ORC 3735.69
      Oath of Office - see ORC 733.68
      Open Meetings - CHTR §
13.03
285.01   ESTABLISHMENT; ORGANIZATION.
   (a)   Establishment. A Community Reinvestment Area (CRA) Housing Council is
hereby established, as required by ORC 3735.69, and the CRA Housing Council as
herein established shall serve as the CRA Housing Council for each of the
City's community reinvestment areas.
   (b)   Membership. The CRA Housing Council shall consist of seven (7)
members, to be appointed as follows:
      (1)   Two (2) members appointed by the Mayor;
      (2)   Two (2) members appointed by the City Council;
      (3)   One (1) member appointed by the Planning and Zoning Commission; and
      (4)   Two (2) members appointed by a majority of the other five (5)
members, which two (2) additional members shall be residents of the City.
   (c)   Organization. At its first meeting of the year, the members of the CRA
Housing Council shall elect a Chairperson, a Vice Chairperson, and a Secretary
by a majority vote of the members appointed to the Council. The Secretary may
be elected from within or without the membership of the Council and may hold
other office or employment with the City. It shall be the duty of the Secretary
to keep an accurate record of the proceedings of the Council.
(ORC 3735.69)
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
285.02   MEMBERS.
   (a)   Qualifications. The members of the CRA Housing Council appointed by
the Mayor, the City Council, and the Planning and Zoning Commission may be
residents of the City or individuals who own businesses within the City.
   (b)   Term. The members of the CRA Housing Council shall be appointed to
three (3) year terms.
(ORC 3735.69)
   (c)   Oath of Office. Before entering upon the duties of his or her office,
each member of CRA Housing Council shall take and subscribe to an oath or
affirmation, which shall be filed and kept in the office of the City Clerk,
that he or she will:
      (1)   Support the constitution of the United States and of this State,
and the Charter and ordinances of the City;
      (2)   Faithfully, honestly, and impartially discharge the duties of his
or her office.
         (Statutory Reference ORC 733.68)
   (d)   Forfeiture of Office; Removal.
      (1)   In the event a member is absent from three (3) consecutive meetings
of the CRA Housing Council and such absences are unexcused, the member shall be
deemed to have forfeited his or her office and the seat shall be deemed vacant.
      (2)   The CRA Housing Council, upon a determination by a majority vote of
the members of Council that good cause exists, may remove a member from his or
her office and declare the member's seat vacant upon such removal.
   (e)   Vacancies. In the event a member of the CRA Housing Council resigns,
is unable to serve, forfeits his or her office, or is removed from office, the
vacant seat shall be filled for the remainder of its unexpired term in the same
manner as the initial appointment was made.
(ORC 3735.69)
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
285.03   MEETINGS.
   (a)   Meetings. The CRA Housing Council shall meet at least annually, and at
other times as needed, to meet its obligations under this Chapter and ORC
Chapter 3735.
(ORC 149.43)
   (b)   Open Meetings Act. The CRA Housing Council shall comply with Ohio's
Open Meetings Act.
   (c)   Rules of Order. The Rules of Council shall apply to the conduct and
order of all meetings of the CRA Housing Council.
   (d)   Quorum. A majority of the members of the CRA Housing Council shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the
Housing Council.
   (e)   Voting. A majority vote of the members present at the meeting is
required to approve or disapprove any matter coming before the CRA Housing
Council.
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
285.04   POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (a)   Inspections. The CRA Housing Council shall make an annual inspection
of properties within the City's Community Reinvestment Areas for which
exemptions have been granted pursuant to ORC 3735.67.
   (b)   Appeals. The CRA Housing Council shall hear appeals pursuant to ORC
3735.70.
   (c)   Status Report. On or before the 1st day of March of each year, the CRA
Housing Council shall submit to the City Council a status report summarizing
the activities and projects within the City's Community Reinvestment Areas for
which exemptions have been granted pursuant to ORC 3735.67. City Council shall
submit the status report to the Ohio Director of Development on or before the
31st day of March each year.
(ORC 149.39)
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
CHAPTER 286
Records Commission
286.01   Establishment; Organization
286.02   Chairperson
286.03   Meetings
286.04   Powers and Duties
   CROSS REFERENCES
      Creation - ORC 149.39
      Oath of Office - see ORC 733.68
      Open Meetings - CHTR §
13.03
      Public Records - see ORC 149.43
      Retention and Disposal - see ORC 149.39
286.01   ESTABLISHMENT; ORGANIZATION.
   (a)   Establishment. A Records Commission was created by ORC 149.39.
   (b)   Membership. The Records Commission shall consist of the City Manager
or his or her appointed representative, the Finance Director, the Law Director,
and a resident of the City appointed by the City Manager.
   (c)   Secretary. The Records Commission shall appoint a secretary, who may
or may not be a member of the Commission, and who shall serve at the pleasure
of the Commission. The secretary shall keep an accurate record of the
proceedings of the Commission.
(ORC 149.39)
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
286.02   CHAIRPERSON.
   (a)   City Manager. The City Manager, or his or her appointed
representative, shall serve as the chairperson of the Commission.
(ORC 149.43)
   (b)   Powers. The Chairperson shall approve the agenda for all meetings of
the Records Commission and shall be the presiding officer at all meetings.
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
286.03   MEETINGS.
   (a)   Meetings. The Records Commission shall meet at least once every six
(6) months upon the call of the Chairperson and shall comply with Ohio's Open
Meetings Act.
(ORC 149.43)
   (b)   Quorum. A majority of the members of the Records Commission shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the
Commission.
   (c)   Voting. A majority vote of the members present at the meeting is
required to approve or disapprove any matter coming before the Commission.
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
286.04   POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (a)   Functions. The Records Commission shall provide rules for the
retention and disposal of records of the City and shall review applications for
one-time disposal of obsolete records and schedules of records retention and
disposition submitted by the various City departments, divisions, and offices.
   (b)   Records Disposal. The Records Commission may dispose of records
pursuant to the procedure outlined in ORC 149.381. The Commission, at any time,
may review any schedule it has previously approved and, for good cause shown,
may revise that schedule under the procedure outlined in ORC 149.381.
(ORC 149.39)
(Ord. 2022-21. Adopted 07/28/22)
CHAPTER 287
Xenia Public Art Commission
287.01   Establishment; Organization
287.02   At-Large Members
287.03   Chairperson
287.04   Meetings; Rules of Order
287.05   Nonvoting Members
287.06   Powers and Duties
   CROSS REFERENCES
      Creation - CHTR § 8.01 B.
      Oath of Office - see ORC 733.68
      Open Meetings - CHTR § 13.03
287.01   ESTABLISHMENT; ORGANIZATION.
   (a)   Establishment. There is hereby created a Xenia Public Art Commission
(XPAC) to plan, review, and make recommendations to the City Council on public
art within the City.
(Charter 8.01)
   (b)   Membership. The Xenia Public Art Commission shall consist of six (6)
at-large members and a Chairperson who shall be a member of the City Council.
   (c)   Organization.
      (1)   At its first meeting of the year, the members of the Xenia Public
Art Commission shall elect a Vice Chairperson by a majority vote. When acting
as the presiding officer in the absence of the Chairperson, the Vice
Chairperson shall still be considered an at-large member and shall have full
voting privileges.
      (2)   The City Clerk, or his or her designee, shall serve as the
Secretary of the Commission. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep an
accurate record of the proceedings of the Commission.
(Ord. 2024-18. Adopted 08/08/24)
287.02   AT-LARGE MEMBERS.
   (a)   Qualifications. The at-large members of the Xenia Public Art
Commission may be, but are not required to be, residents of the City and shall
not hold other elected office or employment with the City.
   (b)   Oath of Office. Before entering upon the duties of his or her office,
each at-large member of the Xenia Public Art Commission shall take and
subscribe to an oath or affirmation, which shall be filed and kept in the
office of the City Clerk, that he or she will:
      (1)   Support the constitution of the United States and of this State,
and the Charter and ordinances of the City;
      (2)   Faithfully, honestly, and impartially discharge the duties of his
or her office.
         (Statutory Reference ORC 733.68)
   (c)   Term. The at-large members of the Xenia Public Art Commission shall be
appointed by City Council for four (4) year terms. The terms of the at-large
members shall be staggered so that not more than two (2) at-large members'
terms expire in the same year. Each member shall continue in office until his
or her successor is appointed.
   (d)   Forfeiture of Office; Removal. Any at-large member of the Xenia Public
Art Commission may be removed from office in accordance with Section
8.02 D. of the City Charter.
   (e)   Vacancies. In the event an at-large member of the Xenia Public Art
Commission resigns, is unable to serve, forfeits his or her office by failing
to attend three (3) consecutive meetings when such absences are unexcused, or
is removed from office, the vacant seat shall be filled for the remainder of
its unexpired term by the appointment of a new member by the City Council.
(Charter 8.02)
(Ord. 2024-18. Adopted 08/08/24)
287.03   CHAIRPERSON.
   (a)   Councilmember. The Xenia Public Art Commission shall be chaired by a
current member of the City Council, who shall be appointed by Council.
   (b)   Term. The term of the Chairperson shall be two (2) years, and the
Chairperson shall continue in office until his or her successor is appointed.
   (c)   Vacancy. In the event the Chairperson resigns, is unable to serve, is
disqualified to serve, or forfeits his or her office by failing to attend three
(3) consecutive meetings when such absences are unexcused by the Xenia Public
Art Commission, the City Council shall appoint a new Chairperson by majority
vote.
   (d)   Powers. The Chairperson shall approve the agenda for all meetings of
the Xenia Public Art Commission and, when present, shall be the presiding
officer at all meetings of the Commission. The Chairperson shall have no voting
privileges, except in the event of a tie.
(Ord. 2024-18. Adopted 08/08/24)
287.04   MEETINGS; RULES OF ORDER.
   (a)   Open Meetings Act. The Xenia Public Art Commission shall comply with
Ohio's Open Meetings Act.
   (b)   Meeting Times. The Xenia Public Art Commission is hereby authorized to
conduct its meetings on the dates and at the times established by a majority
vote of the Commission, and the Commission shall meet as is necessary to
conduct and transact the business before it.
   (c)   Rules of Order. The Rules of Council shall apply to the conduct and
order of all meetings of the Xenia Public Art Commission.
   (d)   Quorum. A majority of the at-large members of the Xenia Public Art
Commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any
meeting of the Commission. The Chairperson shall not be counted towards the
quorum.
   (e)   Voting. A majority vote of the at-large members present at the meeting
is required to approve or disapprove any matter coming before the Commission.
In the event of a tie vote among the at-large members present, the Chairperson
may vote in the affirmative and the motion shall be considered passed.
(Ord. 2024-18. Adopted 08/08/24)
287.05   NONVOTING MEMBERS.
   The Director of the Department of Development Services, or his or her
designee, shall serve as a nonvoting member of the Xenia Public Art Commission
and may act as an advisor to the Commission in such capacity.
(Ord. 24-18. Adopted 08/08/24)
287.06   POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (a)   Powers and Duties. The Xenia Public Art Commission shall have the
following powers and duties:
      (1)   To study matters regarding artwork and cultural projects that have
a community benefit and make recommendations to the City Council on the same;
      (2)   To study and make recommendations to accept, accept with
modifications, or reject specific proposed art projects with the City to the
City Council;
      (3)   To undertake fundraising efforts to promote community art projects;
      (4)   To assist City staff and the community with the coordination of art
projects from inception through installation;
      (5)   To consult with artists, consultants, or other specialists or
experts on artwork and cultural projects, subject to the appropriation
authority of the City Council;
      (6)   Promote public art and cultural projects within the City; and
      (7)   To undertake specific projects assigned to the Commission by the
City Council by procedural motion.
   (b)   Additional Powers and Duties. The Xenia Public Art Commission shall
also have any other powers or duties assigned to it by City Council, by
ordinance, or the laws of the State of Ohio to the extent those assigned powers
or duties do not conflict with the provisions of the City's Charter.
   (c)   Limitations. All powers and duties of the Xenia Public Art Commission
shall be subject to the appropriation authority of the City Council.
(Ord. 2024-18. Adopted 08/08/24)
TITLE TEN: JUDICIARY
CHAPTER 290: MUNICIPAL COURT
   EDITOR’S NOTE: The Xenia Municipal Court is established by Ohio R.C.
1901.01. Ohio R.C. 1901.02 provides that the Court has jurisdiction within
Caesarcreek, Cedarville, Jefferson, Miami, New Jasper, Ross, Silvercreek,
Spring Valley, Sugarcreek and Xenia Townships in Greene County.
Section
290.01   Municipal Court Program Director.
290.02   Credit on unpaid fines for time served.
290.03   Municipal Court Magistrate.
   CROSS REFERENCES
   Release of Court Clerk’s liability for loss of funds - see Ohio R.C. 131.18
et seq.
   Municipal Court - see Ohio R.C. Ch. 1901
   Bond for Court Clerk required - see Ohio R.C. 1901.31(D)
   Notification to Director of liquor law convictions - see Ohio R.C. 4301.991
   Record of traffic violations - see Ohio R.C. 4513.37
   Municipal Court Improvements Fund - see ADM. 236.05(h)
   Municipal Court Victim Fund - see ADM. 236.05(i)
§ 290.01 MUNICIPAL COURT PROGRAM DIRECTOR.
   (a)   There is hereby established the office of Municipal Court Program
Director, pursuant to the authority provided in Ohio R.C. 1901.32. In addition
to the duties provided in such section, the Director shall perform such other
duties as are directed by rule of the Court, pursuant to Ohio R.C. 1901.32(A)
(6).
   (b)   The Director shall be on the pay schedule of a Range 20 employee.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 1-25-1996; Am. Ord.99-16, passed 5-13-1999)
§ 290.02 CREDIT ON UNPAID FINES FOR TIME SERVED.
   Whenever a fine is imposed, in whole or in part, in punishment of a
misdemeanor that is provided by an ordinance of the city or by a statute of the
state, the Judge of the Municipal Court has the authority to order that the
defendant stand committed to the Greene County Jail or the city jail until the
fine is paid. Such persons so committed to jail shall receive credit upon such
fine at the rate of thirty dollars ($30.00) per day or fraction of a day. If
the unpaid fine is less than thirty dollars ($30.00), the person shall be
imprisoned one day.
§ 290.03 MUNICIPAL COURT MAGISTRATE.
   There is hereby established the office of Municipal Court Magistrate
pursuant to the authority provided for in the Ohio Revised Code and in
accordance with the Ohio Civil Rules.
(Ord. 99-13, passed 4-22-1999)
APPENDIX A
CITY FEE SCHEDULE
FEES FROM PART TWO - CITY GOVERNMENT CODE.
   Table P2.1
 
Xenia Code Section Chapter 202: City Standards Fee
202.06             City Flag                   $65
 
(Ord. 14-40. Adopted 10/09/14; Ord. 2019-08. Adopted 04/11/19; Ord. 2023-38.
Adopted 12/28/23)
   Table P2.2
 
Xenia Code Section Chapter 204: Public Meetings &  Fee
                   Public Records
                   Notification of all meetings of
                   a specific Board, Commission or Notice by email: No Fee
204.03(e)          Committee at which any specific Notice by mail: $15 per year
                   type of public business is to
                   be discussed
 
(Ord. 08-77. Adopted 11/25/08; Ord. 12-09. Adopted 03/22/12; Ord. 2019-08.
Adopted 04/11/19; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/
08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
FEES FROM PART FOUR - TRAFFIC CODE.
   Table P4.1
 
Xenia Code Section Chapter 412: Traffic Control  Fee
                   Devices
Abatement of Obstruction in Street
                   Failure to comply with notice Actual costs of expenses
                   to remove abatement           incurred
412.02(d)          Failure to pay costs within
                   thirty (30) days from date    $36 additional assessment fee
                   bill sent to owner
Commemorative Street Names
412.09(a)          Commemorative Street Name     $187
                   Application
 
(Ord. 64-17. Adopted 08/13/64; Ord. 97-08. Adopted 02/27/97; Ord. 98-60.
Adopted 09/10/98; Ord. 00-51. Adopted 09/28/00; Ord. 05-08. Adopted 03/24/05;
Ord. 06-62. Adopted 09/28/06; Ord. 08-32. Adopted 05/22/08; Ord. 08-77. Adopted
11/25/08; Ord. 09-50. Adopted 07/09/09; Ord. 12-09. Adopted 03/22/12. Ord.
2018-31. Adopted 10/25/18; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01.
Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
   Table P4.2
 
Xenia Code Section Chapter 450: Parking Violations Fee/Fine
                   Bureau
450.04(e)          Failure to timely answer a      Additional $20
450.06(c)          parking ticket
450.05             Failure to timely answer a      Additional $25
                   notice of violation
                   Hearings (for failure to appear
450.07             at requested hearing or if      Up to $100
                   judgment is entered against the
                   requester of the hearing)
450.08             Failure to timely pay judgment  $25
                   or default judgment
450.10             Judgment release                $5 processing fee (per
                                                   judgment)
450.11             Immobilization release          $25
 
(Ord. 2018-31. Adopted 10/25/18; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
   Table P4.3
 
Xenia Code Section Chapter 452: Parking                                Fee/Fine
                   Parking in violation of any section of
                   Chapter 452., except
Chapter 452        452.08, or in violation of any parking regulation   $20
                   issued by the Public Safety Director under Section
                   240.02 
Accessible Parking Spaces
452.08(b)(1)       Parking in accessible parking space without valid   $250
                   placard, parking card or license plate
452.08(b)(2)       Parking in access aisle                             $250
452.08(c)          Parking in accessible parking space in excess of    $100
                   posted time limits
 
(Ord. 07-40. Adopted 08/09/07; Ord. 2018-31. Adopted 12/25/18; Ord. 2021-04.
Adopted 02/11/21; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/
08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
FEES FROM PART SIX - GENERAL OFFENSES.
(Ord. 97-08. Adopted 02/27/97; Ord. 08-32. Adopted 05/22/08; Ord. 11-64.
Adopted 11/22/11; Ord. 12-31. Adopted 06/14/12; Ord. 2021-04. Adopted 02/11/21;
Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
FEES FROM PART EIGHT - BUSINESS REGULATION AND TAXATION CODE.
   Table P8.1
 
Xenia Code Section Chapter 804: Advertising & Handbills           Fee
804.02             Distribution and posting of advertising matter $32 per day
 
(Ord. 97-08. Adopted 02/27/97; Ord. 05-08. Adopted 03/24/05; Ord. 06-62.
Adopted 09/28/06; Ord. 08-32. Adopted 05/22/08; Ord. 2021-04. Adopted 02/11/21;
Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
   Table P8.2
 
Xenia Code Section Chapter 810:   Carnivals, Circuses & Other Fee
                   Exhibitions
810.03(b)          Cash bond                                     $1,545
810.03(c)          Carnivals, circuses and other exhibitions     $321 per day
 
(Ord. 97-08. Adopted 02/27/97; Ord. 06-62. Adopted 09/28/06; Ord. 08-32.
Adopted 05/22/08; Ord. 12-09. Adopted 03/22/12; Ord. 2021-04. Adopted 02/11/21;
Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
   Table P8.3
 
Xenia Code Section Chapter 840:   Massage Establishments & PractitioneFee
840.04(b)          Massage Practitioner License                          $103
                   Massage Establishment License                         $515
 
(Ord. 06-62. Adopted 09/28/06; Ord. 08-32. Adopted 05/22/08; Ord. 12-09.
Adopted 03/22/12; Ord. 2021-04. Adopted 02/11/21; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/
23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
   Table P8.4
 
Xenia Code Section Chapter 850: Peddlers & Solicitors Fee
850.05(b)          License to solicit door-to-door    $25
 
(Ord. 15-43. Adopted 09/24/15; Ord. 2021-04. Adopted 02/11/21; Ord. 2023-38.
Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/
22/24)
   Table P8.5
 
Xenia Code Section Chapter 858:   Sexually Oriented Businesses & EmployeFee
858.05             Sexually Oriented Business Employee License             $103
                   Sexually Oriented Business License                      $515
 
(Ord. 06-62. Adopted 09/28/06; Ord. 08-32. Adopted 05/22/08; Ord. 2021-04.
Adopted 02/11/21; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/
08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
   Table P8.6
 
Xenia Code Section Chapter 884: Motor Vehicle License Tax Fee
884.03             Motor Vehicle License Tax              $5
 
(Ord. 97-08. Adopted 02/27/97; Ord. 2021-04. Adopted 02/11/21; Ord. 2023-38.
Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/
22/24)
FEES FROM PART TEN - STREETS, UTILITIES, AND PUBLIC SERVICES CODE.
   Table P10.1
 
Xenia Code Section Chapter 1000: Street Excavations Fee
                   & Openings
1000.02(b)         Application                      $50
1000.02(e)         Inspection                       $100 per lane of traffic
                                                    disturbed
1000.02(f)         Deposit                          $1,431 per lane of traffic
                                                    disturbed
 
(Ord. 97-08. Adopted 02/27/97; Ord. 05-08. Adopted 03/24/05; Ord. 06-62.
Adopted 09/28/06; Ord. 08-32. Adopted 05/22/08; Ord. 08-77. Adopted 11/25/08;
Ord. 09-86. Adopted 12/29/09; Ord. 17-41. Adopted 10/12/17; Ord. 2021-04.
Adopted 02/11/21; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/
08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
   Table P10.2
 
Xenia Code Section  Chapter 1001: Sidewalks, Driveway Aprons, Curbs & Fee
                    Gutters
1001.02 and 1001.04 Application                                       $50
                    Inspection                                        $100
 
(Ord. 97-08. Adopted 02/27/97; Ord. 08-32. Adopted 05/22/08; Ord. 09-86.
Adopted 12/29/09; Ord. 15-14. Adopted 04/23/15; Ord. 17-41. Adopted 10/12/17;
Ord. 2021-04. Adopted 02/11/21; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
   Table P10.3
 
Xenia Code Section Chapter 1002: ROW            Fee
                   Administration
1002.06(a)         Certificate of Registration  Actual and direct costs
                   (application or renewal)
1002.08(a)         Annual registration          per mile
                   maintenance
1002.16(d)         Construction Permit          Actual and direct costs + value
                                                of degradation
1002.18(d)         Minor Maintenance Permit     $0
1002.21(e)         Micro Wireless Permit        $250
1002.21(i)         Annual Collocation Permit    $200
 
(Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
   Table P10.4
Xenia Code Section Chapter 1010: Water Utility Fee
Xenia Code Section Chapter 1010: Water Utility   Fee
   Water Main Installation or Extension
1010.02(d)         Plan review and inspection    3% of construction costs
   Tap-In Fees
                   Size of Water Meter:
                   ¾" or smaller                $592.89
                   1"                            $1,482.21
                   1¼"                          $2,075.10
                   1½"                          $2,964.43
1010.03(b)         2"                            $4,743.09
                   3"                            $14,822.14
                   4"                            $29,644.29
                   6"                            $47,430.86
                   8"                            $83,004.01
                   10"                           $130,434.87
1010.04(b)         Installation of meter         Actual cost of meter + cost to
                                                 install meter
Meters
1010.04(c)         Customer requested meter test $314
                   Replacement of damaged meter  Actual cost of meter
1010.04(e)         Replacement of damaged meter  Actual cost of antenna
                   antenna
Usage Rates & Minimum Consumption Rates
Usage Rates:
                   Effective Date:               Charge per gallon
1010.05(a)         06/01/2023                    $0.004847
                   01/01/2024                    $0.004992
                   01/01/2025                    $0.005142
Minimum Consumption Rates:
                   Size of Water Meter:          Minimum gallons billed each
                                                 month
                   ¾" or smaller                1,500
                   1"                            2,500
                   1¼"                          4,000
1010.05(a)         1½"                          5,000
                   2"                            8,000
                   3"                            15,000
                   4"                            30,000
                   6"                            50,000
                   8"                            85,000
                   10"                           130,000
Other Metered Use
1010.05(e)         Water provided through a      Actual metered use x usage
                   temporary meter               rate
1010.05(f)         Unmetered sprinkler system    $10 per month
   Bulk Water Program
                   Annual bulk water account     $120 per year
1010.11            Deposit                       $500
                   Bulk water                    Usage rate (per gallon) + 50%
 
(Ord. 68-45. Adopted 12/12/68; Ord. 77-10. Adopted 03/24/77; Ord. 78-29.
Adopted 06/22/78; Ord. 80-28. Adopted 05/28/80; Ord. 93-35. Adopted 06/24/93;
Ord. 95-57. Adopted 08/24/95; Ord. 95-73. Adopted 12/14/95; Ord. 97-08. Adopted
02/27/97; Ord 00-36. Adopted 08/10/00; Ord. 04-20. Adopted 05/13/04; Ord. 06-
62. Adopted 09/28/06; Ord. 06-72. Adopted 11/09/06; Ord. 06-88. Adopted 12/28/
06; Ord. 06-90. Adopted 12/28/06; Ord. 08-06. Adopted 01/10/08; Ord. 08-32.
Adopted 05/22/08; Ord. 08-77. Adopted 11/25/08; Ord. 09-86. Adopted 12/29/09;
Ord. 11-07. Adopted 01/27/11; Ord. 12-09. Adopted 03/22/12; Ord. 13-05. Adopted
02/14/13; Ord. 15-14. Adopted 04/23/15; Ord. 16-58. Adopted 12/29/16; Ord. 17-
41. Adopted 10/12/17; Ord. 2021-04. Adopted 02/11/21; Ord. 2023-05. Adopted 03/
23/23; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord.
2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
   Table P10.5
Xenia Code Section Chapter 1015: Sanitary Sewer Utility Fee
Xenia Code Section Chapter 1015: Sanitary Sewer Fee
                   Utility
   Sewer Main Installations and Extensions
1015.02(d)         Plan review and inspection   3% of construction costs
   Tap-In Fees
                   Size of Water Meter:
                   ¾" or smaller               $702.17
                   1"                           $1,755.42
                   1¼"                         $2,457.59
                   1½"                         $3,510.84
1015.03(b)         2"                           $5,617.34
                   3"                           $17,554.20
                   4"                           $35,108.40
                   6"                           $98,303.52
                   8"                           $154,476.96
                   10"                          $224,693.76
Usage Rates and Minimum Discharge Amounts
Usage Rates:
1015.04(a)         Effective Date:              Charge per gallon
                      01/01/2021             $0.006872
Minimum Discharge Amounts:
                   Size of Water Meter:         Minimum gallons billed each
                                                month
                   ¾" or smaller               1,500
                   1"                           2,500
                   1¼"                         4,000
1015.04(a)         1½"                         5,000
                   2"                           8,000
                   3"                           15,000
                   4"                           30,000
                   6"                           50,000
                   8"                           85,000
                   10"                          130,000
 
(Ord. 92-18. Adopted 03/12/92; Ord. 95-74. Adopted 12/14/95; Ord. 97-08.
Adopted 02/27/97; Ord. 99-35. Adopted 08/12/99; Ord. 00-02. Adopted 02/24/00;
Ord. 04-19. Adopted 05/13/04; Ord. 06-10. Adopted 01/26/06; Ord. 06-89. Adopted
12/28/06; Ord. 06-91. Adopted 12/28/06; Ord. 08-07. Adopted 01/10/08; Ord. 08-
77. Adopted 11/25/08; Ord. 09-86. Adopted 12-29-09; Ord. 12-09. Adopted 03/22/
12; Ord. 15-14. Adopted 04/23/15; Ord. 15-29. Adopted 07/23/15; Ord. 16-58.
Adopted 12/29/16; Ord. 17-41. Adopted 10/12/17; Ord. 2021-04. Adopted 02/11/21;
Ord. 2023-05. Adopted 03/23/23; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
   Table P10.6
Xenia Code Section Chapter 1016: Discharges into WWTP Fee
Xenia Code Section Chapter 1016: Discharges into WWTP      Fee
   Wastewater Discharge Permit
1016.07(a)(1)      Permit                                  $500 annually
1016.09(a)(2)      Monitoring (one inspection per quarter) $1,000 annually
   Extra Strength Surcharges
                   Constituent:                            Cost per pound (lb.)
1016.09(b)            BOD5                              $0.40
                      TSS                               $0.22
                      Nh3-N                             $0.68
 
(Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
   Table P10.7
Xenia Code Section Chapter 1020: Stormwater Management Utility Fee
Xenia   Chapter 1020: Stormwater
Code    Management Utility             Fee
Section
   Equivalent Residential Unit
1020.04 ERU = 2,900 square feet        $4.75 per ERU
(a)
   Monthly Stormwater User Fees
1020.04 Residential                    $4.75
(b)
        Undeveloped lots or parcels
           Less than 0.1 acre       No Fee
           0.1 acre - less than 0.5 $2.38
        acre
1020.04    0.5 acre - less than 1.0 $6.65
(c)     acre
           1.0 acre - less than 5.0 $14.25
        acres
           5.0 acres - 10.0 acres   $23.75
           10.0 acres or more       $30.00
   Monthly Stormwater User Fees
1020.04 Nonresidential                 Total impervious area (sq. ft.) ÷ 2,900 sq. ft. = # of ERUs x $4.75 = monthly
(d)                                    fee
   Monthly Curb and Gutter Surcharge
1020.05 Curb and gutter surcharge      $5.00
(a)
   New Connections or Major Alterations to Existing Connections
1020.07 Plan review and inspection     $150
(c)
 
(Ord. 06-87. Adopted 12/28/06; Ord. 09-86. Adopted 12/29/09; Ord. 17-41.
Adopted 10/12/17; Ord. 2021-04. Adopted 02/11/21; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/
23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
   Table P10.8
Xenia   Chapter 1025:   Solid Waste Collection & Sanitation
Code    Utility                                                Fee
Section
   Solid Waste Collection Fees
        Effective Date:                                        Monthly Fee
1025.04    June 1, 2023                                     $16.32
(a)        January 1, 2024                                  $17.54
           January 1, 2025                                  $18.86
1025.04 Container/cart replacement or additional containers/   Current cost
(c)     carts                                                  to City of
                                                               container/cart
   Sanitation Surcharge
        Effective Date:                                        Monthly Fee
1025.05    June 1, 2023                                     $5.05
           January 1, 2024                                  $6.39
           January 1, 2025                                  $6.87
   Special Collection of Bulky Items
                                                               $15 per item
        Scheduled special collection                           for first 5
                                                               items, then
                                                               $20 per item
1025.07                                                        $35 per item
        Unscheduled special collection                         for first 5
                                                               items, then
                                                               $40 per item
        Tires                                                  $30 each
   Removal of Excess Waste
                                                               Contracted
1025.08                                                        cost per
(a)     Excess waste - prior arrangement, unpaid after 30 days hopper + $40
                                                               administrative
                                                               fee
                                                               Contracted
1025.08                                                        cost per
(b)     Excess waste - no arrangement, unpaid after 30 days    hopper + $80
                                                               administrative
                                                               fee
                                                               Cost of
1025.08 Failure to remove excess waste                         removal + $150
(c)                                                            administrative
                                                               fee
 
(Ord. 92-55. Adopted 11/24/92; Ord. 97-08. Adopted 02/27/97; Ord. 03-54.
Adopted 12/30/03; Ord. 06-73. Adopted 11/09/06; Ord. 06-92. Adopted 12/28/06;
Ord. 09-86. Adopted 12/29/09; Ord. 12-09. Adopted 03/22/12; Ord. 16-58. Adopted
12/29/16; Ord. 17-24. Adopted 05/11/17; Ord. 17-41. Adopted 10/12/17; Ord.
2018-38. Adopted 12/27/18; Ord. 2021-04. Adopted 02/11/21; Ord. 2023-05.
Adopted 03/23/23; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/
08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
   Table P10.9
Xenia Code Section Chapter 1030: Utility Billing Fee
Xenia Code Section Chapter 1030: Utility Billing  Fee
1030.03(b)         Returned item handling         Cost of returned item + $10
                                                  administrative fee
1030.04(b)         Disconnection/Reconnection     $40
                                                  Actual cost to the city of
1030.04(e)         Installation of automatic      meter, monthly service
                   disconnection service valve    charges, accessories &
                                                  installation
1030.06(b)         Debt collection                As assessed by the collection
                                                  agent
1030.08(a)         Hose bib meter deposit         $150
                   Hose bib meter rental          $25 per month
                   Hydrant meter deposit          $100
1030.08(b)         Hydrant meter installation and $50
                   removal
 
(Ord. 84-35. Adopted 07/12/84; Ord. 89-78. Adopted 11/21/89; Ord. 06-12.
Adopted 01/26/06; Ord. 08-52. Adopted 08/14/08; Ord. 08-77. Adopted 11/25/08;
Ord. 08-87. Adopted 12/30/08; Ord. 09-04. Adopted 02/12/09; Ord. 09-21. Adopted
04/09/09; Ord. 09-86. Adopted 12/29/09; Ord. 10-50. Adopted 12/09/10; Ord. 17-
41. Adopted 10/12/17; Ord. 2021-04. Adopted 02/11/21; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12-
28-23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
   Table P10.10
Xenia Code Section Chapter 1040: Parks Fee
Xenia Code Section Chapter 1040: Parks                 Fee
   Facility Rentals
Shawnee Park - Pavilion Reservations
                   Resident - four (4) hours a.m.      $60
                   Resident - four (4) hours p.m.      $80
1040.05            Resident - eight (8) hours (day)    $125
                   Nonresident - four (4) hours a.m.   $80
                   Nonresident - four (4) hours p.m.   $100
                   Nonresident - eight (8) hours (day) $145
Xenia Station - Shelter Reservations
                   Resident - four (4) hours a.m.      $30
                   Resident - four (4) hours p.m.      $30
1040.05            Resident - eight (8) hours (day)    $50
                   Nonresident - four (4) hours a.m.   $50
                   Nonresident - four (4) hours p.m.   $50
                   Nonresident - eight (8) hours (day) $70
Xenia Station - Classroom Reservations
                   Resident - 4 hours                  $25
1040.05            Resident - 8 hours                  $50
                   Nonresident - 4 hours               $45
                   Nonresident - 8 hours               $70
   Special Event Permit
1040.06            Special Event Permit                $50
 
(Ord. 97-08. Adopted 02/27/97; Ord. 06/62. Adopted 09/28/06; Ord. 07-61.
Adopted 12/27/07; Ord. 08-32. Adopted 05/22/08; Ord. 09-56. Adopted 08/27/09;
Ord. 11-07. Adopted 01/27/11; Ord. 14-36. Adopted 09/25/14; Ord. 15-45. Adopted
10/22/15; Ord. 16-58. Adopted 12-29-16; Ord. 2019-08. Adopted 04/11/19; Ord.
2019-19. Adopted 11/01/19; Ord. 2021-04. Adopted 2/11/21; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted
12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
   Table P10.11
 
Xenia Code Section Chapter 1041: Street Banner    Fee
                   Programs
1041.01            Street pole banner sponsorship Cost of the Banner + $40
                                                  Administrative Fee
1041.02            Over-the-street banner         $100 permit fee + $40
                                                  Administrative Fee
 
(Ord. 14-36. Adopted 09/25/14; Ord. 16-58. Adopted 12/29/16; Ord. 17-41.
Adopted 10/12/17; Ord. 18-23. Adopted 08/09/18; Ord. 2021-04. Adopted 02/11/21;
Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
   Table P10.12
 
   Xenia Code SectiChapter 1042:   Community Events, Parades &    Fee
                      Assemblies
                   Permit                                            $40
1042.01
 
(Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
FEES FROM PART TWELVE - LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE.
   Table P12.1
Xenia Code Section Chapter 1220: Administration and Procedures Fee
Xenia Code Section  Chapter 1220: Administration  Fee
                    and Procedures
1220.02(f), 1220.03 Code text and zoning map      $150
                    amendments
                    Planned unit development
                    concept plan and zoning map   $150
                    amendment
                    Planned unit development      $150
                    final plan
1220.02(f), 1220.04 Planned unit development
                    change requiring Planning and $100
                    Zoning Commission review only
                    Planned unit development
                    change requiring City Council $150
                    review
1220.02(f), 1220.05 Conditional Use Permit        $100
1220.02(f), 1220.06 Minor subdivisions            $50
                    Major subdivisions -          $150
                    preliminary plat
1220.02(f), 1220.07 Major subdivisions - final    $100 + $15 per lot
                    plat
                    Subdivision modifications     $100.00
1220.02(f), 1220.08 Certificate of                $100.00
                    Appropriateness
1220.02(f), 1220.09 Alternative equivalent review $100.00
1220.02(f), 1220.10 Application for variances     $100
                    Zoning Permit - Single-family $100
                    dwelling (new construction)
                    Zoning Permit - Multi-family  $100 + $50 per unit
                    dwelling (new construction)
                    Zoning Permit - Residential
                    additions, accessory          $30
                    structures and site
                    improvements
                    Zoning Permit -               $100 for first 5,000 sq. ft.
                    Nonresidential new            + $20 for each 1,000 sq. ft.
                    construction                  or fraction thereof
                    Zoning Permit -               $50 up to 3,000 sq. ft.
                    Nonresidential building
                    additions, accessory          $100 over 3,000 sq. ft.
1220.02(f), 1220.11 structures and site
                    improvement
                    Zoning Permit - Change of     $40
                    use/tenancy
                    Zoning Permit - Temporary use $40
                    Zoning Permit - Residential   $50
                    demolition
                    Zoning Permit -               $100
                    Nonresidential demolition
                    Zoning Permit - Permanent     $40
                    sign
                    Zoning Permit - Temporary     $20
                    sign
                    Zoning Permit - Fences and    $20
                    walls
1220.02(f), 1220.12 Appeals                       $100
 
   Table P12.2
 
Xenia Code Section Chapter 1222: Zoning Districts & Principal Uses   Fee
                   Wireless telecommunication facility registration, $274
1222.05(f)(3)(C)   initial fee
                   Wireless telecommunication facility registration, $218
                   renewal fee
 
   Table P12.3
 
Xenia Code Section Chapter 1230: Open Space & Park Fee
                   Dedication
1230.09            Park fee-in-lieu of dedication  Fair market value of land
                   option                          required to be dedicated
 
(Ord. 09-86. Adopted 12/29/09; Ord. 12-09. Adopted 03/22/12; Ord. 16-28.
Adopted 06/09/16; Ord. 21-04. Adopted 02/11/2021; Ord. 2022-52. Adopted 01/12/
23; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord.
2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
FEES FROM PART FOURTEEN - BUILDING AND HOUSING CODE.
   Table P14.1
Xenia Code Section Chapter 1402: Ohio Building Code Fee
Xenia Code Section Chapter 1402: Ohio Building   Fee
                   Code
Building Permits
                   Building Permit for new
                   construction, additions,      $340 + $0.13 per sq. ft.
                   alterations and remodeling
                   Demolition Permit (per        $125
                   structure)
1402.04            Industrialized Unit Permit    $250 + $0.022 x sq. ft.
                   Roof Replacement Permit       $315
                   Solar Array Permit            $340 + $6 per panel
                   Storage Rack System Permit    $340 + $0.13 per sq. ft.
                   Temporary Structure Permit
                   (including tents) (base       $190 + $0.25 per sq. ft.
                   +area):
   Electrical Permits
                   Electrical Permit             $340 + $0.08 x sq. ft.
1402.04            Electric Vehicle Charging     $340
                   Station Permit                Each additional charger on
                                                 same permit - $175
   Fire System Permits
                   Fire Suppression System       $340 + $0.08 x sq. ft.
                   Permit (all suppressed areas)
                   Fire Alarm System Permit      $340 + $8.13 per device
1402.04            Hood Suppression System       $315
                   Permit                        Each additional unit on same
                                                 permit - $60
                   Underground Fire Line Permit  $340 + $10.50 per 100 LF
                                                 (rounded up)
   Mechanical Permits
                   Mechanical Permit             $340 + $0.08 per sq. ft.
                   Gas piping inspection         $125 per inspection
                   Geothermal trench/pressure    $125 per inspection
1402.04            test
                   Kitchen Exhaust Hood Permit   $315
                   Replacement Permit - Furnace, $175
                   A/C                           Each additional unit on same
                                                 permit - $60
   Minor Alteration Permits
                   Per each permit type
1402.04            (building, electric, fire     $125
                   suppression, mechanical,
                   sign)
   Occupancy Certificates
                   Certificate of Occupancy or
                   Certificate of Completion     $175
                   with a permit
                   Certificate of Occupancy for  $175
1402.04            change of use
                   Occupying without Certificate $625
                   of Occupancy
                   Temporary Certificate of      $125
                   Occupancy (30 Days)
   Sign Permits
                   Face changes (no permit       $0
                   required)
                   Large signs
                   (More than 15' pole to bottom of face or single sign face
                   more than 200 sq. ft.)
                   Structural only               $250
                   Structural and electric       $320
1402.04            Medium signs
                   (More than 10' pole to bottom of face or single sign face
                   more than 50 sq. ft.)
                   Structural only               $175
                   Structural and electric       $280
                   Small signs
                   (All not included above)
                   Structural only               $125
                   Structural and electric       $225
State Board of Building Standards Fee            + 3% of applicable permit fees
   Miscellaneous
                   Copy plans & re-stamp         $75 + cost of copying
                   Out of normal hours           $175 per hour, minimum of 3
                   inspection                    hours billed
                   Permit extension (if          $100
                   approved)
1402.04            Plan review (0.25 hour        $125 per hour
                   increments)
                   Reinspection                  $125
                   Revisions to approved plans   $175, plus Plan Review
                   Special inspection            $175
                   Starting work without a       Doubled Permit Fee
                   permit
Note: All fees must be paid before Permit/Certificate will be issued and are
nonrefundable.
 
   Table P14.2
Xenia Code Chapter 1404: Residential Code                  Fee
Section
   Building Permits
           Building Permit for new construction,           $125 + $0.30 per
           additions, alterations and remodeling           sq. ft.
           Accessory Structure Permit, including awnings,  $125 +$0.25 per
           decks, and sheds that are 200 sq. ft. or more   sq. ft.
           Demolition Permit (per structure)               $90
1404.04    Foundation Only Permit (does not include elec.  $150
           service, garages or other add-ons)
           Roof Replacement Permit                         $125
           Solar Thermal Energy System Permit              $115 + $6.50 per
                                                           panel
           Swimming Pool Permit (depth of 24" or more)     $125
   Electrical Permits
           Electrical Permit for new structures,           $125 + $0.06 per
           additions, alterations and remodeling           sq. ft.
           Electric Service Permit (new/upgrade/reconnect) $115
1404.04    Residential Electric Vehicle Charging Station   $125
           Permit
           Swimming Pool Electrical Permit (inground or    $115
           above ground bonding/wiring)
           Temporary Electric Service Permit               $115
   Mechanical Permits
           Mechanical Permit for new structures,           $125 + $0.06 per
           additions, alterations, and remodeling          sq. ft.
1404.04    Heat Pump Permit                                $115
           Gas Piping Permit                               $115
           Geothermal trench/pressure test                 $90 per inspection
           Replacement Permit - Furnace or A/C             $115 per unit
   Minor Alteration Permit
1404.04    Per permit type (Building, Electric,            $100
           Mechanical)
   Occupancy Certificates
           Certificate of Occupancy or Certificate of      $60
1404.04    Completion with a permit
           Occupying without Certificate of Occupancy      $625
           Temporary Certificate of Occupancy (30 Days)    $125
                                                           Plus 1% of
State Board of Building Standards Fee                      applicable permit
                                                           fees
   Miscellaneous
           Copy plans & re-stamp                           $75 + cost of
                                                           copying
                                                           $150 per hour,
           Out of normal hours inspection                  minimum of 3 hours
                                                           billed
           Permit extension (if approved)                  $100
1404.04    Plan review (0.25 hour increments)              $75 per hour
              For 3rd review and all subsequent reviews
           Reinspection                                    $90
           Revisions to approved plans                     $125 + plan review
           Missed inspection                               $175
           Special inspection                              $90
           Starting work without a permit                  Doubled permit fee
Note: All fees must be paid before Permit/Certificate will be issued and are
nonrefundable.
 
   Table P14.3
 
   Xenia Code SectiChapter 1490: Property Maintenance Code    Fee
1490.01(f)(3)B.       Reinspection                               $150
 
(1997 Code §§ 1440.05, 1440.07, 1468.04; Ord. 06-62. Adopted 09/28/06; Ord. 08-
32. Adopted 05/22/08; Ord. 08-77. Adopted 11/25/08; Ord. 09-86. Adopted 12/29/
09; Ord. 12-09. Adopted 03/22/12; Ord. 14-10. Adopted 02/13/14; Ord. 2021-04.
Adopted 02/1/2021; Ord. 2022-29. Adopted 08/25/22; Ord. 2022-52. Adopted 01/12/
23; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord.
2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
FEES FROM PART SIXTEEN - FIRE CODE.
(EDITOR'S NOTE: Fees under Part Sixteen are set by the Public Safety Director
by Administrative Directive, in accordance with Section
1602.11)
MISCELLANEOUS FEES - FEES CHARGED BY VARIOUS DEPARTMENTS/DIVISIONS.
Department or Division Service Fee
Department or Division Service                     Fee
                       Paper Copy of documents     $0.07 per page
All City Offices       Documents/information       Actual cost of flash drive/
                       provided on a flash drive/  USB stick
                       USB memory stick
                       Copy of Charter             No charge
City Clerk's Office    Copy of video recording on  $3
                       DVD
                       Copy of complete plans and  $40
Engineering            specifications for projects
                       Copy of individual page of  $2
                       plans and specifications
Human Resources        Application for civil       Actual cost of test
                       service eligibility list
Planning and Zoning    Zoning Map - large          $22
                       Zoning Map - small          $11
Police Division        Copy of in-car video on DVD $3
 
(Ord. 05-08. Adopted 03/24/05; Ord. 06-62. Adopted 09/28/06; Ord. 08-32.
Adopted 05/22/08; Ord. 08-77. Adopted 11/25/08; Ord. 09-86. Adopted 12/29/09;
Ord. 11-07. Adopted 01/27/11; Ord. 12-09. Adopted 03/22/12; Ord. 15-14. Adopted
04/23/15; Ord. 16-58. Adopted 12-29-16; Ord. 2021-04. Adopted 02/11/2021; Ord.
2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02.
Adopted 02/22/24)
PART FOUR - TRAFFIC CODE
         TITLE TWO - ADMINISTRATION
            
Chap. 400. Authority to Control Traffic; Definitions
            
Chap. 402. Enforcement, Impounding, and Penalties
         TITLE FOUR - USE OF STREETS; TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
            
Chap. 410. Use of Streets and Public Ways; Obstructions
            
Chap. 412. Traffic Control Devices
         TITLE SIX - PEDESTRIANS; BICYCLES; MOTORCYCLES; SKATEBOARDS
            
Chap. 420. Pedestrians; Motorized Wheelchairs
            
Chap. 422. Bicycles; Motorcycles; Mopeds; Mobility Devices
            
Chap. 424. Snowmobiles; Off-Highway Vehicles; All-Purpose Vehicles
            
Chap. 426. Skateboards
         TITLE EIGHT - OPERATION AND EQUIPMENT OF VEHICLES
            
Chap. 430. Slow-Moving Vehicles
            
Chap. 432. General Operation
            
Chap. 434. Speed; OVI; Physical Control; Reckless Operation; Wrongful
Entrustment
            
Chap. 436. Commercial Vehicles; Buses; Heavy Vehicles
            
Chap. 438. Unsafe Vehicles; Lights; Equipment and Safety Requirements
         TITLE TEN - DRIVERS' LICENSES; CDLs; MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSING
            
Chap. 440. Drivers' Licenses; Suspensions; Accidents
            
Chap. 442. Commercial Drivers' Licenses; Registration
            
Chap. 444. Motor Vehicle Licensing; License Plates; Certificates of Title
         TITLE TWELVE - PARKING
            
Chap. 450. Parking Violations Bureau
            
Chap. 452. Parking on Public or Private Property; Parking Facilities
            
Chap. 454.  Private Tow-Away Zones; Abandoned or Unclaimed Vehicles;
Reclamation; Disposal
TITLE TWO - ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 400
Authority to Control Traffic; Definitions
400.01   Authority to Control Traffic
400.02   Authority to Regulate Use of Streets
400.03   Rules and Regulations; Parking Fees or Charges; Meters
400.04   Uniform Traffic Control Devices; Conformity with State Manual
400.05   Designation of Through Highways; Stop Signs and Yield Signs
400.06   Designation of Freeway, Expressway, and Thruway
400.07   Authority of Property Owner
400.08   Officer May Remove Ignition Key
400.09   Signs Regarding Increased Penalties in Construction Zones
400.90   Definitions
   CROSS REFERENCES
      See Section Histories for Similar State Law
      Placing and Maintaining Traffic Control Devices - see ORC 4511.11
      Power to Designate Highways - see ORC 4511.011, 4511.65
      Special permits for Excessive Weight, Size or Load - TRAF. 436.24
      Uniform System of Traffic Control Devices - see ORC 4511.09
400.01 AUTHORITY TO CONTROL TRAFFIC.
   (a)   Traffic Laws. The City has the authority to enact and enforce any
traffic rule or law that does not conflict with ORC 4511.01 to 4511.78,
4511.99, and 4513.01 to 4513.37, in addition to exercising any rights granted
to it by ORC Chapter 4521.
(ORC 4511.06)
   (b)   Local Traffic Regulations. Pursuant to ORC 4511.07, the City has the
authority to carry out any of the following activities with respect to streets
and highways under its jurisdiction and within the reasonable exercise of its
police power:
      (1)   Regulating the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles.
      (2)   Regulating traffic by means of police officers or traffic control
devices.
      (3)   Regulating or prohibiting processions or assemblages on the street,
highways, or rights-of-way.
      (4)   Designating particular streets or highways as one-way and requiring
that all vehicles on the one-way streets or highways be moved in one specific
direction.
      (5)   Regulating the speed of vehicles in public parks.
      (6)   Designating any highway as a through-highway and requiring that all
vehicles stop before entering or crossing a through-highway, or designating any
intersection as a stop intersection and requiring all vehicles to stop at one
(1) or more entrances to the intersection.
      (7)   Regulating or prohibiting vehicles from passing to the left of
safety zones.
      (8)   Regulating the operation of bicycles; provided, however, that no
such regulation shall be fundamentally inconsistent with the uniform rules of
the road prescribed by ORC Chapter 4511. and that no such regulation shall
prohibit the use of bicycles on any public street or highway except as provided
in Section
410.11 of this Traffic Code.
      (9)   Requiring the registration and licensing of bicycles, including the
requirement of a registration fee for residents of the City.
      (10)   Regulating the use of certain streets by vehicles.
   (c)   Signs Required. No ordinance or regulation enacted under division (b)
(4), (b)(5), (b)(6), (b)(7), (b)(8), or (b)(10) of this section shall be
effective until signs giving notice of the local traffic regulations are posted
upon or at the entrance to the street or highway or part of the street or
highway affected, as may be most appropriate.
(ORC 4511.07)
400.02 AUTHORITY TO REGULATE USE OF STREETS.
   (a)   Use of City Streets. The City shall have special power to regulate the
use of the streets within the City. Except as provided in ORC 5501.49, the City
Council shall have the care, supervision, and control of the public highways,
streets, avenues, alleys, sidewalks, public grounds, bridges, aqueducts, and
viaducts within the City.
(ORC 723.01)
   (b)   Additional Powers. The City also may:
      (1)   Regulate the use of carts, drays, wagons, hackney coaches,
omnibuses, automobiles, and carriages kept for hire or livery stable purposes.
      (2)   License and regulate the use of the streets by persons who use
vehicles or solicit or transact business thereon.
      (3)   Prevent and punish fast driving or riding of animals or fast
driving or propelling of vehicles through the public streets or highways.
      (4)   Regulate the transportation of articles through or on such streets
or highways and prevent injury to such streets or highways from overloaded
vehicles.
      (5)   Regulate the speed of interurban, traction, and street railway cars
within the City.
         (ORC 715.22)
400.03RULES AND REGULATIONS; PARKING FEES OR CHARGES; METERS.
   (a)   Authority of the Public Safety Director. In order to expedite the flow
and direction of traffic, to eliminate congestion on public ways, and to
provide for the safety of passengers in motor vehicles and pedestrians, City
Council hereby authorizes the Public Safety Director to make and issue rules
and regulations concerning:
      (1)   The number, type, and location of traffic control devices and
signs.
      (2)   The regulation or prohibition of parking on streets, alleys,
highways, or public property.
      (3)   The regulation of the right-of-way at intersections of streets,
alleys, and highways.
      (4)   The regulation or prohibition of turns at intersections.
      (5)   The creation, abolition, and/or regulation of through routes and
truck routes.
      (6)   The creation, abolition, and/or regulation of pedestrian crosswalk
and safety zones.
      (7)   The creation, abolition, and/or regulation of bus-loading and
unloading zones and business loading zones.
      (8)   The creation, abolition, and/or regulation of traffic lanes and
passing zones.
      (9)   The regulation of the direction of traffic on streets, alleys, and
highways and the creation and abolition of one-way public streets, roads,
alleys, courts, or drives.
      (10)   Such other subjects as may be provided by ordinance, which shall
not be limited by the specific enumeration of subjects herein.
   (b)   Parking Fees or Charges; Meters.
      (1)   City Council may establish and maintain reasonable fees and charges
for the privilege of parking, in locations permitted by any rules and
regulations with respect to parking on public ways or public property for the
purposes specified in division (a) of this section, and may construct, install,
maintain, repair, replace, and/or operate parking meters or other devices or
facilities on public ways and public property for the collection of those fees
and charges. The operation of meters, devices, and facilities may be managed
and operated by City officials and employees or by any other person or public
agency retained by the City for those purposes, as determined by City Council.
      (2)   As an alternative to the operation of parking meters, devices, and
facilities in the manner specified in division (b)(1) of this section, City
Council may grant to a person or public agency a public parking franchise
permitting that person or agency to occupy and use certain public ways or to
construct, install, maintain, repair, replace, and operate parking meters or
other devices or facilities on public property on and subject to terms and
conditions specified in a franchise agreement approved by City Council;
provided, however, that no such public parking franchise shall be granted for a
term of more than thirty (30) years. City Council may require the person or
public agency receiving such a public parking franchise to pay the City a lump
sum fee, a periodic fee, or both, for the property rights and privileges
granted. Public parking franchises shall be subject to regulation by City
Council and shall not be deemed to be a public utility or an entity otherwise
subject to regulation by any state agency or commission.
   (c)   Rules and Regulations. Rules and regulations issued by the Public
Safety Director in accordance with division (a) of this section shall be
subject to Sections 400.01 and 400.04 of this Traffic Code and shall not
conflict with any other provision of this Traffic Code. The Public Safety
Director shall keep a record of all rules and regulations promulgated by him
and shall provide copies of such rules and regulations, upon their issuance, to
the Police Division, Fire & EMS Division, Planning & Zoning Division, Public
Service Department, and the Xenia Municipal Court. Copies of rules and
regulations issued pursuant to this section, when certified by the Public
Safety Director, shall be competent evidence in all courts.
   (d)   Penalties. Violation of any rules and regulations made and issued in
accordance with this section shall be a criminal misdemeanor, punishable as
provided in this Traffic Code, or a civil infraction for which a charge is
prescribed. The enforcement of rules and regulations violations which
constitute criminal misdemeanors shall be by authorized law enforcement
officers.
   (e)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "Occupy or Use" with respect to a public way, means to create
parking spaces and install, repair, maintain, replace, and operate parking
meters or other similar devices for the purpose of providing on-street parking.
      (2)   "Public Agency" includes any county, municipal corporation, port
authority, regional transit authority, airport authority, or transportation
improvement district created pursuant to the laws of Ohio.
      (3)   "Public Parking Franchise" means a property right and privilege to
occupy and use one (1) or more public ways for the operation of an on-street
parking system in all or in one or more portions of the area within the
corporate limits of the City, or to construct, install, repair, maintain, and
operate parking meters or other devices or facilities on public property owned
or controlled by the City.
      (4)   "Public Way" means the surface of, and the space within, through,
on, across, above, or below any public street, road, highway, lane, path,
alley, court, sidewalk, boulevard, parkway, or drive owned or controlled by the
City.
(ORC 737.022)
400.04 UNIFORM TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES; CONFORMITY WITH STATE MANUAL.
   (a)   Uniform Traffic-Control Devices.
      (1)   The City shall place and maintain traffic control devices in
accordance with the Ohio Department of Transportation Manual for a Uniform
System of Traffic Control Devices ("State Manual"), adopted in accordance with
ORC 4511.09, upon all streets and highways under its jurisdiction as are
necessary to indicate and to carry out the provisions of ORC 4511.01 to 4511.76
and 4511.99, the provisions of this Traffic Code, or to regulate, warn, or
guide traffic.
      (2)   All traffic control devices, including signs denoting names of
streets and highways, erected on any street, highway, alley, bikeway, or
private road open to the public for travel shall conform to the State Manual.
      (3)   No person, firm, or corporation shall sell or offer for sale to the
City any traffic control device that does not conform to the State Manual,
except by permission of the Ohio Director of Transportation.
      (4)   The City shall not purchase or manufacture any traffic control
device that does not conform to the State Manual, except by permission of the
Ohio Director of Transportation.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates division (a)(3) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.11)
400.05 DESIGNATION OF THROUGH HIGHWAYS; STOP SIGNS AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (a)   State Through Highways. Pursuant to ORC 4511.65, all State routes
within the City are designated as through highways; provided, however, that
stop signs, yield signs, or traffic control signals are erected at all
intersections with such through highways by the Ohio Department of
Transportation, as to highways under its jurisdiction, and by the City, as to
highways under its jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
   (b)   City Through Highways. Pursuant to ORC 4511.65, other streets or
highways or portions thereof within the City are designated through highways;
provided, however, that they have a continuous length of more than one (1) mile
between the limits of said street or highway or portion thereof and if they
have "stop" or "yield" signs or traffic control signals at the entrances of the
majority of intersecting streets or highways. For the purposes of this section,
the limits of said street or highway or portion thereof shall be the City's
corporation line, the physical terminus of the street or highway, or any point
on said street or highway at which vehicular traffic thereon is required by
regulatory signs to stop or yield to traffic on the intersecting street,
provided that in residential districts, the City may, by ordinance, designate
said street or highway or portion thereof not to be a through highway, and
thereafter, the affected residential district shall be indicated by official
traffic control devices.
   (c)   Stop Signs and Yield Signs.
      (1)   Where two (2) or more through-highways designated under this
section intersect and no traffic control signal is in operation, stop signs or
yield signs shall be erected at one (1) or more entrances thereto by the Ohio
Department of Transportation or by the City, whomever has jurisdiction, except
as otherwise provided in the section.
      (2)   On through highways under its jurisdiction, the City need not erect
stop signs at intersections it finds to be so constructed as to permit traffic
to safely enter a through highway without coming to a stop. Signs shall be
erected at such intersections indicating that the operator of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to or merge with all traffic proceeding on the through
highway.
   (d)   Designation of Additional Through Highways. On highways under its
jurisdiction, the City may designate additional through highways and shall
erect stop signs, yield signs, or traffic control signals at all streets and
highways intersecting such through highway or may designate any intersection as
a stop or yield intersection and shall erect like signs at one (1) or more
entrances to such intersection.
(ORC 4511.65)
400.06 DESIGNATION OF FREEWAY, EXPRESSWAY, AND THRUWAY.
   The City Council may, for highways under the City's jurisdiction, designate
an existing highway, in whole or in part, as included in a "freeway,"
"expressway," or "thruway."
(ORC 4511.011)
400.07 AUTHORITY OF PROPERTY OWNER.
   Nothing in this Traffic Code shall be construed to prevent the owner of real
property used by the public for purposes of vehicular traffic, by permission of
the owner and not as a matter of right, from prohibiting such use or from
requiring additional conditions to those specified in this Traffic Code, or
otherwise regulating such use as may seem best to such owner.
(ORC 4511.08)
400.08 OFFICER MAY REMOVE IGNITION KEY.
   A law enforcement officer may remove the ignition key left in the ignition
switch of an unlocked and unattended motor vehicle parked on a street, highway,
or any public or private property used by the public for the purposes of
vehicular travel or parking. The officer removing the key shall place
notification upon the vehicle detailing his or her name and badge number, the
place where the key may be reclaimed, and the procedure for reclaiming the key.
The key shall be returned to the owner of the motor vehicle upon presentation
of proof of ownership.
(ORC 4549.05)
400.09 SIGNS REGARDING INCREASED PENALTIES IN CONSTRUCTION ZONES.
   The Public Safety Director, or at his direction the City Engineer, may
establish speed limits within construction zones within the City that vary
based on the type of work being conducted, the time of day, or any other
criteria the Public Safety Director may consider appropriate. The Public Safety
Director, or at his direction the City Engineer, shall cause signs to be
erected advising motorists that increased penalties apply for certain traffic
violations occurring on streets or highways in a construction zone. The
increased penalties shall be effective only when signs are erected in
accordance with the guidelines and specifications established by the Ohio
Director of Transportation under ORC 5501.27 and when a violation occurs during
hours of actual work within the construction zone.
(Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
Statutory reference: ORC 4511.98
400.90 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this Traffic Code, the definitions set forth
in ORC 4501.01, 4503.01, 4505.01, 4506.01, 4507.01, 4510.01, 4511.01, 4511.011,
4513.01, 4519.01, and 5577.01, as applicable, shall apply to this Traffic Code.
CHAPTER 402
Enforcement, Impounding and Penalties
402.01   Failure to Comply with Order or Signal of Officer; Fleeing
402.02   Prohibitions against Resisting Officer
402.03   Presenting False Name or Information to Officer
402.04   Traffic Direction in Emergencies; Obedience to School Crossing Guards
402.05   Traffic Officers; Requirements
402.06   Street Workers and Equipment Exempted
402.07   Emergency, Public Safety, and Coroners' Vehicles Exempted
402.08   Application to Drivers of Government Vehicles
402.09   Vehicle Checkpoint Operations; Secondary Traffic Offenses
402.10   Owner May Establish Nonliability by Proof of Lease of Vehicle;
Exception
402.11   Impounding or Ordering into Storage of Vehicles; Reclamation
402.12   Violations Subject to Misdemeanor Classifications
402.13   Suspension of Driver's License
402.14   Forfeiture of License Upon Failure to Appear in Court or to Pay Fines
402.99   Penalties; Distracted Driving
   CROSS REFERENCES
      See Section Histories for Similar State Law
      Arrest, Citation and Disposition Alternatives - see ORC Chapter 2935.
      Citations for Minor Misdemeanors - see ORC 2935.26 et. seq.
      Definitions - see TRAF.
400.90
      Driver's License Suspensions - see TRAF.
CH. 440.; ORC Chapter 4510.
      Emergency Vehicles to Proceed Cautiously Past Stop Signal -TRAF. 412.07
      Operation of Motor Vehicles - see TRAF. CH. 432.; ORC Chapter 4511.
402.01 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER OR SIGNAL OF OFFICER; FLEEING.
   (a)   Failure to Comply. No person shall fail to comply with any lawful
order or direction given by any police officer invested with authority to
direct, control, or regulate traffic.
   (b)   Fleeing or Eluding. No person shall operate a motor vehicle so as
willfully to elude or flee a police officer after receiving a visible or
audible signal from the police officer to bring the person's motor vehicle to a
stop.
   (c)   Violations; Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to comply with
an order or signal of a police officer.
      (2)   A violation of division (a) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (b) of this section shall be charged as
felony, to be charged under appropriate state law.
   (d)   Required License Suspension. In addition to any other sanction imposed
for a violation of division (a) of this section, the court shall impose a class
five suspension from the range specified in ORC 4510.02(A)(5). If the offender
previously has been found guilty of an offense under this section, in addition
to any other sanction imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class
one suspension as described in ORC 4510.02(A)(1). The court may grant limited
driving privileges to the offender on a suspension imposed for a misdemeanor
violation of this section, as set forth in ORC 4510.021. No judge shall suspend
any portion of the suspension under a class one suspension of an offender's
license, permit, or privilege required by this division.
   (e)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "Moving Violation" has the same meaning as in ORC 2743.70.
      (2)   "Police Officer" has the same meaning as in ORC 4511.01.
(ORC 2921.331)
402.02 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST RESISTING OFFICER.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall resist, hinder, obstruct, or abuse any
law enforcement official while that official is attempting to arrest offenders
under any provision of this Traffic Code. No person shall interfere with any
person charged under any provision of this Traffic Code with the enforcement of
the law relative to public highways and streets.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.36)
402.03 PRESENTING FALSE NAME OR INFORMATION TO OFFICER.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall knowingly present, display, or orally
communicate a false name, social security number, or date of birth to a law
enforcement officer who is in the process of issuing to the person a traffic
ticket or complaint.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
(ORC 4513.361)
402.04 TRAFFIC DIRECTION IN EMERGENCIES; OBEDIENCE TO SCHOOL CROSSING GUARDS.
   (a)   Emergencies and Exigent Circumstances. In the event of an emergency,
such as a fire or motor vehicle accident, firefighters at the scene may direct,
or assist the police in directing, traffic. Police officers and firefighters
shall direct or regulate traffic in accordance with the provisions of this
Traffic Code, provided that, in the event of fire or other emergency, or to
expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians, they are authorized to direct
traffic as conditions may require notwithstanding the provisions of this
Traffic Code. In all cases, the direction of traffic may be by word or audible
signal, by gesture or visible signal, or by any combination thereof.
   (b)   School Crossing Guards. School crossing guards invested with the
authority to direct, control, or regulate traffic in the vicinity of the school
to which the guard may be assigned shall direct and regulate traffic in
accordance with this Traffic Code. The direction of traffic may be by word or
audible signal, by gesture or visible signal, or by any combination thereof.
   (c)   Violations. No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or
direction given in accordance with this section by any police officer,
firefighter, or school crossing guard.
   (d)   Penalties. Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of
failure to comply, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(Former 404.08; Ord. 2024-25. Passed 10/10/24)
402.05 TRAFFIC OFFICERS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Motor Vehicles Used by Traffic Officers. Any motor vehicle used by a
police officer, while said officer is on duty for the exclusive or main purpose
of enforcing the provisions of this Traffic Code (provided the offense is
punishable as a misdemeanor), shall be marked in some distinctive manner or
color and shall be equipped with, but need not necessarily have in operation at
all times, at least one (1) flashing, oscillating, or rotating colored-light
mounted outside on top of the vehicle.
(ORC 4549.13)
   (b)   Uniform for Traffic Officers. Every police officer, while such officer
is on duty for the exclusive or main purpose of enforcing motor vehicle or
traffic laws of this City (provided the offense is punishable as a
misdemeanor), shall wear a distinctive uniform.
(ORC 4549.15)
   (c)   Incompetency of Officer as Witness. Any officer arresting, or
participating or assisting in the arrest of, a person charged with violating
any provision of this Traffic Code (provided the offense is punishable as a
misdemeanor), such officer being on duty exclusively or for the main purpose of
enforcing such laws, is incompetent to testify as witness in any prosecution
against such arrested person if such officer at the time of the arrest was
using a motor vehicle not marked in accordance with division (a) of this
section and was not wearing a distinctive uniform in accordance with division
(b) of this section.
(ORC 4549.14; 4549.16)
402.06 STREET WORKERS AND EQUIPMENT EXEMPTED.
   (a)   Application of Traffic Code. The provisions of this Traffic Code,
except for Sections
410.02 ,
432.40 ,
434.09  -
434.13 ,
436.08 ,
438.29 ,
438.39 ,
440.24 ,
442.07 ,
442.08 , and
454.01  -
454.09  do not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment
while actually engaged in work upon the surface of a street or highway within
an area designated by traffic-control devices but apply to those persons and
vehicles when traveling to or from such work.
   (b)   Criminal Prosecution. The driver of a street or highway maintenance
vehicle owned by this City, State, or any political subdivision of this State,
while the driver is engaged in the performance of official duties upon a street
or highway, provided the maintenance vehicle is equipped with flashing lights
and such other markings as are required by law and the lights are in operation
when the driver and vehicle are so engaged, shall be exempt from criminal
prosecution for violations of Sections
432.01  -
432.04 ,
432.06  -
432.08 ,
432.31 ,
434.01 ,
436.16  -
436.23 ,
438.01 , and
438.39  of this Traffic Code.
   (c)   Civil Liability.
      (1)   This section does not exempt a driver of a street or highway
maintenance vehicle from civil liability arising from a violation of Sections
432.01  -
432.04 ,
432.06  -
432.08 ,
432.31 ,
434.01 ,
436.16  -
436.23 ,
438.01 , and
438.39 of this Traffic Code.
      (2)   This section does not exempt a driver of a vehicle who is not a
State or City employee and who is engaged in the transport of highway
maintenance equipment from criminal liability for a violation of Sections
438.16 to
438.23 of this Traffic Code.
   (d)   Definitions. As used in this section, "engaged in the performance of
official duties" includes driving a highway maintenance vehicle to and from the
manufacturer or vehicle maintenance provider and transporting a highway
maintenance vehicle, equipment or materials to and from a work location.
(ORC 4511.04)
402.07 EMERGENCY, PUBLIC SAFETY, AND CORONERS' VEHICLES EXEMPTED.
   (a)   Emergency and Public Safety Vehicles. Sections
412.01  -
412.06 ,
434.01  -
434.04 ,
434.08 ,
432.01  -
432.19 ,
432.29  -
432.31 ,
452.01 ,
452.03 ,
452.04 ,
452.08 ,
452.15 , and
452.21  of this Traffic Code do not apply to the driver of an emergency vehicle
or public safety vehicle if:
      (1)   The emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle is responding to an
emergency call;
      (2)   Is equipped with and displaying at least one (1) flashing,
rotating, or oscillating light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from
a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the front of the vehicle; and
      (3)   The driver of the vehicle is giving an audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle, or bell.
This section does not relieve the driver of an emergency or public safety
vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons
and property upon the highway, roads, and streets.
(ORC 4511.041)
   (b)   Coroners' Vehicles.
      (1)   Sections
432.01 -
432.08,
432.10 -
432.12,
432.30,
432.31, and
452.01 of this Traffic Code do not apply to a coroner, deputy coroner, or
coroner's investigator operating a motor vehicle in accordance with division
(b)(2) of this section.
(ORC 4511.042)
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a motor vehicle
operated by a coroner, deputy coroner, or coroner's investigator may be
equipped with a flashing, oscillating, or rotating red or blue light and a
siren, whistle, or bell capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than five hundred feet (500'). Such a
vehicle may display the flashing, oscillating, or rotating red or blue light
and may give the audible signal of the siren, exhaust whistle, or bell only
when responding to a fatality or a fatal motor vehicle accident on a street or
highway, and only at those locations where the stoppage of traffic impedes the
ability of the coroner, deputy coroner, or coroner's investigator to arrive at
the site of the fatality.
(ORC 4513.171)
      (3)   This section does not relieve a coroner, deputy coroner, or
coroner's investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway, roads,
and streets.
(ORC 4511.042; 4513.171)
   (c)   Penalties. Whoever violates division (b)(2) of this section is guilty
of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.171)
402.08 APPLICATION TO DRIVERS OF GOVERNMENT VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this Traffic Code shall apply to the drivers of all
vehicles owned or operated by the United States, the State of Ohio, or any
political subdivision of the State, including this City, except as may be
otherwise provided by law, and subject to such specific exemptions as are set
forth in this Traffic Code with reference to street workers and equipment,
emergency and public safety vehicles, and coroners' vehicles.
(Former 404.06; Ord. 2024-25. Passed 10/10/24)
402.09 VEHICLE CHECKPOINT OPERATIONS; SECONDARY TRAFFIC OFFENSES.
   (a)   Limitations.
      (1)   No law enforcement officer who stops the operator of a motor
vehicle in the course of an authorized sobriety or other motor vehicle
checkpoint operation or a motor vehicle safety inspection shall issue a ticket,
citation, or summons for a secondary traffic offense unless in the course of
the checkpoint operation or safety inspection the officer first determines that
an offense other than a secondary traffic offense has occurred and either
places the operator or a vehicle occupant under arrest or issues a ticket,
citation, or summons to the operator or a vehicle occupant for an offense other
than a secondary offense.
      (2)   A law enforcement agency that operates a motor vehicle checkpoint
for an express purpose related to a secondary traffic offense shall not issue a
ticket, citation, or summons for any secondary traffic offense at such a
checkpoint, but may use such a checkpoint operation to conduct a public
awareness campaign and distribute information.
   (b)   Definitions. As used in this section, "secondary traffic offense"
means a violation of Section
440.03 (a) or (b),
440.07 (a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(4),
438.29 (c) or (d),
438.02 (a)(3), 430.38(a) of this Traffic Code, or as otherwise defined in ORC
4511.043(B).
(ORC 4511.043)
402.10 OWNER MAY ESTABLISH NONLIABILITY BY PROOF OF LEASE OF VEHICLE;
EXCEPTION.
   (a)   Leased or Rented Vehicle. Except as provided in division (c) of this
section, the owner of a vehicle shall be entitled to establish nonliability for
prosecution for violation of an ordinance, resolution, or regulation enacted
under Section
400.01 (b)(1) of this Traffic Code by proving the vehicle was in the care,
custody, or control of a person other than the owner at the time of the
violation pursuant to a written rental or lease agreement or affidavit
providing that except for such agreement, no other business relationship with
respect to the vehicle in question exists between the operator and owner.
   (b)   Written Lease or Rental Agreement Required. Proof that the vehicle was
in the care, custody, or control of a person other than the owner shall be
established by sending a copy of such written rental or lease agreement or
affidavit to the prosecuting authority within thirty (30) days from the date of
receipt by the owner of the notice of violation. The furnishing of a copy of a
written rental or lease agreement or affidavit shall be prima-facie evidence
that a vehicle was in the care, custody, or control of a person other than the
owner.
   (c)   Exception. This section does not apply to a violation of an ordinance,
resolution, or regulation enacted under Section
400.01 (b)(1) of this Traffic Code if the ordinance, resolution, or regulation
is one that is required to be enforced in compliance with
Chapter 452 . of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.071)
402.11 IMPOUNDING OR ORDERING INTO STORAGE OF VEHICLES; RECLAMATION.
   (a)   Removal and Impounding. Law enforcement officers of the City's Police
Division are authorized to provide for the removal and impounding or storage of
a vehicle under any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   When the vehicle is left unattended upon any street, bridge, or
causeway and constitutes an unreasonable hazard or obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic or unreasonably interferes with street cleaning or snow
removal operations.
      (2)   When the vehicle is seized in connection with the arrest of the
driver.
      (3)   When the vehicle has been stolen or operated without the consent of
the owner.
      (4)   When the vehicle is parked upon any street, highway, or other
property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking and
displays illegal license plates or fails to display the current, lawfully
required licenses plates.
      (5)    When the vehicle has been used in or is connected with the
commission of any felony.
      (6)   When the vehicle has been damaged or wrecked so as to be inoperable
or is in violation of the equipment regulations of this Traffic Code to the
extent that its continued operation would constitute a hazard to life, limb, or
property.
      (7)   When the vehicle is left unattended due to the removal of an ill,
injured, or arrested driver.
      (8)   When the vehicle has been operated by a person who failed to stop
in the case of an accident or collision.
      (9)   When the vehicle is being operated by a person who is driving
without a lawful license or while the person's license is suspended or revoked.
      (10)   When the vehicle constitutes an unreasonable hazard to persons or
property at the scene of a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any
kind.
      (11)   When the vehicle has been ordered immobilized or is subject to
forfeiture.
      (12)   When authorized pursuant to the provisions of Chapters
432.,
434.,
436.,
452., or
454. of this Traffic Code.
      (13)   When the vehicle is found to have been issued two (2) or more
citations and/or tags for violations of this Traffic Code and the owner or
operator thereof has failed to respond to the citations and/or tags as required
by law.
      (14)   When otherwise authorized pursuant to law.
   (b)   Inventory. In conjunction with the impounding of any vehicle, the
police officer in charge of the impounding shall make a full and complete
inventory of the contents of the impounded vehicle.
   (c)   Reclamation.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided in this Traffic Code, the Police Division
shall forthwith notify the registered vehicle owner and any lienholders of any
vehicle ordered into storage, the reasons therefor, and the place of storage.
Any person desiring to redeem a stored vehicle shall furnish satisfactory
evidence of identity and ownership or right to possession to the Police
Division, if a release from the Police is required, or to the storage facility
operator.
      (2)   The owner or lienholder may reclaim the vehicle upon payment of any
towing and storage charges, unless otherwise required by law or court order.
      (3)   If the vehicle was a stolen vehicle, the court, under ORC 2913.82,
may order the offender to repay to the owner any fees paid to reclaim the
vehicle.
      (4)   Unclaimed vehicles ordered into storage shall be disposed of in
accordance with
Chapter 454. of this Traffic Code.
(Former 404.07; Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
402.12 VIOLATIONS SUBJECT TO MISDEMEANOR CLASSIFICATION.
   Except as otherwise provided in this Traffic Code, any person violating any
provision of this Traffic Code is guilty of a misdemeanor, to be classified as
provided in Section
402.99 of this Traffic Code.
(Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
402.13 SUSPENSION OF DRIVER'S LICENSE.
   (a)   License Suspension for Violation of Traffic Code. Except as otherwise
provided in division (b) of this section or in any provision of the ORC,
whenever an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this
Traffic Code that is substantially similar to a provision of the ORC and the
court is permitted or required to suspend a person's driver's license,
commercial driver's license, permit, or nonresident operating privileges for a
violation of that ORC provision, the court, in addition to any other penalties
authorized by law, may suspend the offender's driver's license, commercial
driver's license, permit, or nonresident operating privileges for the period of
time the court determines appropriate, but the period of suspension imposed for
the violation of this Traffic Code shall not exceed the period of suspension
that is permitted or required to be imposed for the violation of the provision
of the ORC to which the Traffic Code section is substantially similar.
(ORC 4510.05)
   (b)   Suspension for Vehicular Homicide, Vehicular Manslaughter or OVI. The
court imposing a sentence upon an offender for any violation of this Traffic
Code that is substantially equivalent to a violation of ORC 2903.06 or for any
violation of the OVI provisions of this Traffic Code, also shall impose a
suspension of the offender's driver's license, commercial driver's license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in ORC 4510.02(B) that is equivalent in
length to the suspension required for a violation of ORC 2903.06 or ORC 4511.19
(A) or (B) under similar circumstances.
(ORC 4510.07)
402.14 FORFEITURE OF LICENSE UPON FAILURE TO APPEAR IN COURT OR TO PAY FINES.
   (a)   Forfeiture.
      (1)   If a person who has a current valid Ohio driver's license,
commercial driver's license, or temporary instruction permit is charged with a
violation of any provision of ORC 4503.11, 4503.12, 4503.182, 4503.21, 4507.02,
4507.05, 4507.35, 4510.11, 4510.111, 4510.12, 4510.16, 4510.21, 4511.01 to
4511.76, 4511.81, 4511.82, 4511.84, 4513.01 to 4513.65, or 4549.01 to 4549.65
or with a violation of a substantially equivalent Traffic Code section and if
the person fails to appear in court at the required time and place to answer
the charge or pleads guilty to or is found guilty of the violation and fails
within the time allowed by the court to pay the fine imposed by the court, the
court may declare the forfeiture of the person's license. Thirty (30) days
after such a declaration of forfeiture, the court shall inform the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles of the forfeitures by entering information relative to the
forfeiture on a form approved and furnished by the Registrar and sending the
form to the Registrar. The court shall also forward the person's license, if it
is in the possession of the court, to the Registrar.
      (2)   The Registrar shall impose a class F suspension on the person's
driver's license, commercial driver's license, or temporary instruction permit
for the period of time specified in ORC 4510.02(B)(6) on any person who is
named in a declaration received by the Registrar under this section. The
Registrar shall send written notification of the suspension to the person at
the person's last known address and, if the person is in possession of the
license, order the person to surrender the person's license or permit to the
Registrar within forty-eight (48) hours.
   (b)   No Transfer of Ownership While License is Forfeited.
      (1)   In addition to suspending the driver's license or commercial
driver's license or permit of the person named in the declaration of
forfeiture, the Registrar, upon receipt from the court of the copy of the
declaration of forfeiture, shall take any measures that may be necessary to
ensure that neither the Registrar nor any Deputy Registrar accepts any
application for the registration or transfer of registration of any motor
vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the declaration of forfeiture.
However, for a motor vehicle leased by a person named in a declaration of
forfeiture, the Registrar shall not implement the preceding sentence until the
Registrar has adopted procedures for that implementation under ORC 4503.39.
      (2)   The period of denial of registration or transfer shall continue
until such time as the court having jurisdiction of the offense that led to the
suspension orders the forfeiture terminated. Upon receipt by the Registrar of
an order terminating the forfeiture, the Registrar also shall take any measures
that may be necessary to permit the person to register a motor vehicle owned or
leased by the person or to transfer the registration of such motor vehicle, if
the person later makes application to take such action and otherwise is
eligible to register the motor vehicle or transfer its registration.
      (3)   The period of denial relating to the issuance or transfer of a
certificate of registration for a motor vehicle imposed pursuant to this
division remains in effect until the person pays any fine imposed by the court
relative to the offense.
(ORC 4510.22)
402.99 PENALTIES; DISTRACTED DRIVING.
   (a)   Penalties. Whoever violates any provision of this Traffic Code for
which no penalty is otherwise provided is guilty of one of the following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this
section, a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   If within one year of the offense the offender has previously been
convicted of or pled guilty to one (1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (3)   If within one year of the offense the offender has previously been
convicted of or pled guilty to two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.99)
   (b)   Enhanced Penalty for Distracted Driving. If an offender violates
Section
410.11 ,
412.01 ,
412.02 ,
412.07 ,
420.01 ,
420.04 ,
420.05 ,
422.05 (a),
422.07 (b),
422.12  -
422.14 ,
422.16 ,
432.01  -
432.18 ,
432.21 ,
432.22 ,
432.24  -
432.31 , or
434.01  -
434.03  of this Traffic Code while distracted and the distracting activity is a
contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the offender is subject
to the applicable penalty for the violation and, notwithstanding ORC 2929.28,
is subject to an additional fine of not more than one hundred dollars ($100) as
follows:
      (1)   Subject to Traffic Rule 13, if a law enforcement officer issues an
offender a ticket, citation, or summons for a violation of any of the
aforementioned sections of this Traffic Code that indicates that the offender
was distracted while committing the violation and that the distracting activity
was a contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the offender may
enter a written plea of guilty and waive the offender's right to contest the
ticket, citation, or summons in a trial provided that the offender pays the
total amount of the fine established for the violation and pays the additional
fine of one hundred dollars ($100).
         In lieu of payment of the additional fine of one hundred dollars
($100), the offender instead may elect to attend a distracted driving safety
course, the duration and contents of which shall be established by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety. If the offender attends and successfully completes
the course, the offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender
successfully completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the
total amount of the fine established for the violation but shall not be
required to pay the additional fine of one hundred dollars ($100), so long as
the offender submits to the court both the offender's payment in full and such
written evidence within ninety (90) days of the underlying violation that
resulted in the imposition of the additional fine under division (b) of this
section.
      (2)   If the offender appears in person to contest the ticket, citation,
or summons in a trial and the offender pleads guilty to or is convicted of the
violation, the court, in addition to all other penalties provided by law, may
impose the applicable penalty for the violation and may impose the additional
fine of not more than one hundred dollars ($100).
         If the court imposes upon the offender the applicable penalty for the
violation and an additional fine of not more than one hundred dollars ($100),
the court shall inform the offender that, in lieu of payment of the additional
fine of not more than one hundred dollars ($100), the offender instead may
elect to attend the distracted driving safety course described in division (b)
(1) of this section. If the offender elects the course option and attends and
successfully completes the course, the offender shall be issued written
evidence that the offender successfully completed the course. The offender
shall be required to pay the total amount of the fine established for the
violation but shall not be required to pay the additional fine of not more than
one hundred dollars ($100), so long as the offender submits to the court the
offender's payment and such written evidence within ninety (90) days of the
underlying violation that resulted in the imposition of the additional fine
under division (b) of this section.
      (3)   If a law enforcement officer issues an offender a ticket, citation,
or summons for a violation of any of the sections of this Traffic Code listed
in division (b) of this section that indicates that the offender was distracted
while committing the violation and that the distracting activity was a
contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the officer shall do
both of the following:
         A.   Report the issuance of the ticket, citation, or summons to the
officer's law enforcement agency;
         B.   Ensure that such report indicates the offender's race.
   (c)   Definitions. As used in division (b) of this section and each section
of this Traffic Code referenced in division (b) of this section, all of the
following apply:
      (1)   "Distracted" means doing either of the following while operating a
vehicle:
         A.   Using an electronic wireless communications device, as defined in
Section
432.41 of this Traffic Code, in violation of that section;
         B.   Engaging in any activity that is not necessary to the operation
of a vehicle and impairs, or reasonably would be expected to impair, the
ability of the operator to drive the vehicle safely.
      (2)   "Distracted" does not include operating a motor vehicle while
wearing an earphone or earplug over or in both ears at the same time. A person
who so wears earphones or earplugs may be charged with a violation of section
4511.84 of the Revised Code.
      (3)   "Distracted" does not include conducting any activity while
operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or on behalf of a utility,
provided that the driver of the vehicle is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage, or a circumstance affecting the health or safety of individuals.
As used in this division (C)(3), "utility" means an entity specified in ORC
4905.03(A), (C), (D), (E), or (G), and "utility service vehicle" means a
vehicle owned or operated by a utility.
   (ORC 4511.991)
TITLE FOUR - USE OF STREETS; TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
CHAPTER 410
Use of Streets and Public Ways; Obstructions
410.01   Placing Injurious Material or Obstruction in Street
410.02   Littering by Operators of Motor Vehicles Prohibited
410.03   Occupancy of Trailer or Manufactured Home while in Motion
410.04   Portable Basketball Hoops and Other Recreational Apparatus
410.05   Toy Vehicles on Streets
410.06   Playing in Street or Public Way
410.07   Building on or Obstructing Public Way
410.08   Altering or Injuring Marker or Monument
410.09   Obstructing Ditch, Drain, or Watercourse
410.10   Persons Riding or Driving Animals upon Roadway
410.11   Pedestrians and Slow-Moving Vehicles on Freeways
410.12   Operation of Vehicle on Street Temporarily Covered by Water
410.13   Street Racing, Stunt Driving, or Street Takeover Prohibited
410.99   Penalties
   CROSS REFERENCES
      See Section Histories for Similar State Law
      Bicycles, Motorcycles, Mopeds, and Mobility Devices - see TRAF. CH. 422
      Block Parties - see PUB. SER.
CH. 1042
      Definitions - TRAF.
400.90
      Parades and Assemblies - see PUB. SER.
CH. 1042
      Penalty, when not otherwise provided - TRAF.
402.99
      Power to Regulate Processions or Assemblages - see ORC 4511.07
      Selling, Washing or Repairing Vehicle on Roadway - TRAF.
452.12
      Sidewalk Obstructions - GEN. OFF.
660.10
      Snowmobiles, Off-Highway Vehicles and ATVs - see TRAF. CH. 424
410.01 PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL OR OBSTRUCTION IN STREET.
   (a)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a public
roadway any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails, or other articles which may
damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal traveling along or upon such
public roadway, except such substances placed upon the roadway by the City or
State for the repair or construction thereof.
      (2)   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
public roadway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove
the same.
      (3)   Any person authorized to remove a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a
public roadway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon
the public roadway from such vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall place any obstruction in or upon a public roadway
without proper authority.
   (b)   Intent to Cause Harm. No person, with intent to cause physical harm to
a person or a vehicle, shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a public
roadway any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails, or other articles which may
damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal traveling along or upon such
public roadway, except such substances placed upon the roadway by the City or
State for the repair or construction thereof.
   (c)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
(1) year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled
guilty to one (1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one (1) year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of or pled guilty to two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (d)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, "public roadway"
includes any highway, route, lane, road, street, alley, or other way open to
the use of the public as a thoroughfare for the purposes of vehicular travel
and shall include the right-of-way of each such public roadway.
(ORC 4511.74)
410.02 LITTERING BY OPERATORS OF MOTOR VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (a)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No operator or occupant of a motor vehicle shall, regardless of
intent, throw, drop, discard, or deposit litter from any motor vehicle in
operation upon any street, road, or highway, except into a litter receptacle in
a manner that prevents its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
      (2)   No operator of a motor vehicle in operation upon any street, road,
or highway shall allow litter to be thrown, dropped, discarded, or deposited
from the motor vehicle, except into a litter receptacle in a manner that
prevents its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
   (c)   Definitions. As used in this section, "litter" means garbage, trash,
waste, rubbish, ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes, automobile
parts, furniture, glass, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
(ORC 4511.82)
410.03 OCCUPANCY OF TRAILER OR MANUFACTURED HOME WHILE IN MOTION.
   (a)   Prohibition. Except as otherwise provided in division (b) of this
section, no person shall occupy any travel trailer, fifth wheel trailer, or
manufactured or mobile home while it is being used as a conveyance upon a
street or highway.
   (b)   Exception. Division (a) of this section does not apply to a fifth
wheel trailer when both of the following apply:
      (1)   Any child riding in the fifth wheel trailer is properly secured in
the manner provided in Section
436.26 of this Traffic Code or ORC 4511.81.
      (2)   The operator of the vehicle towing the fifth wheel trailer has some
means of viable communication with the passengers riding in the trailer.
   (c)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
(1) year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled
guilty to one (1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one (1) year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of or pled guilty to two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and ORC 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense as a
strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is not specified degree of culpability, is not a
strict liability offense.
   (d)   Definitions. As used in this section, "viable communication" includes
a cellular or satellite telephone, a radio, or any other similar electronic
wireless communications device.
(ORC 4511.701)
410.04 PORTABLE BASKETBALL HOOPS AND OTHER RECREATIONAL APPARATUS.
   (a)   Prohibition. No person shall place, or permit to be placed, a portable
basketball hoop, portable hockey goal, or any other recreational apparatus or
play equipment in or upon any street, roadway, or right-of-way. No person shall
place or permit to be placed a portable basketball hoop, portable hockey goal,
or any other recreational apparatus or play equipment on a curb or driveway
within the City when such placement is made to allow the play area to be in the
street or roadway.
   (b)   Removal. The City may remove any a portable basketball hoop, portable
hockey goal, or any other recreational apparatus or play equipment located in
violation of division (a) of this section without notice to the owner. Such
apparatus or equipment may be placed upon the owner's property or may be
impounded, in the sole discretion of the City.
   (c)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
(1) year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled
guilty to a violation of this section, whoever violates division (a) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1)
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled
guilty to two (2) or more violations of this section, whoever violates division
(a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and ORC 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense as a
strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is not specified degree of culpability, is not a
strict liability offense.
      (3)   In addition to any other penalties provided, whoever violates this
section shall also be subject to confiscation of the unlawfully placed portable
basketball hoop, portable hockey goal, or any other recreational apparatus or
play equipment.
(Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
410.05 TOY VEHICLES ON STREETS.
   (a)   Prohibition. No person on roller stakes, roller blades or skateboards
or riding in or by means of any sled, toy vehicle, or similar device shall go
upon any street or roadway except while crossing a street at a crosswalk. No
parent, guardian, or person acting in loco parentis shall permit any minor to
violate this section.
   (b)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) of this section, or permits a minor to violate division (a) of
this section, is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to a
violation of this section, whoever violates division (a) of this section, or
permits a minor to violate division (a) of this section, is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the offense, the
offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two (2) or more
violations of this section, whoever violates division (a) of this section, or
permits a minor to violate division (a) of this section, is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and ORC 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense as a
strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is not specified degree of culpability, is not a
strict liability offense.
(Ord. 06-08. Adopted 12/14/06; Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
410.06 PLAYING IN STREET OR PUBLIC WAY.
   (a)   Prohibition. No person shall use the public streets, highways, alleys,
or public ways open to the public for the purposes of vehicular travel within
the City for the purpose of engaging in or playing any games or athletic
activities including, but not limited to, activities such as playing catch,
baseball, football, basketball, hockey, sledding or any other recreational,
athletic or play activity. No parent, guardian, or person acting in loco
parentis shall permit any minor to violate this section.
   (b)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) of this section, or permits a minor to violate division (a) of
this section, is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to a
violation of this section, whoever violates division (a) of this section, or
permits a minor to violate division (a) of this section, is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the offense, the
offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two (2) or more
violations of this section, whoever violates division (a) of this section, or
permits a minor to violate division (a) of this section, is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and ORC 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense as a
strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is not specified degree of culpability, is not a
strict liability offense.
(Ord. 00-59. Adopted 11/09/00; Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
410.07 BUILDING ON OR OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAY.
   (a)   Prohibition. No person shall obstruct or encumber by fences,
buildings, structures or otherwise a public ground, highway, street, alley, or
other public way within the City.
(ORC 5589.01)
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
(ORC 5589.99)
410.08 ALTERING OR INJURING MARKER OR MONUMENT.
   (a)   Prohibition. No person shall alter, deface, injure, or destroy any
marker or monument placed along, upon, or near a public street or highway by
the proper authorities to mark the boundaries thereof or for any other purpose.
(ORC 5589.02)
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 5589.99)
410.09 OBSTRUCTING DITCH, DRAIN OR WATERCOURSE.
   (a)   Prohibition. No person shall wrongfully obstruct any ditch, drain, or
watercourse along, upon or across a public street or highway, or divert any
water from adjacent lands to or upon a public street or highway.
   (b)   Notice and Abatement.
      (1)   Whenever the City's Public Service Director learns of any
obstruction of any ditch, drain, or watercourse along, upon or across a public
street or highway, or diversion of any water from adjacent lands to or upon a
public street or highway, the Public Service Director shall cause written
notice thereof to be personally served upon the person, firm, or corporation,
or upon any agent in charge of the property of the person, firm, or
corporation, causing such obstruction or diversion.
      (2)   Notice may be served by an officer of the City's Police Division
and shall describe and locate said obstruction or diversion and direct its
immediate removal.
      (3)   If the person, firm, or corporation does not, within five (5) days
from the receipt of written notice, proceed to remove such obstruction and
complete the removal within a reasonable time, the City shall remove the
obstruction and the expense incurred may be paid in the first instance out of
any money levied, collected and available for street purposes and shall then be
collected from the person, firm or corporation by civil action and paid into
the street fund of the City.
   (c)   Penalties. Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the third degree. (Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
EDITOR'S NOTE: See ORC 5589.06 for similar provisions
410.10 PERSONS RIDING OR DRIVING ANIMALS UPON ROADWAY.
   Every person riding, driving, or leading an animal upon a roadway shall be
subject to the provisions of this Traffic Code that are applicable to the
driver of a vehicle, except those provisions of such sections which by their
nature are inapplicable.
(ORC 4511.05)
410.11 PEDESTRIANS AND SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES ON FREEWAYS.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person, unless otherwise directed by a police
officer, shall:
      (1)   As a pedestrian, occupy any space within the limits of the right-
of-way of a freeway, except: in a rest area; on a facility that is separated
from the roadway and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately
marked for pedestrian use; in the performance of public works or official
duties; as a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown of a
motor vehicle; or to obtain assistance.
      (2)   Occupy any space within the limits of the right-of-way of a
freeway, with: an animal-drawn vehicle; a ridden or led animal; herded animals;
a pushcart; a bicycle, except on a facility that is separated from the roadway
and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately marked for
bicycle use; an electric bicycle; a bicycle with motor attached; a motor-driven
cycle with a motor which produces not to exceed five (5) brake horsepower; an
agricultural tractor or farm machinery, except in the performance of public
works or official duties.
   (b)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one
(1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or division guilty to
two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.051)
410.12 OPERATION OF VEHICLE ON STREET TEMPORARILY COVERED BY WATER.
   (a)   Prohibition. No person shall operate a vehicle on or onto a public
street or highway that is temporarily covered by a rise in water level,
including groundwater or an overflow of water, and this is clearly marked by a
sign that specifies that the road is closed due to the rise in water level and
that any person who uses the closed portion of the road may be fined up to two
thousand dollars ($2,000).
   (b)   Court Appearance Required. A person who is issued a citation for a
violation of division (a) of this section is not permitted to enter a written
plea of guilty and waive the person's right to contest the citation in court,
but instead must appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
   (c)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
      (2)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required under
ORC 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required under any
provision of law, the court imposing sentence upon an offender who is convicted
of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (a) of this section shall order
the offender to reimburse one or more rescuers for the cost of any such rescuer
incurred in rescuing the person, excluding any cost of transporting the rescued
person to a hospital or other facility for treatment of injuries, up to a
cumulative maximum of two thousand dollars ($2,000). If more than one rescuer
was involved in the emergency response, the court shall allocate the
reimbursement proportionately, according to the cost each rescuer incurred. A
financial sanction imposed under this section is a judgment in favor of the
rescuer and, subject to a determination of indigency under ORC 2929.28(B), a
rescuer may collect the financial sanction in the same manner as provided in
ORC 2929.28.
   (d)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "Emergency medical service organization," "firefighting agency,"
and "private fire company" have the same meanings as in ORC 9.60.
      (2)   "Rescuer" means a state agency, political subdivision, firefighting
agency, private fire company, or emergency medical service organization.
(ORC 4511.714)
410.13 STREET RACING, STUNT DRIVING, OR STREET TAKEOVER PROHIBITED.
   (a)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly participate in street racing, stunt
driving, or street takeover upon any public road, street, or highway, or on
private property that is open to the general public.
      (2)   Persons rendering assistance in any manner to street racing, stunt
driving, or street takeover shall be equally charged as the participants.
   (b)   Exception. This section does not apply to the competitive operation of
vehicles on public or private property when the City or the owner of the
private property knowingly permits such operation thereon.
   (c)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of street racing,
stunt driving, or street takeover, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In
addition to any other sanctions, the court shall suspend the offender's
driver's license, commercial driver's license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege for not less than
thirty (30) days or more than three (3) years. No judge shall suspend the first
thirty (30) days of any suspension of an offender's license, permit, or
privilege imposed under this division.
   (d)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "Burnout" means a maneuver performed while operating a vehicle
whereby the vehicle is kept in a stationary position, but the wheels of the
vehicle are spun, which may cause the tires of the vehicle to become heated and
emit smoke from the friction.
      (2)   "Doughnut" means a maneuver performed while operating a vehicle
whereby the front or rear of the vehicle is rotated around the opposite set of
wheels in a continuous motion, which may cause a circular skid-mark pattern of
rubber on the driving surface, or the tires of the vehicle to become heated and
emit smoke from the friction, or both.
      (3)   "Drifting" means a maneuver performed while operating a vehicle
whereby the vehicle is driven in a manner that causes a controlled, sideways
skid during a turn, with the front wheels pointing in a direction that is the
opposite of the direction of the turn.
      (4)   "Street racing" means the operation of two or more vehicles from a
point side by side at accelerating speeds in a competitive attempt to out-
distance each other or the operation of one or more vehicles over a common
selected course, from the same point to the same point, wherein timing is made
of the participating vehicles involving competitive accelerations or speeds.
The operation of two or more vehicles side by side either at speeds in excess
of prima-facie lawful speeds established by divisions (b) and (c)(1) to (c)(5)
of Section
434.03 of this Traffic Code, or rapidly accelerating from a common starting
point to a speed in excess of such prima-facie lawful speeds shall be prima-
facie evidence of street racing.
      (5)   "Street takeover" means blocking or impeding the regular flow of
vehicle or pedestrian traffic on a public road, street, or highway or on
private property that is open to the general public for the purpose of street
racing or stunt driving.
      (6)   "Stunt driving" means performing or engaging in burnouts,
doughnuts, drifting, or wheelies, or allowing a passenger to ride either
partially or fully outside of the vehicle while operating that vehicle.
      (7)   "Wheelie" means a maneuver performed while operating a vehicle
whereby the front wheel or wheels of the vehicle are raised off of the ground
or whereby two wheels that are on the same side of the vehicle are raised off
of the ground.
         (ORC 4511.251)
410.99 PENALTIES.
   See Section
402.99 of this Traffic Code for penalties for provisions of this Chapter for
which no penalty is otherwise provided in the section violated.
(Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
CHAPTER 412
Traffic Control Devices
412.01   Obeying Traffic Control Devices
412.02   Driver's Duties upon Approaching Intersection with Ambiguous or
Nonworking Traffic Signal
412.03   Steady Signal Indications
412.04   Lane-Use Control Signal Indications
412.05   Pedestrian Signal Indications
412.06   Flashing Signal Indications
412.07   Emergency or Public Safety Vehicles To Proceed Cautiously Past Red
Signal or Stop Sign
412.08   Prohibitions against Unauthorized Signs and Signals
412.09   Prohibitions against Tampering with Traffic Control Devices or Manhole
Covers
412.10   Prohibitions against Possessing Portable Signal Preemption Device
412.11   Possession or Sale of Traffic Control Device Prohibited
412.99   Penalties
   CROSS REFERENCES
      See Section Histories for Similar State Law
      Definitions - TRAF. 400.90
      Designation of Through-Streets or Stop Intersections - TRAF. 400.05
      Driving in Response to Stop Signs - TRAF. 432.18
      Penalty, when not otherwise provided - TRAF. 402.99
      Right-Of-Way at Intersections - TRAF. 432.15
      Right-Of-Way When Turning Left - TRAF 432.17
      Turns at Intersections - TRAF. 432.10
      State Manual (for Uniform System of Traffic-Control Devices) - TRAF.
400.04
412.01 OBEYING TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (a)   Obeying Traffic Control Devices. No pedestrian or driver of a vehicle
shall disobey the instructions of any traffic control device placed in
accordance with the provisions of this Traffic Code or ORC Chapter 4511.,
unless at the time otherwise directed by a police officer, a firefighter at the
scene of an emergency, or by a City or State employee or contractor engaged in
road work.
   (b)   Proper Signage Required. No provision of this Traffic Code for which
signs are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the
time and place of the alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
Whenever a particular section of this Traffic Code does not state that signs
are required, that section shall be effective even though no signs are erected
or in place.
   (c)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(2), whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
(1) year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled
guilty to one (1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one (1) year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of or pled guilty to two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.12)
412.02 DRIVER'S DUTIES UPON APPROACHING INTERSECTION WITH AMBIGUOUS OR
NONWORKING TRAFFIC SIGNAL.
   (a)   Driver's Duties. The driver of a vehicle who approaches an
intersection where traffic is controlled by traffic control signals shall do
all of the following if the signal facing the driver exhibits no colored lights
or colored lighted arrows, exhibits a combination of such lights or arrows that
fail to clearly indicate the assignment of right-of-way, or, if the vehicle is
a bicycle or an electric bicycle, the signals are otherwise malfunctioning due
to the failure of a vehicle detector to detect the presence of the bicycle or
electric bicycle:
      (1)   Stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, stop
before entering the intersection;
      (2)   Yield the right-of-way to all vehicles in the intersection or
approaching on an intersecting road, if the vehicles will constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways; and
      (3)   Exercise ordinary care while proceeding through the intersection.
   (b)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
(1) year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled
guilty to one (1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one (1) year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of or pled guilty to two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.132)
412.03 STEADY SIGNAL INDICATIONS.
Steady traffic signal indications for vehicles and pedestrians shall have the
following meanings:
   (a)   Steady Green Signal Indication.
      (1)   A.   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal indication is
permitted to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a U-turn
movement, except as such movement is modified by a lane-use sign, turn
prohibition sign, lane marking, roadway design, separate turn signal
indication, or other traffic control device. Such vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left or making a U-turn movement, shall yield the
right-of-way to both pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk and/or
other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         B.   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a U-turn
movement to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching
from the opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the
intersection.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal indication, displayed
alone or in combination with another signal indication, is permitted to
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow or such other movement as is permitted by other indications displayed at
the same time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left
or making a U-turn movement, shall yield the right-of-way to both pedestrians
lawfully within an associated crosswalk and/or other vehicles lawfully within
the intersection.
      (3)   A.   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication,
as provided in Section
412.05 of this Traffic Code, pedestrians facing a circular green signal
indication are permitted to proceed across the roadway within any marked or
unmarked associated crosswalk. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection or so close as to create an immediate
hazard at the time that the green signal indication is first displayed.
         B.   Pedestrians facing a green arrow signal indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or other traffic control
device, shall not cross the roadway.
(ORC 4511.13(A))
   (b)   Steady Yellow Signal Indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow signal indication
are thereby warned that the related green movement or the related flashing
arrow movement is being terminated or that a red signal indication will be
exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter the
intersection. The provision governing vehicular operation under the movement
being terminated shall continue to apply while the steady circular yellow
signal indication is displayed.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow arrow signal indication is
thereby warned that the related green arrow movement or the related flashing
arrow movement is being terminated. The provisions governing vehicular
operation under the movement being terminated shall continue to apply while the
steady yellow arrow signal indication is displayed.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal
indication, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication, as
provided in Section
412.05 of this Traffic Code, or other traffic control device shall not start to
cross the roadway.
(ORC 4511.13(B))
   (c)   Steady Red Signal Indication.
      (1)   A.   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal
indication, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted
by another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if
there is no stop line, traffic shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection or, if there is no crosswalk, then before
entering the intersection and shall remain stopped until a signal indication to
proceed is displayed, except as provided in divisions (c)(1), (c)(2) and (c)(3)
of this section.
         B.   Except when a traffic-control device is in place prohibiting a
turn on red or a steady red arrow signal indication is displayed, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal indication is permitted, after
stopping, to enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-
way street into a one-way street. The right to proceed with the turn shall be
subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a stop
sign. (See Section
432.18 of this Traffic Code)
      (2)   A.   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow signal indication
shall not enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by the arrow
and, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted by
another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if
there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, if there is no crosswalk, then before entering the
intersection and shall remain stopped until a signal indication or other
traffic-control device permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is
displayed.
         B.   When a traffic-control device is in place permitting a turn on a
steady red arrow signal indication, vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow
indication is permitted, after stopping, to enter the intersection to turn
right, or to turn left from a one-way street into a one-way street. The right
to proceed with the turn shall be limited to the direction indicated by the
arrow and shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a
stop at stop sign. (See Section
432.18 of this Traffic Code)
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in Section
412.05 of this Traffic Code, or other traffic control device, pedestrians
facing a steady circular red or steady red arrow signal indication shall not
enter the roadway.
      (4)   Council, by ordinance, or the Public Safety Director pursuant to
Section
400.03 of this Traffic Code, on City streets and highways, or the Director of
the Ohio Department of Transportation on state highways within the City, may
prohibit a right or a left turn against a steady red signal at any
intersection, which shall be effective when signs giving notice thereof are
posted at the intersection.
(ORC 4511.13(C))
   (d)   Signals at Locations Other Than Intersections. In the event an
official traffic control signal is erected and maintained at a place other than
an intersection, the provisions of this section shall be applicable, except as
to those provisions which by their nature can have no application. Any stop
required shall be made at a sign or marking on the pavement indicating where
the stop shall be made, but in the absence of any such sign or marking the stop
shall be made at the signal.
(ORC 4511.13(G))
412.04 LANE-USE CONTROL SIGNAL INDICATIONS.
The meanings of lane-use control signal indications are as follows:
   (a)   A Steady Downward Green Arrow. A road user is permitted to drive in
the lane over which the arrow signal indication is located.
   (b)   A Steady Yellow "X". A road user is to prepare to vacate the lane over
which the signal indication is located because a lane control change is being
made to a steady red "X" signal indication.
   (c)   A Steady White Two-Way Left-Turn Arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, but not
for through travel, with the understanding that common use of the lane by
oncoming road users for left turns is also permitted.
   (d)   A Steady White One-Way Left-Turn Arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, without
opposing turns in the same lane, but not for through travel.
   (e)   A Steady Red "X". A road user is not permitted to use the lane over
which the signal indication is located and that this signal indication shall
modify accordingly the meaning of other traffic controls present.
(ORC 4511.131)
412.05 PEDESTRIAN SIGNAL INDICATIONS.
   Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words "WALK" or
"DON'T WALK" or the symbol of a walking person or an upraised palm are in
place, such signals shall indicate the following instructions:
   (a)   Steady Walking Person Signal Indication. A steady walking person
signal indication, which symbolizes "WALK," means that a pedestrian facing the
signal indication is permitted to start to cross the roadway in the direction
of the signal indication, possibly in conflict with turning vehicles. The
pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the
intersection at the time that the walking person signal indication is first
shown.
   (b)   Flashing Upraised Hand Signal Indication. A flashing upraised hand
signal indication, which symbolizes "DON'T WALK," means that a pedestrian shall
not start to cross the roadway in the direction of the signal indication, but
that any pedestrian who has already started to cross on a steady walking person
signal indication shall proceed to the far side of the traveled way of the
street or highway, unless otherwise directed by a traffic-control device to
proceed only to the median of a divided highway or only to some other island or
pedestrian refuge area.
   (c)   Steady Upraised-Hand Signal Indication. A steady upraised-hand signal
indication means that a pedestrian shall not enter the roadway in the direction
of the signal indication.
   (d)   Wait Signal Indication. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
invalidate the continued use of pedestrian control signals utilizing the word
"WAIT" if those signals were installed prior to March 28, 1985.
   (e)   Flashing Walking Person Signal Indication. A flashing walking person
signal indication has no meaning and shall not be used.
(ORC 4511.14)
412.06 FLASHING SIGNAL INDICATIONS.
Flashing traffic signal indications for vehicles and pedestrians shall have the
following meanings:
   (a)   Flashing Green Signal Indication. A flashing green signal indication
has no meaning and shall not be used.
(ORC 4511.13(D))
   (b)   Flashing Yellow Signal Indication.
      (1)   A.   Vehicular traffic on approach to an intersection facing a
flashing circular yellow signal indication is permitted to cautiously enter the
intersection to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a U-turn
movement, except as such movement is modified by lane-use signs, turn
prohibition signs, lane markings, roadway design, separate turn-signal
indications, or other traffic control devices. Such vehicular traffic,
including vehicles turning right or left or making a U-turn movement, shall
yield the right-of-way to both pedestrians lawfully within an associated
crosswalk and/or other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         B.   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a U-turn to
the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (2)   A.   Vehicular traffic on an approach to an intersection facing a
flashing yellow arrow signal indication, displayed alone or in combination with
another signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter the intersection
only to make the movement indicated by such arrow or other such movement as is
permitted by other signal indications displayed at the same time. Such
vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left or making a U-turn
movement, shall yield the right-of-way to both pedestrians lawfully within an
associated crosswalk and/or other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         B.   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a U-turn to
the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing any flashing yellow signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic-control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing yellow signal indication is first displayed.
      (4)   When a flashing circular yellow signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic-control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory or warning requirements of the other traffic-
control device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently
applicable.
(ORC 4511.13(E))
   (c)   Flashing Red Signal Indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic on an approach to an intersection facing a
flashing circular red signal indication shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection or, if there is no crosswalk, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. The right to proceed
shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a
stop sign. (See Section
424.05)
      (2)   Pedestrians facing any flashing red signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic-control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing red signal indication is first displayed.
      (3)   When a flashing circular red signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic-control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory requirements of the other traffic-control
device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently applicable.
Use of this signal indication shall be limited to supplementing "STOP," "DO NOT
ENTER," or "WRONG WAY" signs and to application where compliance with the
supplemented traffic-control device requires a stop at a designated point.
(ORC 4511.13(F))
   (d)   Signals at Locations Other Than Intersections. In the event an
official traffic control signal is erected and maintained at a place other than
an intersection, the provisions of this section shall be applicable, except as
to those provisions which by their nature can have no application. Any stop
required shall be made at a sign or marking on the pavement indicating where
the stop shall be made, but in the absence of any such sign or marking, the
stop shall be made at the signal.
(ORC 4511.13(G))
412.07 EMERGENCY OR PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES TO PROCEED CAUTIOUSLY PAST RED
SIGNAL OR STOP SIGN.
   (a)   Rules. The driver of any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle,
when responding to an emergency call, upon approaching a red or stop signal or
any stop sign shall slow down as necessary for safety to traffic but may
proceed cautiously past such red or stop sign or signal with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the street or highway.
   (b)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one
(1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two (2) or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.03)
412.08 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   (a)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
street or highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which
purports to be, is an imitation of, or resembles a traffic control device or
railroad sign or signal or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or
which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any traffic
control device or any railroad sign or signal.
      (2)   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall the City nor any other
public authority permit, upon any City street or highway any traffic sign or
signal bearing thereon any commercial advertising.
   (b)   Directional Signs. This section does not prohibit either the erection
upon private property adjacent to streets or highways of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for traffic
control devices, or the erection upon private property of traffic-control
devices by the owner of real property in accordance with Sections
434.04  and
432.19  of this Traffic Code.
   (c)   Removal of Prohibited Signs. Every such prohibited sign, signal,
marking or device is a public nuisance and the authority having jurisdiction
over the street or highway may remove it or cause it to be removed.
   (d)   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year
of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to
one (1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1)
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled
guilty to two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.16)
412.09 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST TAMPERING WITH TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES OR MANHOLE
COVERS.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person, without lawful authority, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly
tamper with any traffic control device, any railroad sign or signal, or any
inscription, shield or insignia on the device, sign, or signal or any part of
the device, sign, or signal.
      (2)   Knowingly drive upon or over any freshly applied pavement marking
material on the surface of a roadway while the marking material is in an
undried condition and is marked by flags, markers, signs, or other devices
intended to protect it.
      (3)   Knowingly move, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper
with a manhole cover.
   (b)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a)(1) or (a)(3) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree. If a violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(3) of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If a violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(3) of
this section causes serious physical harm to property that is owned, leased or
controlled by the State or the City, the offender is guilty of a felony, to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within
one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled
guilty to one (1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (a)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of or pled guilty to two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, whoever violates division (a)(2) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.17)
412.10 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST POSSESSING PORTABLE SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICE.
   (a)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No person shall possess a portable signal preemption device.
      (2)   No person shall use a portable signal preemption device to affect
the operation of a traffic control signal.
   (b)   Exemptions. Division (a)(1) of this section does not apply to any of
the following persons, and division (a)(2) of this section does not apply to
any of the following persons when responding to an emergency call:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in ORC 109.17(A)(1), (A)(12), (A)(14),
or (A)(19).
      (2)   An Ohio state highway patrol trooper.
      (3)   A person while occupying a public safety vehicle as defined in ORC
4511.01(E)(1), (E)(3), or (E)(4).
   (c)   Penalties. Whoever violates division (a)(1) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (a)(2) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (d)   Definitions. As used in this section, "portable signal preemption
device" means a device that, if activated by a person, is capable of changing a
traffic control signal to green out of sequence.
(ORC 4511.031)
412.11 POSSESSION OR SALE OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE PROHIBITED.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No individual shall buy, or otherwise possess, or sell a
traffic control device, except when one of the following applies:
      (1)   In the course of the individual's employment by the State, City, or
other local authority for the express or implied purpose of manufacturing,
providing, erecting, moving or removing such a traffic control device.
      (2)   In the course of the individual's employment by any manufacturer of
traffic control devices, other than the State, the City, or other local
authority.
      (3)   For the purpose of demonstrating the design and function of a
traffic control device to State, City, or other local officials.
      (4)   When the traffic control device has been purchased from the State,
the City or a local authority at a sale of property that is no longer needed or
is unfit for use.
      (5)   The traffic control device has been properly purchased from a
manufacturer for use on private property and the person possessing the device
has a sales receipt for the device or other acknowledgment of sale issued by
the manufacturer.
   (b)   Prosecution for Theft. This section does not preclude, and shall not
be construed as precluding, prosecution for theft in violation of ORC 2913.02
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance relating to theft, or for
receiving stolen property in violation of ORC 2913.51 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance relating to receiving stolen property.
   (c)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
   (d)   Definitions. As used in this section, "traffic control device" means
any sign, traffic-control signal or other device conforming to and placed or
erected in accordance with the State Manual adopted under ORC 4511.09 by
authority of a public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of
regulating, warning or guiding traffic, including signs denoting the names of
streets and highways, but does not mean any pavement marking.
(ORC 4511.18)
412.99 PENALTIES.
   See Section
402.99 of this Traffic Code for penalties for provisions of this Chapter for
which no penalty is otherwise provided in the section violated.
(Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
TITLE SIX - PEDESTRIANS; BICYCLES; MOTORCYCLES; SKATEBOARDS
CHAPTER 420
Pedestrians; Motorized Wheelchairs
420.01   Right-of-Way of Pedestrians in Crosswalk
420.02   Pedestrian Movement in Crosswalk
420.03   Pedestrian Crossing Roadway Outside of Crosswalk (Jaywalking)
420.04   Right-of-Way of Pedestrian on Sidewalk
420.05   Right-of-Way of Blind Persons; Prohibitions against Use of White or
Metallic Cane by Others
420.06   Pedestrian to Yield to Public Safety Vehicle; Care of Driver
420.07   Pedestrians Walking Along Streets or Highways; Use of Sidewalks
420.08   Intoxicated Pedestrian on Street or Highway
420.09   Hitchhiking; Use of Street or Highway for Soliciting; Riding on
Outside of Vehicle, Cargo Storage Area, or Tailgate
420.10   Operation of Motorized Wheelchairs
420.11   Personal Delivery Devices
420.99   Penalties
   CROSS REFERENCES
      See Section Histories for Similar State Law
      Definitions - TRAF. 400.90
      Driving on Bike Lanes and Shared Use Paths - TRAF. 422.14
      Driving on Bike Paths - TRAF. 422.13
      Pedestrian Signal Indications -TRAF. 412.05
      Penalty, when not otherwise provided - TRAF. 402.99
      Yielding to Funeral Procession -TRAF. 432.24
      Yielding to Public Service Vehicle -TRAF. 432.20
420.01 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF PEDESTRIANS IN CROSSWALK.
   (a)   Yielding to Pedestrian in Crosswalk.
      (1)   When traffic control signals are not in place, or not in operation,
or are not clearly assigning the right-of-way, the driver of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield, or if
required by Section
412.02 of this Traffic Code to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a
crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the
vehicle is traveling or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the
opposite half of the roadway as to be in danger.
      (2)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
   (b)   Prohibition on Pedestrians. No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb
or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle that is so
close as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (c)   Limitation. Division (a)(1) of this section does not apply under the
conditions stated in Section
420.03 (a)(2) of this Traffic Code or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance.
   (d)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) or (b) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one (1) year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pled guilty to one (1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense,
whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pled guilty to two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle
or traffic offenses, whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.46)
420.02 PEDESTRIAN MOVEMENT IN CROSSWALK.
   (a)   Rule. Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right
half of crosswalks.
   (b)   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to
one (1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to
two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.49)
420.03 PEDESTRIAN CROSSING ROADWAY OUTSIDE CROSSWALK (JAYWALKING).
   (a)   Rules for Pedestrian Crossing Roadway.
      (1)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point, other than within
a marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection, shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
      (2)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian
tunnel or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-
of-way to all traffic upon the roadway.
      (3)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic control signals are
in operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
      (4)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic-control devices; and, when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
   (b)   Duty of Drivers. This section does not relieve the operator of a
vehicle from exercising due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon
any roadway.
   (c)   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year
of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to
one (1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1)
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled
guilty to two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.48)
420.04 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF PEDESTRIAN ON SIDEWALK.
   (a)   Yielding to Pedestrian on Sidewalk. The driver of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian on a sidewalk.
   (b)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one
(1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two
(2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.441)
420.05 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF BLIND PERSONS; PROHIBITIONS AGAINST USE OF WHITE OR
METALLIC CANE BY OTHERS.
   (a)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   The driver of every vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to every
blind pedestrian guided by a guide dog or carrying a cane which is
predominantly white or metallic in color, with or without a red tip.
      (2)   No person, other than a blind person, while on any public highway,
street, alley, or other public thoroughfare in this City, shall carry a white
or metallic cane, with or without a red tip.
   (b)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1)
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled
guilty to one (1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one (1) year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of or pled guilty to two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
   (c)   Definitions. As used in this section "blind person" or "blind
pedestrian" means a person having not more than 20/200 visual acuity in the
better eye with correcting lenses, or visual acuity greater than 20/200, but
with a limitation in the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the
visual field subtends an angle no greater than twenty degrees (20 ).
(ORC 4511.47)
420.06 PEDESTRIAN TO YIELD TO PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE; CARE OF DRIVER.
   (a)   Rule. Upon the immediate approach of a public safety vehicle, as
stated in Section
432.20  of this Traffic Code or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, every pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the
public safety vehicle.
   (b)   Duty of Driver of Public Safety Vehicle. This section shall not
relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle from the duty to exercise due
care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian.
   (c)   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
or pled guilty to one (1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of or pled guilty to two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   Definitions. As used in this section, "public safety vehicle" has the
same meaning as in ORC 4511.01.
(ORC 4511.452)
420.07 PEDESTRIANS WALKING ALONG STREETS OR HIGHWAYS; USE OF SIDEWALKS.
   (a)   Rules.
      (1)   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, no
pedestrian shall walk along and upon an adjacent street, highway, or roadway.
      (2)   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a street or highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable
from the edge of the roadway.
      (3)   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any
pedestrian walking along and upon a street or highway shall walk as near as
practicable to an outside edge of the roadway and, if on a two-way roadway,
shall walk only on the left side of the roadway.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in Sections
412.03,
412.06, and
420.01 of this Traffic Code, or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, any pedestrian upon a roadway shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (b)   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year
of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to
one (1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1)
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled
guilty to two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.50)
420.08 INTOXICATED PEDESTRIAN ON STREET OR HIGHWAY.
   (a)   Prohibition. A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol,
recreational cannabis, any drug of abuse, or any combination of them, to a
degree that renders the pedestrian a hazard, shall not walk or be upon any
street or highway within this City.
   (b)   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year
of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to
one (1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1)
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled
guilty to two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.481)
420.09 HITCHHIKING; USE OF STREET OR HIGHWAY FOR SOLICITING; RIDING ON OUTSIDE
OF VEHICLE, CARGO STORAGE AREA, OR TAILGATE.
   (a)   Hitchhiking. No person while on a roadway outside a safety zone shall
solicit a ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (b)   Soliciting on Street or Highway.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (b)(2) of this section, no person
shall stand on a street or highway within this City for the purpose of
soliciting employment, business, or contributions from the occupant of any
vehicle.
      (2)   Under
Chapter 850. of City's Business Regulations, the City Manager, or his designee,
may authorize the issuance of a permit to a charitable organization to allow a
person acting on behalf of the organization to solicit charitable contributions
from the occupant of a vehicle by standing on a street or highway, other than a
freeway as prohibited by ORC 4511.051(A), that is under the jurisdiction of the
City. The permit shall be valid for only one period of time, which shall be
specified in the permit, in any calendar year. The City Council, by ordinance
or resolution, also may specify the locations where contributions may be
solicited and may impose any other restrictions or requirements regarding the
manner in which the solicitations are to be conducted that the Council
considers advisable.
      (3)   As used in division (b)(2) of this section, "charitable
organization" means an organization that has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a currently valid ruling or determination letter recognizing the tax-
exempt status of the organization pursuant to IRC 501(c)(3).
   (c)   Riding on Outside of Vehicle.
      (1)   No person shall hang onto or ride on the outside of any motor
vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway, except mechanics or test engineers
making repairs or adjustments, or workers performing specialized highway or
street maintenance or construction under authority of a public agency.
      (2)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person to hang onto or ride
on the outside of any motor vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway, except
mechanics or test engineers making repairs or adjustments, or workers
performing specialized highway or street maintenance or construction under
authority of a public agency.
   (d)   Riding in Cargo Storage Area or on Tailgate.
      (1)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall knowingly
permit any person who has not attained sixteen (16) years of age to ride in the
unenclosed or unroofed cargo storage area of the driver's vehicle if the
vehicle is traveling faster than twenty-five miles per hour (25 mph), unless
either of the following applies:
         A.   The cargo storage area of the vehicle is equipped with a properly
secured seat to which is attached a seat safety belt that is in compliance with
federal standards for an occupant-restraining device, as defined in Section
438.30(f)(3) of this Traffic Code, the seat and seat safety belt were installed
at the time the vehicle was originally assembled, and the person riding in the
cargo storage area is in the seat and is wearing the seat safety belt.
         B.   An emergency exists that threatens the life of the driver or the
person being transported in the cargo storage area of the truck, trailer, or
semitrailer.
      (2)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall permit any
person, except for those workers performing refuse collection, specialized
highway or street maintenance or construction under authority of a public
agency, to ride in the cargo storage area or on a tailgate of the driver's
vehicle while the tailgate is unlatched.
   (e)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates any
provision of divisions (a), (b), or (c) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pled guilty to one (1) predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offense, whoever violates any provision of divisions (a), (b), or (c)
of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one
(1) year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled
guilty to two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates any provision of divisions (a), (b), or (c) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (d) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4511.51)
420.10 OPERATION OF MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS.
   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair shall have all of the rights
and duties applicable to a pedestrian that are contained in this Chapter,
except those provisions which by their nature can have no application.
(ORC 4511.491)
420.11 PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICES.
   (a)   Operation. An eligible entity may operate a personal delivery device
on sidewalks and crosswalks within the City so long as all of the following
requirements are met:
      (1)   The personal delivery device is operated in accordance with
division (b) of this section.
      (2)   The personal delivery device operator is actively controlling or
monitoring the navigation and operation of the personal delivery device.
      (3)   The eligible entity maintains an insurance policy that includes
general liability coverage of not less than one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000) for damages arising from the operation of the personal delivery
device by the eligible entity and any agent of the eligible entity.
      (4)   The personal delivery device is equipped with all of the following:
         A.   A marker that clearly identifies the name and contact information
of the eligible entity operating the personal delivery device and a unique
identification number;
         B.   A braking system that enables the personal delivery device to
come to a controlled stop;
         C.   If the personal delivery device is being operated between sunset
and sunrise, a light on both the front and rear of the personal delivery device
that is visible in clear weather from a distance of at least five hundred feet
(500') to the front and rear of the personal delivery device when directly in
front of low beams of headlights on a motor vehicle.
   (b)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No personal delivery device operator shall allow a personal
delivery device to do any of the following:
         A.   Fail to comply with traffic or pedestrian control devices and
signals;
         B.   Unreasonably interfere with pedestrians or traffic;
         C.   Transport any hazardous material that would require a permit
issued by the Ohio Public Utilities Commission; or
         D.   Operate on a street or roadway, except when crossing the street
or roadway within a crosswalk.
      (2)   A personal delivery device has all of the rights and obligations
applicable to a pedestrian under the same circumstances, except that a personal
delivery device shall yield the right-of-way to human pedestrians on sidewalks
and crosswalks.
      (3)   No person shall operate a personal delivery device unless the
person is authorized to do so under this section and complies with the
requirements of this section.
      (4)   An eligible entity is responsible for both of the following:
         A.   Any violation of this section that is committed by a personal
delivery device operator;
         B.   Any other circumstance, including a technological malfunction, in
which a personal delivery device operates in a manner prohibited by division
(b)(1)A.-D. of this section.
   (c)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "Eligible Entity" means a corporation, partnership, association,
firm, sole proprietorship, or other entity engaged in business.
      (2)   "Personal Delivery Device" means an electrically powered device to
which all of the following apply:
         A.   The device is intended primarily to transport property and cargo
on sidewalks and crosswalks.
         B.   The device weighs less than five hundred fifty pounds (550 lbs.)
excluding any property or cargo being carried in the device.
         C.   The device has a maximum speed of ten miles per hour (10 mph).
      (3)   "Personal Delivery Device Operator" means an agent of an eligible
entity who exercises direct physical control over, or monitoring of, the
navigation and operation of a personal delivery device. "Personal delivery
device operator" does not include, with respect to a delivery or other service
rendered by a personal delivery device, the person who requests the delivery or
service, nor does it include a person who only arranges for and dispatches a
personal delivery device for a delivery or other service.
(ORC 4511.513)
420.99 PENALTIES.
   See Section
402.99 of this Traffic Code for penalties for provisions of this Chapter for
which no penalty is otherwise provided in the section violated.
CHAPTER 422
Bicycles; Motorcycles; Mopeds; Mobility Devices
422.01   Application of Traffic Code to Bicycles and Electric Bicycles
422.02   Equipment of Bicycles and Electric Bicycles
422.03   Equipment of Motorized Bicycles or Mopeds
422.04   Equipment of Motorcycles, Motor-Driven Cycles or Motor Scooters
422.05   Operation of Bicycles and Electric Bicycles
422.06   Operation of Motorized Bicycles or Mopeds; Operator's License Required
422.07   Operation of Motorcycles
422.08   Operation of Motor-Driven Cycles and Motor Scooters
422.09   Operation of Low-Speed Micromobility Devices
422.10   Operation of Electric Personal Assistive Mobility Devices
422.11   Reckless Operation
422.12   Driving or Parking on Sidewalks
422.13   Driving on Bike Paths
422.14   Driving on Bike Lanes and Shared Use Paths
422.15   Driving on Hiking Paths, Pedestrian-Only Paths, or in Parks
422.16   Prohibitions against Attaching Bicycles, Electric Bicycles, Sleds, and
Other Items to Vehicles
422.90   Definitions
422.99   Penalties
   CROSS REFERENCES
      See Section Histories for Similar State Law
      Authority to Regulate Electric Bicycles on Paths and Lanes - See ORC
4511.522
      Authority to Regulate EPAMDs on Paths and Lanes- see ORC 4511.512
      Authority to Regulate LSMDs on Paths and Lanes - see ORC 4511.514
      Definitions - TRAF. 400.90
      Driving Motorized or Electric Bicycle Through Safety Zone - TRAF. 432.29
      Duties At Intersection with Ambiguous/Nonworking Signal - TRAF. 412.02
      Hand And Arm Signals - TRAF. 432.14
      Increased Penalties in Construction Zones - TRAF. 400.09; see ORC 4511.98
      Noise Limits for Motorcycles - TRAF. 438.38
      Penalty, When Not Otherwise Provided - TRAF. 402.99
      Use Of Signals for Stopping, Turning, Etc. - TRAF. 432.13
      Vehicles in Parks - S. U. & P. S. 1042.02
422.01 APPLICATION OF TRAFFIC CODE TO BICYCLES AND ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
   (a)   Applicability. The provisions of this Traffic Code that are applicable
to bicycles and electric bicycles apply whenever a bicycle or electric bicycle
is operated upon any street or roadway within this City or upon any path set
aside for the use of bicycles.
   (b)   Violations; No Points to be Assessed. Except as provided in division
(d) of this section, a bicycle operator or electric bicycle operator who
violates any provisions of this Traffic Code described in division (a) of this
section that is applicable to bicycles or electric bicycles may be issued a
ticket, citation, or summons by a law enforcement officer for the violation in
the same manner as the operator of a motor vehicle would be cited for the same
violation. A person who commits any such violation while operating a bicycle or
electric bicycle shall not have any points assessed against the person's
driver's license, commercial driver's license, temporary instruction permit, or
probationary license under ORC 4510.036.
   (c)   Court-Ordered Bicycling Skills Course. Except as provided in division
(d) of this section, in the case of a violation of any provision of this
Traffic Code described in division (a) of this section by a bicycle operator,
electric bicycle operator, or by a motor vehicle operator when the trier of
fact finds that the violation by the motor vehicle operator endangered the
lives of bicycle riders at the time of the violation, the court,
notwithstanding any provision of this Traffic Code to the contrary, may require
the bicycle operator, electric bicycle operator, or motor vehicle operator to
take and successfully complete a bicycling skills course approved by the court
in addition to or in lieu of any penalty otherwise prescribed by this Traffic
Code for that violation.
   (d)   Exception. Divisions (b) and (c) of this section do not apply to
violations of ORC 4511.19 or Section 434.09 of this Traffic Code or other
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(ORC 4511.52)
422.02 EQUIPMENT OF BICYCLES AND ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
   (a)   Required Equipment. Every bicycle or electric bicycle operated upon a
street or roadway within this City, when in use at the times specified in
Section
438.02  of this Traffic Code or a substantially equivalent state statute shall
be equipped with all of the following:
      (1)   A lamp mounted on the front of either the bicycle or electric
bicycle or the operator that shall emit a white light visible from a distance
of at least five hundred feet (500') to the front and three hundred feet (300')
to the sides. A generator-powered lamp that emits light only when the bicycle
or electric bicycle is moving may be used to meet this requirement.
      (2)   A red reflector on the rear that shall be visible from all
distances from one hundred feet to six hundred feet (100' - 600') to the rear
when directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle.
      (3)   A lamp emitting either flashing or steady red light visible from a
distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear shall be used in addition to
the red reflector. If the red lamp performs as a reflector in that it is
visible as specified in division (a)(2) of this section, the red lamp may serve
as the reflector and a separate reflector is not required.
   (b)   Additional Lamps and Reflectors. Additional lamps and reflectors may
be used in addition to those required under division (a) of this section,
except that red lamps and red reflectors shall not be used on the front of the
bicycle or electric bicycle and white lamps and white reflectors shall not be
used on the rear of the bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (c)   Bicycle Horns. A bicycle or electric bicycle may be equipped with a
device capable of giving an audible signal, except that a bicycle or electric
bicycle shall not be equipped with, nor shall any person use upon, a bicycle or
electric bicycle any siren or whistle.
   (d)   Brakes. Every bicycle and electric bicycle shall be equipped with an
adequate brake when used on a street or roadway within this City.
   (e)   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year
of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to
one (1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1)
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two (2) or
more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.56)
422.03 EQUIPMENT OF MOTORIZED BICYCLES OR MOPEDS.
   (a)   Brakes. Every motorized bicycle or moped shall be equipped with brakes
meeting the rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under ORC
4511.521.
(ORC 4513.20(A)(3))
   (b)   Additional Requirements. The requirements of division (a) of this
section are in addition to the requirements of Section
422.05 (d).
   (c)   Penalties. Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.99(B))
422.04 EQUIPMENT OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES OR MOTOR SCOOTERS.
   (a)   Headlights. Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one (1)
and not more than two (2) headlights.
(ORC 4513.04)
   (b)   Brakes. Every motorcycle, when operated upon a street or roadway in
this City, shall be equipped with at least one (1) adequate brake, which may be
operated by hand or foot.
(ORC 4513.20(A)(2))
   (c)   Mufflers.
      (1)   Every motorcycle with an internal combustion engine shall at all
times be equipped with a muffler that is in good working order and in constant
operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise, and no person shall use a
muffler cutout, bypass, or similar device upon a motorcycle on a street or
roadway within this City. Every motorcycle muffler shall be equipped with
baffle plates.
      (2)   No person shall own, operate or have in the person's possession any
motorcycle equipped with a device for producing excessive smoke or gas, or so
equipped as to permit oil or any other chemical to flow into or upon the
exhaust pipe or muffler of such motorcycle, or equipped in any way to produce
or emit smoke or dangerous or annoying gases from any portion of such
motorcycle, other than the ordinary gases emitted by the exhaust of an internal
combustion engine under normal operation.
(ORC 4513.22)
   (d)   Rearview Mirrors. Every motorcycle shall be equipped with a mirror so
located as to reflect to the operator a view of the street or roadway to the
rear of such motorcycle. Operators of motorcycles shall have a clear and
unobstructed view to the front and to both sides of their motorcycles and shall
have a clear view to the rear of their motorcycles by mirror.
(ORC 4513.23)
   (e)   Directional Signals. No person shall operate any motorcycle or motor-
driven cycle (or motor scooter) manufactured or assembled on or after January
1, 1968, unless the vehicle is equipped with electrical or mechanical
directional signals. "Directional signals" means an electrical or mechanical
signal device capable of clearly indicating an intention to turn either to the
right or to the left and which shall be visible from both the front and rear.
All mechanical signal devices shall be self-illuminating devices when in use at
the times mentioned in Section 422.16 of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4513.261)
   (f)   Stop Lights. Every motorcycle and motor-driven cycle (or motor
scooter) shall be equipped with at least one (1) stop light. Stop lights shall
be mounted on the rear of the vehicle, actuated upon application of the service
brake, and may be incorporated with other rear lights. Such stop lights, when
actuated, shall emit a red light visible from a distance of five hundred feet
(500') to the rear.
(ORC 4513.071)
   (g)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.04(B); 4513.071(B); 4513.22(B); 4513.23(B); 4513.261(D); 4513.99)
422.05 OPERATION OF BICYCLES AND ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
   (a)   Riding on Right Side of Roadway. Every person operating a bicycle or
electric bicycle upon a street or roadway shall ride as near to the right side
of the roadway as practicable, obeying all traffic rules applicable to
vehicles, and exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle or one
proceeding in the same direction. This division does not require a person
operating a bicycle or electric bicycle to ride at the edge of the roadway when
it is unreasonable or unsafe to do so. Conditions that may require riding away
from the edge of the roadway include when necessary to avoid fixed or moving
objects, parked or moving vehicles, surface hazards, or if it otherwise is
unsafe or impracticable to do so, including if the lane is too narrow for the
bicycle or electric bicycle and an overtaking vehicle to travel safely side-by-
side within the lane.
   (b)   Riding Abreast on Roadways. Persons riding bicycles or electric
bicycles upon a roadway shall ride not more than two (2) abreast in a single
lane, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles or electric bicycles.
(ORC 4511.55)
   (c)   Rules for Operation of Bicycles and Electric Bicycles.
      (1)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall ride other
than upon or astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto or carry
any other person upon such bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon a firmly
attached and regular seat thereon, and no person shall ride upon a bicycle or
electric bicycle other than upon such a firmly attached and regular seat.
      (2)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle, or article that prevents the driver from keeping at least one
hand upon the handlebars.
      (3)   No bicycle or electric bicycle shall be used to carry more persons
at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
      (4)   Nothing in this division shall be construed as prohibiting the
carrying of a child in a seat or trailer that is designed for carrying children
and is firmly attached to the bicycle or electric bicycle.
(ORC 4511.53(B))
   (d)   Additional Rules for the Operation of Electric Bicycles.
      (1)   No person under sixteen (16) years of age shall operate a class 3
electric bicycle; however, a person under sixteen (16) years of age may ride as
a passenger on a class 3 electric bicycle that is designed to accommodate
passengers.
      (2)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on a class 3 electric
bicycle unless the person is wearing a protective helmet that meets the
standards established by the consumer product safety commission or the American
society for testing and materials.
(ORC 4511.522(D))
   (e)   Penalties.
      (1)   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this division (e)(1), whoever
violates division (a) or (b) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
If, within one (1) year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of or pled guilty to one (1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates division (a) or (b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the offense, the
offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two (2) or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates division (a) or
(b) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         B.   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.55)
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (e)(2), whoever
violates division (c) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one (1) year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pled guilty to one (1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense,
whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offenses, whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.53)
      (3)   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this division (e)(3), whoever
violates division (d) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one (1) year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pled guilty to one (1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense,
whoever violates division (d) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offenses, whoever violates division (d) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
         B.   The offense established under division (e)(3)A. of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of ORC 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(ORC 4511.522)
422.06 OPERATION OF MOTORIZED BICYCLES OR MOPEDS; OPERATOR'S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   Requirements for Operation. No person shall operate a motorized
bicycle or moped upon a street, highway, or any public or private property used
by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking unless all of the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   If the person is fourteen (14) or fifteen (15) years of age, the
person holds a valid probationary motorized bicycle license issued after the
person has passed the test provided for in ORC 4511.521, or if the person is
sixteen (16) years of age or older and holds either a valid commercial driver's
license issued under ORC Chapter 4506., or a driver's license issued under ORC
Chapter 4507., or a valid motorized bicycle license issued after the person has
passed the test provided for in ORC 4511.521, except that if a person is
sixteen (16) years of age, has a valid probationary motorized bicycle license,
and desires a motorized bicycle license, the person is not required to comply
with the testing requirements provided for in ORC 4511.521.
      (2)   The motorized bicycle or moped is equipped in accordance with the
rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety and is in proper working
order.
      (3)   The person, if under eighteen (18) years of age, is wearing a
protective helmet on the person's head with the chin strap properly fastened
and the motorized bicycle or moped is equipped with a rearview mirror. The
protective helmet and rearview mirror required by this division shall, on and
after January 1, 1985, conform to the rules adopted by the Ohio Director of
Public Safety.
      (4)   The person operates the motorized bicycle when practicable within
three feet (3') of the right edge of the roadway obeying all traffic rules
applicable to vehicles.
      (5)   The person operating the motorized bicycle or moped is not carrying
another person upon the motorized bicycle or moped.
(ORC 4511.521)
   (b)   Lighted Lights Required. Every motorized bicycle or moped shall
display at such times lighted lights are required under Section
438.02  of this Traffic Code, lighted lights meeting the rules adopted by the
Ohio Director of Public Safety.
(ORC 4513.03)
   (c)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4511.521; 4513.03)
422.07 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES.
   (a)   Rules for Operation of Motorcycles.
      (1)   Riding:
         A.   No person operating a motorcycle shall ride other than upon or
astride the permanent and regular seat or saddle attached thereto or carry any
other person upon such motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular
seat or saddle thereon, and no person shall ride upon a motorcycle other than
upon such a firmly attached and regular seat or saddle.
         B.   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a
saddle other than while sitting astride the saddle, facing forward, with one
leg on each side of the motorcycle.
         C.   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a
seat other than while sitting upon the seat.
      (2)   Number of Passengers: No motorcycle shall be used to carry more
persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
      (3)   "Low-Rider" Handlebars Prohibited: No motorcycle shall be operated
on a street or other street or other roadway when the handlebars rise higher
than the shoulders of the operator when the operator is seated in the
operator's seat or saddle.
      (4)   Safety Glasses: No person shall operate or be a passenger on a
motorcycle without using safety glasses or other protective eye device that
conforms to the rules prescribed by the Ohio Director of Public Safety. This
division (a)(4) does not apply to a person operating an autocycle or cab-
enclosed motorcycle when the occupant compartment top is in place enclosing the
occupants.
      (5)   Helmets:
         A.   Except as provided in division (a)(5)C. of this section, no
person who is under the age of eighteen (18) years, or who holds a motorcycle
operator's endorsement or license bearing a "novice" designation that is
currently in effect, as provided in ORC 4507.13, shall operate a motorcycle on
a street or roadway, or be a passenger on a motorcycle, unless wearing a United
States Department of Transportation-approved protective helmet on the person's
head, and no other person shall be a passenger on a motorcycle operated by such
a person unless similarly wearing a protective helmet. The helmet shall conform
to the rules prescribed and promulgated by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
The provisions of this paragraph or a violation thereof shall not be used in
the trial of any civil action.
         B.   No person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary
instruction permit and temporary instruction permit identification card issued
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles pursuant to ORC 4507.05 unless the person,
at the time of such operation, is wearing on the person's head a protective
helmet that has been approved by the United States Department of Transportation
and that conforms to the rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
         C.   Division (a)(5)A. of this section does not apply to a person
operating an autocycle or cab-enclosed motorcycle when the occupant compartment
top is in place enclosing the occupants.
      (6)   Temporary Instruction Permits: No person shall operate a motorcycle
with a valid temporary instruction permit and temporary instruction permit
identification card issued by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles pursuant to ORC
4507.05 in any of the following circumstances:
         A.   At any time when lighted lights are required by Section
438.02 of this Traffic Code;
         B.   While carrying a passenger; or
         C.   On any limited access highway or heavily congested roadway.
(ORC 4511.53)
   (b)   Riding Abreast on Roadway. Persons riding motorcycles upon a street or
roadway shall ride not more than two abreast in a single lane, except on paths
or parts of paths set aside for the exclusive use of motorcycles.
(ORC 4511.55)
   (c)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
(1) year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled
guilty to one (1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one (1) year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of or pled guilty to two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.53)
      (2)   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this division (c)(2), whoever
violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one (1) year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pled guilty to one (1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense,
whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pled guilty to two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle
or traffic offenses, whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         B.   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.55)
422.08 OPERATION OF MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES AND MOTOR SCOOTERS.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall operate a motor-driven cycle or motor
scooter upon any street or highway having an established speed limit greater
than forty-five miles per hour (45 mph).
   (b)   Exceptions. This section does not prohibit a person operating a motor-
driven cycle or motor scooter from proceeding across an intersection of a
street or roadway having a speed limit greater than forty-five miles per hour
(45 mph).
   (c)   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
or pled guilty to one (1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (a) this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of or pled guilty to two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, whoever violates division (a) this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.214(A)(3))
422.09 OPERATION OF LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICES.
   (a)   Operation. No person shall operate a low-speed micromobility device
upon any street, roadway or public or private property used by the public for
the purpose of vehicular travel or parking having an established speed limit
greater than forty-five miles per hour (45 mph). This division does not
prohibit a person operating a low-speed micromobility device from proceeding
across an intersection of a street or roadway having a speed limit greater than
forty-five miles per hour (45 mph).
   (b)   Application of Traffic Code. Except as otherwise provided in this
section, those sections of the Traffic Code that by their nature could apply to
a low-speed micromobility device do apply to that device and the person
operating it whenever it is operated upon any street, roadway or public or
private property used by the public for the purpose of vehicular travel or
parking.
   (c)   Prohibitions. No operator of a low-speed micromobility device shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians at all times.
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian.
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         A.   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than five hundred feet (500'); and
         B.   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from one hundred feet to six hundred feet (100' - 600') when directly
in front of lawful lower beams or head lamps on a motor vehicle.
      (4)   No person who is under sixteen (16) years of age shall rent a low-
speed micromobility device.
      (5)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device on
behalf of a person who is under sixteen (16) years of age.
      (6)   No person shall operate a low-speed micromobility device at a speed
greater than twenty miles per hour (20 mph).
   (d)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Unless a mens rea is otherwise specified in this section, an
offense established under this section is a strict liability offense and ORC
2901.20 does not apply. The designation of that offense as a strict liability
offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for which there
is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(ORC 4511.514)
422.10 OPERATION OF ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   (a)   Operation.
      (1)   No person shall operate an electric personal assistive mobility
device upon any street, roadway or public or private property used by the
public for the purpose of vehicular travel or parking having an established
speed limit greater than forty-five miles per hour (45 mph).
      (2)   This section does not prohibit a person operating an electric
personal assistive mobility device from proceeding across an intersection of a
street or roadway having a speed limit greater than forty-five miles per hour
(45 mph).
   (b)   Application of Traffic Code. Except as otherwise provided in this
section, those sections of the Traffic Code that by their nature could apply to
an electric personal assistive mobility device do apply to that device and the
person operating it whenever it is operated upon any street, roadway or public
or private property used by the public for the purpose of vehicular travel or
parking.
   (c)   Prohibitions. No operator of an electric personal assistive mobility
device shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians and human-powered
vehicles at all times.
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian.
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         A.   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than five hundred feet (500'); and
         B.   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from one hundred feet to six hundred feet (100' - 600') when directly
in front of lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
      (4)   Operate the device on any portion of a street or roadway that has
an established speed limit of forty-five miles per hour (45 mph) or more.
      (5)   Operate the device upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
pedestrians or other specialized use when an appropriate sign giving notice of
the specialized use is posted on the path.
      (6)   If under eighteen (18) years of age, operate the device unless
wearing a protective helmet on the person's head with the chin strap properly
fastened.
      (7)   If under sixteen (16) years of age, operate the device unless,
during the operation, the person is under the direct visual and audible
supervision of another person who is eighteen (18) years of age or older and is
responsible for the immediate care of the person under sixteen (16) years of
age.
      (8)   No person who is under fourteen (14) years of age shall operate an
electric personal assistive mobility device.
   (d)   Restriction on Sellers. No person shall distribute or sell an electric
personal assistive mobility device unless the device is accompanied by a
written statement that is substantially equivalent to the following: "WARNING:
TO REDUCE THE RISK OF SERIOUS INJURY, USE ONLY WHILE WEARING FULL PROTECTIVE
EQUIPMENT - HELMET, WRIST GUARDS, ELBOW PADS, AND KNEE PADS."
   (e)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be punished as follows:
         A.   The offender shall be fined ten dollars ($10.00).
         B.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty
to a violation of division (a) of this section, or any substantially equivalent
State law or municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to imposing the fine
required under division (e)(1)A. of this section, shall do one of the
following:
            (i)   Order the impoundment for not less than one (1) day but no
more than thirty (30) days of the electric personal assistive mobility device
that was involved in the current violation of that division. The court shall
order the device to be impounded at a safe indoor location designated by the
court and may assess storage fees of not more than five dollars ($5.00) per
day; provided the total storage, processing, and release fees assessed against
the offender or the device in connection with the device's impoundment or
subsequent release shall not exceed fifty dollars ($50.00).
            (ii)   If the court does not issue an impoundment order pursuant to
division (e)(1)B.(i) of this section, issue an order prohibiting the offender
from operating any electric personal assistive mobility device on the public
streets, roadways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles for not less than one (1) day but not more than
thirty (30) days.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (d) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4511.512)
422.11 RECKLESS OPERATION.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall operate a bicycle, electric bicycle,
motorcycle, motorized bicycle or moped, electric personal assistive mobility
device, low-speed micromobility device, motorized wheelchair, or personal
delivery device:
      (1)   Without due regard for the safety and rights of pedestrians and
drivers and occupants of all other vehicles so as to endanger the life, limb,
or property of any person while that person is in the lawful use of the
streets, bike paths, sidewalks or any other public or private property used by
the public for the purpose of vehicular travel or parking.
      (2)   Without exercising reasonable and ordinary control over such
vehicle.
      (3)   In a weaving or zigzag course, unless such irregular course is
necessary for safe operation in compliance with law.
      (4)   Without both hands upon the handle grips, except when necessary to
give the required hand and arm signals under Section
432.13 of this Traffic Code.
      (5)   At a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the
conditions then existing.
   (b)   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year
of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to
one (1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1)
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled
guilty to two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Ord. 2022-14. Adopted 05/26/22; Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
422.12 DRIVING OR PARKING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (a)   Bicycles and Electric Bicycles.
      (1)   Bicycles and electric bicycles, if the motor is not engaged, may be
driven upon any sidewalk and sidewalk area, except as otherwise posted.
Bicycles and electric bicycles may only be parked upon a sidewalk or sidewalk
area in a manner that does not interfere with pedestrian traffic.
      (2)   A law enforcement officer, or other person sworn to enforce this
Traffic Code, may use an electric bicycle with the motor engaged on any
sidewalk or sidewalk area while in the performance of the officer's duties.
   (b)   Motorcycles, Motor-Driven Cycles or Scooters, Motorized Bicycles or
Mopeds. No motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or scooter, motorized bicycle, or
moped may be driven upon any sidewalk or sidewalk area, except upon a permanent
or duly authorized temporary driveway, and no motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or
scooter, or motorized bicycle or moped may be parked upon any sidewalk or
sidewalk area at any time.
(ORC 4511.711)
   (c)   Low-Speed Micromobility Devices. Low-speed micromobility devices may
be driven upon any sidewalk and sidewalk area, except as otherwise posted. Low-
speed micromobility devices may only be parked upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area
in a manner that does not interfere with pedestrian traffic.
(ORC 4511.514)
   (d)   Electric Personal Assistive Mobility Devices. Electric personal
assistive mobility devices may be driven upon any sidewalk and sidewalk area,
except as otherwise posted. Electric personal assistive mobility devices may
only be parked upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area in a manner that does not
interfere with pedestrian traffic.
(ORC 4511.512)
   (e)   Authority of Public Safety Director. The City's Public Safety Director
is hereby authorized to make and issue, by administrative directive, rules and
regulations regarding the use of City sidewalks, and parking thereon, by
bicycles, electric bicycles, low-speed mobility devices, electric personal
assistive mobility devices, motorized wheelchairs, and personal delivery
devices and shall assure appropriate signage is posted regarding such rules and
regulations.
(Ord. 2022-14. Adopted 05/26/22; Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
   (f)   Penalties.
      (1)   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this division (f)(1), whoever
violates division (a) or (b) of this section, or any rule or regulation of the
Public Safety Director promulgated pursuant to division (e) of this section, is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the offense, the
offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one (1) predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates division (a) or (b) of this
section or any rule or regulation of the Public Safety Director promulgated
pursuant to division (e) of this section, is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pled guilty to two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle
or traffic offenses, whoever violates division (a) or (b) of this section or
any rule or regulation of the Public Safety Director promulgated pursuant to
division (e) of this section, is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         B.   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99 of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.711)
      (2)   A violation of division (c) of this section is a strict liability
offense and ORC 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of a violation of
division (c) of this section as a strict liability offense shall not be
construed to imply that any other offense, for which there is no specified
degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(ORC 4511.514)
      (3)    Whoever violates division (d) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2022-14. Adopted 05/26/22; Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
422.13 DRIVING ON BIKE PATHS.
   (a)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle, snowmobile, all-purpose
vehicle, motorcycle (including autocycle, cab-enclosed motorcycle, and motor-
driven cycle or scooter), motorized bicycle or moped, class 3 electric bicycle,
or personal delivery device upon any bike path.
      (2)   Division (a)(1) of this section does not apply to a law enforcement
officer or other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the
state and the City while that officer is in performance of the officer's
duties.
      (3)   Division (a)(1) of this section does not apply to any City employee
performing inspection, repair, or maintenance duties upon any bike path, or any
other person or entity who has been given written permission by the Public
Safety Director to drive upon a bike path for construction, maintenance, repair
or other reasons.
   (b)   Permitted Vehicles. Bicycles, class 1 electric bicycles, class 2
electric bicycles, electric personal assistive mobility devices, low-speed
micromobility devices, and motorized wheelchairs are permitted upon bike paths,
unless otherwise posted.
Statutory references: ORC 4511.512(A)(3); 4511.514(F); 4511.522(C); 4511.713
   (c)   Authority of the Public Safety Director. The City's Public Safety
Director is hereby authorized to make and issue, by administrative directive,
rules and regulations regarding the use of bike paths by bicycles, class 1
electric bicycles, class 2 electric bicycles, low-speed mobility devices,
electric personal assistive mobility devices, and motorized wheelchairs and
shall assure appropriate signage is posted regarding such rules and
regulations.
   (d)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (d)(1), whoever
violates division (a) of this section, or any rule or regulation of the Public
Safety Director promulgated pursuant to division (c) of this section, is guilty
of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the offense, the offender
previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one (1) predicate motor
vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the offense, the
offender previously has been convicted of two (2) or more predicate motor
vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates division (a) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offense established under division (d)(1) of this section is a
strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state for
the purposes of ORC 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(Ord. 2022-14. Adopted 05/26/22; Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
422.14 DRIVING ON BIKE LANES AND SHARED USE PATHS.
   (a)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle, snowmobile, all-purpose
vehicle, motorcycle (including autocycle, cab-enclosed motorcycle, and motor-
driven cycle or scooter), class 3 electric bicycle, motorized wheelchair, or
personal delivery device upon any bike lane or shared use path.
      (2)   Division (a)(1) of this section does not apply to a law enforcement
officer, or other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the
state and the City, while that officer is in performance of the officer's
duties.
   (b)   Permitted Vehicles. Bicycles, class 1 electric bicycles, class 2
electric bicycles, motorized bicycles and mopeds, electric personal assistive
mobility devices, and low-speed micromobility devices are permitted upon any
bike lane or shared use path.
Statutory references: ORC 4511.512(A)(3); 4511.514(F); 4511.522(C); 4511.713
   (c)   Authority of the Public Safety Director. The City's Public Safety
Director is hereby authorized to make and issue, by administrative directive,
rules and regulations regarding the use of bike paths by bicycles, class 1
electric bicycles, class 2 electric bicycles, low-speed mobility devices,
electric personal assistive mobility devices, and motorized wheelchairs and
shall assure appropriate signage is posted regarding such rules and
regulations.
   (d)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (d)(1), whoever
violates division (a) of this section, or any rule or regulation of the Public
Safety Director promulgated pursuant to division (c) of this section, is guilty
of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the offense, the offender
previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one (1) predicate motor
vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the offense, the
offender previously has been convicted of two (2) or more predicate motor
vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates division (a) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offense established under division (d)(1) of this section is a
strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state for
the purposes of ORC 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(Ord. 2022-14. Adopted 05/26/22; Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
422.15 DRIVING ON HIKING PATHS, PEDESTRIAN-ONLY PATHS, OR IN PARKS.
   (a)   Hiking Paths.
      (1)   No electric bicycles, regardless of the bicycle's class,
motorcycles, motorized bicycles or mopeds, electric personal assistive mobility
devices, low-speed micromobility devices, motorized wheelchairs, or personal
delivery devices may be operated upon paths that are intended to be used
primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar uses,
or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically been
reserved for nonmotorized use.
      (2)   Division (a)(1) of this section does not apply to a law enforcement
officer, or other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the
state and the City, while that officer is in performance of the officer's
duties.
   (b)   Pedestrian-Only Paths. No bicycles, including electric bicycles
regardless of the bicycle's class, motorcycles, motorized bicycles or mopeds,
electric personal assistive mobility devices, low-speed micromobility devices,
or personal delivery devices may be operated upon any path reserved for
pedestrians only.
Statutory references: ORC 4511.512(A)(3); 4511.514(F); 4511.522(C); 4511.713
   (c)   Park Regulations. Nothing in this section affects or shall be
construed to affect any rule of the State Director of Natural Resources or the
City governing the operation of vehicles on lands under the control of the
Director or City, as applicable. The City may prohibit the use of any vehicle
within or upon any City park. Such prohibition shall be posted and enforced as
a park regulation.
   (d)   Authority of the Public Safety Director. The City's Public Safety
Director is hereby authorized to make and issue, by administrative directive,
rules and regulations regarding the use of bike paths and parks by bicycles,
class 1 electric bicycles, class 2 electric bicycles, low-speed mobility
devices, electric personal assistive mobility devices, and motorized
wheelchairs and shall assure appropriate signage is posted regarding such rules
and regulations.
   (e)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (e)(1), whoever
violates division (a) of this section, or any rule or regulation of the Public
Safety Director promulgated pursuant to division (d) of this section, is guilty
of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the offense, the offender
previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one (1) predicate motor
vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the offense, the
offender previously has been convicted of two (2) or more predicate motor
vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates division (a) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offense established under division (e)(1) of this section is a
strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state for
the purposes of ORC 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(Ord. 2022-14. Adopted 05/26/22; Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
422.16 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST ATTACHING BICYCLES, ELECTRIC BICYCLES, SLEDS, AND
OTHER ITEMS TO VEHICLES.
   (a)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No person riding upon any bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster,
roller skates, sled or toy vehicle shall attach the same or self to any vehicle
upon a roadway.
      (2)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person riding upon any
bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, or toy vehicle to
attach the same or self to any vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway.
   (b)   Exception. This section does not apply to the towing of a disabled
vehicle.
   (c)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1)
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled
guilty to one (1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one (1) year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.54)
422.90 DEFINITIONS.
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply. For
any term in this Chapter that is not specifically defined in this section, the
definitions contained in ORC 4511.01 or 4501.01, as applicable, shall apply.
   (a)   Autocycle. "Autocycle" means a three-wheeled motorcycle that is
manufactured to comply with federal safety requirements for motorcycles and
that is equipped with safety belts, a steering wheel, and seating that does not
require the operator to straddle or sit astride to ride the motorcycle.
(ORC 4501.01(CCC))
   (b)   Bicycle. "Bicycle" means every device, other than a device that is
designed solely for use as a play vehicle by a child, that is propelled solely
by human power upon which a person may ride, and that has two (2) or more
wheels, any of which is more than fourteen inches (14") in diameter.
(ORC 4511.01(G))
   (c)   Bike Lane. "Bike lane" means a portion of the street or roadway set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
(Ord. 2022-14. Adopted 05/26/22; Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
   (d)   Bike Path. "Bike path" means a trail or other area not within the road
right-of-way that is reserved exclusively for the use of bicycles and
pedestrians.
(Ord. 2022-14. Adopted 05/26/22; Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
   (e)   Cab-Enclosed Motorcycle. "Cab-enclosed motorcycle" means a motor
vehicle with motive power having a seat or saddle for the use of the operator,
designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the
ground, and having an occupant compartment top or an occupant compartment top
that is installed.
(ORC 4501.01(AAA))
   (f)   Distracted. "Distracted" shall have the same meaning as set forth in
ORC 4511.991.
   (g)   Driver or Operator. "Driver" or "Operator" means every person who
drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
(ORC 4511.01(Y))
   (h)   Electric Bicycle. "Electric bicycle" means a "class 1 electric
bicycle," a "class 2 electric bicycle," or a "class 3 electric bicycle," as
defined in this division.
      (1)   "Class 1 electric bicycle" means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than seven hundred fifty
watts (750W) that provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and
ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of twenty miles
per hour (20 mph).
         (ORC 4511.01(TTT))
      (2)   "Class 2 electric bicycle" means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than seven hundred fifty
watts (750W) that may provide assistance regardless of whether the rider is
pedaling and is not capable of providing assistance when the bicycle reaches
the speed of twenty miles per hour (20 mph).
         (ORC 4511.01(UUU))
      (3)   "Class 3 electric bicycle" means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than seven hundred fifty
watts (750W) that provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and
ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of twenty-eight
miles per hour (28 mph).
         (ORC 4511.01(VVV))
   (i)   Electric Personal Assistive Mobility Device. "Electric Personal
Assistive Mobility Device" means a self-balancing two (2) non-tandem wheeled
device that is designed to transport only one (1) person, has an electric
propulsion system of an average of seven hundred fifty watts (750W), and, when
ridden on a paved level surface by an operator who weighs one hundred seventy
pounds (170 lbs.), has a maximum speed of less than twenty miles per hour (20
mph).
(ORC 4501.01(TT))
   (j)   Low-Speed Micromobility Device. "Low-speed micromobility device" means
a device weighing less than one hundred pounds (100 lbs.) that has handlebars,
is propelled by an electric motor or human power, and has an attainable speed
on a paved level service of not more than twenty miles per hour (20 mph) when
propelled by the electric motor.
(ORC 4511.01(WWW))
   (k)   Motor-Driven Cycle or Motor Scooter. "Motor-Driven Cycle" or "Motor
Scooter" means any vehicle designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels
in contact with the ground, with a seat for the driver and floor pad for the
driver's feet, and is equipped with a motor with a piston displacement between
fifty and one hundred cubic centimeters (50 - 100 cm3) piston displacement that
produces not more than five (5) brake horsepower and is capable of propelling
the vehicle at a speed greater that twenty miles per hour (20 mph) on a level
surface.
(ORC 4501.01(YY))
   (l)   Motorcycle. "Motorcycle" means every motor vehicle, other than a
tractor, having a seat or saddle for the use of the operator and designed to
travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the ground including,
but not limited to, motor vehicles known as "motor-driven cycle," "motor
scooter," "autocycle," "cab-enclosed motorcycle," or "motorcycle" without
regard to weight or brake horsepower.
(ORC 4511.01(C))
   (m)   Motorized Bicycle or Moped. "Motorized Bicycle" or "Moped" means any
vehicle having either two (2) tandem wheels or one (1) wheel in the front and
two (2) wheels in the rear that may be pedaled and that is equipped with a
helper motor of not more than fifty cubic centimeters (50 cm3) piston
displacement that produces no more than one brake horsepower (1 bhp) and is
capable of propelling the vehicle at a speed of no greater than twenty miles
per hour (20 mph) on a level surface. "Motorized bicycle" or "moped" does not
include an electric bicycle.
(ORC 4511.01(H))
   (n)   Operate. "Operate" means to cause or have caused movement of a
vehicle.
(ORC 4511.01(HHH)
   (o)   Pedestrian. "Pedestrian" means any natural person afoot. "Pedestrian"
includes a personal delivery device, as defined in ORC 4511.513, unless the
context clearly suggests otherwise.
(ORC 4511.01(X))
   (p)   Shared-Use Path. "Shared-Use Path" means a bikeway outside the
traveled way and physically separated from motorized vehicular traffic by an
open space or barrier and either within the roadway right-of-way or within an
independent alignment. A shared-use path also may be used by pedestrians,
including skaters, joggers, users of manual and motorized wheelchairs, and
other authorized motorized and nonmotorized users. A shared-use path does not
include any trail that is intended to be used primarily for mountain biking,
hiking, equestrian use, or other similar uses, or any other single track or
natural surface trail that has historically been reserved for nonmotorized use.
(ORC 4511.01(PP))
   (q)   Sidewalk. "Sidewalk" means that portion of a street between the curb
lines, or the lateral lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines,
intended for the use of pedestrians.
(ORC 4511.01(FF))
   (r)   Vehicle. "Vehicle" means every device, including a motorized bicycle
and an electric bicycle, in, upon, or by which any person or property may be
transported or drawn upon a street, highway, or other public roadway, except
that "vehicle" does not include any motorized wheelchair, any electric personal
assistive mobility device, any low-speed micromobility device, any personal
delivery device, any device that is moved by power collected from overhead
electric trolley wires or that is used exclusively upon stationary rails or
tracks, or any device, other than a bicycle, that is moved by human power.
(ORC 4511.01(A))
422.99 PENALTIES.
   See Section
402.99 of this Traffic Code for penalties for provisions of this Chapter for
which no penalty is otherwise provided in the section violated.
CHAPTER 424
Snowmobiles; Off-Highway Vehicles; All-Purpose Vehicles
424.01   Registration Required
424.02   Operator Licensing Requirements
424.03   Temporary Operating Permit for Nonresident
424.04   Rules for Equipment
424.05   Rules for Snowmobiles (Safety Glasses)
424.06   Prohibitions on Use and Operation
424.07   Operation of All-Purpose Vehicles In Residential Areas
424.08   Permitted Use and Operation
424.09   Accident Report Required
424.10   Prohibitions against Noncomplying Vehicle
424.11   Maintenance of Vehicles for Hire
424.12   Impounding of Vehicle, Registration and License Plate
424.13   Prohibitions Pertaining to Operation and Surrender of Certificate of
Title
424.14   Prohibitions Pertaining to Stolen Vehicles and Sale or Transfer of
Vehicles
424.90   Definitions
424.99   Penalties
   CROSS REFERENCES
      See Section Histories for Similar State Law
      Definitions -TRAF. 400.90
      Disposal or Transfer of Ownership - see ORC 4519.05
      Driving on Bike Lanes and Shared Use Paths - TRAF. 422.14
      Driving on Bike Paths - TRAF. 422.13
      Driving on Sidewalk - TRAF. 422.12
      Noise Limits - TRAF. 438.38
      Penalty, when not otherwise provided - TRAF. 402.99
      Power to Regulate - see ORC 4519.48
424.01 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (a)   Registration Required. Except as provided in division (b) of this
section, no person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle within this City unless the snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle is registered and numbered in accordance
with ORC 4519.03 and 4519.04.
   (b)   Exceptions.
      (1)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle that is operated exclusively upon lands owned by the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle, or on lands to which the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle has a contractual right.
      (2)   No registration is required for an all-purpose vehicle that is used
primarily for agricultural purposes when the owner qualifies for current
agricultural use valuation tax credit, unless it is to be used on any public
land, trail, or right-of-way.
      (3)   Any all-purpose vehicle exempted from registration under division
(b)(2) of this section and operated for agricultural purposes may use public
roads and rights-of-way when traveling from one farm field to another, when
such use does not violate Section
424.07 of this Traffic Code.
      (4)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this City by a resident of
another state whenever that state has in effect a registration law similar to
ORC Chapter 4519. and the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle is properly registered under that state's law. Any snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this City by a
resident of a state not having a registration law similar to ORC Chapter 4519.
shall comply with Section
424.03 of this Traffic Code.
      (5)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this City by the United
States, the State of Ohio, another state or a political subdivision thereof,
but the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle shall
display the name of the owner thereon.
   (c)   All-Purpose Vehicles used upon Waters. The owner or operator of any
all-purpose vehicle operated or used upon the waters in this City shall comply
with ORC Chapters 1547. and 1548. relative to the operation of watercraft.
   (d)   Penalties. Except as provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) of this section shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50)
but no more than one hundred dollars ($100).
(ORC 4519.02)
424.02 OPERATOR LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   License Required. No person who does not hold a valid, current, motor
vehicle driver's or commercial driver's license, motorcycle operator's
endorsement, or probationary license issued under ORC Chapter 4506. or 4507.,
or a valid current driver's license issued by another jurisdiction, shall
operate a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle on any
street or highway in this City, or on any portion of the right-of-way thereof,
or on any public land or waters. This division shall not be construed to permit
the holder of such a license to operate a snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle in
violation of Sections
424.05  or
424.06  of this Traffic Code.
   (b)   Persons under Sixteen Years of Age. No person who is less than sixteen
(16) years of age shall operate a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle on any land or waters other than private property or waters
owned by or leased to the person's parent or guardian, unless accompanied by
another person who is eighteen (18) years of age or older and who holds a
license as provided in division (a) of this section; except that the Ohio
Department of Natural Resources may permit such operation on State-controlled
land under its jurisdiction when such person is less than sixteen (16) years of
age and is accompanied by a parent or guardian who is a licensed driver
eighteen (18) years of age or older. This division shall not be construed to
permit a person under sixteen (16) years of age to operate an all-purpose
vehicle in violation of Sections
424.05  or
424.06  of this Traffic Code.
   (c)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), imprisoned
not less than three (3) nor more than thirty (30) days, or both.
(ORC 4519.44)
424.03 TEMPORARY OPERATING PERMIT FOR NONRESIDENT.
   Every owner or operator of a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle who is a resident of a state not having a registration law
similar to ORC Chapter 4519., and who expects to use the snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle in this City, shall apply to the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a deputy registrar for a temporary operating
permit under ORC 4519.09. The temporary operating permit shall be issued for a
period not to exceed one (1) year from the date of issuance, shall be in such
form as the Registrar determines, shall include the name and address of the
owner and operator of the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle, and any other information as the Registrar considers necessary. Every
owner or operator receiving a temporary operating permit shall display it upon
the reasonable request of any law enforcement officer.
(ORC 4519.09)
424.04 RULES FOR EQUIPMENT.
   (a)   Requirements. In addition to any rules for the equipment of
snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles promulgated by
the Ohio Director of Public Safety pursuant to ORC Chapter 119., all
snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles shall meet the
following requirements for the following items of equipment:
      (1)   At least one (1) headlight having a minimum candlepower of
sufficient intensity to reveal persons and objects at a distance of at least
one hundred feet (100') ahead under normal atmospheric conditions during hours
of darkness.
      (2)   At least one (1) red taillight having a minimum candlepower of
sufficient intensity to be plainly visible from a distance of five hundred feet
(500') to the rear under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of
darkness.
      (3)   Every snowmobile, while traveling on packed snow, shall be capable
of carrying a driver who weighs one hundred seventy-five pounds (175 lbs.) or
more, and, while carrying such driver, be capable of stopping in no more than
forty feet (40') from an initial steady speed of twenty miles per hour (20
mph), or locking its traction belt.
      (4)   A muffler system capable of precluding the emission of excessive
smoke or exhaust fumes and of limiting the engine noise of vehicles. On
snowmobiles manufactured after January 1, 1973, such requirement shall include
sound-dampening equipment such that noise does not exceed eighty-two decibels
(82 dB) on the "A" scale at fifty feet (50') as measured according to SAE J192
(September 1970).
   (b)   Prohibitions. No person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle in violation of division (a) of this
section, except that equipment specified in division (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this
section shall not be required on snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, or all-
purpose vehicles operated during the daylight hours.
   (c)   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates division (b) of this section shall be fined not more than fifty
dollars ($50.00). If the offender within the preceding year previously has
committed a violation of division (b) of this section or a substantially
equivalent State law, whoever violates division (b) of this section shall be
fined not less than fifteen dollars ($15.00) nor more than one hundred dollars
($100.00), imprisoned not more than three (3) days, or both.
(ORC 4519.20)
424.05 RULES FOR SNOWMOBILES (SAFETY GLASSES).
   (a)   Protective Eye Wear Required.
      (1)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on a snowmobile without
using safety glasses or other protective eye device. The safety glasses or
other protective eye device shall conform to the rules adopted by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety.
      (2)   The provisions of this section or a violation thereof shall not be
used in the trial of any civil action.
   (b)   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates division (a)(1) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
or pled guilty to one (1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
or pled guilty to two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.53(C))
424.06 PROHIBITIONS ON USE AND OPERATION.
   (a)   Prohibitions. The applicable provisions of this Traffic Code shall
apply to the operation of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all-purpose
vehicles, except that no person shall operate a snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle as follows:
      (1)   On any state highway, including a limited access highway or freeway
or the right-of-way thereof, except for emergency travel only during such time
and in such manner as the Ohio Director of Public Safety designates.
      (2)   On any City street, highway, or right-of-way thereof, except for
emergency travel only during such time and in such manner as the City's Public
Safety Director shall designate.
      (3)   On any private property, or in any nursery or planting area,
without the permission of the owner or other person having the right to
possession of the property.
      (4)   On any land or waters controlled by the City or State, except at
those locations where a sign has been posted permitting such operation.
      (5)   While transporting any firearm, bow, or other implement for hunting
that is not unloaded and securely encased.
      (6)   For the purpose of chasing, pursuing, capturing, or killing any
animal or wild fowl.
      (7)   During the time from sunset to sunrise, unless displaying lighted
lights as required by Section
438.02 of this Traffic Code or a substantially equivalent State law.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), imprisoned
not less than three (3) days nor more than thirty (30) days, or both.
(ORC 4519.40)
424.07 OPERATION OF ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLES IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   (a)   Prohibitions. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Traffic
Code, no person shall operate an all-purpose vehicle on a parcel of real estate
of less than one and one-half (1.5) acres in area within a residential
district.
   (b)   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to a
violation of this section, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the
offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two (2) or more
violations of this section, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   Definitions. As used in this section, "residential district" shall
mean those areas designated as such by the City's Land Development Code.
(Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
424.08 PERMITTED USE AND OPERATION.
   (a)   Permitted Use and Operation. Snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and
all-purpose vehicles may be operated as follows:
      (1)   To make a crossing of a street or highway, other than a freeway or
limited-access highway whenever the crossing can be made in safety and will not
interfere with the movement of vehicular traffic approaching from any direction
on the street or highway, and provided that the operator yields the right-of-
way to any approaching traffic that presents an immediate hazard.
      (2)   Off and alongside a street or highway for limited distances from
the point of unloading from a conveyance to the point at which the snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle is intended and authorized to be
operated.
      (3)   On the berm or shoulder of a street or highway, other than a
freeway or limited-access highway, when the terrain permits such operation to
be undertaken safely and without the necessity of entering any traffic lane.
(ORC 4519.41)
424.09 ACCIDENT REPORT REQUIRED.
   (a)   Reporting Accident Required. The operator of a snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle involved in any accident resulting in bodily
injury to or death of any person, or damage to the property of any person in
excess of one hundred dollars ($100.00), shall report the accident within
forty-eight (48) hours to the City's Chief of Police and, within thirty (30)
days, shall forward a written report of the accident to the Ohio Registrar of
Motor Vehicles on a form prescribed by the Registrar. If the operator is
physically incapable of making the reports and there is another participant in
the accident not so incapacitated, the participant shall make the reports. In
the event there is no other participant and the operator is other than the
owner, the owner, within the prescribed periods of time, shall make the report.
   (b)   Law Enforcement Report. Any law enforcement officer who investigates
or receives information of an accident involving a snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle shall forward to the Registrar a written
report of the accident within forty-eight (48) hours.
(ORC 4519.46)
   (c)   Penalties. Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
424.10 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST NONCOMPLYING VEHICLE.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall have for sale, sell, offer for sale,
lease, rent, or otherwise furnish for hire in this City any new snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle that fails to comply with any
rule adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under ORC 4519.20.
   (b)   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates this section shall be fined not more than fifty ($50) dollars. If the
offender within the preceding year previously has committed a violation of this
section, whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than fifteen
($15) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100), imprisoned not more than three
(3) days, or both.
(ORC 4519.22)
424.11 MAINTENANCE OF VEHICLES FOR HIRE.
   (a)   Requirements. Any dealer who rents, leases, or otherwise furnishes a
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle for hire shall
maintain the vehicle in safe operating condition. No dealer, or agent or
employee of a dealer, shall rent, lease, or otherwise furnish a snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle for hire to any person who does
not hold a license as required by Section
424.02  of this Traffic Code, or to any person whom the dealer or an agent or
employee of the dealer has reasonable cause to believe is incompetent to
operate the vehicle in a safe and lawful manner.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than
one hundred ($100) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500).
(ORC 4519.45)
424.12 IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLE, REGISTRATION AND LICENSE PLATE.
   (a)   Impounding. Whenever a person is found guilty of operating a
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle in violation of any
section of this Traffic Code, the court, in addition to or independent of any
other penalties provided by law, may impound for not less than sixty (60) days
the certificate of registration and license plate, if applicable, of that
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle.
   (b)   Registration and License Plate. If a court impounds the certificate of
registration and license plate of an all-purpose vehicle for Criminal Trespass,
the court shall send the impounded certificate of registration and license
plate to the registrar, who shall retain them until the expiration of the
period of impoundment.
(ORC 4519.47)
424.13 PROHIBITIONS PERTAINING TO OPERATION AND SURRENDER OF CERTIFICATE OF
TITLE.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this City an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle without having a certificate of title for the off-highway motorcycle or
all-purpose vehicle, if such a certificate is required by ORC Chapter 4519. to
be issued for the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, or, if a
physical certificate of title has not been issued for it, operate an off-
highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle knowing that the ownership
information relating to the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle has
not been entered into the automated title processing system by a clerk of a
court of common pleas.
      (2)   Operate in this City an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle if a certificate of title to the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle has been issued and then has been canceled.
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title upon cancellation of it
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed
in ORC Chapter 4519.
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a clerk of a court of
common pleas as provided in ORC Chapter 4519. in the case of the destruction or
dismantling of, or change in, the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle
described in the certificate of title.
      (5)   Violate any provision of ORC 4519.51 to 4519.70 for which no
penalty is otherwise provided.
      (6)   Operate in this City an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle knowing that the certificate of title to or ownership of the off-
highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle as otherwise reflected in the
automated title processing system has been canceled.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than
two hundred dollars ($200), imprisoned not more than ninety (90) days, or both.
(ORC 4519.66)
424.14 PROHIBITIONS PERTAINING TO STOLEN VEHICLES AND SALE OR TRANSFER OF
VEHICLES.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Procure or attempt to procure a certificate of title to an off-
highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, or pass or attempt to pass a
certificate of title or any assignment of a certificate of title to an off-
highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, or in any other manner gain or
attempt to gain ownership to an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle,
knowing or having reason to believe that the off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle has been stolen.
      (2)   Sell or offer for sale in this City an off-highway motorcycle or
all-purpose vehicle on which the manufacturer's or assigned vehicle
identification number has been destroyed, removed, covered, altered, or defaced
with knowledge of the destruction, removal, covering, alteration, or defacement
of the manufacturer's or assigned vehicle identification number.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in ORC Chapter 4519., sell or transfer
an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle without delivering to the
purchaser or transferee of it a certificate of title, or a manufacturer's or
importer's certificate to it, assigned to the purchaser as provided for in ORC
Chapter 4519.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than
five thousand dollars ($5,000), imprisoned in the county jail or workhouse not
less than six (6) months nor more than one (1) year or in the penitentiary not
less than one (1) year nor more than five (5) years, or both.
(ORC 4519.67)
424.90 DEFINITIONS.
As used in this Chapter:
   (a)   All-Purpose Vehicle. "All-Purpose Vehicle" means any self-propelled
vehicle designed primarily for cross-country travel on land and water, or on
more than one type of terrain, and steered by wheels or caterpillar treads, or
any combination thereof, including vehicles that operate on a cushion of air,
vehicles commonly known as all-terrain vehicles, all-season vehicles, mini-
bikes and trail bikes. "All -Purpose Vehicle" does not include a utility
vehicle as defined in ORC 4501.01 or any vehicle principally used in playing
golf, any motor vehicle or aircraft required to be registered under ORC Chapter
4503. or ORC Chapter 4561., and any vehicle excepted from definition as a motor
vehicle by ORC 4501.01(B).
   (b)   Dealer. "Dealer" means any person or firm engaged in the business of
manufacturing or selling snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose
vehicles at wholesale or retail, or who rents, leases or otherwise furnishes
snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles for hire.
   (c)   Electronic. "Electronic" and "Electronic Record" have the same
meanings as in ORC 4501.01.
   (d)   Electronic Dealer. "Electronic Dealer" means a dealer whom the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles designates under ORC 4519.511.
   (e)   Interstate Highway. "Interstate Highway" means any part of the
interstate system of highways as defined in subsection (e), 90 Stat. 431
(1976), 23 USC 103, as amended.
   (f)   Limited-Access Highway. "Limited-Access Highway" and "Freeway" have
the same meanings as in ORC 5511.02.
   (g)   Mini-Truck. "Mini-Truck" means a vehicle that has four (4) wheels, is
propelled by an electric motor with a rated power of seven thousand five
hundred watts (7,500W) or less or an internal combustion engine with a piston
displacement capacity of six hundred sixty cubic centimeters (660 cm3) or less,
has a total dry weight of nine hundred to two thousand two hundred pounds (900
- 2,200 lbs.), contains an enclosed cabin and a seat for the vehicle operator,
resembles a pickup truck or van with a cargo area or bed located at the rear of
the vehicle, and was not originally manufactured to meet federal motor vehicle
safety standards.
   (h)   Off-Highway Motorcycle. "Off-Highway Motorcycle" means every
motorcycle, as defined in ORC 4511.01, which is designed to be operated
primarily on lands other than a street or highway.
   (i)   Operator. "Operator" means any person who operates or is in actual
physical control of a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle.
   (j)   Owner. "Owner" means any person or firm, other than a lienholder or
dealer, having title to a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle, or other right to the possession thereof.
   (k)   Snowmobile. "Snowmobile" means any self-propelled vehicle designed
primarily for use on snow or ice, and steered by skis, runners or caterpillar
treads.
   (l)   Street or Highway. "Street or Highway" has the same meaning as in ORC
4511.01.
(ORC 4519.01)
424.99 PENALTIES.
   Whoever violates any section of this Chapter for which violation no penalty
is otherwise provided, is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
CHAPTER 426
Skateboards
426.01   Skateboard Defined
426.02   Prohibitions in the B-2 Downtown Business District
426.03   Prohibitions on Streets
426.04   Prohibitions on Real Property
426.99   Penalties
   CROSS REFERENCES
      See Section Histories for Similar State Law
      Attaching Skateboard or Rider To Vehicle - TRAF.
422.16
      Playing in Street or Public Way - TRAF.
410.12
      Toy Vehicles on Street - TRAF.
410.11
      Skateboards in Parks - S. U. & P. S.
1042.02
426.01 SKATEBOARD DEFINED.
   "Skateboard" means any vehicle or device capable of being operated or ridden
by a person and consisting of a board, plank or platform mounted on wheels or
rollers, whether propelled by gravity, muscle power or mechanical means, which
is not equipped with a positive, mechanical means of steering such vehicle or
device.
(Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
426.02 PROHIBITIONS IN THE B-2 DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   No person or juvenile shall operate or ride, or cause to be operated or
ridden, a skateboard, on any sidewalk, street, alley, parking lot, or other
public way, whether on private or public property, within the B-2 Downtown
Business District, as the same is defined by the City's Land Use Code,
contained in Part 12 of the Xenia City Code.
(Former 416.12(b); Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
424.03 PROHIBITIONS ON STREETS.
   No person or juvenile shall operate or ride, or cause to be operated or
ridden, a skateboard on any street, highway, alley, or other property open to
the public for the purpose of vehicular traffic.
(Former 416.12(a); Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
426.04 PROHIBITIONS ON REAL PROPERTY.
   (a)   Private Property. No person or juvenile shall operate or ride, or
cause to be operated or ridden, a skateboard on private property without the
consent of the owner of such private property.
   (b)   Public Property. No person or juvenile shall operate or ride, or cause
to be operated or ridden, a skateboard on public property where signs have been
posted preventing such operation. Skateboards may be operated on sidewalks,
except where otherwise posted.
(Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
426.99 PENALTIES.
   Whoever violates any provision of this Chapter shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the offense, the offender has been
convicted of or pled guilty to a violation of any section of this Chapter, the
offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1)
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled
guilty to two (2) or more violations of this Chapter, whoever violates division
(a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
TITLE EIGHT - OPERATION AND EQUIPMENT OF VEHICLES
CHAPTER 430
Slow Moving Vehicles
430.01   Operation of Low-Speed, Under-Speed, Utility Vehicles, or Mini-Trucks
430.02   Light and Reflector Requirements on Slow-Moving Vehicles
430.03   Requirements for Slow-Moving Vehicles; SMV Emblem
430.04   Requirements for Farm Machinery
430.05   Requirements for Animal-Drawn Vehicles
430.06   Requirements for Mini-Trucks
430.07   Strict Liability Offenses
430.90   Definitions
430.99   Penalties
   CROSS REFERENCES
      See Section Histories for Similar State Law
      Definitions - TRAF.
400.90
      Operation without Reasonable Control - TRAF.
434.08
      Penalty, when not otherwise provided - TRAF.
402.99
      Persons Riding or Driving Animals on Roadway - TRAF.
410.10
      Slow Moving Vehicles on Freeways -TRAF.
410.11
      State Manual (for Uniform System of Traffic-Control Devices) - TRAF.
400.04
430.01 OPERATION OF LOW-SPEED, UNDER-SPEED, UTILITY VEHICLES, OR MINI-TRUCKS.
   (a)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No person shall operate a low-speed vehicle upon any street or
highway having an established speed limit greater than thirty-five miles per
hour (35 mph).
      (2)   No person shall operate an under-speed vehicle, utility vehicle, or
a mini-truck upon any street or highway except as follows:
         A.   Upon a street or highway having an established speed limit not
greater than thirty-five miles per hour (35 mph); and/or
         B.   The person is a City or County employee or volunteer operating a
utility vehicle exclusively within the boundaries of a City park or County park
for the operation or maintenance of the park.
   (b)   Exceptions. This section does not prohibit the following:
      (1)   A person operating a low-speed vehicle, under-speed vehicle,
utility vehicle, or a mini-truck from proceeding across an intersection of a
street or highway having a speed limit greater than thirty-five miles per hour
(35 mph).
(ORC 4511.214)
      (2)   A person may operate a utility vehicle on any public road or right-
of-way, other than a freeway, when traveling from one farm field to another for
agricultural purposes if the vehicle is displaying a triangular slow-moving
vehicle emblem as described in Section
430.03 of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.216)
      (3)   A person operating a low-speed vehicle, under-speed vehicle,
utility vehicle, or a mini truck as a part of a parade that is a City-sponsored
event or an event for which a permit has been issued pursuant to
Chapter 1042. of the Xenia City Code.
(Ordinance 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
   (c)   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If
within one (1) year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pled guilty to one (1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If within one (1) year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.214)
430.02 LIGHT AND REFLECTOR REQUIREMENTS ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES.
   (a)   Lights Required. At the times specified in Section 438.02 of this
Traffic Code, no person shall operate either of the following vehicles unless
it is equipped with and displays the lamps described in division (b) of this
section:
      (1)   A vehicle not specifically required to be equipped with lamps or
other lighting devices by Sections
422.04,
422.06(b),
436.04, or
438.02 -
438.09 of this Traffic Code or ORC 4513.03 - 4513.10.
      (2)   Implements of husbandry, road machinery, road rollers, or
agricultural tractors, as referred to in ORC 4513.02(G).
   (b)   Lamps. Vehicles described in division (a) of this section shall be
equipped with both of the following:
      (1)   At least one (1) lamp displaying a while light visible from a
distance of not less than one thousand feet (1,000') to the front of the
vehicle.
      (2)   Two (2) lamps displaying red light visible from a distance of not
less than one thousand feet (1,000') to the rear of the vehicle, or as an
alternative, one (1) lamp displaying a red light visible from a distance of not
less than one thousand feet (1,000') to the rear and two (2) red reflectors
visible from all distances of six hundred feet to one hundred feet (600' -
100') to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams of headlamps.
   (c)   Multi-Wheel Agricultural Tractors, Model Year 2001 or Earlier.
      (1)   At the times specified in Section
438.02 of this Traffic Code, no person shall operate a multi-wheel agricultural
tractor model year 2001 or earlier on a street or highway unless it is equipped
with and displays reflectors and illuminated amber lamps so that the extreme
left and right projections of the tractor are indicated by all of the
following:
         A.   Flashing lamps displaying amber light, visible to the front and
the rear. The lamps need not flash simultaneously and need not flash in
conjunction with any directional signals of the tractor;
         B.   Amber reflectors, all visible to the front;
         C.   Red reflectors, all visible to the rear.
      (2)   Rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under this
section governing the lamps and reflectors described in division (C)(1) of this
section and their placement shall correlate with and, as far as possible,
conform with paragraphs 4.1.4.1, 4.1.7.1, and 4.1.7.2 respectively of the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.10 OCT 98,
Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways.
   (d)   Farm Machinery, Model Year 2002 or Later. At the times specified in
Section 438.02 of this Traffic Code, no person shall operate a unit of farm
machinery model year 2002 or later on a street or highway unless it is equipped
with and displays markings and illuminated lamps that meet or exceed the
lighting, illumination, and marking standards and specifications that are
applicable to that type of farm machinery for the unit's model year specified
in the American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.10
OCT 98, Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways.
   (e)   Additional Requirements.
      (1)   Any unit of farm machinery designed by its manufacturer to operate
at a speed of twenty-five miles per hour (25 mph) or greater or any SMV may be
equipped with and display a red flashing light that is visible from a distance
of not less than one thousand feet (1,000') to the rear at all times specified
in Section 438.02 of this Traffic Code. When a double-faced light is used, it
shall display amber light to the front and red light to the rear.
      (2)   Lights and reflectors required under divisions (c) and (d) of this
section and authorized under division (e)(1) are in addition to other lights
required or permitted by this section or Section
438.16 of this Traffic Code.
      (3)   Lamps and reflectors required or authorized by the section shall
meet the standards and specifications established by the Ohio Director of
Public Safety.
   (f)   Exceptions. This section does not apply to a bicycle, motorized
bicycle (or moped), electric bicycle, or animal-drawn vehicle.
   (g)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.111)
430.03 REQUIREMENTS FOR SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES; SMV EMBLEM.
   (a)   Requirements. No person shall operate an SMV on a street or highway
except as follows:
      (1)   At a speed exceeding twenty-five miles per hour (25 mph).
      (2)   Except as provided in division (c), without displaying the
triangular SMV emblem mount in accordance with division (b) of this section.
   (b)   SMV Emblem. The SMV emblem shall be mounted so as to be visible from a
distance of not less than five hundred feet (500') to the rear and shall meet
the standards and specifications for the design and position of mounting the
SMV emblem established by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
   (c)   Exceptions. A person may operate an SMV on a street or highway without
displaying the triangular SMV emblem when any of the following apply:
      (1)   The SMV is being used in actual construction and maintenance work
in an area guarded by a flagperson or where flares are used.
      (2)   The SMV is operating or traveling within the limits of a
construction area designated by the City Engineer or the Ohio Director of
Transportation, when such construction area is marked in accordance with the
requirements of the State Manual.
   (d)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No person shall display an SMV emblem on any of the following:
         A.   Any vehicle not required to use the SMV emblem by this section or
Sections
430.04 or
430.05 of this Traffic Code;
         B.   An SMV being transported upon any other vehicle;
         C.   Any stationary object on the highway.
      (2)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate an SMV, except a unit
designed to be completely mounted on a primary power unit that is manufactured
or assembled on or after April 1, 1966, unless it is equipped with an SMV
emblem mounting device.
   (e)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.112)
430.04 REQUIREMENTS FOR FARM MACHINERY.
   (a)   Requirements for Farm Machinery Designed to Operate at Greater than 25
mph. No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate on a street or highway any
unit of farm machinery that is designed by the manufacturer to operate at a
speed greater than twenty-five miles per hour (25 mph) unless the unit displays
both of the following:
      (1)   The SMV emblem mounted in accordance with Section
430.03(b) of this Traffic Code.
      (2)   A speed identification symbol that does both of the following:
         A.   Meets the specifications contained in the American Society of
Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE 584 JAN 2005, Agricultural Equipment:
Speed Identification Symbol (SIS):
         B.   Indicates the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the unit
of farm machinery is designed by its manufacturer to operate.
   (b)   Requirements for Agricultural Tractors.
      (1)   No person operating a tractor on a street or highway that is
designed by its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than twenty-five
miles per hour (25 mph) and that is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing a
unit of farm machinery while operating at a speed greater than twenty-five
miles per hour shall fail to display both of the following on the unit of farm
machinery:
         A.   The SMV emblem;
         B.   The speed identification symbol that matches the speed
identification symbol required to be displayed on the agricultural tractor.
      (2)   No person shall operate an agricultural tractor that is designed by
its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than twenty-five miles per hour
(25 mph) unless the person possesses documentation published or provided by the
manufacturer indicating the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the
manufacturer designed the agricultural tractor to operate.
   (c)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.113)
430.05 REQUIREMENTS FOR ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES.
   (a)   Operation During Times Lighted Lights Required. Except as otherwise
provided in division (c) of this section, no person shall operate an animal-
drawn vehicle on a street or highway unless it is equipped with and displays,
at the times specified in Section
438.02  of this Traffic Code, both of the following:
      (1)   At least one (1) lamp displaying a white light visible from a
distance of not less than one thousand feet (1,000') to the front of the
animal-drawn vehicle.
      (2)   Two (2) lamps displaying red light visible from a distance of not
less than one thousand feet (1,000') to the rear of the animal-drawn vehicle,
or as an alternative, one (1) lamp displaying a red light visible from a
distance of not less than one thousand feet (1,000') to the rear and two (2)
red reflectors visible from all distances of six hundred feet to one hundred
feet (600' - 100') to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams of
headlamps.
   (b)   Operation at all Times. Except as otherwise provided in division (c)
of this section, no person shall operate an animal-drawn vehicle on a street or
highway unless it is equipped with and displays, at all times, all of the
following:
      (1)   One (1) yellow flashing lamp displaying yellow light that is
visible from a distance of not less than one thousand feet (1,000') and that is
mounted in either of the following positions:
         A.   On the topmost portion of the rear of the animal-drawn vehicle;
         B.   On top of the animal-drawn vehicle.
      (2)   At least one of the following:
         A.   An SMV emblem mounted in accordance with Section
430.03(b) of this Traffic Code;
         B.   Micro-prism reflective tape (red, amber, white, or silver) that
is visible from a distance of not less than five hundred feet (500') to the
rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams of headlamps;
         C.   Both an SMV emblem and micro-prism reflective tape, as specified
in this division.
   (c)   Animal-Drawn Agricultural Equipment.
      (1)   Divisions (a) and (b) of this section do not apply to the operator
of an animal-drawn agricultural equipment who is not transporting any livestock
or a person other than the operator.
      (2)   No operator described in division (c)(1) of this section shall
operate animal-drawn agricultural equipment unless it is equipped with and
displays, at all times, the SMV emblem mounted in accordance with Section
430.03(b) of this Traffic Code.
      (3)   As used in this division (d), "animal-drawn agricultural equipment"
means equipment drawn by the muscular power of an animal that is used solely
for agricultural purposes. "Animal-drawn agricultural equipment" includes any
of the following:
         A.   A plow;
         B.   A manure spreader;
         C.   A thresher.
   (d)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.114)
430.06 REQUIREMENTS FOR MINI-TRUCKS.
   (a)   Registration. Except as otherwise provided in ORC 4511.215, no
registration is required for a mini-truck that is operated within this City;
provided, however, that operation of mini-trucks on public streets or highways
within the City has been authorized by City Council pursuant to ORC 4511.215.
(ORC 4519.02(A)(2))
   (b)   Prohibitions. Except as provided in this section and any rules or
regulations adopted by the City pursuant to ORC 4511.215, no person shall
operate a mini-truck on any public street or highway within this City.
Statutory reference: ORC 4511.214
   (c)   Exceptions.
      (1)   A person may operate a mini-truck on a farm for agricultural
purposes only when the owner of the farm qualifies for the current agricultural
use valuation tax credit. A mini-truck may be operated by or on behalf of such
a farm owner on public roads and right-of-way within this City only when
traveling from one farm field to another.
      (2)   A person may operate a mini-truck on property owned or leased by a
dealer who sells mini-trucks at retail.
(ORC 4519.401)
   (d)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section shall be fined not
less than fifty dollars ($50) but not more than one hundred dollars ($100).
(ORC 4519.02)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pled guilty to one (1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4519.401; 4511.214)
430.07 STRICT LIABILITY OFFENSES.
   The offenses established under Section
430.02 to
430.05 of this Traffic Code are strict liability offenses, and ORC 2901.20 does
not apply. The designation of these offenses as strict liability offenses shall
not be construed to imply that any other offense, for which there is not
specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(ORC 4513.115)
430.90 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this Chapter:
   (a)   Agricultural Tractor. "Agricultural Tractor" means every self-
propelled vehicle designed or used for drawing other vehicles or wheeled
machinery but having no provision for carrying loads independently of such
other vehicles and used principally for agricultural purposes.
(ORC 4511.01)
   (b)   Boat Trailer. "Boat Trailer" means any vehicle designed and
exclusively used to transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina,
or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway for a
distance of no more than ten (10) miles and at a speed of twenty-five miles per
hour (25 mph) or less.
(ORC 4513.11)
   (c)   Low-Speed Vehicle. "Low-Speed Vehicle" means a three- or four-wheeled
motor vehicle with an attainable speed in one (1) mile on a paved level surface
of more than twenty miles per hour (20 mph) but not more than twenty-five miles
per hour (25 mph) and with a gross vehicle weight rating less than three
thousand pounds (3,000 lbs.).
(ORC 4501.01)
   (d)   Mini-Truck. "Mini-Truck" means a vehicle that has four (4) wheels, is
propelled by an electric motor with a rated power of seven thousand five
hundred watts (7,500 W) or less or an internal combustion engine with a piston
displacement capacity of six hundred sixty cubic centimeters (660 cm3) or less,
has a total dry weight of nine hundred to two thousand two hundred pounds (900
- 2,200 lbs.), contains an enclosed cabin and a set for the vehicle operator,
resembles a pickup truck or van with a cargo area or bed located at the rear of
the vehicle, and was not originally manufactured to meet federal motor vehicle
safety standards.
(ORC 4501.01)
   (e)   Multi-Wheel Agricultural Tractor. "Multi-Wheel Agricultural Tractor"
means a type of agricultural tractor that has two (2) or more wheels or tires
on each side of one (1) axle at the rear of the tractor, is designed or used
for drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery, has no provision for carrying
loads independently of the drawn vehicles or machinery, and is used principally
for agricultural purposes.
(ORC 4511.01)
   (f)   Slow Moving Vehicle (SMV). "Slow Moving Vehicle" or "SMV" mean a boat
trailer, unit of farm machinery, road construction machinery, or other
machinery designed by the manufacturer to operate at a speed of twenty-five
miles per hour (25 mph) or less. "Slow moving vehicle" or "SMV" do not include
a bicycle, motorized bicycle, electric bicycle, or animal-drawn vehicle.
(ORC 4513.11)
   (g)   Under-Speed Vehicle. "Under-Speed Vehicle" means a three- or four-
wheeled vehicle, including a vehicle commonly known as a golf cart, with an
attainable speed on a paved level surface of not more than twenty miles per
hour (20 mph) and with a gross vehicle weight rating less than three thousand
pounds (3,000 lbs.).
(ORC 4501.01)
   (h)   Utility Vehicle. "Utility Vehicle" means a self-propelled vehicle
designed with a bed, principally for the purpose of transporting material or
cargo in connection with construction, agricultural, forestry, grounds
maintenance, lawn and garden, materials handling, or similar activities.
(ORC 4501.01)
430.99 PENALTIES.
   Whoever violates any section of this Chapter, for which violation no penalty
is otherwise provided, is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
CHAPTER 432
General Operation
432.01   Driving Upon Right Side of Roadway
432.02   Vehicles Traveling in Opposite Directions
432.03   Overtaking and Passing on the Left
432.04   Overtaking and Passing on the Right
432.05   Driving Left of Center When Passing
432.06   Driving to Left of Centerline
432.07   Hazardous or No Passing Zones
432.08   Driving in Marked Lanes
432.09   Following Too Closely
432.10   Turns at Intersections
432.11   Restrictions on U-Turns
432.12   Starting and Backing Vehicles
432.13   Use of Signals
432.14   Hand and Arm Signals
432.15   Right-of-Way at Intersections
432.16   Right-of-Way When Entering Roadway From Any Place Other Than Another
Roadway
432.17    Right-of-Way When Turning Left
432.18   Driving in Response to Stop or Yield Sign
432.19   Stop Signs on Private Roads and Driveways
432.20   Yielding to Public Safety Vehicles
432.21   Approaching Stationary Public Safety, Emergency, Road Service, or
Waste Collection Vehicle With Caution
432.22   Following Emergency or Public Safety Vehicle Prohibited
432.23   Report of Failure to Yield Right-of-Way to Public Safety Vehicle
432.24   Yielding to Funeral Procession
432.25   Obstructing Intersections or Crosswalks
432.26   Driving upon Closed Roadway
432.27   Driving on Sidewalk or Sidewalk Area, Bike Path, or Shared Use Path
432.28   Driving over Unprotected Fire Hose
432.29   Driving Through Safety Zone
432.30   One-Way Streets and Rotary Traffic Islands
432.31   Divided Roadways
432.32   Stopping for School Bus
432.33   Failure to Stop for School Bus Violations
432.34   Squealing Tires; "Peeling;" Cracking Exhaust Noise
434.35   No Through Traffic; Shortcutting to Avoid Traffic Control Device
432.36   Entering and Exiting Controlled-Access Highway
432.37   Weaving; Full Time and Attention
432.38   Driver's View and Control to be Unobstructed; Opening Door on Traffic
Side
432.39   (Reserved)
432.40   Prohibitions Against Driving While Wearing Earphones or Earplugs
432.41   Driving While Using an Electronic Wireless Communications Device
432.42   Minor's Use of Electronic Wireless Communications Device While Driving
432.99   Penalties
   CROSS REFERENCES
      See Section Histories for Similar State Law
      Additional Regulations for Commercial and Heavy Vehicles - see TRAF.
CH. 436.
      Application to Drivers of Government Vehicles - TRAF.
402.08
      Authority to Control Traffic - TRAF.
400.01
      Definitions - TRAF.
400.08
      Emergency, Public Safety, and Coroner Vehicle Exempted - TRAF.
402.07
      Enforcement, Impounding and Penalties - see TRAF.
CH. 402.
      Increased Penalties in Construction Zones - TRAF.
400.09; see ORC 4511.98
      Littering from Vehicles - TRAF.
410.02
      Operation of Vehicle on Street Covered with Water - TRAF.
410.12
      Penalty, when not otherwise provided - TRAF.
402.99
      State Manual (for Uniform System of Traffic-Control Devices) - TRAF.
400.04
      Street Workers and Equipment Exempted - TRAF.
402.06
      Traffic Control Devices - see TRAF.
CH. 412.
      Use of Streets and Public Ways - see TRAF.
Ch. 410.
      Yielding to Pedestrian on Sidewalk - TRAF.
420.04
432.01 DRIVING UPON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (a)   Driving on Right Side of Roadway; Exceptions. Upon all roadways of
sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon the right half of the roadway,
except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, or when making a left turn under the rules governing such movements.
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the
left-side of the center of the highway, provided that any person so doing shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon
the unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute
an immediate hazard.
      (3)   When driving upon a roadway divided into three (3) or more marked
lanes for traffic under the rules applicable thereon.
      (4)   When driving upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for
one-way traffic.
      (5)   When otherwise directed by a police officer or traffic control
device.
   (b)   Vehicles Proceeding at less than Speed Limit.
      (1)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the
prevailing and lawful speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall be driven in the right-hand lane then available
for traffic, and far enough to the right to allow passing by faster vehicles if
such passing is safe and reasonable, except under any of the following
circumstances:
         A.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
         B.   When preparing for a left turn; or
         C.   When the driver must necessarily drive in a lane other than the
right-hand lane to continue on the driver's intended route.
      (2)   Nothing in division (b)(1) of this section requires a driver of a
slower vehicle to compromise the driver's safety to allow overtaking by a
faster vehicle.
   (c)   Four Lane Roadways.
      (1)   Upon any roadway having four (4) or more lanes for moving traffic
and providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to
the left of the centerline of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left of the center of
the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the lanes, or
except as permitted under division (a)(2) of this section.
      (2)   Division (c)(1) shall not be construed as prohibiting the crossing
of the centerline in making a left turn into or from an alley, private road or
driveway.
   (d)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one
(1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two
(2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.25)
432.02 VEHICLES TRAVELING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   (a)   Passing to Right when Proceeding in Opposite Directions. Operators of
vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other to the right,
and upon roadways having width for not more than one (1) line of traffic in
each direction, each operator shall give to the other one-half of the main
traveled portion of the roadway or as nearly one-half as is reasonably
possible.
   (b)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one
(1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two
(2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.26)
432.03 OVERTAKING AND PASSING ON THE LEFT.
   (a)   Rules. The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of
vehicles proceeding in the same direction:
      (1)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall, except as provided in division (a)(3) of this
section, signal to the vehicle to be overtaken, shall pass to the left thereof
at a safe distance, and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway
until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle. When a motor vehicle overtakes and
passes a bicycle, three feet (3') or greater is considered a safe passing
distance.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
operator of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle at the latter's audible signal, and the operator shall not
increase the speed of the operator's vehicle until completely passed by the
overtaking vehicle.
      (3)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction on a divided highway as defined in ORC
4511.35, a limited access highway as defined in ORC 5511.02, or a highway with
four (4) or more traffic lanes is not required to signal audibly to the vehicle
being overtaken and passed.
   (b)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one
(1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two
(2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.27)
432.04 OVERTAKING AND PASSING ON THE RIGHT.
   (a)   Rules. The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn.
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two (2) or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being
traveled by the overtaking vehicle.
   (b)   Driving Off Roadway. The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass
another vehicle only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. The
movement shall not be made by driving off the roadway.
   (c)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one
(1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two
(2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.28)
432.05 DRIVING LEFT OF CENTER WHEN PASSING.
   (a)   Passing on Left. No vehicle shall be driven to the left of the center
of the roadway in overtaking and passing traffic proceeding in the same
direction, unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing
to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any
traffic approaching from the opposite direction or any traffic overtaken. In
every event the overtaking vehicle must return to an authorized lane of travel
as soon as practicable, and in the event the passing movement involves the use
of a lane authorized for traffic approaching from the opposite direction before
coming within two hundred feet (200') of any approaching vehicle.
   (b)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one
(1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two
(2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.29)
432.06 DRIVING TO LEFT OF CENTERLINE.
   (a)   Rules. No vehicle shall be driven on the left side of the roadway
under the following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway, where the operator's view is obstructed within such a distance as to
create a hazard in the event traffic might approach from the opposite
direction.
      (2)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within one hundred
feet (100') of any bridge, viaduct or tunnel.
      (3)   When approaching within one hundred feet (100') of or traversing
any intersection or railroad grade crossing.
   (b)   Exceptions. This section does not apply to vehicles upon a one-way
roadway, upon a roadway where traffic is lawfully directed to be driven to the
left side, or under the conditions described in Section
432.01 (a)(2) of this Traffic Code or a substantially equivalent State law.
   (c)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one
(1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two
(2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.30)
432.07 HAZARDOUS OR NO PASSING ZONES.
   (a)   No Passing Zones. The Ohio Department of Transportation may determine
those portions of any state highway, and the City may determine those portions
of any City street or way, where overtaking and passing other traffic or
driving to the left of the center or centerline of the roadway would be
especially hazardous and may, by appropriate signs or markings on the street or
highway, indicate the beginning and end of such zones. When signs or markings
are in place and clearly visible, every operator of a vehicle shall obey the
directions of the signs or markings, notwithstanding the distances set out in
Section
432.06  of this Traffic Code or substantially equivalent State law.
   (b)   Exceptions. Division (a) of this section does not apply when all of
the following apply:
      (1)   The slower vehicle is proceeding at less than half the speed of the
speed limit applicable to that location.
      (2)   The faster vehicle is capable of overtaking and passing the slower
vehicle without exceeding the speed limit.
      (3)   There is sufficient clear sight distance to the left of the center
or centerline of the roadway to meet the overtaking and passing provisions of
Section
432.05 of this Traffic Code or substantially equivalent State law, considering
the speed of the slower vehicle.
   (c)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one
(1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two
(2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.31)
432.08 DRIVING IN MARKED LANES.
   (a)   Rules. Whenever any roadway has been divided into two (2) or more
clearly marked lanes for traffic, or wherever within the City traffic is
lawfully moving in two (2) or more substantially continuous lines in the same
direction, the following rules apply:
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven, as nearly as is practicable, entirely
within a single lane or line of traffic and shall not be moved from such lane
or line until the driver has first ascertained that such movement can be made
with safety.
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three (3) lanes and provides
for the two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the
center lane, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle where the
roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is clear of traffic within a
safe distance, or when preparing for a left turn, or where such center lane is
at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the
vehicle is proceeding and is posted with signs to give notice of such
allocation.
      (3)   Official signs may be erected directing specified traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway, or restricting
the use of a particular lane to only buses during certain hours or during all
hours, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of such signs.
      (4)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the
directions of every such device.
   (b)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one
(1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two
(2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.33)
432.09 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   (a)   Motor Vehicles. The operator of a motor vehicle shall not follow
another vehicle more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard
for the speed of the vehicle and the traffic upon and the condition of the
street or highway.
   (b)   Trucks and Towed Vehicles. The driver of any truck or motor vehicle
drawing another vehicle, when traveling upon a roadway outside a business or
residential district, shall maintain a sufficient space, whenever conditions
permit, between such vehicle and another vehicle ahead so an overtaking motor
vehicle may enter and occupy such space without danger. This division does not
prevent overtaking and passing nor does it apply to any lane specially
designated for use by trucks.
   (c)   Motorcades. Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a
business or residential district in a caravan or motorcade shall maintain a
sufficient space between the vehicles so an overtaking vehicle may enter and
occupy the space without danger. This division shall not apply to funeral
processions.
   (d)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one
(1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two
(2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.34)
432.10 TURNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (a)   Rules. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection
shall be governed by the following rules:
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right-half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of the centerline where it
enters the intersection and, after entering the intersection, the left turn
shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the centerline of
the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made in
that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
      (3)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one (1) or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left
at any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-
hand lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of
the vehicle and, after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made
so as to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left-hand
lane of the roadway being entered lawfully available to traffic moving in that
lane.
   (b)   Obeying Signs. The Ohio Department of Transportation and the City may
cause markers, buttons, or signs to be placed within or adjacent to
intersections under their respective jurisdictions, and thereby require and
direct that a different course from that specified in this section be traveled
by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when markers, buttons, or signs are
so placed, no operator of a vehicle shall turn the vehicle at an intersection
other than as directed and required by the markers, buttons, or signs.
   (c)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one
(1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two
(2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
         (ORC 4511.36)
432.11 RESTRICTIONS ON U-TURNS.
   (a)   U-Turns. Except as provided in Sections
412.03  and
412.06  of this Traffic Code and division (b) of this section, no vehicle shall
be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any curve, or upon
the approach to or near the crest of a grade, if such vehicle cannot be seen
within five hundred feet (500') by the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from either direction.
   (b)   Exceptions. The driver of an emergency vehicle or public safety
vehicle, when responding to an emergency call, may turn the vehicle so as to
proceed in the opposite direction. This division applies only when the
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call,
is equipped with and displaying at least one (1) flashing, rotating, or
oscillating light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance
of five hundred feet (500') to the front of the vehicle, and when the driver of
the vehicle is giving an audible signal by siren, exhaust whistle, or bell.
This division does not relieve the driver of an emergency vehicle or public
safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons and property upon the highway.
   (c)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one
(1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two
(2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.37)
432.12 STARTING AND BACKING VEHICLES.
   (a)   Rules.
      (1)   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or
parked until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
      (2)   Before backing, operators of vehicles shall give ample warning and
while backing they shall exercise vigilance not to injure person or property on
the street or highway.
      (3)   No person shall back a motor vehicle on a freeway, except:
         A.   In a rest area;
         B.   In the performance of public works or official duties; or
         C.   As a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown of
a motor vehicle.
   (b)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one
(1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two
(2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.38)
432.13 USE OF SIGNALS.
   (a)   Signals Required.
      (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle or move right or left upon a street
or highway unless and until the person has exercised due care to ascertain that
the movement can be made with reasonable safety, nor without giving an
appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
      (2)   When required, a signal of intention to turn or move right or left
shall be given continuously during not less than the last one hundred feet
(100') traveled by the vehicle before turning, except that in the case of a
person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle, the signal shall be made not
less than one (1) time but is not required to be continuous. A bicycle or
electric bicycle operator is not required to make a signal if the bicycle or
electric bicycle is in a designated turn lane, and a signal shall not be given
when the operator's hands are needed for the safe operation of the bicycle or
electric bicycle.
      (3)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear, when there is an opportunity to
give a signal.
      (4)   Any stop or turn signal required by this section shall be given
either by means of the hand and arm or by signal lights that clearly indicate
to both approaching and following traffic the intention to turn or move right
or left, except that any motor vehicle in use on a street or highway shall be
equipped with, and the required signal shall be given by, signal lights when
the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the left
outside limit of the body, cab, or load of such motor vehicle exceeds twenty-
four inches (24"), or when the distance from the center of the top of the
steering post to the rear limit of the body or load thereof exceeds fourteen
feet (14'), whether a single vehicle or a combination of vehicles.
      (5)   The signal lights required by this section shall not be flashed on
one (1) side only on a disabled vehicle, flashed as a courtesy or "do pass"
signal to operators of other vehicles approaching from the rear, nor be flashed
on one (1) side only of a parked vehicle except as may be necessary for
compliance with this section.
   (b)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one
(1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two
(2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.39)
432.14 HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   (a)   Motor Vehicles and Bicycles. Except as provided in division (b) of
this section, all signals required by the provisions of this Traffic Code, when
given by hand and arm, shall be given from the left-side of the vehicle in the
following manner, and the signals shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn - hand and arm extended horizontally.
      (2)   Right turn - hand and arm extended upward.
      (3)   Stop or decrease speed - hand and arm extended downward.
   (b)   Bicycles Only. As an alternative to division (a)(2) of this section, a
person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle may give a right turn signal by
extending the right hand and arm horizontally and to the right side of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (c)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one
(1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two
(2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.40)
432.15 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (a)   Yield to Vehicle on Right. When two (2) vehicles approach or enter an
intersection from different streets or highways at approximately the same time,
the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the
vehicle on the right.
   (b)   Exceptions. The right-of-way rule declared in division (a) of this
section is modified at through-highways and as otherwise stated in this Traffic
Code and ORC Chapter 4511.
   (c)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one
(1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two
(2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.41)
432.16 RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN ENTERING ROADWAY FROM ANY PLACE OTHER THAN ANOTHER
ROADWAY.
   (a)   Yielding to Other Vehicles. The operator of a vehicle about to enter
or cross a street or highway from any place other than another roadway shall
yield the right-of-way to all traffic approaching on the roadway to be entered
or crossed.
(ORC 4511.44)
   (b)   Stopping Prior to Driving Across Sidewalk. The driver of a vehicle
emerging from an alley, building, private road, or driveway within a business
or residential district shall stop the vehicle immediately prior to driving
onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across the alley, building
entrance, road, or driveway or, in the event there is not sidewalk area, shall
stop at the point nearest the street to be entered where the driver has a view
of approaching traffic thereon.
(ORC 4511.431)
   (c)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one
(1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two
(2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.44; 4511.431)
432.17 RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   (a)   Yield to Approaching Traffic. The operator of a vehicle intending to
turn to the left within an intersection or into an alley, private road, or
driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction, whenever the approaching vehicle is within the intersection
or so close to the intersection, alley, private road, or driveway as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
   (b)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one
(1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two
(2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.42)
432.18 DRIVING IN RESPONSE TO STOP OR YIELD SIGN.
   (a)   Stop Signs. Except when directed to proceed by a law enforcement
officer, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop at a
clearly marked stop line, but if there is no stop line, before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if there is no crosswalk,
then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view
of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering it. After
having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways.
   (b)   Yield Signs. The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall
slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions and, if required
for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if there is
no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, if there is no crosswalk, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering it. After slowing or stopping, the driver
shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching
on another roadway so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time the driver is moving across or within the intersection or junction of
roadways. Whenever a driver is involved in a collision with a vehicle in the
intersection or junction of roadways after driving past a yield sign without
stopping, the collision shall be prima-facie evidence of the driver's failure
to yield the right-of-way.
   (c)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one
(1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two
(2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.43)
432.19 STOP SIGNS ON PRIVATE ROADS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (a)   Requirements for Stop Sign on Private Road or Driveway. The owner of a
private road or driveway located in a private residential area containing
twenty (20) or more dwelling units may erect stop signs at places where the
road or driveway intersects with another private road or driveway in the
residential area, in compliance with all of the following requirements:
      (1)   The stop sign is sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily
observant person and meets the specifications of and is placed in accordance
with the Manual adopted by the Ohio Department of Transportation pursuant to
ORC 4511.09.
      (2)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road or
driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road or
driveway that they are entering private property, stop signs have been posted
and must be obeyed, and the signs are enforceable by law enforcement officers
under City ordinances or state law. The sign required by division (a)(2) of
this section, where appropriate, may be incorporated with the sign required by
Section
434.04(a)(2) of this Traffic Code.
   (b)   Obeying Stop Signs. Section
432.18 (a) and Section
420.01  of this Traffic Code shall be deemed to apply to the driver of a
vehicle on a private road or driveway where a stop sign is placed in accordance
with division (a) of this section and to a pedestrian crossing such a road or
driveway at an intersection where a stop sign is in place.
   (c)   Enforcement. When a stop sign is placed in accordance with division
(a) of this section, any law enforcement officer may apprehend a person found
violating the stop sign and may stop and charge the person with violating the
stop sign.
   (d)   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year
of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to
one (1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1)
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled
guilty to two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (e)   Definitions. As used in this section, and for the purpose of applying
Section
432.18 (a) and Section
420.01  of this Traffic Code to conduct under this section, the following
apply:
      (1)   "Intersection" means:
         A.   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two (2) private roads or driveways which join one another at, or
approximately at, right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling
upon different private roads or driveways joining at any other angle may come
in conflict.
         B.   Where a private road or driveway includes two (2) roadways thirty
feet (30') or more apart, then every crossing of two (2) roadways of such
private roads or driveways shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      (2)   "Roadway" means that portion of a private road or driveway
improved, designed, or ordinarily used for vehicular travel, except the berm or
shoulder. If a private road or driveway includes two (2) or more separate
roadways, the term "roadway" means any such roadway separately but not all such
roadways collectively.
      (3)   "Owner" and "private residential area containing twenty (20) or
more dwelling units" have the same meanings as in Section
434.04 of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.432)
432.20 YIELDING TO PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES.
   (a)   Yielding Right-of-Way. Upon the approach of a public safety vehicle or
coroner's vehicle, equipped with at least one (1) flashing, rotating, or
oscillating light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance
of five hundred feet (500') to the front of the vehicle and the driver is
giving an audible signal by siren, exhaust whistle, or bell, no driver of any
other vehicle shall fail to yield the right-of-way, immediately drive if
practical to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to, the right-
edge or curb of the street or highway clear of any intersection, and stop and
remain in that position until the public safety vehicle or coroner's vehicle
has passed, except as otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (b)   Due Regard. This section does not relieve the driver of a public
safety vehicle or coroner's vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for
the safety of all persons and property upon the street or highway.
   (c)   Coroner's Vehicles. This section applies to a coroner's vehicle only
when the vehicle is operated in accordance with Section
402.07  of this Traffic Code or a substantially equivalent state law.
   (d)   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided in this division or in Section
434.23 of this Traffic Code, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense. On a second offense within
one (1) year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree, and on each subsequent offense within one (1) year after the
first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (e)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "Coroner's vehicle" means a vehicle used by a coroner, deputy
coroner, or coroner's investigator that is equipped with a flashing,
oscillating, or rotating red or blue light and a siren, exhaust whistle, or
bell capable of giving an audible signal.
      (2)   "Public safety vehicle" has the same meaning as in ORC 4511.01.
(ORC 4511.45)
432.21 APPROACHING STATIONARY PUBLIC SAFETY, EMERGENCY, ROAD SERVICE, OR WASTE
COLLECTION VEHICLE WITH CAUTION.
   (a)   Rules. The driver of a motor vehicle upon approaching a stationary
public safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste
collection vehicle, vehicle used by the Ohio Public Utilities Commission to
conduct motor vehicle inspections, or a highway maintenance vehicle that is
displaying the appropriate visual signals by means of flashing, oscillating, or
rotating lights, as prescribed in Section
438.16  of this Traffic Code, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   If the driver of the motor vehicle is traveling on a street or
highway that consists of at least two (2) lanes that carry traffic in the same
direction of travel as that of the driver's motor vehicle, the driver shall
proceed with due caution and, if possible and with due regard to the road,
weather, and traffic conditions, shall change lanes into a lane that is not
adjacent to that of the stationary public safety vehicle, emergency vehicle,
road service vehicle, waste collection vehicle, vehicle used by the Ohio Public
Utilities Commission to conduct motor vehicle inspections, or a highway
maintenance vehicle.
      (2)   If the driver is not traveling on a street or highway of a type
described in division (a)(1) of this section, or if the driver is traveling on
a highway of that type but it is not possible to change lanes or if to do so
would be unsafe, the driver shall proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of
the motor vehicle, and maintain a safe speed for the road, weather, and traffic
conditions.
   (b)   Due Regard. This section does not relieve the driver of a public
safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection
vehicle, vehicle used by the Ohio Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor
vehicle inspections, or a highway maintenance vehicle from the duty to drive
with due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the street or
highway.
   (c)   Violations. No person shall fail to drive a motor vehicle in
compliance with divisions (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section when so required by
division (a) of this section.
   (d)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one
(1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two
(2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding Section 698.02 of the General Offense Code or ORC
2929.28, upon a finding that a person operated a motor vehicle in violation of
division (c) of this section, the court, in addition to all other penalties
provided by law, shall impose a fine of two times (2x) the usual amount imposed
for the violation.
      (3)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
   (e)   Strict Liability Offense. The offense established under this section
is a strict liability offense and ORC 2901.20 does not apply. The designation
of this offense as a strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense, for which there is not specified degree of culpability,
is not a strict liability offense.
(ORC 4511.213)
432.22 FOLLOWING EMERGENCY OR PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (a)   Rules. The driver of any vehicle, other than an emergency vehicle or
public safety vehicle on official business, shall not follow any emergency
vehicle or public safety vehicle traveling in response to an alarm closer than
five hundred feet (500') or drive into or park the vehicle within the block
where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm, unless directed to
do so by a police officer or a firefighter.
   (b)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one
(1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two
(2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.72)
432.23 REPORT OF FAILURE TO YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY TO PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.
   (a)   Report to Law Enforcement Agency. When the failure of a motor vehicle
operator to yield the right-of-way to a public safety vehicle as required by
Section
432.20  of this Traffic Code impedes the ability of the public safety vehicle
to respond to an emergency, any emergency personnel in the public safety
vehicle may report the license plate number and a general description of the
vehicle and the operator of the vehicle to the law enforcement agency
exercising jurisdiction over the area where the alleged violation occurred.
   (b)   Investigation of Report.
      (1)   Upon receipt of a report under division (a) of this section, the
law enforcement agency may conduct an investigation to attempt to determine or
confirm the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation.
      (2)   If the identity of the operator at the time of an alleged violation
of Section
432.20(a) of this Traffic Code is established, the law enforcement agency has
probable cause to issue either a written warning or a citation for that
violation, and the agency shall issue either a written warning or a citation to
the operator.
      (3)   If the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency may issue a
written warning to the person who owned the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation; however, in the case of a leased or rented vehicle, the law
enforcement agency shall issue the written warning to the person who leased or
rented the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation.
   (c)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates Section
432.20(a) of this Traffic Code based on a report filed under division (a) of
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined one hundred
fifty dollars ($150).
      (2)   If a person who is issued a citation for a violation of Section
432.20(a) of this Traffic Code based on a report filed under division (a) of
this section does not enter a written plea of guilty and does not waive the
person's right to contest the citation but instead appears in person in the
proper court to answer the charge, the trier of fact cannot find beyond a
reasonable doubt that the person committed that violation unless the emergency
personnel who filed the report appears in person in the court and testifies.
   (d)   Definitions.
      (1)   "License plate" includes any temporary license placard issued under
ORC 4503.182 or similar law of another jurisdiction.
      (2)   "Public safety vehicle" does not include an unmarked public safety
vehicle or a vehicle used by a public law enforcement office or other person
sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the State or City or a
vehicle used by the motor carrier enforcement unit for the enforcement of
orders and rules of the Ohio Public Utilities Commission.
(ORC 4511.454)
432.24 YIELDING TO FUNERAL PROCESSION.
   (a)   Yielding Right-of-Way to Funeral Procession. Excepting public safety
vehicles proceeding in accordance with Section
432.20  of this Traffic Code or a substantially equivalent State law, or when
directed otherwise by a police officer, pedestrians and the operators of all
vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to each vehicle that is a part of a
funeral procession. Whenever the lead vehicle in a funeral procession lawfully
enters an intersection, the remainder of the vehicles in the procession may
continue to follow the lead vehicle through the intersection, notwithstanding
any traffic control devices or right-of-way provisions of this Traffic Code or
the Ohio Revised Code, provided that the operator of each vehicle exercises due
care to avoid colliding with any other vehicle or pedestrian.
   (b)   Operation of Vehicle as Part of Procession. No person shall operate
any vehicle as a part of a funeral procession without having the headlights of
the vehicle lighted and without displaying a purple and white, or an orange and
white, pennant in such a manner as to be clearly visible to traffic approaching
from any direction.
   (c)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one
(1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two
(2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
   (d)   Definitions. As used in this section, "funeral procession" means two
(2) or more vehicles accompanying the cremated remains or the body of a
deceased person in the daytime when each of the vehicles has its headlights
lighted and is displaying a purple and white, or an orange and white, pennant
attached to each vehicle in such a manner as to be clearly visible to traffic
approaching from any direction.
(ORC 4511.451)
432.25 OBSTRUCTING INTERSECTIONS OR CROSSWALKS.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No driver shall enter an intersection or marked
crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of the
intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle the driver is operating
without obstructing the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians,
notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed.
   (b)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one
(1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two
(2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.712)
432.26 DRIVING UPON CLOSED ROADWAY.
   (a)   Prohibition. No person shall drive upon, along, or across a street or
highway, or any part of a street or highway that has been closed in the process
of its construction, reconstruction, or repair, and posted with appropriate
signs by the authority having jurisdiction to close such street or highway.
   (b)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one
(1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two
(2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.71)
432.27 DRIVING ON SIDEWALK OR SIDEWALK AREA, BIKE PATH, OR SHARED USE PATH.
   (a)   Prohibition Against Driving on Sidewalk or Sidewalk Area. No person
shall drive any motor vehicle upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area except upon a
permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway. This prohibition does not
apply to a law enforcement officer, or other person sworn to enforce the
criminal and traffic laws of this City or the State, while in the performance
of the officer's or person's duties.
(ORC 4511.711)
   (b)   Prohibition Against Driving on Bike Path or Shared Use Path. No person
shall operate a motor vehicle upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles or upon any shared used path, when an appropriate sign giving notice
of such use is posted on the path. This prohibition does not apply to a law
enforcement officer, or other person sworn to enforce this Traffic Code, while
in the performance of the officer's duties.
(ORC 4511.713)
   (c)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one
(1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two
(2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.711; 4511.713)
   (d)   Definitions. As used in this section, "sidewalk area" includes the
street lawn area or the curb area of a street.
(ORC 4511.711)
432.28 DRIVING OVER UNPROTECTED FIRE HOSE.
   (a)   Prohibition. No vehicle shall, without the consent of the Fire & EMS
Division official in command, be driven over any unprotected fire hose that is
laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of
fire.
   (b)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one
(1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two
(2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.73)
432.29 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   (a)   Prohibition. No vehicle, including a motorized bicycle, moped, or
electric bicycle, shall at any time be driven through or within a safety zone.
   (b)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one
(1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two
(2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.60)
   (c)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, "safety zone" means the
area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the exclusive use of
pedestrians and protected or marked or indicated by adequate signs as to be
plainly visible at all times.
(ORC 4511.01)
432.30 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (a)   Rules.
      (1)   Upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for one-way
traffic, a vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
      (2)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven
only to the right of the rotary traffic island.
   (b)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one
(1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two
(2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.32)
432.31 DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   (a)   Rules. Whenever any street or highway has been divided into two (2)
roadways by an intervening space, or by a physical barrier, or by a clearly
indicated dividing section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every
vehicle shall be driven only upon the right-hand roadway and no vehicle shall
be driven over, across, or within any dividing space, barrier, or section
except through an opening, crossover, or intersection established by the City
or the State. This section does not prohibit the occupancy of the dividing
space, barrier, or section for the purpose of an emergency stop or in
compliance with an order of a police officer.
   (b)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one
(1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two
(2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.35)
432.32 STOPPING FOR SCHOOL BUS.
   (a)   Stopping for School Bus.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging
any school child, person attending programs offered by community boards of
mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child
attending a program offered by a head start agency shall stop at least ten feet
(10') from the front or rear of the school bus and shall not proceed until such
school bus resumes motion or until signaled by the school bus driver to
proceed.
      (2)   It is no defense to a charge under this division that the school
bus involved failed to display or be equipped with an automatically extended
stop warning sign as required by ORC 4511.75(B).
   (b)   Exceptions. Where a street or highway has been divided into four (4)
or more traffic lanes, a driver of a vehicle need not stop for a school bus
approaching from the opposite direction which has stopped for the purpose of
receiving or discharging any school child, persons attending programs offered
by community boards of mental health and county boards of developmental
disabilities, or children attending programs offered by head start agencies.
The driver of any vehicle overtaking the school bus shall comply with division
(a) of this section.
   (c)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section may be fined an
amount not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500). A person who is issued a
citation for a violation of division (a) of this section is not permitted to
enter a written plea of guilty and waive the person's right to contest the
citation in a trial but instead must appear in person in the proper court to
answer the charge.
      (2)   In addition to and independent of any other penalty provided by
law, the court may impose upon an offender who violates this section a class
seven suspension of the offender's driver's license, commercial driver's
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in ORC 4510.02(A)(7). When a
license is suspended under this section, the court shall cause the offender to
deliver the license to the court, and the court or clerk of the court
immediately shall forward the license to the registrar of motor vehicles,
together with notice of the court's action.
   (d)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "Head start agency" has the same meaning as in ORC 3301.32.
      (2)   "School bus" as used in relation to children who attend a program
offered by a head start agency, means a bus that is owned and operated by a
head start agency, is equipped with an automatically extended stop warning sign
of a type approved by the department, is painted the color and displays the
markings described in ORC 4511.77, and is equipped with amber and red visual
signals meeting the requirements of ORC 4511.771, irrespective of whether or
not the bus has fifteen (15) or more children aboard at any time. "School bus"
does not include a van owned and operated by a head start agency, irrespective
of its color, lights, or markings.
(ORC 4511.75)
432.33 FAILURE TO STOP FOR SCHOOL BUS VIOLATIONS.
   (a)   Report by School Bus Driver. When the operator of a school bus
believes that a motorist has violated Section
432.33 (a) of this Traffic Code within the corporate limits of the City, the
operator shall report the license plate number and a general description of the
vehicle and of the operator of the vehicle to the Police Division. The
information contained in the report relating to the license plate number and to
the general description of the vehicle and the operator of the vehicle at the
time of the alleged violation may be supplied by any person with first-hand
knowledge of the information. Information of which the operator of the school
bus has first-hand knowledge also may be corroborated by any other person.
   (b)   Investigation. Upon receipt of the report of the alleged violation of
Section
432.33 (a), the Police Division shall conduct an investigation to attempt to
determine or confirm the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation. If the identity of the operator at the time of the
alleged violation is established, the reporting of the license plate number of
the vehicle shall establish probable cause for the Police Division to issue a
citation for the violation of Section
432.33 (a); however, if the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time
of the alleged violation cannot be established, the Police Division shall issue
a warning to the owner of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation,
except in the case of a leased or rented vehicle when the warning shall be
issued to the lessee at the time of the alleged violation.
(ORC 4511.751)
432.34 SQUEALING TIRES; "PEELING;" CRACKING EXHAUST NOISE.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall unnecessarily race the motor of any
vehicle and no person shall operate any motor vehicle, except in an emergency,
in such a manner that the vehicle is so rapidly accelerated or started from a
stopped position that the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking, or chattering
noise unusual to its normal operation, or whereby the tires of such vehicle
squeal or leave tire marks (commonly called "peeling") on the street, roadway,
or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking within this City.
   (b)   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year
of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to
one (1) violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pled guilty to two (2) or more violations of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law, whoever violates this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(1964 Code 331.36; Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
432.35 NO THROUGH TRAFFIC; SHORTCUTTING TO AVOID TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE.
   (a)   No Through Traffic. No person shall operate a vehicle across public or
private property marked with signs "No Through Traffic" or words of similar
import for the purpose of passing from one roadway to another.
   (b)   Shortcutting. No person shall operate a vehicle across public or
private property for the purpose of avoiding compliance with a traffic-control
device. It shall be prima-facie evidence of a violation of this section for the
operator of a vehicle to cross public or private property as provided herein
without using the service of such property, stopping the engine, or both.
   (c)   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year
of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to
one (1) violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pled guilty to two (2) or more violations of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law, whoever violates this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
432.36 ENTERING AND EXITING CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   (a)   Prohibition. No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any
controlled-access highway except at such entrances and exits as are established
by the City or the State.
   (b)   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year
of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to
one (1) violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pled guilty to two (2) or more violations of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law, whoever violates this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
432.37 WEAVING; FULL TIME AND ATTENTION.
   (a)   Weaving. No person shall operate a vehicle upon any street or highway
in a weaving or zigzag course unless such irregular course is necessary for
safe operation or in compliance with law.
   (b)   Full Time and Attention. No person shall operate a vehicle without
giving his or her full time and attention to the operation of such vehicle.
   (c)   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to
one (1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to
two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
432.38 DRIVER'S VIEW AND CONTROL TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED; OPENING DOOR ON TRAFFIC
SIDE.
   (a)   Driver's Duties. No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded
or when there are in the front seat such number of persons as to obstruct the
view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or to interfere with
the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (b)   Passenger's Duties. No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in a position
as to interfere with the driver's view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere
with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (c)   Opening Door on Traffic Side. No person shall open the door of a
vehicle on the side available to moving traffic unless and until it is
reasonably safe to do so and can be done without interfering with the movement
of other traffic, nor shall any person leave a door open on the side of a
vehicle available to moving traffic for a period of time longer than necessary
to load or unload passengers.
   (d)   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year
of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to
one (1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1)
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled
guilty to two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.70)
432.39 (RESERVED)
432.40 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST DRIVING WHILE WEARING EARPHONES OR EARPLUGS.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall operate a motor vehicle while wearing
earphones over, or earplugs in, both ears.
   (b)   Exceptions. This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any person wearing a hearing aid;
      (2)   Law enforcement personnel while on duty.
      (3)   Fire department personnel and emergency medical service personnel
while on duty.
      (4)   Any person engaged in the operation of equipment for use in the
maintenance or repair of any street or highway.
      (5)   Any person engaged in the operation of refuse collection equipment.
      (6)   Any person wearing earphones or earplugs for hearing protection
while operating a motorcycle.
   (c)   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to
one (1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to
two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.84)
   (d)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "Earphones" means any device that covers all or a portion of both
ears and that does either of the following:
         A.   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         B.   Provides hearing protection.
         "Earphones" does not include speakers or other listening devices that
are built into protective headgear.
      (2)   "Earplugs" means any device that can be inserted into one (1) or
both ears and that does either of the following:
         A.   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         B.   Provides hearing protection.
(ORC 4511.84)
432.41 DRIVING WHILE USING AN ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall drive a motor vehicle on any street,
highway, or property open to the public for vehicular traffic while using,
holding, or physically supporting with any part of the person's body an
electronic wireless communications device.
   (b)   Exceptions. Division (a) of this section does not apply to the any of
the following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device to make
contact, for emergency purposes, with a law enforcement agency, hospital or
health care provider, fire department, or other similar emergency agency or
entity.
      (2)   A person driving a public safety vehicle who uses an electronic
wireless communications device in the course of the person's duties.
      (3)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device when
the person's motor vehicle is in a stationary position and is outside a lane of
travel, at a traffic control signal that is currently directing traffic to
stop, or parked on a road or highway due to an emergency or road closure.
      (4)   A person using and holding an electronic communications device
directly near the person's ear for the purpose of making, receiving, or
conducting a telephone call, provided that the person does not manually enter
letters, numbers, or symbols into the device.
      (5)   A person receiving wireless messages on an electronic wireless
communications device regarding the operation or navigation of a motor vehicle;
safety-related information including emergency, traffic or weather alerts; or
data used primarily by the motor vehicle, provided that the person does not
hold or support the device with any part of the person's body.
      (6)   A person using the speaker phone function of the electronic
wireless communications device, provided that the person does not hold or
support the device with any part of the person's body.
      (7)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
navigation purposes, provided that the person does not do either of the
following during the use:
         A.   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
         B.   Hold or support the device with any part of the person's body.
      (8)   A person using a feature or function of the electronic wireless
communications device with a single touch or single swipe, provided that the
person does not do either of the following during the use:
         A.   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
         B.   Hold or support the device with any part of the person's body.
      (9)   A person operating a commercial truck while using a mobile data
terminal that transmits and receives data.
      (10)   A person operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or
on behalf of a utility, if the person is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage, or circumstance that affects the health or safety of individuals.
      (11)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device in
conjunction with a voice-operated or hands-free feature or function of the
vehicle or of the device without the use of either hand except to activate,
deactivate, or initiate the feature or function with a single touch or swipe,
provided that the person does not hold or support the device with any part of
the person's body.
      (12)   A person using technology that physically or electronically
integrates the device into the motor vehicle, provided that the person does not
do either of the following:
         A.   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
         B.   Hold or support the device with any part of the person's body.
      (13)   A person storing an electronic wireless communications device in a
holster, harness, or article of clothing on the person's body.
   (c)   Required Report. If a law enforcement officer issues an offender a
ticket, citation, or summons for a violation of division (a) of this section,
the officer shall do both of the following:
      (1)   Report the issuance of the ticket, citation, or summons to the
officer's law enforcement agency.
      (2)   Ensure that such report indicates the offender's race.
   (d)   Penalties. Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
operating a motor vehicle while using an electronic wireless communications
device, an unclassified misdemeanor, and shall be punished as provided in
divisions (d)(1) to (d)(5) of this section.
      (1)   The offender shall be fined, and is subject to a suspension of the
offender's driver's license, commercial driver's license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary licenses, or nonresident operating privilege, as follows:
         A.   Except as provided in divisions (d)(1)B., C., D., and (d)(2) of
this section, the court shall impose upon the offender a fine of not more than
one hundred fifty dollars ($150).
         B.   If, within two (2) years of the violation, the offender has been
convicted of or pled guilty to one (1) prior violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law, the court shall impose upon the offender a
fine of not more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250).
         C.   If, within two (2) years of the violation, the offender has been
convicted of or pled guilty to two (2) or more prior violations of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law, the court shall impose upon the
offender a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500). The court also
may impose a suspension of the offender's driver's license, commercial driver's
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege for ninety (90) days.
         D.   Notwithstanding divisions (d)(1)A. to C. of this section, if the
offender was operating the motor vehicle at the time of the violation in a
construction zone where a sign was posted in accordance with Section 400. /ORC
4511.98, the court, in addition to all other penalties provided by law, shall
impose upon the offender a fine of two times (2x) the amount imposed for the
violation under division (d)(1)A., B., or C. of this section, as applicable.
      (2)   If the offender is in the category of offenders to whom division
(d)(1)A. of this section applies, in lieu of payment of the fine of one hundred
fifty dollars ($150) under division (d)(1)A. of this section and the assessment
of points under division (d)(4) of this section, the offender instead may elect
to attend the distracted driving safety course, as described in Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code. If the offender attends and successfully
completes the course, the offender shall be issued written evidence that the
offender successfully completed the course. The offender shall not be required
to pay the fine and shall not have the points assessed against that offender's
driver's license if the offender submits the written evidence to the court
within ninety (90) days of the violation of division (a) of this section.
However, successful completion of the course does not result in a dismissal of
the charges for the violation, and the violation is a prior offense under
divisions (d)(1)B. and C. of this section if the offender commits a subsequent
violation or violations of division (a) of this section within two (2) years of
the offense for which the course was completed. This division does not apply
with respect to any offender in the category of offenders to whom division (d)
(1)B., C., or D. of this section applies.
      (3)   The court may impose any other penalty authorized under ORC 2929.21
to 2929.28. However, the court shall not impose a fine or a suspension not
otherwise specified in division (d)(1) of this section. The court also shall
not impose a jail term or community residential sanction.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (d)(2) of this section, points shall
be assessed for a violation of division (a) of this section in accordance with
ORC 4510.036.
      (5)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and ORC 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense as a
strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict
liability offense.
   (e)   No State Law Preemption. A prosecution for a violation of ORC 4511.204
does not preclude a prosecution for a violation of this section based on the
same conduct. However, the two offenses are allied offenses of similar import
under ORC 2941.25.
   (f)   Probable Cause for Stop; Operator's Consent.
      (1)   A law enforcement officer does not have probable cause and shall
not stop the operator of a motor vehicle for purposes of enforcing this section
unless the officer visually observes the operator using, holding, or physically
supporting with any part of the person's body the electronic wireless
communications device.
      (2)   A law enforcement officer who stops the operator of a motor vehicle
for a violation of division (a) of this section shall inform the operator that
the operator may decline a search of the operator's electronic wireless
communications device. The officer shall not do any of the following:
         A.   Access the device without a warrant, unless the operator
voluntarily and unequivocally gives consent for the officer to access the
device;
         B.   Confiscate the device while awaiting the issuance of a warrant to
access the device;
         C.   Obtain consent from the operator to access the device through
coercion or any other improper means. Any consent by the operator to access the
device shall be voluntary and unequivocal before the office may access the
device without a warrant.
   (g)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "Electronic wireless communications device" includes any of the
following:
         A.   A wireless telephone;
         B.   A text-messaging device;
         C.   A personal digital assistant;
         D.   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
         E.   Any device capable of displaying a video, movie, broadcast
television image, or visual image;
         F.   Any other substantially similar wireless device that is designed
or used to communicate text, initiate or receive communication, or exchange
information or data.
         An "electronic wireless communications device" does not include a two-
way radio transmitter or receiver used by a person who is licensed by the
Federal Communications Commission to participate in the amateur radio service.
      (2)   "Utility" means an entity specified in ORC 4905.03(A), (C), (D),
(E), or (G).
      (3)   "Utility service vehicle" means a vehicle owned or operated by a
utility.
      (4)   "Voice-operated or hands-free feature or function" means a feature
or function that allows a person to use an electronic wireless communications
device without the use of either hand, except to activate, deactivate, or
initiate the feature or function with a single touch or single swipe.
(ORC 4511.204)
432.42 MINOR'S USE OF ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE WHILE DRIVING.
   (a)   Use of Electronic Wireless Communications Device While Driving by a
Minor. No holder of a temporary instruction permit who has not attained the age
of eighteen (18) years and no holder of a probationary driver's license shall
drive a motor vehicle on any street, highway, or property used by the public
for the purposes of vehicular traffic or parking while using in any manner an
electronic wireless communications device.
   (b)   Exceptions. Division (a) of this section does not apply to the
following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a law enforcement
agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department, or other similar
emergency agency or entity.
      (2)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device whose
motor vehicle is in a stationary position and who is outside a lane of travel.
      (3)   A person using a navigation device in a voice-operated or hands-
free manner who does not manipulate the device while driving.
   (c)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(2) of this section,
whoever violates division (a) of this section shall be fined one hundred fifty
dollars ($150). In addition, the court shall impose a class seven suspension on
the offender's driver's license or permit for a definite period of sixty (60)
days.
      (2)   If the person previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or
a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section, whoever violates
this section shall be fined three hundred dollars ($300). In addition, the
court shall impose a class seven suspension on the person's driver's license or
permit for a definite period of one (1) year.
   (d)   No State Law Preemption. The filing of a sworn complaint against a
person for a violation of ORC 4511.205 does not preclude the filing of a sworn
complaint for a violation of this section for the same conduct. However, if a
person is adjudicated a delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a
violation of ORC 4511.205 and is also adjudicated a delinquent child or a
juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section for the same conduct,
the two offenses are allied offenses of similar import under ORC 2941.25.
   (e)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "Electronic wireless communications device" includes any of the
following:
         A.   A wireless telephone;
         B.   A personal digital assistant;
         C.   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
         D.   A text-messaging device; or
         E.   Any other substantially similar wireless device that is designed
or used to communicate via voice, image or written word.
(ORC 4511.205)
432.99 PENALTIES.
   See Section
402.99 of this Traffic Code for penalties for provisions of this Chapter for
which no penalty is otherwise provided in the section violated.
(Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
CHAPTER 434
Speed; OVI; Physical Control; Reckless Operation; Wrongful Entrustment
434.01   Stopping or Slow Speed
434.02   Speed Regulations on Bridges
434.03   Assured Clear Distance; School Zones; Speed Limits
434.04   Speed Limits on Private Roads and Driveways
434.05   Exceptions for Emergency and Public Safety Vehicles
434.06   Arrest Pending Warrant when Radar or Electrical or Mechanical Timing
Device Used
434.07   Reckless Operation
434.08   Operation without Reasonable Control
434.09   Operating a Vehicle while under the Influence of Alcohol or Drugs
434.10   Chemical Tests; Implied Consent; Refusal; Seizure and Suspension of
License
434.11   Physical Control of a Vehicle while Under the Influence
434.12   Seizure of Vehicle upon Arrest for OVI
434.13   Initial Appearance; Appeal of Suspension; Limited Driving Privileges
434.14   Operation of Immobilized Vehicle
434.15   Immobilizing or Disabling Device Prohibitions
434.16   Immobilization Waiver Order Prohibitions
434.17   Wrongful Entrustment of a Motor Vehicle
434.90   Definitions Applicable to §§
434.09 -
434.13
434.99   Penalties
   CROSS REFERENCES
      See Section Histories for Similar State Law
      Definitions - TRAF.
400.08
      Driver's License Suspensions - see TRAF.
CH. 440.; ORC CH. 4510.
      Exemptions for Emergency and Public Safety Vehicles - TRAF.
402.07
      General Operation of Motor Vehicles - see TRAF.
Ch. 432.
      License Suspension for OVI - TRAF.
440.11
      License Suspension for Reckless Operation - see ORC 4510.15
      Mandatory Suspension Period; Immobilizing Device; Restricted License -
see ORC 4510.13
      Penalty, when not otherwise provided - TRAF.
402.99
      Seizure of Vehicle upon Arrest for Wrongful Entrustment - TRAF.
440.18
      State Manual (for Uniform System of Traffic-Control Devices) - TRAF.
400.04
      Suspension of License for Violation of Municipal OVI Ordinance - see ORC
4510.07
      Walking on Street While Intoxicated - TRAF.
420.08
434.01 STOPPING OR SLOW SPEED.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall stop or operate a vehicle at such an
unreasonably slow speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable
movement of traffic, except when stopping or reduced speed is necessary for
safe operation or to comply with law.
   (b)   Minimum Speed Limits. Whenever the Ohio Director of Transportation or
the City determine, on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation,
that slow speeds on any part of a controlled-access highway, expressway, or
freeway consistently impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, the
Director or the City may declare a minimum speed limit below which no person
shall operate a motor vehicle except when necessary for safe operation or in
compliance with law. No minimum speed limit established hereunder shall be less
than thirty miles per hour (30 mph), greater than fifty miles per hour (50
mph), nor shall it be effective until the provisions of Section 434.03 of this
Traffic Code or ORC 4511.21, relating to appropriate signs, have been fulfilled
and the City has obtained the approval of the Director.
   (c)   Evidence to be Considered by Court. In a case involving a violation of
this section, the trier of fact, in determining whether the vehicle was being
operated at an unreasonably slow speed, shall consider the capabilities of the
vehicle and its operator.
   (d)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one
(1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two
(2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section 402.99
(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.22)
434.02 SPEED REGULATIONS ON BRIDGES.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall operate a vehicle over any bridge or
other elevated structure constituting a part of a street or highway at a speed
which is greater than the maximum speed that can be maintained with safety to
such bridge or structure, when such structure is posted with signs as provided
in this section.
   (b)   Maximum Speed Limits. The Ohio Department of Transportation shall,
upon request from the City, or upon its own initiative may, conduct an
investigation of any bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part of
a highway, and if it finds that such structure cannot with safely withstand
traffic traveling at the speed otherwise permissible under this Traffic Code or
ORC 4511.01 to 4511.85, the Department shall determine and declare the maximum
speed of traffic which such structure can withstand and shall cause or permit
suitable signs stating such maximum speed to be erected and maintained at a
distance of at least one hundred feet (100') before each end of such structure.
   (c)   Prima Facie Evidence. Upon the trial of any person charged with a
violation of this section, proof of said determination of the maximum speed by
the Department and the existence of said signs shall constitute prima-facie
evidence of the maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such
bridge or structure.
   (d)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one
(1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1) year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two
(2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section 402.99
(b) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.23)
434.03 ASSURED CLEAR DISTANCE; SCHOOL ZONES; SPEED LIMITS.
   (a)   Assured Clear Distance. No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a
speed greater or less than is reasonable or proper, having due regard to the
traffic, surface, and width of the street or highway and any other conditions,
and no person shall drive any motor vehicle in and upon any street or highway
at a greater speed than will permit the person to bring it to a stop within the
assured clear distance ahead.
   (b)   School Zones. It is prima-facie lawful, in the absence of a lower
limit declared or established pursuant to this section by the Ohio Director of
Transportation or the City, for the operator of a motor vehicle to operate the
same at a speed not exceeding the following:
      (1)   Twenty miles per hour (20 mph) in school zones during school recess
and while children are going to or leaving school during the opening or closing
hours and when twenty miles per hour (20 mph) school speed limit signs are
erected; except that on controlled-access highways and expressways, if the
right-of-way line fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed
shall be governed by division (c)(3) of this section, and on freeways, if the
right-of-way line fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed
shall be governed by division (c)(6) of this section. The end of every school
zone may be marked by a sign indicating the end of the zone. Nothing in this
section or in the State Manual shall be construed to require school zones to be
indicated by signs equipped with flashing or other lights or giving other
special notice of the hours in which the school zone speed limit is in effect.
      (2)   As used in this section, "school" means:
         A.   Any school chartered under ORC 3301.16;
         B.   Any non-chartered school that during the preceding year filed
with the State Department of Education and Workforce, in compliance with OAC
3301-35-08, a copy of the school's report for the parents of the school's
pupils certifying that the school meets Ohio minimum standards for non-
chartered, nontax-supported schools, and presents evidence of this filing to
the City when it is requesting the establishment of a school zone;
         C.   Any preschool education program operated by an educational
service center that is located on a street or highway with a speed limit of
forty-five miles per hour or more, when the educational service center in
writing requests that the county engineer of the county in which the program is
located create a school zone at the location of that program. Upon receipt of
such a written request, the county engineer shall create a school zone at that
location by erecting the appropriate signs.
      (3)   As used in this section, "school zone" means that portion of a
street or highway passing a school fronting upon the street or highway that is
encompassed by projecting the school property lines to the fronting street or
highway, and also includes that portion of a state highway. Upon request from
the City for streets and highways under its jurisdiction and that portion of a
State highway under the jurisdiction of the Ohio Director of Transportation,
the Director may extend the traditional school zone boundaries. The distances
in divisions (b)(3)A., (b)(3)B. and (b)(3)C. of this section shall not exceed
three hundred feet (300') per approach, per direction, and are bound by
whichever of the following distances or combinations thereof the Director
approves as most appropriate:
         A.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school building lines
normal to the fronting street or highway and extending a distance of three
hundred feet (300') on each approach direction;
         B.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school property lines
intersecting the fronting street or highway and extending a distance of three
hundred feet (300') on each approach direction;
         C.   The distance encompassed by the special marking of the pavement
for a principal school-pupil crosswalk, plus a distance of three hundred feet
(300') on each approach direction of the street or highway.
         D.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the
Director's initial action on August 9, 1976, establishing all school zones at
the traditional school zone boundaries defined by projecting school property
lines, except when those boundaries are extended as provided in divisions (b)
(1) and (b)(3) of this section.
      (4)   A.   As used in this division, "crosswalk" has the meaning given
that term in ORC 4511.01.
         B.   The Director may, upon request by resolution of the City Council
and upon submission by the City of such engineering, traffic, and other
information as the Director considers necessary, designate a school zone on any
portion of a State route lying within the City that includes a crosswalk
customarily used by children going to or leaving a school during recess and
opening and closing hours whenever the distance, as measured in a straight
line, from the school property line nearest the crosswalk to the nearest point
of the crosswalk is no more than one thousand three hundred twenty feet
(1,320'). Such a school zone shall include the distance encompassed by the
crosswalk and extending three hundred feet (300') on each approach direction of
the State route.
   (c)   Prima Facie Speed Limits. It is prima-facie lawful, in the absence of
a lower limit declared or established pursuant to this section by the Ohio
Director of Transportation or the City, for the operator of a motor vehicle to
operate the same at a speed not exceeding the following:
      (1)   Twenty-five miles per hour (25 mph) in all other portions of the
City, except on state routes outside business districts, through-highways
outside business districts, and alleys.
      (2)   Thirty-five miles per hour (35 mph) on all state routes or through-
highways within the City outside business districts, except as provided in
divisions (c)(3) and (c)(4) of this section;
      (3)   Fifty miles per hour (50 mph) on controlled-access highways and
expressways within the City, except as provided in divisions (c)(7) to (c)(11)
of this section.
      (4)   Fifty miles per hour (50 mph) on state routes within the City
outside urban districts, unless a lower prima-facie speed is established as
further provided in this section.
      (5)   Fifteen miles per hour (15 mph) on all alleys within the City.
      (6)   Fifty-five miles per hour (55 mph) on freeways with paved shoulders
inside the City, other than freeways as provided in divisions (c)(9) and (c)
(11) of this section.
      (7)   Sixty miles per hour (60 mph) on rural expressways with traffic
control signals and on all portions of rural divided highways, except as
provided in divisions (c)(8) and (c)(9) of this section.
      (8)   Sixty-five miles per hour (65 mph) on all rural expressways without
traffic control signals.
      (9)   Seventy miles per hour (70 mph) on all rural freeways.
      (10)   Fifty-five miles per hour (55 mph) on all portions of freeways or
expressways in congested areas, as determined the Director, and that are
located within the City or within an interstate freeway outerbelt, except as
provided in division (c)(11) of this section.
      (11)   Sixty-five miles per hour (65 mph) on all portions of freeways or
expressways without traffic control signals in urbanized areas.
   (d)   Declared and Posted Speed Limits. Whenever, in accordance with ORC
4511.21(H), (I), (J), (L), (M), or (N), the maximum prima-facie speed
limitations as established in this section have been altered, either higher or
lower, and the appropriate signs giving notice have been erected as required,
operators of motor vehicles shall be governed by the speed limitations set
forth on such signs. It is prima facie unlawful for any person to exceed the
speed limits posted upon such signs.
   (e)   Violations. It is prima-facie unlawful for any person to exceed any of
the speed limitations in divisions (b)(1), (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(3), (c)(4), and
(c)(5) of this section, or any speed limitations declared or established
pursuant to division (d) of this section by the Director or the City, and it is
unlawful for any person to exceed any of the speed limitations in division (f)
of this section. No person shall be convicted of more than one (1) violation of
this section for the same conduct, although violations of more than one (1)
provision of this section may be charged in the alternative in a single
affidavit.
   (f)   Speeding; Speed Limitations. No person shall operate a motor vehicle
upon a street or highway as follows:
      (1)   At a speed exceeding fifty-five miles per hour (55 mph), except
upon a highway, expressway, or freeway as provided in divisions (c)(7), (c)(8),
(c)(9), and (c)(11) of this section.
      (2)   At a speed exceeding sixty miles per hour (60 mph) upon a highway
as provided in division (c)(7) of this section.
      (3)   At a speed exceeding sixty-five miles per hour (65 mph) upon an
expressway as provided in division (c)(8) of this section or upon a freeway as
provided in division (c)(11) of this section, except upon a freeway as provided
in division (c)(9) of this section.
      (4)   At a speed exceeding seventy miles per hour (70 mph) upon a freeway
as provided in division (c)(9) of this section.
      (5)   At a speed exceeding the posted speed limit upon a highway,
expressway, or freeway for which the Director has determined and declared a
speed limit pursuant to ORC 4511.21(I)(2) or (L)(2).
      (6)   At a speed exceeding the posted speed limit upon street or highway
within the City for which a speed limit has been declared and posted in
accordance with division (d) of this section.
   (g)   Charges.
      (1)   In every charge of violation of this section the affidavit and
warrant shall specify the time, place, and speed at which the defendant is
alleged to have driven, and in charges made in reliance upon division (e) of
this section also the speed which division (b)(1), (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(3), (c)
(4), or (c)(5) of this section, or a limit declared or established pursuant to
division (d) of this section, declares is prima-facie lawful at the time and
place of such alleged violation, except that in affidavits where a person is
alleged to have driven at a greater speed than will permit the person to bring
the vehicle to a stop within the assured clear distance ahead, as required by
division (a) of this section, the affidavit and warrant need not specify the
speed at which the defendant is alleged to have driven.
      (2)   When a speed in excess of both a prima-facie limitation and a
limitation in division (f) of this section is alleged, the defendant shall be
charged in a single affidavit alleging a single act, with a violation indicated
of both division (b)(1), (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(3), (c)(4), or (c)(5) of this
section, or of a limit declared or established by the Director or City pursuant
to division (d) of this section, and of the limitation in division (f) of this
section. If the court finds a violation of division (b)(1), (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)
(3), (c)(4), or (c)(5) of this section, or a limit declared or established
pursuant to division (d) of this section has occurred, it shall enter a
judgment of conviction under such division and dismiss the charge under
division (f) of this section. If it finds no violation of division (b)(1), (c)
(1), (c)(2), (c)(3), (c)(4), or (c)(5) of this section, or a limit declared or
established pursuant to division (d) of this section, it shall then consider
whether the evidence supports a conviction under division (f) of this section.
   (h)   Points. Points shall be assessed for violation of a limitation under
division (f) of this section in accordance with ORC 4510.036.
   (i)   Penalties.
      (1)   A violation of any provision of this section is one of the
following:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (i)(1)B., (i)(1)C., (i)
(2) and (i)(3) of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
         B.   If, within one (1) year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pled guilty to two (2) violations of any provision of
this section or of any provision of state law or a municipal ordinance that is
substantially similar to any provision of this section, a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree;
         C.   If, within one (1) year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pled guilty to three (3) or more violations of any
provision of this section or of any provision of state law or a municipal
ordinance that is substantially similar to any provision of this section, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender operated a motor vehicle faster than thirty-five
miles an hour (35 mph) in a business district of the City; faster than fifty
miles an hour (50 mph) in other portions of the City; or faster than thirty-
five miles an hour (35 mph) in a school zone during recess or while children
are going to or leaving school during the school's opening or closing hours, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Division (i)(2) of this section does not
apply if penalties may be imposed under division (i)(1)B. or or (i)(1)C. of
this section.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (i)(1) of this section, if the offender
operated a motor vehicle in a construction zone where a sign was then posted in
accordance with Section
400.09 of this Traffic Code or ORC 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other
penalties provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times
(2x) the usual amount imposed for the violation. No court shall impose a fine
of two times (2x) the usual amount imposed for the violation upon an offender
if the offender alleges, in an affidavit filed with the court prior to the
offender's sentencing, that the offender is indigent and is unable to pay the
fine imposed pursuant to this division and if the court determines that the
offender is an indigent person and unable to pay the fine.
      (4)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
   (j)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "Director" means the Director of the Ohio Department of
Transportation or his or her designee.
      (2)   "Divided" means a roadway having two (2) or more travel lanes for
vehicles moving in opposite directions and that is separated by a median of
more than four feet (4'), excluding turn lanes.
      (3)    "Interstate system" has the same meaning as in 23 USC 101.
      (4)   "Outerbelt" means a portion of the freeway that is part of the
interstate system and is located in the outer vicinity of a major municipal
corporation or group of municipal corporations, as designated by the Director.
      (5)   "Rural" means an area outside urbanized areas and outside of a
business or urban district, and areas that extend within urbanized areas where
the roadway characteristics remain mostly unchanged from those outside the
urbanized areas.
      (6)   "Urbanized area" has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. 101.
(ORC 4511.21)
434.04 SPEED LIMITS ON PRIVATE ROADS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (a)   Establishing Speed Limits on Private Roads and Driveways. The owner of
a private road or driveway located in a private residential area containing
twenty (20) or more dwelling units may establish a speed limit on the road or
driveway by complying with all of the following requirements:
      (1)   The speed limit is not less than twenty-five miles per hour (25
mph) and is indicated by a sign that is in a proper position, is sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person and meets the
specifications for the basic speed limit sign included in the State Manual.
      (2)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road or
driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road or
driveway that they are entering private property, a speed limit has been
established for the road or driveway, and the speed limit is enforceable by law
enforcement officers under the City's Traffic Code.
   (b)   Prohibitions. No person shall operate a vehicle upon a private road or
driveway as provided in division (a) of this section at a speed exceeding any
speed limit established and posted pursuant to that division.
   (c)   Enforcement. When a speed limit is established and posted in
accordance with division (a) of this section, any law enforcement officer may
apprehend a person violating the speed limit of the residential area by
utilizing any of the means described in Section
434.06  of this Traffic Code, ORC 4511.091, or by any other accepted method of
determining the speed of a motor vehicle and may stop and charge the person
with exceeding the speed limit.
   (d)   Points. Points shall be assessed for violation of a speed limit
established and posted in accordance with division (a) of this section in
accordance with ORC 4510.036.
   (e)   Penalties.
      (1)   A violation of division (b) of this section is one of the
following:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (e)(1)B. and (e)(1)C.
of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
         B.   If, within one (1) year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pled guilty to two (2) violations of division (b) of
this section or of any State law or municipal ordinance that is substantially
similar to division (b) of this section, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
         C.   If, within one (1) year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pled guilty to three (3) or more violations of
division (b) of this section or of any State law or municipal ordinance that is
substantially similar to division (b) of this section, a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under Section
402.99(b) of this Traffic Code.
   (f)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "Owner" includes, but is not limited to, a person who holds title
to the real property in fee simple, a condominium owners' association, a
property owner's association, the board of directors or trustees of a private
community, and a nonprofit corporation governing a private community.
      (2)   "Private residential area containing twenty (20) or more dwelling
units" does not include a Chautauqua assembly as defined in ORC 4511.90.
(ORC 4511.211)
434.05 EXCEPTIONS FOR EMERGENCY AND PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES.
   (a)   Exceptions. The prima-facie speed limitations set forth in Section
434.03  of this Traffic Code do not apply to emergency vehicles or public
safety vehicles when they are responding to emergency calls and are equipped
with and displaying at least one (1) flashing, rotating, or oscillating light
visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of five hundred
feet (500') to the front of the vehicle and when the drivers thereof sound
audible signals by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle.
   (b)   Duty to Drive with Due Regard. This section does not relieve the
driver of an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive
with due regard for the safety of all persons using the street or highway.
(ORC 4511.24)
434.06 ARREST PENDING WARRANT WHEN RADAR OR ELECTRICAL OR MECHANICAL TIMING
DEVICE USED.
   (a)   Arrest Pending Warrant, Use of Radar or Timing Device. The driver of
any motor vehicle that has been checked by radar or by any electrical or
mechanical timing device to determine the speed of the motor vehicle over a
measured distance of a street or highway, or a measured distance of a private
road or driveway, and found to be in violation of any of the provisions of
Section
434.03  or Section
434.04  of this Traffic Code, may be arrested until a warrant can be obtained;
provided, however, that:
      (1)   The arresting officer has observed the recording of the speed of
the motor vehicle by the radio microwaves or by the electrical or mechanical
timing device; or
      (2)   The arresting officer has received a radio message from the officer
who observed the speed of the motor vehicle recorded by the radio microwaves or
by the electrical or mechanical timing device; provided, in case of an arrest
based on such a message, the radio message has been dispatched immediately
after the speed of the motor vehicle was recorded and the arresting officer is
furnished a description of the motor vehicle for proper identification and the
recorded speed.
   (b)   Arrest Pending Warrant, Air Traffic Control. If the driver of a motor
vehicle being driven on a public street or highway of this City is observed
violating any provision of this Traffic Code, other than Sections
434.03  or
434.04 , by a law enforcement officer situated at any location, including in
any type of airborne aircraft or airship, that law enforcement officer may send
a radio message to another law enforcement officer, and the other law
enforcement officer may arrest the driver of the motor vehicle until a warrant
can be obtained or may issue the driver a citation for the violation; provided,
however, that if an arrest or citation is based on such a message, the radio
message is dispatched immediately after the violation is observed and the law
enforcement officer who observes the violation furnishes to the law enforcement
officer who makes the arrest or issues the citation a description of the
alleged violation and the motor vehicle for proper identification.
   (c)   Unaided Visual Estimation. No person shall be arrested, charged, or
convicted of a violation of any provision of Section
434.03 (b) through (j) or Section
434.04  of this Traffic Code, or a substantially similar State law or municipal
ordinance, based on a peace officer's unaided visual estimation of the speed of
a motor vehicle. This division does not do any of the following:
      (1)   Preclude the use by a peace officer of a stopwatch, radar, laser,
or other electrical, mechanical, or digital device to determine the speed of a
motor vehicle.
      (2)   Apply regarding any violation other than a violation of Section
434.03(b) through (j) or Section
434.04 of this Traffic Code or a substantially similar State law or municipal
ordinance.
      (3)   Preclude a peace officer from testifying that the speed of
operation of a motor vehicle was at a speed greater or less than a speed
described in Section
434.03(a) of this Traffic Code, the admission into evidence of such testimony,
or preclude a conviction of a violation of that division based in whole or in
part on such testimony.
   (d)   Definitions. As used in this division, "peace officer" has the same
meaning as in ORC 2935.01.
(ORC 4511.091)
434.07 RECKLESS OPERATION.
   (a)   On Any Street or Highway. No person shall operate a vehicle on any
street or highway in willful or wanton disregard of the safety of persons or
property.
(ORC 4511.20)
   (b)   Elsewhere.
      (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any public or private
property, other than streets or highways, in willful or wanton disregard of the
safety of persons or property.
      (2)   Division (b)(1) of this section does not apply to the competitive
operation of vehicles on public or private property when the owner of such
property knowingly permits such operation thereon.
(ORC 4511.201)
   (c)   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year
of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to
one (1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1)
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled
guilty to two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.20; ORC 4511.201)
   (d)   License Suspension.
      (1)   Whenever a person is found guilty of reckless operation under this
section, state law, or a substantially similar municipal ordinance, the court,
in addition to or independent of all other penalties provided by law, may
impose a class five suspension of the offender's driver's or commercial
driver's license or permit or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in ORC 4510.02(A)(5).
      (2)   Suspension of a commercial driver's license under this division
shall be concurrent with any period of suspension disqualification under ORC
3123.58 or Section 442.03 of this Traffic Code or ORC 4506.16. No person who is
disqualified for life from holding a commercial driver's license under Section
442.03 of this Traffic Code or ORC 4506.16 shall be issued a driver's license
under ORC Chapter 4507. during the period for which the commercial driver's
license was suspended under this section, and no person whose commercial
driver's license is suspended under this section shall be issued a driver's
license under ORC Chapter 4507. during the period of the suspension.
(ORC 4510.15)
434.08 OPERATION WITHOUT REASONABLE CONTROL.
   (a)   Prohibition. No person shall operate a motor vehicle, agricultural
tractor, or agricultural tractor that is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing
a unit of farm machinery on any street, highway, or property open to the public
for vehicular traffic without being in reasonable control of the vehicle,
agricultural tractor, or unit of farm machinery.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a
motor vehicle or agricultural tractor without being in control of it, a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4511.202)
434.09 OPERATING A VEHICLE WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   (a)   Operating a Vehicle under the Influence.
      (1)   No person shall operate any vehicle within this City if, at the
time of the operation, any of the following apply:
         A.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
a combination of them.
         B.   The person has a concentration of eight-hundredths of one per
cent (0.08) or more, but less than seventeen-hundredths of one per cent (0.17),
by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person's whole blood.
         C.   The person has a concentration of ninety-six-thousandths of one
per cent (0.096) or more, but less than two hundred four-thousandths of one per
cent (0.204), by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person's blood serum
or plasma.
         D.   The person has a concentration of eight-hundredths of one gram
(0.08 g) or more, but less than seventeen-hundredths of one gram (0.17 g), by
weight of alcohol per two hundred ten liters (210 L) of the person's breath.
         E.   The person has a concentration of eleven-hundredths of one gram
(0.11 g) or more, but less than two hundred thirty-eight-thousandths of one
gram (0.238 g), by weight of alcohol per one hundred milliliters (100 ml) of
the person's urine.
         F.   The person has a concentration of seventeen-hundredths of one
percent (0.17) or more by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person's
whole blood.
         G.   The person has a concentration of two hundred four-thousandths of
one per cent (0.204) or more by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the
person's blood serum or plasma.
         H.   The person has a concentration of seventeen-hundredths of one
gram (0.17 g) or more by weight of alcohol per two hundred ten liters (210 L)
of the person's breath.
         I.   The person has a concentration of two hundred thirty-eight-
thousandths of one gram (0.238 g) or more by weight of alcohol per one hundred
milliliters (100 ml) of the person's urine.
         J.   Except as provided in division (a)(1)K. of this section, the
person has a concentration of any of the following controlled substances or
metabolites of a controlled substance in the person's whole blood, blood serum
or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds any of the following:
            (i)   The person has a concentration of amphetamine in the person's
urine of at least five hundred nanograms (500 ng) of amphetamine per milliliter
of the person's urine or has a concentration of amphetamine in the person's
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least one hundred nanograms (100 ng)
of amphetamine per milliliter of the person's whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            (ii)   The person has a concentration of cocaine in the person's
urine of at least one hundred fifty nanograms (150 ng) of cocaine per
milliliter of the person's urine or has a concentration of cocaine in the
person's whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least fifty nanograms (50
ng) of cocaine per milliliter of the person's whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            (iii)   The person has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person's urine of at least one hundred fifty nanograms (150 ng) of cocaine
metabolite per milliliter of the person's urine or has a concentration of
cocaine metabolite in the person's whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at
least fifty nanograms (50 ng) of cocaine metabolite per milliliter of the
person's whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            (iv)   The person has a concentration of heroin in the person's
urine of at least two thousand nanograms (2000 ng) of heroin per milliliter of
the person's urine or has a concentration of heroin in the person's whole blood
or blood serum or plasma of at least fifty nanograms (50 ng) of heroin per
milliliter of the person's whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            (v)   The person has a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-
monoacetyl morphine) in the person's urine of at least ten nanograms (10 ng) of
heroin metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person's urine
or has a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) in the
person's whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms (10 ng)
of heroin metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person's
whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            (vi)   The person has a concentration of LSD in the person's urine
of at least twenty-five nanograms (25 ng) of LSD per milliliter of the person's
urine or a concentration of LSD in the person's whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least ten nanograms (10 ng) of LSD per milliliter of the person's
whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            (vii)   The person has a concentration of marihuana in the person's
urine of at least ten nanograms (10 ng) of marihuana per milliliter of the
person's urine or has a concentration of marihuana in the person's whole blood
or blood serum or plasma of at least two nanograms (2 ng) of marihuana per
milliliter of the person's whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            (viii)   Either of the following applies:
               I.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or a combination of them and the person has a concentration of marihuana
metabolite in the person's urine of at least fifteen nanograms (15 ng) of
marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person's urine or has a
concentration of marihuana metabolite in the person's whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least five nanograms (5 ng) of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person's whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
               II.   The person has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in
the person's urine of at least thirty-five nanograms (35 ng) of marihuana
metabolite per milliliter of the person's urine or has a concentration of
marihuana metabolite in the person's whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at
least fifty nanograms (50 ng) of marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the
person's whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            (ix)   The person has a concentration of methamphetamine in the
person's urine of at least five hundred nanograms (500 ng) of methamphetamine
per milliliter of the person's urine or has a concentration of methamphetamine
in the person's whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least one hundred
nanograms (100 ng) of methamphetamine per milliliter of the person's whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            (x)   The person has a concentration of phencyclidine in the
person's urine of at least twenty-five nanograms (25 ng) of phencyclidine per
milliliter of the person's urine or has a concentration of phencyclidine in the
person's whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms (10 ng)
of phencyclidine per milliliter of the person's whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            (xi)   The State Board of Pharmacy has adopted a rule pursuant to
ORC 4729.041 that specifies the amount of salvia divinorum and the amount of
salvinorin A that constitute concentrations of salvia divinorum and salvinorin
A in a person's urine, in a person's whole blood, or in a person's blood serum
or plasma at or above which the person is impaired for purposes of operating
any vehicle within this City, the rule is in effect, and the person has a
concentration of salvia divinorum or salvinorin A of at least that amount so
specified by rule in the person's urine, in the person's whole blood, or in the
person's blood serum or plasma.
      (2)   No person who, within twenty (20) years of the conduct described in
division (a)(2)A. of this section, previously has been convicted of or pled
guilty to a violation of this division, a violation of division (a)(1) of this
section, a violation of ORC 4511.19, or any other equivalent State or municipal
offense shall do both of the following:
         A.   Operate any vehicle within this City while under the influence of
alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         B.   Subsequent to being arrested for operating the vehicle as
described in division (a)(2)A. of this section, being asked by a law
enforcement officer to submit to chemical test(s) under Section
434.10 of this Traffic Code, and being advised by the officer in accordance
with Section
434.10 of the consequences of the person's refusal or submission to the test
(s), refuse to submit to the test(s).
   (b)   Underage Operating a Vehicle under the Influence of Alcohol or Drugs.
No person under twenty-one (21) years of age shall operate any vehicle within
this City if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person has a concentration of at least two-hundredths of one
per cent (0.02), but less than eight-hundredths of one per cent (0.08), by
weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person's whole blood.
      (2)   The person has a concentration of at least three-hundredths of one
per cent (0.03), but less than ninety-six-thousandths of one per cent (0.096),
by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person's blood serum or plasma.
      (3)   The person has a concentration of at least two-hundredths of one
gram (0.02 g), but less than eight-hundredths of one gram (0.08 g), by weight
of alcohol per two hundred ten liters (210 L) of the person's breath.
      (4)   The person has a concentration of at least twenty-eight one-
thousandths of one gram (0.028 g), but less than eleven-hundredths of one gram
(0.11 g), by weight of alcohol per one hundred milliliters (100 ml) of the
person's urine.
   (c)   Limitation on Convictions. In any proceeding arising out of one
incident, a person may be charged with a violation of division (a)(1)A. or
division (a)(2) of this section, and a violation of division (b)(1), (b)(2) or
(b)(3) of this section, but the person may not be convicted of more than one
violation of these divisions.
   (d)   Evidence; Tests; Immunity. In any criminal prosecution for a violation
of division (a) or division (b) of this section, the evidentiary rules and
procedures regarding the admission of any chemical tests, field sobriety tests,
or laboratory reports shall be the same as those contained in ORC 4511.19(D)
and (E), and the immunity provided by ORC 4511.19(F) shall also apply.
   (e)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates any provision of divisions (a)(1)A. to I. or (a)
(2) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle while under the influence
of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them. Sentencing for the
offense shall be the same as sentencing for a violation of ORC 4511.19(A)(1)(a)
to (i) or (A)(2), and the Court shall sentence the offender in accordance with
ORC 4511.19(G) and (I). Fines and costs shall be imposed and distributed in
accordance with ORC 4511.193.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (a)(1)J. of this section is guilty of
operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed controlled substance
or listed metabolite of a controlled substance, unless the exemptions listed in
ORC 4511.19(K) apply. Sentencing for the offense shall be the same as
sentencing for a violation of ORC 4511.19(A)(1)(j), and the Court shall
sentence the offender in accordance with ORC 4511.19(G) and (I). Fines and
costs shall be imposed and distributed in accordance with ORC 4511.193.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of
operating a vehicle after underage consumption. Sentencing for the offense
shall be the same as sentencing for a violation of ORC 4511.19(B), and the
Court shall sentence the offender in accordance with ORC 4511.19(H). Fines and
costs shall be imposed and distributed in accordance with ORC 4511.193.
      (4)   If a person whose driver's or commercial driver's license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege is suspended for a violation of this section
files an appeal regarding any aspect of the person's trial or sentence, the
appeal itself does not stay the operation of the suspension.
(ORC 4511.19)
   (f)   Immobilization of Vehicle. If a person is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a violation of this section, if the vehicle the offender was
operating at the time of the offense is registered in the offender's name and
if, within ten (10) years of the current offense, the offender has been
convicted of or pled guilty to one (1) or more violations of Section 434.09(a)
of this Traffic Code, ORC 4511.19(A), a substantially equivalent State law or
municipal ordinance, or one (1) or more other equivalent offenses, the court,
in addition to and independent of any sentence that it imposes upon the
offender for the offense, shall do whichever of the following is applicable:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (f)(2) of this section,
if, within ten (10) years of the current offense, the offender has been
convicted of or pled guilty to one (1) or more violations of Section
434.09(a) of this Traffic Code, ORC 4511.19(A), a substantially equivalent
State law or municipal ordinance, or one (1) or more other equivalent offenses,
the court shall order the immobilization for ninety (90) days of that vehicle
and the impoundment for ninety (90) days of the license plates of that vehicle.
The order for the immobilization and impoundment shall be issued and enforced
in accordance with ORC 4503.233.
      (2)   If, within ten (10) years of the current offense, the offender has
been convicted of or pled guilty to two (2) or more violations of Section
434.09(a) of this Traffic Code, ORC 4511.19(A), a substantially equivalent
State law or municipal ordinance, or one (1) or more other equivalent offenses,
or if the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to a
violation of 4511.19(A) of under circumstances in which the violation was a
felony, and regardless of when the violation and the conviction or guilty plea
occurred, the court shall order the criminal forfeiture to the City or State of
that vehicle. The order of criminal forfeiture shall be issued and enforced in
accordance with ORC 4503.234.
(ORC 4511.193(C))
   (g)   Definitions. All the terms defined in ORC 4510.01 apply to this
section. If the meaning of a term defined in ORC 4510.01 conflicts with the
meaning of the same term as defined in ORC 4501.01 or 4511.01, the term as
defined in ORC 4510.01 applies to this section.
(ORC 4511.19)
434.10 CHEMICAL TESTS; IMPLIED CONSENT; REFUSAL; SEIZURE AND SUSPENSION OF
LICENSE.
   (a)   Chemical Tests; Implied Consent; Refusal to Submit to Tests.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         A.   "Physical control" has the same meaning as in Section
434.11 of this Traffic Code.
         B.   "Alcohol monitoring device" means any device that provides for
continuous alcohol monitoring, any ignition interlock device, any immobilizing
or disabling device other than an ignition interlock device that is constantly
available to monitor the concentration of alcohol in a person's system, or any
other device that provides for the automatic testing and periodic reporting of
alcohol consumption by a person and that a court orders a person to use as a
sanction imposed as a result of the person's conviction of or plea of guilty to
an offense.
         C.   "Community addiction service provider" has the same meaning as in
ORC 5119.01.
      (2)   Any person who operates a vehicle upon a street, highway, or any
public or private property used by the public for vehicular travel or parking
within this City or who is in physical control of a vehicle shall be deemed to
have given consent to the chemical test(s) of the person's whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine to determine the alcohol, drug of abuse,
controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or combination
content of the person's whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine if
arrested for a violation of Section
434.09(a) or (b) or Section
434.11 of this Traffic Code, or a substantially equivalent State law, municipal
ordinance or municipal OVI ordinance.
      (3)   The chemical test(s) under division (a)(2) of this section shall be
administered at the request of a law enforcement officer having reasonable
grounds to believe the person was operating or in physical control of a vehicle
in violation of a division, section, or ordinance identified in division (a)(2)
of this section. The law enforcement agency by which the officer is employed
shall designate which of the tests shall be administered.
      (4)   Any person who is dead or unconscious, or who otherwise is in a
condition rendering the person incapable of refusal, shall be deemed to have
consented as provided in division (a)(2) of this section and the test(s) may be
administered, subject to ORC 313.12 to 313.16.
      (5)   A.   If a law enforcement officer arrests a person for a violation
of Section
434.09(a) or (b) or Section
434.11 of this Traffic Code, or a substantially equivalent State law, municipal
ordinance, or municipal OVI ordinance, and if the person if convicted would be
required to be sentenced under Section
434.09(e) or ORC 4511.19(G)(1)(c), (d), or (e), the law enforcement officer
shall request the person to submit, and the person shall submit, to chemical
test(s) of the person's whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
for the purpose of determining the alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled
substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or combination content of the
person's whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine. A law
enforcement officer who makes a request pursuant to this division that a person
submit to chemical test(s) is not required to advise the person of the
consequences of submitting to, or refusing to submit to, the test(s) and is not
required to give the person the form described in division (g) of this section,
but the officer shall advise the person at the time of the arrest that if the
person refuses to take a chemical test, the officer may employ whatever
reasonable means are necessary to ensure that the person submits to a chemical
test of the person's whole blood or blood serum or plasma. The officer shall
also advise the person at the time of the arrest that the person may have an
independent chemical test taken at the person's own expense. Divisions (a)(3)
and (a)(4) of this section apply to the administration of chemical test(s)
pursuant to this division.
         B.   If a person refuses to submit to a chemical test upon a request
made pursuant to division (a)(5)A. of this section, the law enforcement officer
who made the request may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary to
ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person's whole blood
or blood serum or plasma. A law enforcement officer who acts pursuant to this
division to ensure that a person submits to a chemical test of the person's
whole blood or blood serum or plasma is immune from criminal and civil
liability based upon a claim for assault and battery or any other claim for the
acts, unless the officer so acted with malicious purpose, in bad faith, or in a
wanton or reckless manner.
   (b)   License Suspension for Refusal.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the sworn report of a law enforcement officer who
arrested a person for a violation of Section
434.09(a) or (b) or Section
434.11 of this Traffic Code, or a substantially equivalent state law, municipal
ordinance or municipal OVI ordinance, that was compiled and sent to the
registrar and a court pursuant to divisions (f) to (i) of this section in
regard to a person who refused to take the designated chemical test, the
registrar shall enter into the registrar's records the fact that the person's
driver's or commercial driver's license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege was suspended by the arresting officer under this section and the
period of the suspension, as determined under ORC 4511.191(B)(1). The
suspension shall be subject to appeal as provided in ORC 4511.197.
      (2)   The registrar shall terminate a suspension of the driver's or
commercial driver's license or permit of a resident or of the operating
privilege of a nonresident, or a denial of a driver's or commercial driver's
license or permit, imposed pursuant to division (b)(1) of this section upon
receipt of notice that the person has entered a plea of guilty to, or that the
person has been convicted after entering a plea of no contest to, operating a
vehicle in violation of Section
434.09 of this Traffic Code or ORC 4511.19, if the offense for which the
conviction is had or the plea is entered arose from the same incident that led
to the suspension or denial.
         The registrar shall credit against any judicial suspension of a
person's driver's or commercial driver's license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege imposed pursuant to Section
434.09 of this Traffic Code, ORC 4511.19, or pursuant to ORC 4510.07 for a
violation of a municipal OVI ordinance, any time during which the person serves
a related suspension imposed pursuant to division (b)(1) of this section.
   (c)   License Suspension for Positive Test Results.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the sworn report of a law enforcement officer who
arrested a person for a violation of Section
434.09(a) or (b) or Section
434.11 of this Traffic Code, or a substantially equivalent State law or
municipal ordinance, that was compiled and sent to the registrar and a court
pursuant to division (f) of this section in regard to a person whose test
results indicate that the person's whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath,
or urine contained at least the concentration of alcohol specified in Section
434.09(a)(1)B., (a)(1)C., (a)(1)D. or (a)(1)E., or at least the concentration
of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled
substance specified in Section
434.09(a)(1)J., the registrar shall enter into the registrar's records the fact
that the person's driver's or commercial driver's license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege was suspended by the arresting officer under
this section and the period of the suspension, as determined under ORC 4511.191
(C). The suspension shall be subject to appeal as provided in ORC 4511.197.
         The suspension described in this division does not apply to, and shall
not be imposed upon, a person arrested for a violation of Section
434.11 of this Traffic Code or a substantially equivalent State law who submits
to a designated chemical test.
      (2)   The registrar shall terminate a suspension of the driver's or
commercial driver's license or permit of a resident or of the operating
privilege of a nonresident, or a denial of a driver's or commercial driver's
license or permit, imposed pursuant to division (c)(1) of this section upon
receipt of notice that the person has entered a plea of guilty to, or that the
person has been convicted after entering a plea of no contest to, operating a
vehicle in violation of Section
434.09 of this Traffic Code or ORC 4511.19, if the offense for which the
conviction is had or the plea is entered arose from the same incident that led
to the suspension or denial.
         The registrar shall credit against any judicial suspension of a
person's driver's or commercial driver's license or permit, or nonresident
operating privilege imposed pursuant to Section
434.09 of this Traffic Code, ORC 4511.19, or pursuant to ORC 4510.07 for a
violation of a municipal OVI ordinance, any time during which the person serves
a related suspension imposed pursuant to division (c)(1) of this section.
   (d)   Effective Date of License Suspension.
      (1)   A suspension of a person's driver's license or commercial driver's
license or permit or nonresident operating privilege under division (b) of this
section, for the time determined pursuant to ORC 4511.191(B) or, under division
(c) of this section, for the time determined pursuant to ORC 4511.191(C) is
effective immediately from the time at which the arresting officer serves the
notice of suspension upon the arrested person. Any subsequent finding that the
person is not guilty of the charge that resulted in the person being requested
to take the chemical test(s) under division (a) of this section does not affect
the suspension.
      (2)   If a person is arrested for operating a vehicle in violation of
Section
434.09(a) or (b) of this Traffic Code or substantially equivalent State law or
municipal OVI ordinance, or for being in physical control of a vehicle in
violation of Section
434.11(b) of this Traffic Code or a substantially equivalent State law or
municipal ordinance, regardless of whether the person's driver's license or
commercial driver's license or permit or nonresident operating privilege is or
is not suspended under divisions (b) or (c) of this section, or ORC Chapter
4510., the person's initial appearance on the charge resulting from the arrest
shall be held within five (5) days of the person's arrest or the issuance of
the citation to the person, subject to any continuance granted by the court
pursuant to Section
434.13 of this Traffic Code regarding the issues specified in that division.
   (e)   Application of ORC 4511.191. The provisions of ORC 4511.191(E) through
(I) shall apply to any suspension under this section.
(ORC 4511.191)
   (f)   Notice as to Effect of Taking or Refusing Chemical Test. Except as
provided in division (a)(5) of this section, the arresting law enforcement
officer shall give advice in accordance with this section to any person under
arrest for a violation of Section
434.09 (a) or (b) or Section
434.11  of this Traffic Code, or a substantially equivalent State law,
municipal ordinance or municipal OVI ordinance. The officer shall give that
advice in written form that contains the information described in division (g)
of this section and shall read the advice to the person. The form shall contain
a statement that the form was shown to the person under arrest and read to the
person by the arresting officer. One or more persons shall witness the
arresting officer's reading of the form, and the witnesses shall certify to
this fact by signing the form. The person must submit to the chemical test(s),
subsequent to the request of the arresting officer, within two (2) hours of the
time of the alleged violation and, if the person does not submit to the test(s)
within that two-hour time limit, the failure to submit automatically
constitutes a refusal to submit to the test(s).
   (g)   Written Form of Notice. Except as provided in division (a)(5) of this
section, if a person is under arrest as described in division (f) of this
section, before the person may be requested to submit to chemical test(s) to
determine the alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a
controlled substance, or combination content of the person's whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine, the arresting officer shall read to the
person the written advice required by division (f) hereof. The written advice
shall be in the form described in ORC 4511.192(B).
   (h)   Seizure of License When Chemical Test not Requested. If the arresting
law enforcement officer does not ask the person under arrest as described in
division (a)(5) or division (f) of this section to submit to chemical test(s)
under this section, the arresting officer shall seize the Ohio or out-of-state
driver's or commercial driver's license or permit of the person and immediately
forward it to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the
charge. If the arrested person is not in possession of the person's license or
permit or it is not in the person's vehicle, the officer shall order the person
to surrender it to the Police Division within twenty-four (24) hours after the
arrest and, upon surrender, the Police Division shall immediately forward the
license or permit to the court in which the person is to appear on the charge.
Upon receipt of the license or permit, the court shall retain it pending the
arrested person's initial appearance and any action taken under Section
434.13  of this Traffic Code.
   (i)   Suspension and Seizure of License When Chemical Test Refused or
Positive; Sworn Report by the Arresting Officer.
      (1)   If a law enforcement officer asks a person under arrest as
described in division (a)(5) of this section to submit to chemical test(s)
under that section and the test results indicate a prohibited concentration of
alcohol, a controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
the person's whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time
of the alleged offense; or if a law enforcement officer asks a person under
arrest as described in division (f) of this section to submit to chemical test
(s) under this section, the officer advises the person in accordance with this
section of the consequences of the person's refusal or submission, and either
the person refuses to submit to the test(s) or unless the arrest was for a
violation of Section
434.11 of this Traffic Code or a substantially equivalent State law or
municipal ordinance, the person submits to the test(s) and the test results
indicate a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance or a
metabolite of a controlled substance in the person's whole blood, blood serum
or plasma, breath, or urine at time of the alleged offense, the arresting
officer shall do all of the following:
         A.   On behalf of the registrar of motor vehicles, notify the person
that, independent of any penalties or sanctions imposed upon the person, the
person's Ohio driver's or commercial driver's license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege is suspended immediately, that the suspension will last at
least until the person's initial appearance on the charge, which will be held
within five (5) days after the date of the person's arrest or the issuance of a
citation to the person, and that the person may appeal the suspension at the
initial appearance or during the period of time ending thirty days after that
initial appearance;
         B.   Seize the driver's or commercial driver's license or permit of
the person and immediately forward it to the registrar. If the arrested person
is not in possession of the person's license or permit or it is not in the
person's vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it to the
Police Division within twenty-four (24) hours after the person is given notice
of the suspension, and, upon the surrender, the Police Division shall
immediately shall forward the license or permit to the registrar;
         C.   Verify the person's current residence and, if it differs from
that on the person's driver's or commercial driver's license or permit, notify
the registrar of the change;
         D.   Send to the registrar, within forty-eight (48) hours after the
arrest of the person, a sworn report that includes all of the following
statements:
            (i)   That the officer had reasonable grounds to believe that, at
the time of the arrest, the arrested person was operating a vehicle in
violation of Section
434.09(a) or (b), or a substantially equivalent state law or a municipal OVI
ordinance, or for being in physical control of a stationary vehicle in
violation of Section
434.11 of this Traffic Code or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance;
            (ii)   That the person was arrested and charged with a violation of
Section 434.09(a) or (b) or Section
434.11 of this Traffic Code, or a substantially equivalent state law, municipal
ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance;
            (iii)   Unless division (d)(1)D.(v) of this section applies, that
the officer asked the person to take the designated chemical test or tests,
advised the person in accordance with this section of the consequences of
submitting to, or refusing to take, the test or tests, and gave the person the
form described in division (g) of this section;
            (iv)   Unless division (d)(1)D.(v) of this section applies, that
either the person refused to submit to the chemical test or tests or, unless
the arrest was for a violation of Section
434.11 or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, the
person submitted to the chemical test or tests and the test results indicate a
prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of
a controlled substance in the person's whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense;
            (v)   If the person was under arrest as described in division (a)
(5) of this section and the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance
with that division, that the person was under arrest as described in that
division, that the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance with
that division, and that test results indicated a prohibited concentration of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
the person's whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time
of the alleged offense.
      (2)   Division (i) of this section does not apply to a person who is
arrested for a violation of Section
434.11 of this Traffic Code or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, who is asked by a law enforcement officer to submit to a
chemical test(s) under this section, and who submits to the test(s), regardless
of the amount of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance that the test results indicate is present in the person's
whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
   (j)   Copy of Report to Arrested Person. The arresting officer shall give
the officer's sworn report that is completed under this section to the arrested
person at the time of the arrest, or the registrar shall send the report to the
person by regular first class mail as soon as possible after receipt of the
report, but not later than fourteen (14) days after receipt of it. An arresting
officer may give an unsworn report to the arrested person at the time of the
arrest provided the report is complete when given to the arrested person and
subsequently is sworn to by the arresting officer. As soon as possible, but not
later than forty-eight (48) hours after the arrest of the person, the arresting
officer shall send a copy of the sworn report to the court in which the
arrested person is to appear on the charge for which the person was arrested.
   (k)   Sworn Report is Prima Facie Proof. The sworn report of an arresting
officer completed under this division is prima-facie proof of the information
and statements that it contains. It shall be admitted and considered as prima-
facie proof of the information and statements that it contains in any appeal
under ORC 4511.197 relative to any suspension of a person's driver's or
commercial driver's license or permit or nonresident operating privilege that
results from the arrest covered in the report.
(ORC 4511.192)
434.11 PHYSICAL CONTROL OF A VEHICLE WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (a)   Physical Control of Vehicle While under the Influence. No person shall
be in physical control of a vehicle if, at the time of the physical control,
any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them.
      (2)   The person's whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains at least the concentration of alcohol specified in Section
434.09(a)(1)B., (a)(1)C., (a)(1)D., or (a)(1)E. of this Traffic Code.
      (3)   Except as provided in division (c) of this section, the person has
a concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person's whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or
urine that equals or exceeds the concentration specified in Section
434.09(a)(1)J. of this Traffic Code.
   (b)   Testimony and Evidence Regarding Field Sobriety Test.
      (1)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of this section or a substantially equivalent State law or municipal
ordinance, if a law enforcement officer has administered a field sobriety test
to the person in physical control of the vehicle involved in the violation and
if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the officer administered
the test in substantial compliance with the testing standards for any reliable,
credible, and generally-accepted field sobriety tests that were in effect at
the time the tests were administered including, but not limited to, any testing
standards then in effect that were set by the NHTSA, all of the following
apply:
         A.    The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered;
         B.   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field sobriety
test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal prosecution
or juvenile court proceeding; and
         C.   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (b)(1)A. or (b)(1)B. of this section and if the testimony or evidence
is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the testimony
or evidence, and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the trier of
fact considers to be appropriate.
      (2)   Division (b)(1) of this section does not limit or preclude a court,
in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (b)(1) of this section.
   (c)   Exceptions. Division (a)(3) of this section does not apply to a person
who is in physical control of a vehicle while the person has a concentration of
a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance
in the person's whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or
exceeds the amount specified in Section
434.08 (A)(1)J. of this Traffic Code if:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs; and
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional's directions.
   (d)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence, a misdemeanor of the first
degree. In addition to other sanctions imposed, the court may impose on the
offender a class seven suspension of the offender's driver's license,
commercial driver's license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in ORC
4510.02(A)(7).
   (e)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "National Highway Traffic Safety Administration" (NHTSA) has the
same meaning as in ORC 4511.19.
      (2)   "Physical control" means being in the driver's position of the
front seat of a vehicle and having possession of the vehicle's ignition key or
other ignition device.
(ORC 4511.194)
434.12 SEIZURE OF VEHICLE UPON ARREST FOR OVI.
   (a)   Seizure Required. The Xenia Police Officer, as the arresting officer,
or another officer of the Police Division, in addition to any action that the
arresting officer is required or authorized to take under Sections
434.09  or
434.10  of this Traffic Code or by any other provision of law, shall seize the
vehicle that the person was operating at the time of the alleged offense and
its license plates if the vehicle is registered in the arrested person's name
and if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is arrested for a violation of Section
434.09(a) of this Traffic Code or a equivalent state offense or municipal OVI
ordinance and, within ten (10) years of the alleged violation, the person
previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one (1) or more violation of
Section
434.09(a) or equivalent State or municipal offense.
      (2)   The person is arrested for a violation of Section
434.08(a) of this Traffic Code and the person previously has been convicted of
or pled guilty to a violation of ORC 4511.19(A) under circumstances in which
the violation was a felony, regardless of when the prior felony violation of
ORC 4511.19(A) and the conviction or guilty plea occurred.
   (b)   Rented or Leased Vehicle. The Xenia Police Division, when the
arresting officer makes an arrest of a type described in division (a)(1) of
this section and that involves a rented or leased vehicle that is being rented
or leased for a period of thirty (30) days or less shall notify, within twenty-
four (24) hours after the officer makes the arrest, the lessor or owner of the
vehicle regarding the circumstance of the arrest and the location at which the
vehicle may be picked up. At the time of the seizure of the vehicle, the
arresting officer shall give the arrested person written notice that the
vehicle and its license plates have been seized; that the vehicle either will
be kept by the Xenia Police Division or will be immobilized at least until the
operator's initial appearance on the charge of the offense for which the arrest
was made; that, at the initial appearance, the court in certain circumstances
may order the vehicle and its license plates be released to the arrested person
until the disposition of that charge; and that, if the arrested person is
convicted of that charge, the court generally must order the immobilization of
the vehicle and the impoundment of its licenses plates or the forfeiture of the
vehicle.
   (c)   Notice to the Vehicle Owner by the Court.
      (1)   The arresting officer or another officer of the Xenia Police
Division shall give written notice of the seizure to the court that will
conduct the initial appearance of the arrested person the charges arising out
of the arrest. Upon receipt of the notice, the court promptly shall determine
whether the arrested person is the vehicle owner. If the court determines that
the arrested person is not the vehicle owner, it promptly shall send by regular
mail written notice of the seizure to the vehicle's registered owner. The
written notice shall contain all of the information required by division (b) of
this section to be in a notice to be given to the arrested person and also
shall specify the date, time and place of the arrested person's initial
appearance. The notice shall also inform the vehicle owner that if title to a
motor vehicle that is subject to an order of criminal forfeiture under this
section is assigned or transferred and ORC 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies,
the court may fine the arrest person the value of the vehicle. The notice also
shall state that if the vehicle is immobilized under ORC 4503.233(A), seven (7)
days after the end of the period of immobilization the Xenia Police Division
will send the vehicle owner a notice, informing the owner that if the release
of the vehicle is not obtained in accordance with ORC 4503.233(D)(3), the
vehicle shall be forfeited. The notice also shall inform the vehicle owner that
the vehicle owner may be charged expenses or charges incurred under this
section and ORC 4503.233 for the removal and storage of the vehicle.
      (2)   The written notice that is given to the arrested person also shall
state that if the person is convicted of or pleads guilty to the offense and
the court issues an immobilization and impoundment order relative to that
vehicle, ORC 4503.233(D)(4) prohibits the vehicle from being sold during the
period of immobilization without the prior approval of the court.
   (d)   Motion for Release. At or before the initial appearance, the vehicle
owner may file a motion requesting the court to order that the vehicle and its
license plates be released to the vehicle owner. Except as provided in this
division and subject to the payment of expenses or charges incurred in the
removal and storage of the vehicle, the court, in its discretion, then may
issue an order releasing the vehicle and its license plates to the vehicle
owner. Such an order may be conditioned upon such terms as the court determines
appropriate, including the posting of a bond in an amount determined by the
court. If the arrested person is not the vehicle owner and if the vehicle owner
is not present at the arrested person's initial appearance, and if the court
believes that the vehicle owner was not provided with adequate notice of the
initial appearance, the court, in its discretion, may allow the vehicle owner
to file a motion within seven (7) days of the initial appearance. If the court
allows the vehicle owner to file such a motion after the initial appearance,
the extension of time granted by the court does not extend the time within
which the initial appearance is to be conducted. If the court issues an order
for the release of the vehicle and its license plates, a copy of the order
shall be made available to the vehicle owner. If the vehicle owner presents a
copy of the order to the Xenia Police Division, the Division promptly shall
release the vehicle and its license plates to the vehicle owner upon payment by
the vehicle owner of any expenses or charges incurred in the removal and
storage of the vehicle.
   (e)   Duties Regarding Towing and/or Immobilization. A vehicle seized under
division (a) of this section either shall be towed to a place specified by the
Xenia Police Division, to be safely kept by the agency at that place for the
time and in the manner specified in this section, or shall be otherwise
immobilized for the time and in the manner specified in this section. The
license plates shall remain on the seized vehicle unless otherwise ordered by
the court. No vehicle that is seized and either towed or immobilized pursuant
to this division shall be considered contraband for purposes of ORC Chapter
2981. The vehicle shall not be immobilized at any place other than a
commercially operated private storage lot, a place owned by the City of Xenia,
or a place to which one of the following applies:
      (1)   The place is leased by or otherwise under the control of a law
enforcement agency or other government agency.
      (2)   The place is owned by the vehicle operator, the vehicle operator's
spouse, or a parent or child of the vehicle operator.
      (3)   The place is owned by a private person or entity, and, prior to the
immobilization, the private entity or person that owns the place, or the
authorized agent of that private entity or person, has given express written
consent for the immobilization to be carried out at that place.
      (4)   The place is a street or highway on which the vehicle is parked in
accordance with the law.
   (f)   Duties Regarding Storage. A vehicle seized under division (a) of this
section shall be safely kept at the place to which it is towed or otherwise
moved by the Xenia Police Division until the initial appearance of the arrested
person relative to the charge in question. The license plates shall remain on
the seized vehicle unless otherwise ordered by the court.
   (g)   Initial Appearance; Dismissal of Charge.
      (1)   At the initial appearance or not less than seven (7) days prior to
the date of final disposition, the court shall notify the arrested person that,
if title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order for criminal forfeiture
under this section is assigned or transferred and ORC 4503.234 (B)(2) or (3)
applies, the court may fine the arrested person the value of the vehicle. If,
at the initial appearance, the arrested person pleads guilty to the violation
of Section
434.09(a) of this Traffic Code, or pleads no contest to and is convicted of the
violation, the court shall impose sentence upon the person as provided by this
Traffic Code or by state law; the court shall order the immobilization of the
vehicle the arrested person was operating at the time of the offense if
registered in the arrested person's name and the impoundment of its license
plates under ORC 4503.233 and ORC 4511.19 or 4511.193 or the criminal
forfeiture to the City or State of the vehicle if registered in the arrested
person's name under 4503.233 and ORC 4511.19 or 4511.193, whichever is
applicable; and the vehicle and its license plates shall not be returned or
released to the arrested person.
      (2)   If, at any time, the charge that the arrested person violated
Section 434.09(a) of this Traffic Code is dismissed for any reason, the court
shall order that the vehicle seized at the time of the arrest and its license
plates immediately be released to the person.
   (h)   Final Disposition. If a vehicle and its license plates are seized
under division (a) of this section and are not returned or released to the
arrested person pursuant to division (g) of this section, the vehicle and its
license plates shall be retained until the final disposition of the charge in
question. Upon the final disposition of that charge, the court shall do
whichever of the following is applicable:
      (1)   If the arrested person is convicted of or pleads guilty to the
violation of Section
434.09(a) of this Traffic Code, the court shall impose sentence upon the person
as provided by this Traffic Code or state law and shall order the
immobilization of the vehicle the person was operating at the time of the
offense if it is registered in the arrested person's name and the impoundment
of its license plates under ORC 4503.233 and ORC 4511.19 or 4511.193, or the
criminal forfeiture of the vehicle if it is registered in the arrested person's
name under ORC 4503.233 and ORC 4511.19 or 4511.193, whichever is applicable.
      (2)   If the arrested person is found not guilty of the violation of
Section
434.09(a) of this Traffic Code, the court shall order that the vehicle and its
license plates immediately be released to the arrested person.
      (3)   If the charge that the arrested person violated Section
434.09(a) of this Traffic Code is dismissed for any reason, the court shall
order that the vehicle and its license plates immediately be released to the
arrested person.
      (4)   If the impoundment of the vehicle was not authorized under this
section, the court shall order that the vehicle and its license plates be
returned immediately to the arrested person or, if the arrested person is not
the vehicle owner, to the vehicle owner, and shall order that the City, as the
political subdivision whom the law enforcement officer who seized the vehicle
serves, pay all expenses and charges incurred in its removal and storage.
   (i)   Immobilization. If a vehicle is seized under division (a) of this
section, the time between the seizure of the vehicle and either its release to
the arrested person under division (g) of this section or the issuance of an
order of immobilization of the vehicle under ORC 4503.233 shall be credited
against the period of immobilization ordered by the court.
   (j)   Towing and Storage Charges; Liens.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (h)(4) of this section, the arrested
person may be charged expenses or charges incurred in the removal and storage
of the immobilized vehicle. The court with jurisdiction over the case, after
notice to all interested parties, including lienholders, and after an
opportunity for them to be heard, if the court finds that the arrested person
does not intend to seek release of the vehicle at the end of the period of
immobilization under ORC 4503.233 or that the arrested person is not or will
not be able to pay the expenses and charges incurred in its removal and
storage, may order that title to the vehicle be transferred, in order of
priority, first into the name of the person or entity that removed it, next
into the name of a lienholder, or lastly into the name of the owner of the
place of storage.
      (2)   Any lienholder that receives title under a court order shall do so
on the condition that it pay any expenses or charges incurred in the vehicle's
removal and storage. If the person or entity that receives title to the vehicle
is the person or entity that removed it, the person or entity shall receive
title on the condition that it pay any lien on the vehicle. The court shall not
order that title be transferred to any person or entity other than the owner of
the place of storage if the person or entity refuses to receive the title. Any
person or entity that receives title either may keep title to the vehicle or
may dispose of the vehicle in any legal manner that it considers appropriate,
including assignment of the certificate of title to the motor vehicle to a
salvage dealer or a scrap metal processing facility. The person or entity shall
not transfer the vehicle to the person who is the vehicle's immediate previous
owner.
      (3)   If the person or entity that receives title assigns the motor
vehicle to a salvage dealer or scrap metal processing facility, the person or
entity shall send the assigned certificate of title to the motor vehicle to the
clerk of the court of common pleas of the county in which the salvage dealer or
scrap metal processing facility is located. The person or entity shall mark the
face of the certificate of title with the words "FOR DESTRUCTION" and shall
deliver a photocopy of the certificate of title to the salvage dealer or scrap
metal processing facility for its records.
      (4)   Whenever a court issues an order under division (j)(1) of this
section, the court also shall order removal of the license plates from the
vehicle and cause them to be sent to the registrar of motor vehicles if they
have not already been sent to the registrar. Thereafter, no further proceedings
shall take place under this section or under ORC 4503.233.
      (5)   Prior to initiating a proceeding under division (j)(1) of this
section, and upon payment of the fee under ORC 4505.14(B), any interested party
may cause a search to be made of the public records of the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles or the clerk of the court of common pleas, to ascertain the identity
of any lienholder of the vehicle. The initiating party shall furnish this
information to the clerk of the court with jurisdiction over the case, and the
clerk shall provide notice to the arrested person, any lienholder, and any
other interested parties listed by the initiating party, at the last known
address supplied by the initiating party, by certified mail or, at the option
of the initiating party, by personal service or ordinary mail.
   (k)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "Arrested Person" means a person who is arrested for a violation of
Section
434.09(a) of this Traffic Code or ORC 4511.19(A) and whose arrest results in a
vehicle being seized under division (a) of this section.
      (2)   "Interested Party" include the owner of a vehicle seized under this
section, all lienholders, the arrested person, the owner of the place of
storage at which a vehicle seized under this section is stored, and the person
or entity that caused the vehicle to be removed.
      (3)   "Vehicle Owner" means either of the following:
         A.   The person in whose name is registered, at the time of the
seizure, a vehicle that is seized under division (a) of this section; or
         B.   A person to whom the certificate of title to a vehicle that is
seized under division (a) of this section has been assigned and who has not
obtained a certificate of title to the vehicle in that person's name, but who
is deemed by the court as being the owner of the vehicle at the time the
vehicle was seized under division (a) of this section.
(ORC 4511.195)
434.13 INITIAL APPEARANCE; APPEAL OF SUSPENSION; LIMITED DRIVING PRIVILEGES.
   (a)   Initial Appearance. If a person is arrested for being in physical
control of a vehicle in violation of Section
434.11  of this Traffic Code or for operating a vehicle in violation of Section
434.09 (a) or (b) of this Traffic Code, the person's initial appearance on the
charge resulting from the arrest and the suspension of the person's driver's or
commercial driver's license or permit or nonresident operating privilege shall
follow the same process and be subject to the same rules as set forth in ORC
4511.196.
Statutory reference: ORC 4511.196
   (b)   Appeal of Suspension. If a person is arrested for operating a vehicle
in violation of Section
434.09 (a) or (b) of this Traffic Code, or for being in physical control of a
vehicle in violation of Section
434.11  of this Traffic Code, and if the person's driver's or commercial
driver's license or permit or nonresident operating privilege is suspended
under Section
434.10  of this Traffic Code, the person may appeal the suspension, which
appeal shall follow the same process and be subject to the same rules as set
forth in ORC 4511.197.
Statutory Reference: ORC 4511.197
   (c)   Limited Driving Privileges.
      (1)   If a court grants limited driving privileges to a person who is
alleged to have committed a violation of Section
434.09(a) of this Traffic Code, and who would be required to be sentenced under
ORC 4511.19(G)(1)(c) or (d) had the person be charged with a violation of state
law, the court, as a condition of granting limited driving privileges, may
prohibit the person from consuming any beer or intoxicating liquor and may
require the person to wear a monitor that provides continuous alcohol
monitoring that is remote. If the court imposes the requirement, the court
shall require the person to wear the monitor until the person is convicted of,
pleads guilty to, or is found not guilty of the alleged violation or the
charges in the case are dismissed. Any consumption by the person of beer or
intoxicating liquor prior to that time is grounds for revocation by the court
of the person's limited driving privilege. The person shall pay all costs
associated with the monitor, including the cost of remote monitoring.
      (2)   If a court grants limited driving privileges to a person who is
alleged to have committed a violation of Section
434.09(a) of this Traffic Code, and who would be required to be sentenced under
ORC 4511.19(G)(1)(e) had the person be charged with a violation of state law,
the court, as a condition of granting limited driving privileges, unless the
court determines otherwise, shall prohibit the person from consuming any beer
or intoxicating liquor and shall require the person to wear a monitor that
provides continuous alcohol monitoring that is remote. The court shall require
the person to wear the monitor until the person is convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or is found not guilty of the alleged violation or the charges in the case
are dismissed. Any consumption by the person of beer or intoxicating liquor
prior to that time is grounds for revocation by the court of the person's
limited driving privilege. The person shall pay all costs associated with the
monitor, including the cost of remote monitoring.
(ORC 4511.198)
EDITOR'S NOTE: See ORC 4510.13 for regulations regarding mandatory suspension
periods.
434.14 OPERATION OF IMMOBILIZED VEHICLE.
   (a)   Prohibition. No person shall operate a motor vehicle or permit the
operation of a motor vehicle upon any public or private property used by the
public for vehicular travel or parking while knowing or having reasonable cause
to believe that the motor vehicle has been ordered immobilized pursuant to an
immobilization order issued under Sections
434.09 /4511.19,
434.17 /4511.203,
440.07 /4510.11,
440.10 /4510.14 or
440.17 /4510.41 of this Traffic Code or under ORC 4503.233.
   (b)   Forfeiture of Vehicle. A motor vehicle that is operated by a person
during a violation of division (a) of this section shall be criminally
forfeited to the City or State in accordance with the procedures contained in
ORC 4503.234.
   (c)   Penalties. Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(ORC 4503.236)
434.15 IMMOBILIZING OR DISABLING DEVICE PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No offender who has been granted limited or unlimited driving
privileges, during any period that the offender is required to operate only a
motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, shall request
or permit any other person to breathe into the device if it is an ignition
interlock device or another type of device that monitors the concentration of
alcohol in a person's breath, or to otherwise start the motor vehicle equipped
with the device, for the purpose of providing the offender with an operable
motor vehicle.
      (2)   No person shall breathe into an immobilizing or disabling device
that is an ignition interlock device or another type of device that monitors
the concentration of alcohol in a person's breath or otherwise start a motor
vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, for the purpose of
providing an operable motor vehicle to another person who has been granted
limited or unlimited driving privileges under the condition that the person
operate only a motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device.
      (3)   No unauthorized person shall tamper with or circumvent the
operation of an immobilizing or disabling device.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of an immobilizing
or disabling device violation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 4510.44)
434.16 IMMOBILIZATION WAIVER ORDER PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   Violation as Wrongful Entrustment. When a family or household member
of an offender, who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of ORC
4511.19(A) or Section
434.09 (a) of this Traffic Code, is permitted to operate a vehicle under an
immobilization waiver order issued under ORC 4503.235, that family or household
member shall not permit the offender to operate the vehicle. If a family or
household member who is permitted to operate a vehicle under an immobilization
waiver order issued under ORC 4503.235 permits the offender to operate the
vehicle, both of the following apply:
      (1)   The court that issued the immobilization waiver order shall
terminate the order and shall issue an immobilization order in accordance with
ORC 4503.233 that applies to the vehicle, and the immobilization order shall be
in effect for the remaining period of time for which the immobilization of the
vehicle otherwise would have been required under ORC 4511.19(G), ORC 4511.193
or Section 434.089 of this Traffic Code if the immobilization waiver order had
not been issued.
      (2)   The conduct of the family or household member in permitting the
offender to operate the vehicle is a violation of Section
434.17 of this Traffic Code, and the family or household member may be charged
under Section
434.17 with wrongful entrustment of a motor vehicle.
   (b)   Operating a Motor Vehicle in Violation of an Immobilization Waiver. No
offender, who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of ORC 4511.19(A)
or Section
434.09 (a) of this Traffic Code, shall operate a motor vehicle subject to an
immobilization waiver order. Whoever violates this division is guilty of
operating a motor vehicle in violation of an immobilization waiver, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (c)   Definitions. "Family or household member" has the same meaning as in
ORC 2919.25, except that the person must be currently residing with the
offender.
(ORC 4503.235)
434.17 WRONGFUL ENTRUSTMENT OF A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (a)   Wrongful Entrustment. No person shall permit a motor vehicle owned by
the person or under the person's control to be driven by another if any of the
following apply:
      (1)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person does not have a valid driver's or commercial driver's license or
permit or valid nonresident driving privileges.
      (2)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person's driver's or commercial driver's license or permit or nonresident
operating privileges have been suspended or canceled under ORC Chapter 4510. or
any other provision of the Revised Code.
      (3)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person's act of driving the motor vehicle would violate any prohibition
contained in ORC Chapter 4509. or any provision of this Traffic Code.
      (4)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person's act of driving would violate Section 434.09 of this Traffic
Code, ORC 4511.19, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (5)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
vehicle is the subject of an immobilization waiver order issued under ORC
4503.235 and the other person is prohibited from operating the vehicle under
that order.
   (b)   Evidence. Without limiting or precluding the consideration of any
other evidence in determining whether a violation of division (a) of this
section has occurred, it shall be prima-facie evidence that the offender knows
or has reasonable cause to believe that the operator of the motor vehicle owned
by the offender or under the offender's control is in a category described in
division (a) of this section if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (a)(1), (a)(3), or (a)(5) of this section, the offender and the
operator of the motor vehicle reside in the same household and are related by
consanguinity or affinity.
      (2)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (a)(2) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle reside in the same household, and the offender knows or has reasonable
cause to believe that the operator has been charged with or convicted of any
violation of law or ordinance, or has committed any other act or omission, that
would or could result in the suspension or cancellation of the operator's
license, permit, or privilege.
      (3)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (a)(4) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle occupied the motor vehicle together at the time of the offense.
   (c)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of wrongful
entrustment of a motor vehicle and shall be punished as provided in divisions
(c) to (h) of this section.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (c)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section is guilty of an
unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the
offender shall be sentenced pursuant to ORC 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the
offender shall not be sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be
sentenced to a community residential sanction pursuant to ORC 2929.26;
notwithstanding ORC 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to one
thousand dollars ($1,000); and, notwithstanding ORC 2929.27(A)(3), the offender
may be ordered pursuant to division (C) of that section to serve a term of
community service of up to five hundred (500) hours. The failure of an offender
to complete a term of community service imposed by the court may be punished as
indirect criminal contempt under ORC 2705.02(A) that may be filed in the
underlying case.
      (2)   A.   If, within three (3) years of a violation of division (a)(1),
(a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section, the offender previously has pled guilty to
or been convicted of two (2) or more violations of division (a)(1), (a)(2), or
(a)(3) of this section, ORC 4511.203, or a substantially equivalent State law
or municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
         B.   Whoever violates division (a)(4) or (a)(5) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   For any violation of this section, in addition to the penalties
imposed under ORC Chapter 2929., the court may impose a class seven suspension
of the offender's driver's license, commercial driver's license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, nonresident operating privilege from
the range specified in ORC 4510.02(A)(7) and, if the vehicle involved in the
offense is registered in the name of the offender, the court may order one of
the following:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(3)B. or (c)(3)C. of
this section, the court may order, for thirty (30) days, the immobilization of
the vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of that vehicle's
license plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and enforced under ORC
4503.233.
         B.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty
to one (1) violation of this section, ORC 4511.203, or a substantially
equivalent State law or municipal ordinance, the court may order, for sixty
(60) days, the immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense and the
impoundment of that vehicle's license plates. If issued, the order shall be
issued and enforced under ORC 4503.233.
         C.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty
to two (2) or more violations of this section, ORC 4511.203, or a substantially
equivalent State law or municipal ordinance, the court may order the criminal
forfeiture to the State of the vehicle involved in the offense. If issued, the
order shall be issued and enforced under ORC 4503.234. If title to a motor
vehicle that is subject to an order for criminal forfeiture under division is
assigned or transferred and ORC 4503.234(B)(2) or (3) apply, in addition to or
independent of any other penalty established by law, the court may fine the
offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the national
automobile dealers association. The proceeds from any fine imposed under this
division shall be distributed in accordance with ORC 4503.234(C)(2).
   (d)   Immobilization. If a court orders the immobilization of a vehicle
under division (c)(3)A. or (c)(3)B. of this section, the court shall not
release the vehicle from the immobilization before the termination of the
period of immobilization ordered unless the court is presented with current
proof of financial responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
   (e)   Forfeiture. If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle
under division (c)(3)C. of this section, upon receipt of the order from the
court, neither the registrar of motor vehicles nor any deputy registrar shall
accept any application for the registration or transfer of registration of any
motor vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the order. The period of
denial shall be five (5) years after the date the order is issued, unless,
during that five-year period, the court with jurisdiction of the offense that
resulted in the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the registrar of
the termination. If the court terminates the forfeiture and notifies the
registrar, the registrar shall take all necessary measures to permit the person
to register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to transfer the
registration of the vehicle.
   (f)   Exceptions. This section does not apply to motor vehicle rental
dealers or motor vehicle leasing dealers, as defined in ORC 4549.65.
   (g)   Evidence of Violation. Evidence of a conviction of, plea of guilty to,
or adjudication as a delinquent child for a violation of this section or a
substantially similar municipal ordinance shall not be admissible as evidence
in any civil action that involves the offender or delinquent child who is the
subject of the conviction, plea, or adjudication and that arises from the
wrongful entrustment of a motor vehicle.
   (h)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, a vehicle is owned by a
person if, at the time of a violation of this section, the vehicle is
registered in the person's name.
(ORC 4511.203)
EDITOR'S NOTE: see Section
440.18, seizure of vehicle upon arrest of a person for wrongful entrustment.
434.90 DEFINITIONS APPLICABLE TO SECTIONS 434.09 - 434.13.
   As used in Sections
434.09 to
434.13 of this Traffic Code:
   (a)   "Community residential sanction," "continuous alcohol monitoring,"
"jail," "sanction," and have the same meanings as in ORC 2929.01.
   (b)   "Drug of Abuse" has the same meaning as in ORC 4506.01.
   (c)   "Equivalent Offense" means any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of division ORC 4511.19(A) [OVI].
      (2)    A violation of a municipal OVI ordinance.
      (3)   A violation of ORC 2903.04 [Involuntary Manslaughter] in a case in
which the offender was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of
that section.
      (4)   A violation of ORC 2903.06(A)(1) or 2903.08, or a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to either of those divisions.
      (5)   A violation of ORC 2903.06(A)(2), (3), or (4) [Aggravated Vehicular
Homicide, Vehicular Homicide, Vehicular Manslaughter], ORC 2903.08(A)(2)
[Aggravated Vehicular Assault], or former ORC 2903.07, or a municipal ordinance
that is substantially equivalent to any of those divisions or that former
section, in a case in which a judge or jury as the trier of fact found that the
offender was under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination
of them.
      (6)   A violation of ORC 1547.11(A) [Watercraft OVI].
      (7)   A violation of a municipal ordinance prohibiting a person from
operating or being in physical control of any vessel underway or from
manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar device on the waters of this
state while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination
of them or prohibiting a person from operating or being in physical control of
any vessel underway or from manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar
device on the waters of this state with a prohibited concentration of alcohol,
a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
      (8)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
ORC 4511.19(A) or ORC 1547.11(A).
      (9)   A violation of a former law of this State that was substantially
equivalent to ORC 4511.19(A) or ORC 1547.11(A).
   (d)   "Equivalent Offense that is Vehicle-Related" means an equivalent
offense that is any of the following:
      (1)   A violation described in division (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(3), (c)(4),
or (c)(5) of this section.
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
ORC 4511.19(A) [OVI].
      (3)   A violation of a former law of this State that was substantially
equivalent to ORC 4511.19(A).
   (e)   "Municipal OVI Ordinance" and "Municipal OVI Offense" mean any
municipal ordinance prohibiting a person from operating a vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or
prohibiting a person from operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration
of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance
in the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
(ORC 4511.181)
434.99 PENALTIES.
   See Section
402.99 of this Traffic Code for penalties for provisions of this Chapter for
which no penalty is otherwise provided in the section violated.
CHAPTER 436
Commercial Vehicles; Buses; Heavy Vehicles
436.01   Improper Use of a Non-Commercial Vehicle
436.02   Display of Certificates of Registration
436.03   Wheel Protectors
436.04   Safety Lighting on Commercial Vehicles
436.05   Extra Signal Equipment
436.06   Display of Warning Devices on Disabled Vehicles
436.07   Requirements for Vehicles Transporting Explosives
436.08   Safety Inspection Decals for Buses
436.09   School Bus Regulations
436.10   Safety Inspection Decals for School Buses
436.11   School Buses not used for School Purposes
436.12   Registration of School Buses
436.13   School Bus Markings
436.14   Lights on School Buses
436.15   Load Limits on City Streets and Bridges; Truck Routes
436.16   Weight of Load; Width of Tire
436.17   Load Limits for Vehicles with Pneumatic Tires
436.18   Load Limits for Vehicles with Solid Tires
436.19   Load Limits for Coal, Farm, or Log Trucks or Solid Waste Haul Vehicles
436.20    Load Limits for Surface Mining Trucks and Hot Asphalt Mix Vehicles
436.21   Maximum Width, Height, and Length
436.22   Reduction of Weight and Speed During Times of Thaws and Moisture
436.23   Operation of Vehicle in Excess of Load Limits Prohibited; Exceptions
for Natural Gas Fueled Vehicles, Electric Vehicles, and Fire Engines
436.24   Special Permits for Vehicles of Excessive Weight, Size, or Load
436.25   Weighing Vehicle; Removal of Excess Load
436.26   Statement of Gross Vehicle Weight
436.27   Exemption to Size and Weight Provisions for Towing Vehicles
436.99   Penalties
   CROSS REFERENCES
      See Section Histories for Similar State Law
      Definitions - TRAF.
400.08
      Exemptions for Emergency and Public Safety Vehicles - TRAF.
402.07
      Focus and Aim of Headlights - TRAF.
438.18
      General Operation of Motor Vehicles - see TRAF.
CH. 432.
      License Suspension for Reckless Operation - see ORC 4510.15
      Notice of Arrest of Driver of Commercial Vehicle - TRAF.
442.10
      Penalty, when not otherwise provided - TRAF.
402.99
      Rear Red Reflectors - TRAF.
438.05
      Safety and Equipment Requirements - see TRAF.
CH. 438
      Seatbelts Required in Taxicabs - TRAF.
438.30
      State Manual (for Uniform System of Traffic-Control Devices) - TRAF.
400.04
436.01 IMPROPER USE OF A NON-COMMERCIAL VEHICLE.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall use a motor vehicle registered as a
noncommercial vehicle for other than the purposes set forth in ORC 4501.01.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
(ORC 4503.05)
436.02 DISPLAY OF CERTIFICATES OF REGISTRATION.
   (a)   Requirements.
      (1)   The operator of a commercial car, as defined in ORC 4501.01, when
the commercial car is required to be registered under the Ohio Revised Code,
shall, when operating the commercial car, trailer, or semitrailer on the
streets, roads, or highways of this City, display inside or on the vehicle the
certificate of registration for the commercial car, trailer, or semitrailer
provided for in ORC 4503.19 or shall carry the certificate on the operator's
person and display it upon the demand of any law enforcement officer.
      (2)   Every person operating a commercial car, trailer, or semitrailer
required to be registered under the Ohio Revised Code shall permit the
inspection of the certificate of registration upon demand of any law
enforcement officer.
(ORC 4549.18)
   (b)   Exceptions. Commercial cars which are registered under the laws of
another state, the owners of which are not residents of this state, and which
are operated in compliance with the laws of the state of their owner's
residence, are not subject to this section.
(ORC 4549.19)
   (c)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a commercial car
certificate of registration violation, a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4549.18)
436.03 WHEEL PROTECTORS.
   (a)   Requirements. No person shall drive or operate, or cause to be driven
or operated, any commercial car, trailer, or semitrailer, used for the
transportation of goods or property, the gross weight of which, with load,
exceeds three tons (3T), upon the public highways, streets, bridges, and
culverts within this City, unless such vehicle is equipped with suitable metal
protectors or substantial flexible flaps on the rearmost wheels of such vehicle
or combination of vehicles to prevent, as far as practicable, the wheels from
throwing dirt, water, or other materials on the windshields of following
vehicles. Such protectors or flaps shall have a ground clearance of not more
than one third (1/3) of the distance from the center of the rearmost axle to
the center of the flaps under any conditions of loading of the vehicle, and
they shall be at least as wide as the tires they are protecting. If the vehicle
is so designed and constructed that such requirements are accomplished by means
of fenders, body construction, or other means of enclosure, then no such
protectors or flaps are required. Rear wheels not covered at the top by
fenders, bodies, or other parts of the vehicle shall be covered at the top by
protective means extending at least to the center line of the rearmost axle.
(ORC 5577.11)
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than
twenty-five dollars ($25.00).
(ORC 5577.99)
436.04 SAFETY LIGHTING ON COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (a)   Requirements.
      (1)   Buses, trucks, commercial tractors, trailers, semitrailers, and
pole trailers, when operated upon any street or highway within the City, shall
be equipped with clearance lights, marker lights, reflectors, and stop lights
as required by the rules and regulations prescribed by the Ohio Director of
Public Safety, and such equipment shall be lighted at all times mentioned in
Section
438.02 of this Traffic Code, except that clearance lights and side marker
lights need not be lighted on any such vehicle when it is operated within the
City where there is sufficient light to reveal any person or substantial object
on the highway at a distance of five hundred feet (500').
      (2)   Such equipment shall be in addition to all other lights
specifically required by Chapter 438 of this Traffic Code or ORC 4513.02 -
4513.16.
      (3)   Vehicles operated under the jurisdiction of the Ohio Public
Utilities Commission are not subject to this section.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.07)
436.05 EXTRA SIGNAL EQUIPMENT.
   (a)   Requirements. No person shall operate any motor truck, bus, or
commercial tractor upon any street or highway within the City at any time from
sunset to sunrise unless there is carried in such vehicle, except as provided
in division (b) of this section, the following equipment which shall be of the
types approved by the Ohio Director of Transportation:
      (1)   At least three (3) flares or three (3) red reflectors or three (3)
red electric lanterns, each of which is capable of being seen and distinguished
at a distance of five hundred feet (500') under normal atmospheric conditions
at nighttime.
      (2)   At least three (3) red-burning fusees, unless red reflectors or red
electric lanterns are carried.
      (3)   At least two (2) red cloth flags, not less than twelve inches (12")
square, with standards to support them.
      (4)   The type of red reflectors shall comply with such standards and
specifications in effect on September 16, 1963, or later established by the
Interstate Commerce Commission and must be certified as meeting such standards
by Underwriter's Laboratories.
   (b)   Requirements for Vehicles Transporting Flammable Liquids. No person
shall operate at the time and under the conditions stated in this section any
motor vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk, or in
transporting compressed flammable gases, unless there is carried in such
vehicle three (3) red electric lanterns or three (3) red reflectors meeting the
requirements stated in division (a) of this section. There shall not be carried
in any such vehicle any flare, fusee, or signal produced by a flame.
   (c)   Exemptions. This section does not apply to any person who operates any
motor vehicle in a work area designated by protection equipment devices that
are displayed and used in accordance with the State Manual.
   (d)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.27)
436.06 DISPLAY OF WARNING DEVICES ON DISABLED VEHICLES.
   (a)   Requirements When Lighted Lamps are Required. Whenever any motor
truck, bus, commercial tractor, trailer, semi-trailer, or pole trailer is
disabled upon the traveled portion of any street or highway or the shoulder
thereof inside the City or upon any freeway, expressway, thruway, and
connecting, entering or exiting ramps within the City at any time when lighted
lamps are required on vehicles, the operator of such vehicle shall display the
following warning devices upon the street or highway during the time the
vehicle is so disabled on the highway except as provided in division (b) of
this section:
      (1)   A lighted fusee shall be immediately placed on the roadway at the
traffic side of such vehicle, unless red electric lanterns or red reflectors
are displayed.
      (2)   Within the burning period of the fusee and as promptly as possible,
three (3) lighted flares or pot torches, or three (3) red reflectors, or three
(3) red electric lanterns shall be placed on the roadway as follows:
         A.   One at a distance of forty (40) paces or approximately one
hundred feet (100') in advance of the vehicle;
         B.   One at a distance of forty (40) paces or approximately one
hundred feet (100') to the rear of the vehicle except as provided in this
section, each in the center of the lane of traffic occupied by the disabled
vehicle; and
         C.   One at the traffic side of the vehicle.
   (b)   Requirements for Vehicles Transporting Flammable Liquids. Whenever any
vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk, or in transporting
compressed flammable gases, is disabled upon a street or highway at any time or
place mentioned in division (a) of this section, the driver of such vehicle
shall display upon the roadway the following warning devices:
      (1)   One (1) red electric lantern or one (1) red reflector shall be
immediately placed on the roadway at the traffic side of the vehicle.
      (2)   Two (2) other red electric lanterns or two (2) other red reflectors
shall be placed to the front and rear of the vehicle in the same manner
prescribed for flares in division (a) of this section.
When a vehicle of a type specified in this division is disabled, the use of
flares, fusees, or any signal produced by flame as warning signals is
prohibited.
   (c)   Requirements When Lighted Lamps are not Required. Whenever any vehicle
of a type referred to in this section is disabled upon the traveled portion any
street or highway or the shoulder thereof inside the City or upon any freeway,
expressway, thruway and connecting, entering or exiting ramps within the City
at any time when the display of fusees, flares, red reflectors, or electric
lanterns is not required, the operator of such vehicle shall display two (2)
red flags upon the roadway in the lane of traffic occupied by the disabled
vehicle, one at a distance of forty (40) paces or approximately one hundred
feet (100') in advance of the vehicle, and one at a distance of forty (40)
paces or approximately one hundred feet (100') to the rear of the vehicle,
except as provided in this section.
   (d)   Warning Device Requirements. The flares, fusees, lanterns, red
reflectors, and flags to be displayed as required in this section shall conform
to the requirements of Section 436.03 of this Traffic Code applicable thereto.
   (e)   Requirements When View is Obstructed. In the event the vehicle is
disabled near a curve, crest of a hill, or other obstruction of view, the
flare, flag, reflector, or lantern in that direction shall be placed as to
afford ample warning to other users of the street or highway, but in no case
shall it be placed less than forty (40) paces or approximately one hundred feet
(100') nor more than one hundred twenty (120) paces or approximately three
hundred feet (300') from the disabled vehicle.
   (f)   Exceptions. This section does not apply to the operator of any vehicle
in a work area designated by protection equipment devices that are displayed
and used in accordance with the State Manual.
   (g)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.28)
436.07 REQUIREMENTS FOR VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   (a)   Requirements. Any person operating any vehicle transporting explosives
upon a street or highway within this City shall at all times comply with the
following requirements:
      (1)   The vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and on the
rear with the word "EXPLOSIVES" in letters not less than eight inches (8')
high, or there shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not
less than twenty-four (24") inches square marked with the word "DANGER" in
white letters six inches (6") high, or shall be marked or placarded in
accordance with Section 177.823 of the United States Department of
Transportation regulations.
      (2)   The vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two (2) fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use, and placed at convenient
points on such vehicle.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.29)
EDITOR'S NOTE: See Section
436.03(b) for requirements regarding transportation of flammable liquids.
436.08 SAFETY INSPECTION DECALS FOR BUSES.
   (a)   Safety Inspection Decals. Except as provided in division (b), on and
after July 1, 2001, no person shall operate a bus, nor shall any person being
the owner of a bus or having supervisory responsibility for a bus permit the
operation of any bus, within this City unless the bus displays a valid, current
safety inspection decal issued by the Ohio State Highway Patrol under ORC
4513.52.
   (b)   Exception. For the purpose of complying with the requirements of this
section and ORC 4513.52, the owner or other operator of a bus may drive the bus
directly to an inspection site conducted by the Ohio State Highway Patrol and
directly back to the person's place of business without a valid registration
and without displaying a safety inspection decal, provided that no passengers
may occupy the bus during such operation.
   (c)   Penalties. Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 4513.51)
   (d)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "Bus" means:
         A.   Any vehicle used for the transportation of passengers that meets
at least one of the following:
            (i)   Was originally designed by the manufacturer to transport more
than fifteen (15) passengers, including the driver; or
            (ii)   Either the gross vehicle weight rating or the gross vehicle
weight exceeds ten thousand pounds (10,000 lbs.).
         B.   "Bus" does not include a church bus, as defined in ORC 4503.07,
or a school bus unless the church bus or school bus is used in the
transportation of passengers by a motor carrier.
         C.   "Bus" also does not include any of the following:
            (i)   Any vehicle operated exclusively on a rail or rails;
            (ii)   A trolley bus operated by electric power derived from a
fixed overhead wire furnishing local passenger transportation similar to
street-railway service;
            (iii)   Vehicles owned or leased by government agencies or
political subdivisions.
      (2)   "Motor carrier" has the same meaning as in ORC 4923.01.
(ORC 4513.50)
436.09 SCHOOL BUS REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall operate a vehicle used for pupil
transportation within this City in violation of the rules of the State
Department of Education and Workforce or Department of Public Safety. No
person, being the owner thereof or having the supervisory responsibility
therefor, shall permit the operation of a vehicle used for pupil transportation
within this City in violation of the rules of the Ohio Department of Education
and Workforce or the Department of Public Safety.
   (b)   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender
previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one (1) or more violations
of this section, Sections
436.10 ,
436.11 ,
436.12 ,
436.13 , or
442.09  of this Traffic Code, or a state law or a municipal ordinance that is
substantially similar to any of those sections, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (c)   Definitions. As used in this section, "vehicle used for pupil
transportation" means any vehicle that is identified as such by the Ohio
Department of Education by rule and that is subject to OAC Chapter 3301-83, and
includes all school buses both publicly and privately owned.
(ORC 4511.76)
436.10 SAFETY INSPECTION DECALS FOR SCHOOL BUSES.
   (a)   Safety Inspection Decals. No person shall operate, nor shall any
person being the owner thereof or having supervisory responsibility therefor
permit the operation of, a school bus within this City unless there are
displayed thereon the decals issued by the Ohio State Highway Patrol bearing
the proper date of inspection for the calendar year for which the inspection
decals were issued. The decal shall be affixed to the outside surface of each
side of each school bus.
   (b)   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender
previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one or more violations of
this section, Sections
436.10 ,
436.11 ,
436.12 ,
436.13 , or
442.09  of this Traffic Code, or a state law or a municipal ordinance that is
substantially similar to any of those sections, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (c)   License Suspension. Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of
record of a violation of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or
independent of all other penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period
of time, not exceeding three (3) years, or cancel the license of any person,
partnership, association, or corporation, issued under ORC 4511.763.
(ORC 4511.761)
436.11 SCHOOL BUSES NOT USED FOR SCHOOL PURPOSES.
   (a)   Prohibitions. Except as provided in division (b) of this section, no
person who is the owner of a bus that previously was registered as a school bus
that is used or is to be used exclusively for purposes other than the
transportation of children shall operate the bus or permit it to be operated
within this City unless the bus has been painted a color different from that
prescribed for school buses by ORC 4511.77 and painted in such a way that the
words "STOP" and "SCHOOL BUS" are obliterated.
   (b)   Church Buses. Any church bus that previously was registered as a
school bus and is registered under ORC 4503.07 may retain the paint color
prescribed for school buses by ORC 4511.77 if the bus complies with all of the
following:
      (1)   The words "SCHOOL BUS" required by ORC 4511.77 are covered or
obliterated and the bus is marked on the front and rear with the words "CHURCH
BUS" painted in black lettering not less than ten inches (10") in height.
      (2)   The automatically extended stop warning sign required by ORC
4511.75 is removed and the word "STOP" required by ORC 4511.77 is covered or
obliterated.
      (3)   The flashing red and amber lights required by ORC 4511.771 are
covered or removed.
      (4)   The inspection decal required by ORC 4511.761 is covered or
removed.
      (5)   The identification number assigned under ORC 4511.764 and marked in
black lettering on the front and rear of the bus is covered or obliterated.
   (c)   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender
previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one (1) or more violations
of this section, Sections
436.10 ,
436.11 ,
436.12 ,
436.13 , or
442.09  of this Traffic Code, or of a state law or a municipal ordinance that
is substantially similar to any of those sections, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (d)   License Suspension. Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of
record of a violation of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or
independent of all other penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period
of time, not exceeding three (3) years, or cancel the license of any person,
partnership, association, or corporation, issued under ORC 4511.763.
(ORC 4511.762)
436.12 REGISTRATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (a)   Identifying Numbers. No person shall operate, nor shall any person
being the owner thereof or having supervisory responsibility therefor permit
the operation of, a school bus within this City unless there is displayed
thereon an identifying number, issued by the Superintendent of the Ohio State
Highway Patrol, in accordance with ORC 4511.76. The required identifying number
shall be marked on the front and rear of the vehicle in black lettering not
less than six inches (6") in height and will remain unchanged as long as the
ownership of that vehicle remains the same.
   (b)   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender
previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one (1) or more violations
of this section, Sections
436.10 ,
436.11 ,
436.12 ,
436.13 , or
442.09  of this Traffic Code, or of a state law or a municipal ordinance that
is substantially similar to any of those sections, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(ORC 4511.764)
436.13 SCHOOL BUS MARKINGS.
   (a)   Required Markings. No person shall operate, nor shall any person being
the owner thereof or having supervisory responsibility therefor permit the
operation of, a school bus within this City unless it is painted national
school bus yellow and is marked on both front and rear with the words "SCHOOL
BUS" in black lettering not less than eight inches (8") in height and on the
rear of the bus with the word "STOP" in black lettering not less than ten
inches (10") in height.
   (b)   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender
previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one (1) or more violations
of this section, Sections
436.10 ,
436.11 ,
436.12 ,
436.13 , or
442.09  of this Traffic Code, or of a state law or a municipal ordinance that
is substantially similar to any of those sections, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (c)   License Suspension. Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of
record of a violation of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or
independent of all other penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period
of time, not exceeding three (3) years, or cancel the license of any person,
partnership, association, or corporation, issued under ORC 4511.763.
(ORC 4511.77)
436.14 LIGHTS ON SCHOOL BUSES.
   (a)   Required Lights. Every school bus shall, in addition to any other
equipment and distinctive markings required pursuant to ORC 4511.76, 4511.761,
4511.764, and 4511.77, be equipped with signal lamps mounted as high as
practicable, which shall display to the front two (2) alternately flashing red
lights and two (2) alternately flashing amber lights located at the same level,
and to the rear two (2) alternately flashing red lights and two (2) alternately
flashing amber lights located at the same level, and these lights shall be
visible at five hundred feet (500') in normal sunlight. The alternately
flashing red lights shall be spaced as widely as practicable, and the
alternately flashing amber lights shall be located next to them.
   (b)   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to
one (1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to
two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.771)
436.15 LOAD LIMITS ON CITY STREETS AND BRIDGES; TRUCK ROUTES.
   (a)   Limitations on Bridges. No person shall operate a vehicle exceeding
the posted maximum allowable gross weight upon any bridge or culvert within
this City, except upon those bridges designated as a truck route and marked as
such by appropriate traffic signs.
   (b)   Limitations on Local Streets.
      (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle, except for school buses,
exceeding a gross weight of five tons (5T.) upon any street, alley or highway
within this City other than a state route, where not prohibited, except upon
those local streets designated as a truck route and marked as such by
appropriate signs; however, a person may operate a vehicle deviating from
either a state route or a designated truck route within the City if such
operation is necessary to load or unload property, to go to or from the usual
place of storage of such vehicle, or to perform any other legitimate business
or act other than passage through the City.
      (2)   Signs shall be posted indicating "NO THRU TRUCKS - GROSS WEIGHT 5
TONS," or words of similar import, in conformance with the State Manual to
alert operators of the limitations imposed by this section, and no person shall
operate a vehicle in violation of any signs so posted.
(Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
436.16 WEIGHT OF LOAD; WIDTH OF TIRE.
   (a)   Load Limits. No person, firm, or corporation shall transport over the
improved public streets, alleys, highways, intercounty highways, state
highways, bridges, or culverts within this City any vehicle propelled by
muscular, motor, or other power, any burden, including weight of vehicle and
load, greater than the following:
      (1)   Metal Tires:
         A.   In vehicles having metal tires three inches (3") or less in
width, a load of five hundred pounds (500 lbs.) for each inch (1") of the total
width of tire on all wheels;
         B.   When the tires on such vehicles exceed three inches (3") in
width, an additional load of eight hundred pounds (800 lbs.) shall be permitted
for each inch (1") by which the total width of the tires on all wheels exceeds
twelve inches (12").
      (2)   Rubber Tires: In vehicles having tires of rubber or other similar
substances, for each inch (1") of the total width of tires on all wheels, as
follows:
         A.   For tires three inches (3") in width, a load of four hundred
fifty pounds (450 lbs.);
         B.   For tires three and one-half inches (3.5") in width, a load of
four hundred fifty pounds (450 lbs.);
         C.   For tires four inches (4") in width, a load of five hundred
pounds (500 lbs.);
         D.   For tires five inches (5") in width, a load of six hundred pounds
(600 lbs.);
         E.   For tires six inches (6") and over in width, a load of six
hundred fifty pounds (650 lbs.).
      (3)   In no event shall the load, including the proportionate weight of
vehicle that can be concentrated on any wheel, exceed six hundred fifty pounds
(650 lbs.) to each inch (1") in width of the tread as defined in this section
for solid tires, or each inch (1") in the actual diameter of pneumatic tires
measured when inflated and not bearing a load.
   (b)   Tire Width.
      (1)   The total width of tires on all wheels shall be, in case of solid
tires of rubber or other similar substance, the actual width in inches of all
such tires between the flanges at the base of the tires, but in no event shall
that portion of the tire coming in contact with the road surface be less than
two thirds the width so measured between the flanges.
      (2)   In the case of pneumatic tires, of rubber or other similar
substance, the total width of tires on all wheels shall be the actual width of
all such tires, measured at the widest portion thereof when inflated and not
bearing a load.
(ORC 5577.03)
436.17 LOAD LIMITS FOR VEHICLES WITH PNEUMATIC TIRES.
   (a)   Maximum Wheel Load. The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of any
vehicle, load, object, or structure operated or moved upon the improved public
streets, alleys, highways, intercounty highways, state highways, bridges, or
culverts within this City shall not exceed six hundred fifty pounds (650 lbs.)
per inch (1") width of pneumatic tire, measured as prescribed by Section 436.16
of this Traffic Code.
   (b)   Maximum Weight of Vehicle and Load. The weight of vehicle and load
imposed upon a road surface that is not part of the interstate system within
this City by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not exceed any of the
following weight limitations:
      (1)   On any one axle, twenty thousand pounds (20,000 lbs.).
      (2)   On any two (2) successive axles:
         A.   Spaced four feet (4') or less apart, and weighed simultaneously,
twenty-four thousand pounds (24,000 lbs.);
         B.   Spaced more than four feet (4') apart, and weighed
simultaneously, thirty-four thousand pounds (34,000 lbs.), plus one thousand
pounds (1,000 lbs.) per foot (1') or fraction thereof, over four feet (4'), not
to exceed forty thousand pounds (40,000 lbs.).
      (3)   On any three (3) successive load-bearing axles designed to equalize
the load between such axles and spaced so that each such axle of the three-axle
group is more than four feet (4') from the next axle in the three-axle group
and so that the spacing between the first axle and the third axle of the three-
axle group is no more than nine feet (9'), and with such load-bearing three-
axle group weighed simultaneously as a unit:
         A.   Forty-eight thousand pounds (48,000 lbs.), with the total weight
of vehicle and load not exceeding thirty-eight thousand pounds (38,000 lbs.)
plus an additional nine hundred pounds (900 lbs.) for each foot (1') of spacing
between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the vehicle;
         B.   As an alternative to division (b)(3)A. of this section, forty-two
thousand five hundred pounds (42,500 lbs.), if part of a six-axle vehicle
combination with at least twenty feet (20') of spacing between the front axle
and rearmost axle, with the total weight of vehicle and load not exceeding
fifty-four thousand pounds (54,000 lbs.) plus an additional six hundred pounds
(600 lbs.) for each foot (1') of spacing between the front axle and the
rearmost axle of the vehicle.
      (4)   The total weight of vehicle and load utilizing any combination of
axles, other than as provided for three-axle groups in division (b)(3) of this
section, shall not exceed thirty-eight thousand pounds (38,000 lbs.) plus an
additional nine hundred pounds (900 lbs.) for each foot (1') of spacing between
the front axle and rearmost axle of the vehicle.
   (c)   Maximum Overall Gross Weight. Notwithstanding division (b) of this
section, the maximum overall gross weight of vehicle and load imposed upon the
road surface shall not exceed eighty thousand pounds (80,000 lbs.).
   (d)   Towing Another Vehicle. Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
when a vehicle is towing another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection
shall be of a length such as will limit the spacing between nearest axles of
the respective vehicles to a distance not in excess of twelve feet and six
inches (12' 6").
   (e)   Exceptions. This section does not apply to passenger bus type vehicles
operated by a regional transit authority pursuant to ORC 306.30 to 306.54.
(ORC 5577.04)
436.18 LOAD LIMITS FOR VEHICLES WITH SOLID TIRES.
   (a)   Maximum Axle Load. No vehicle, load, object, or structure having a
maximum axle load greater than sixteen thousand pounds (16,000 lbs.) when such
vehicle is equipped with solid rubber tires shall be operated or moved upon the
improved public streets, alleys, highways, intercounty highways, state
highways, bridges, or culverts within this City.
   (b)   Maximum Wheel Load. The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of any
such vehicle shall not exceed six hundred fifty pounds (650 lbs.) per inch (1")
width of tire, measured as prescribed by Section
436.16  of this Traffic Code, nor shall any solid tire of rubber or other
resilient material, on any wheel of any such vehicle, be less than one inch
(1") thick when measured from the top of the flanges of the tire channel.
   (c)   Maximum Weight and Vehicle Load. The weight of vehicle and load
imposed upon the road surface by any two (2) successive axles, spaced four feet
(4') or less apart, shall not exceed nineteen thousand pounds (19,000 lbs.) for
solid tires; or by any two (2) successive axles spaced more than four feet (4')
but less than eight feet (8') apart shall not exceed twenty-four thousand
pounds (24,000 lbs.) for solid tires; or by any two (2) successive axles,
spaced eight feet (8') or more apart, shall not exceed twenty-eight thousand
pounds (28,000 lbs.) for solid tires; nor shall the total weight of vehicle and
load exceed, for solid rubber tires, twenty-eight thousand pounds (28,000 lbs.)
plus an additional six hundred pounds (600 lbs.) for each foot (1') or fraction
thereof of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the vehicle;
nor shall the weight of vehicle and load imposed upon the road surface by any
vehicle equipped with solid rubber tires, exceed eighty per cent (80%) of the
permissible weight of vehicle and load as provided for pneumatic tires.
   (d)   Towing Another Vehicle. Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
when a vehicle is towing another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection
shall be of a length such as will limit the spacing between nearest axles of
the respective vehicles to a distance not in excess of twelve feet and six
inches (12' 6").
   (e)   Severability. If the provisions of this section are held to exceed the
weight limitations or other provisions set forth in the Federal-Aid Highway Act
of 1958, 72 Stat. 902, 23 USC 127, this section shall become null and void to
the extent of such inconsistency.
(ORC 5577.041)
436.19 LOAD LIMITS FOR COAL, FARM, OR LOG TRUCKS OR SOLID WASTE HAUL VEHICLES.
   (a)   Load Limits.
      (1)   Notwithstanding Sections
436.17 and
436.23 of this Traffic Code, the following vehicles under the described
conditions upon a state route or a truck route within the City may exceed by no
more than seven and one-half per cent (7.5%) the weight provisions of Sections
436.16 to
436.22 of this Traffic Code and no penalty prescribed in Section
436.99 of this Traffic Code shall be imposed:
         A.   A coal truck transporting coal, from the place of production to
the first point of delivery where title to the coal is transferred;
         B.   A farm truck or farm machinery transporting farm commodities,
from the place of production to the first point of delivery where the
commodities are weighed and title to the commodities is transferred;
         C.   A log truck transporting timber, from the site of its cutting to
the first point of delivery where the timber is transferred;
         D.   A solid waste haul vehicle hauling solid waste, from the place of
production to the first point of delivery where the solid waste is disposed of
or title to the solid waste is transferred.
      (2)   In addition, if any of the vehicles listed in division (a)(1) of
this section and operated under the conditions described in that division does
not exceed by more than seven and one-half per cent (7.5%) the gross vehicle
weight provisions of Sections
436.16 to
436.22 of this Traffic Code and does not exceed the wheel or axle-load limits
of those sections by more than seven and one-half per cent (7.5%), no penalty
prescribed in Section
436.99 of this Traffic Code for a wheel or axle overload shall be imposed.
   (b)   Exceeding Load Limits. If any of the vehicles listed in division (a)
(1) of this section and operated under the conditions described in that
division exceeds the weight provisions of Sections
436.16 to
436.22  of this Traffic Code by more than the percentage allowance of either
division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section, both of the following apply without
regard to the allowance provided by division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in Section
436.99 of this Traffic Code;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by Section
436.99 of this Traffic Code.
   (c)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to the operation of a
farm truck, log truck, or farm machinery transporting farm commodities during
the months of February and March.
      (2)   Regardless of when the operation occurs, division (a) of this
section does not apply to the operation of a vehicle on either of the
following:
         A.   A highway that is part of the interstate system;
         B.   A highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under Sections
436.22 or
436.25 of this Traffic Code or ORC 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08,
5577.09, or 5591.42.
   (d)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "Farm machinery" has the same meaning as in ORC 4501.01.
      (2)   "Farm commodities" includes livestock, bulk milk, corn, soybeans,
tobacco, and wheat.
      (3)   "Farm truck" means a truck used in the transportation from a farm
of farm commodities when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      (4)   "Log truck" means a truck used in the transportation of timber from
the site of its cutting when the truck is operated in accordance with this
section.
      (5)   "Coal truck" means a truck transporting coal from the site where it
is mined when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      (6)   "Solid waste" has the same meaning as in ORC 3734.01.
      (7)   "Solid waste haul vehicle" means a vehicle hauling solid waste for
which a bill of lading has not been issued.
(ORC 5577.042)
436.20 LOAD LIMITS FOR SURFACE MINING TRUCKS AND HOT ASPHALT MIX VEHICLES.
   (a)   Load Limits. Notwithstanding Sections
436.17  and
436.23  of this Traffic Code, the following vehicles under the described
conditions upon a state route or a truck route within the City may exceed by no
more than seven and one-half per cent (7.5%) the weight provisions of Sections
436.16  to
436.22  of this Traffic Code and no penalty prescribed in Section
436.99  of this Traffic Code shall be imposed:
      (1)   A surface mining truck transporting minerals from the place where
the minerals are loaded to any of the following:
         A.   The construction site where the minerals are discharged;
         B.   The place where title to the minerals is transferred; and/or
         C.   The place of processing.
      (2)   A vehicle transporting hot mix asphalt material from the place
where the material is first mixed to the paving site where the material is
discharged.
      (3)   A vehicle transporting concrete from the place where the material
is first mixed to the site where the material is discharged.
      (4)   A vehicle transporting manure, turf, sod, or silage from the site
where the material is first produced to the first place of delivery.
      (5)   A vehicle transporting chips, sawdust, mulch, bark, pulpwood,
biomass, or firewood from the site where the product is first produced or
harvested to the first point where the product is transferred.
   (b)   Wheel and Axle Limits. In addition, if any of the vehicles listed in
division (a) of this section and operated under the conditions described in
that division do not exceed by more than seven and one-half per cent (7.5%) the
gross vehicle weight provisions of Sections
436.16  to
436.22  of this Traffic Code and do not exceed the wheel or axle load limits of
those sections by more than seven and one-half per cent (7.5%), no penalty
prescribed in Section
436.99  of this Code for a wheel or axle overload shall be imposed.
   (c)   Exceeding Load Limits. If any of the vehicles listed in division (a)
of this section and operated under the conditions described in that division
exceed the weight provisions of Sections
436.16  to
436.22  of this Traffic Code by more than the percentage allowance of either
division (a) or (b) of this section, both of the following apply without regard
to the allowance provided by division (a) or (b) of this section:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in Section 436.99 of this Traffic
Code.
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by Section 436.99 of this Traffic Code.
   (d)   Exceptions. Divisions (a) and (b) of this section do not apply to the
operation of a vehicle listed in division (a) of this section on either of the
following:
      (1)   A highway that is part of the interstate system.
      (2)   A highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under Sections
436.22 or
436.25 of this Traffic Code or ORC 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08,
5577.09, or 5591.42.
(ORC 5577.043)
436.21 MAXIMUM WIDTH, HEIGHT, AND LENGTH.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No vehicle shall be operated upon the public highways,
streets, bridges, and culverts within this City, whose dimensions exceed those
specified in this section.
   (b)   Maximum Width. No such vehicle shall have a width in excess of:
      (1)   One hundred four inches (104") for passenger bus-type vehicles
operated exclusively within the City.
      (2)   One hundred two inches (102"), excluding such safety devices as are
required by law, for passenger bus-type vehicles operated over freeways, and
such other state roads within the City with minimum pavement widths of twenty-
two feet (24'), except those state roads or portions of roads over which
operation of one hundred two-inch (102") buses is prohibited by order of the
Ohio Director of Transportation or those City streets or portion of streets
over which operation of one hundred two-inch (102") buses is prohibited by
order of the City's Public Safety Director.
      (3)   One hundred thirty-two inches (132") for traction engines.
      (4)   One hundred two inches (102") for recreational vehicles, excluding
safety devices and retracted awnings and other appurtenances of six inches (6")
or less in width, and except that the Ohio Director of Transportation may
prohibit the operation of one hundred two-inch (102") recreational vehicles on
designated state highways or portions of highways, and except that the City's
Public Safety Director may prohibit the operation of one hundred two-inch
(102") recreational vehicle on designated City streets or portions of streets.
      (5)   One hundred two inches (102"), including load, for all other
vehicles, except that the Ohio Director of Transportation may prohibit the
operation of one hundred two-inch (102") vehicles on such state highways or
portions of state highways as the Director designates, and except that the
City's Public Safety Director may prohibit the operation of one hundred two-
inch (102") vehicles on such City streets or portion of streets as the Director
designates. The width prescribed in this division (b)(5) shall not include
automatic covering devices, tarp and tarp hardware, and tie-down assemblies,
provided these safety devices do not extend more than three inches (3") from
each side of the vehicle.
      (6)   The widths prescribed in this division (b) shall not include side
mirrors, turn signal lamps, marker lamps, handholds for cab entry and egress,
flexible fender extensions, mud flaps, splash and spray suppressant devices,
and load-induced tire bulge.
   (c)   Maximum Length. No such vehicle shall have a length in excess of:
      (1)   Sixty-six feet (66') for passenger bus type vehicles and
articulated passenger bus-type vehicles operated by a regional transit
authority pursuant to ORC 306.30 to 306.54.
      (2)   Forty-five feet (45') for all other passenger bus-type vehicles.
      (3)   Fifty-three feet (53') for any semitrailer when operated in a
commercial tractor-semitrailer combination, with or without load, except that
the Ohio Director of Transportation may prohibit the operation of any such
commercial tractor-semitrailer combination on such state highways or portions
of state highways as the Director designates, and except that the City's Public
Safety Director may prohibit the operation of any such commercial tractor-
semitrailer combination on such City streets or portions of City streets as the
Director designates.
      (4)   Twenty-eight and one-half feet (28.5') for any semitrailer or
trailer when operated in a commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial
tractor-semitrailer-semitrailer combination, except that the Ohio Director of
Transportation may prohibit the operation of any such commercial tractor-
semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-semitrailer-semitrailer combination
on such state highways or portions of state highways as the Director
designates, and except that the City's Public Safety Director may prohibit the
operation any such commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial
tractor-semitrailer-semitrailer combination on such City streets or portion of
City streets as the Director designates.
      (5)   Vehicle Transporter Combinations:
         A.   Ninety-seven feet (97') for drive-away saddle-mount vehicle
transporter combinations and drive-away saddle-mount with full-mount vehicle
transporter combinations when operated on any interstate, United States route,
or state route, including reasonable access travel on all other roadways for a
distance not to exceed one (1) road mile from any interstate, United States
route, or state route, not to exceed three (3) saddle-mounted vehicles, but
which may include one full-mount;
         B.   Seventy-five feet (75') for drive-away saddle-mount vehicle
transporter combinations and drive-away saddle-mount with full-mount vehicle
transporter combinations, when operated on any roadway not designated as an
interstate, United States route, or state route, not to exceed three (3)
saddle-mounted vehicles, but which may include one full-mount.
      (6)   Sixty-five feet (65') for any other combination of vehicles coupled
together, with or without load, except as provided in divisions (c)(3), (c)(4),
and (c)(9) of this section.
      (7)   Forty-five feet (45') for recreational vehicles.
      (8)   Fifty feet (50') for all other vehicles except trailers and
semitrailers, with or without load.
      (9)   The lengths prescribed in divisions (c)(2) to (c)(8) of this
section shall not include safety devices, bumpers attached to the front or rear
of such bus or combination, non-property-carrying devices or components that do
not extend more than twenty-four inches (24") beyond the rear of the vehicle
and are needed for loading or unloading, B-train assembly used between the
first and second semitrailer of a commercial tractor-semitrailer-semitrailer
combination, energy conservation devices as provided in any regulations adopted
by the Secretary of the United States Department of Transportation, or any non-
cargo-carrying refrigeration equipment attached to the front of trailers and
semitrailers. In special cases, vehicles whose dimensions exceed those
prescribed by this section may operate in accordance with rules adopted by the
Ohio Director of Transportation.
      (10)   An automobile transporter or boat transporter shall be allowed a
length of sixty-five feet (65') and a stinger-steered automobile transporter or
stinger-steered boat transporter shall be allowed a length of seventy-five feet
(75'), except that the load thereon may extend no more than four feet (4')
beyond the rear of such vehicles and may extend no more than three feet (3')
beyond the front of such vehicles, and except further that the Ohio Director of
Transportation may prohibit the operation of a stinger-steered automobile
transporter, stinger-steered boat transporter, or a B-train assembly on any
State highway or portion of any State highway that the Director designates, and
the City's Public Safety Director may prohibit the operation of a stinger-
steered automobile transporter, stinger-steered boat transporter, or a B-train
assembly on any City street or portion of any City street that the Director
designates.
   (d)   Maximum Height. No such vehicle shall have a height in excess of
thirteen feet six inches (13'6"), with or without load.
   (e)   Exceptions.
      (1)   This section does not apply to fire engines, fire trucks, or other
vehicles or apparatus belonging to the City and used by the Fire & EMS Division
in the discharge of its functions.
      (2)   This section does not apply to vehicles and pole trailers used in
the transportation of wooden and metal poles, nor to the transportation of
pipes or well-drilling equipment, nor to farm machinery and equipment.
      (3)   The owner or operator of any vehicle, machinery, or equipment not
specifically enumerated in this section but the dimensions of which exceed the
dimensions provided by this section, when operating the same on the state
highways or portions of highways within the City, shall comply with the rules
of the Ohio Director of Transportation governing such movement. Any person
adversely affected by such rules shall have the same right of appeal as
provided in ORC 199.01 to 119.13.
      (4)   The owner or operator of any vehicle, machinery, or equipment not
specifically enumerated in this section but the dimensions of which exceed the
dimensions provided by this section, when operating the same on City streets or
portions of streets, shall comply with any rules of the City's Public Safety
Director governing such movement. Any person adversely affected by such rules
shall the right of appeal to the City Council.
      (5)   This section does not require the State, the City, or any railroad
or other private corporation to provide sufficient vertical clearance to permit
the operation of such vehicle, or to make any changes in or about existing
structures now crossing streets, roads, and other public thoroughfares within
this City.
   (f)   Definitions. As used in this section, "recreational vehicle" has the
same meaning as in ORC 4501.01.
(ORC 5577.05)
   (g)   Prohibitions. No person shall violate any rule or regulation
promulgated by the Ohio Director of Transportation or the City's Public Safety
Director in accordance with this section.
(ORC 5575.06)
436.22 REDUCTION OF WEIGHT AND SPEED DURING TIMES OF THAWS AND MOISTURE.
   (a)   Reduction of Allowed Weight or Maximum Speed. When thaws or excessive
moisture render the improved streets and highways within this City or any
sections of them insufficient to bear the traffic thereon, or when such
highways or streets would be damaged or destroyed by heavy traffic during the
period of thawing or excessive moisture, the maximum weight of vehicle and
load, or the maximum speed, or both, for motor vehicles, as prescribed by law
may be reduced. The Ohio Director of Transportation shall prescribe such
reduction for State routes and the City's Public Safety Director shall
prescribe such reduction for City streets, which shall not be more than twenty-
five percent (25%).
   (b)   Prohibition. No person shall operate upon any such street or highway a
motor vehicle whose maximum weight or speed is in excess of the limitations
prescribed, provided notice of such reduction has been given in accordance with
division (c) of this section.
   (c)   Notice of Reduction. For all state highways and routes or portions
thereof, the schedule of the reduction of maximum weights and speeds shall be
filed, for the information of the public, in the office of the Greene County
Board of Commissioners and in the office of the Ohio Director of
Transportation. For all City streets or portions thereof, the schedule of
reduction of maximum weights and speeds shall be filed, for the information of
the public, in the office of the Greene County Board of Commissioners and on
the City's website. The State or the City, as applicable, at least one (1) day
before such reduction becomes effective, shall cause to be placed and retained
on such highways or streets, at both ends and at the points of intersections by
principal roads, during the period of such reduced limitation of weight, speed,
or both, signs, of substantial construction, which will conspicuously indicate
the limitations of weight and speed that are allowed on the highway or the
street and the date on which such limitations shall go into effect.
(ORC 5577.07)
436.23 OPERATION OF VEHICLE IN EXCESS OF LOAD LIMITS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS FOR
NATURAL GAS FUELED VEHICLES, ELECTRIC VEHICLES, AND FIRE ENGINES.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall operate or move a traction engine, steam
roller, or other vehicle, load, object, or structure, whether propelled by
muscular or motor power over or upon the improved public streets, highways,
bridges, or culverts within this City that weighs in excess of the weights
prescribed in Sections
436.16  to
436.22  of this Traffic Code, unless the person has been issued a permit
pursuant to Section
436.24  of this Traffic Code or ORC 4513.34. This prohibition applies
regardless of whether the weight is moved upon wheels, rollers, or otherwise.
Any weight determination shall include the weight of the vehicle, object,
structure, contrivance, and load.
(ORC 5577.02)
   (b)   Vehicles Fueled by Compressed Natural Gas, Liquid Natural Gas, or
Powered Primarily by Electric Battery.
      (1)   Notwithstanding this section and Section
436.17 of this Traffic Code, a vehicle fueled solely by compressed natural gas
or liquid natural gas or powered primarily by means of an electric battery may
exceed by not more than two thousand pounds (2,000 lbs.) the gross vehicle
weight provisions of Sections
436.16  to
436.22 of this Traffic Code or the axle load limits of those sections.
      (2)   If a vehicle described in division (b)(1) of this section exceeds
the weight provisions of Sections
436.16  to
436.22 of this Traffic Code by more than the allowance provided for in division
(b)(1) of this section, both of the following apply:
         A.   The applicable penalty prescribed in Section
436.99 of this Traffic Code;
         B.   The civil liability imposed by Section
436.99 of this Traffic Code.
      (3)   Division (b)(1) of this section does not apply to the operation of
a vehicle on a highway, street, road or bridge that is subject to reduced
maximum weights under Sections
436.22 and
436.25 of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 5577.044)
   (c)   Fire Engines Use of Streets.
      (1)   Notwithstanding division (a) of this section and Section 436.17 of
this Traffic Code, a person may do both of the following without a written
permit issued under Section
436.24 of this Traffic Code:
         A.   Operate a two-axle fire engine, with a front axle maximum weight
of twenty-four thousand pounds (24,000 lbs.) and a rear axle maximum weight of
thirty-three thousand five hundred pounds (33,500 lbs.) and a minimum wheelbase
of fifteen feet (15'), on all roadways within the City;
         B.   Operate a fire engine with a maximum gross vehicle weight of
eighty-six thousand pounds (86,000 lbs.) on the interstate highway system and
within one (1) road mile of an interstate highway system entrance or exit ramp.
      (2)   Notwithstanding Section
436.24 of this Traffic Code, for any fire engine that requires a permit, the
Ohio Director of Transportation or the City's Public Safety Director shall do
both of the following:
         A.   Issue the permit at no cost to the municipal, township, or
volunteer fire department;
         B.   Issue a permit that expires five years after the date of
issuance.
      (3)   As used in this division (c), "fire engine" means a fire engine,
fire truck, or other vehicle or apparatus belonging to or used by any
municipal, township, or volunteer fire department while in the discharge of its
functions.
(ORC 5577.045)
436.24 SPECIAL PERMITS FOR VEHICLES OF EXCESSIVE WEIGHT, SIZE, OR LOAD.
   (a)   State Highways.
      (1)   The Ohio Director of Transportation, with respect to all highways
that are a part of the State's highway system, may issue special regional heavy
hauling permits or special permits in accordance with ORC 4513.34.
      (2)   Notwithstanding ORC 715.22 and 723.01, the holder of a permit
issued by the Ohio Director of Transportation under ORC 4513.34 may move the
vehicle or combination of vehicles described in the permit on any highway that
is a part of the state highway system when the movement is partly within and
partly without the corporate limits of the City. The City shall not require any
other permit or license or charge any license fee or other charge against the
holder of a permit for the movement of a vehicle or combination of vehicles on
any highway that is a part of the state highway system.
      (3)   The Ohio Director of Transportation shall not require the holder of
a permit issued by the City to obtain a special permit for the movement of
vehicles or combination of vehicles on highways within the jurisdiction of the
City.
   (b)   City Streets and Highways.
      (1)   Special Regional Heavy Hauling Permit: The City's Public Safety
Director, with respect to streets and highways under the City's jurisdiction,
upon application in writing, shall issue a special regional heavy hauling
permit authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or combination of
vehicles as follows:
         A.   At a size and weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum
specified in Sections
436.16 to
436.23 or otherwise not in conformity with Chapters
422.,
430.,
436., and
438. of this Traffic Code.
         B.   Upon any street or highway under the City's jurisdiction except
those streets or highways with a condition insufficient to bear the weight of
the vehicle or combination of vehicles as stated in the application.
         Issuance of a special regional heavy hauling permit is subject to the
payment of a fee established by the City in accordance with this section.
      (2)   Special Permit: In circumstances where a person is not eligible to
receive a permit under division (b)(1) of this section, the City's Public
Safety Director, with respect to streets and highways under the City's
jurisdiction, upon application in writing and for good cause shown, may issue a
special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to operate or move a
vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight of vehicle or load
exceeding the maximum specified in Sections
436.16 to
436.23 or otherwise not in conformity with Chapters
422.,
430.,
436., and
438. of this Traffic Code.
      (3)   Permits may be issued for any period of time not to exceed one (1)
year, as the City's Public Safety Director, in his or her discretion determines
advisable, or for the duration of any public construction project.
   (c)   Permit Application; Permit Fee.
      (1)   The application for a permit from the City under this section shall
be in the form the Public Safety Director prescribes.
      (2)   The City may prescribe a permit fee to be imposed and collected
when any permit described in this section is issued. The permit fee may be in
an amount sufficient to reimburse the City for the administrative costs
incurred in issuing the permit, and also to cover the costs of the normal and
expected damage caused to the City roadway or a street or highway structure as
the result of the operation of the nonconforming vehicle or combination of
vehicles.
   (d)   Permit Issuance.
      (1)   The City's Public Safety Director shall issue a special regional
heavy hauling permit under division (b)(1) of this section upon application and
payment of the applicable fee.
      (2)   The City's Public Safety Director may issue or withhold a special
permit specified under division (b)(2) of this section. If a special permit is
to be issued, the Public Safety Director may:
         A.   Limit or prescribe conditions of operation for the vehicle or
combination of vehicles including, but not limited to, the route, the hours,
speed or other such restrictions as the Public Safety Director deems advisable;
         B.   Require the posting of a bond or other security conditioned upon
the sufficiency of the permit fee to compensate for damage caused to the City
roadway or a street or highway structure;
         C.   As a condition of issuance of a permit for an overweight vehicle
or combination of vehicles, require the applicant to enter into an agreement
with the City to compensate for or to repair excess damage caused to the City
roadway or a street or highway structure by travel under the permit.
      (3)   No permit shall be issued by the City's Public Safety Director
under this section to any person, partnership, association or corporation, nor
any partner of the partnership, or the officers or employees of the association
or corporation, who has been disbarred by the Ohio Director of Transportation
from applying for a permit under ORC 4513.34 for the period of the disbarment.
   (e)   Carrying Permit.
      (1)   Every permit issued by the Ohio Director of Transportation under
ORC 4513.34 issued by the City's Public Safety Director under this section
shall be carried in the vehicle or combination of vehicles to which in refers
and shall be open to inspection by any police officer or authorized agent of
the authority granting the permit. No person shall violate any of the terms of
a permit.
      (2)   A permit issued by the Ohio Director of Transportation under ORC
4513.34 issued by the City's Public Safety Director under this section for the
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles is valid for the purposes of
the vehicle operation in accordance with the conditions and limitations
specified on the permit. Such permit is voidable by law enforcement only for
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles in violation of the weight,
dimension, or route provisions of the permit. However, a permit is not voidable
for operation in violation of a route provision of a permit if the operation is
upon the order of a law enforcement officer.
   (f)   Restrictions.
      (1)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relates to gross load limits.
      (2)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to axle load by more than two thousand pounds (2,000 lbs.)
per axle or group of axles.
      (3)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to an approved route, except upon the order of a law
enforcement officer or authorized agent of the issuing authority.
(ORC 4513.34)
   (g)   Penalties. Whoever violates division (f) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.99)
436.25 WEIGHING VEHICLE, REMOVAL OF EXCESS LOAD.
   (a)   Weighing Vehicle.
      (1)   Any police officer having reason to believe that the weight of a
vehicle and its load is unlawful may require the driver of said vehicle to stop
and submit to a weighing of it by means of a compact, self-contained, portable,
sealed scale specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways; a sealed scale permanently installed in a fixed location, having a
load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of
highway vehicles; a sealed scale, permanently installed in a fixed location,
having a load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the combined
load of all wheels on a single axle or on successive axles of a highway
vehicle, or a sealed scale adapted to weighing highway vehicles, loaded or
unloaded. The driver of such vehicle shall, if necessary, be directed to
proceed to the nearest available of such sealed scales to accomplish the
weighing, provided such scales are within three (3) miles of the point where
such vehicle is stopped.
      (2)   Portable Scales:
         A.   During determination of weight by compact, self-contained,
portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of
vehicles on highways, they shall always be used on terrain of sufficient length
and width to accommodate the entire vehicle being weighed. Such terrain shall
be level, or if not level, it shall be of such elevation that the difference in
elevation between the wheels on any one (1) axle does not exceed two inches
(2") and the difference in elevation between axles being weighed does not
exceed one-fourth inch (0.25") per foot (1') of the distance between said
axles.
         B.   In all determination of all weights, except gross weight, by
compact, self-contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to
determining the wheel loads of vehicles on highways, all successive axles,
twelve feet (12') or less apart, shall be weighed simultaneously by placing one
such scale under the outside wheel of each such axle.
         C.   In determinations of gross weight by the use of compact, self-
contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to determining the wheel
loads of vehicles on highways, all axles shall be weighed simultaneously by
placing one such scale under the outside wheel of each axle.
      (3)   Any vehicle stopped in accordance with this section may be held by
the police officer for a reasonable time only to accomplish the weighing as
prescribed by this section.
      (4)   All scales used in determining the lawful weight of a vehicle and
its load shall be annually compared by a City, County, or State Sealer with the
State standards or standards approved by the State and such scales shall not be
sealed if they do not conform to the State standards or standards approved by
the State.
   (b)   Removal of Excess Load. Whenever such officer upon weighing a vehicle
and load determines that the weight is unlawful, the officer may require the
driver to stop the vehicle in a suitable place and remain standing until such
portion of the load is removed as is necessary to reduce the weight of such
vehicle to the limit permitted under Sections
436.15  to
436.22  of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4513.33)
   (c)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.99)
436.26 STATEMENT OF GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT.
   (a)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No person shall issue or aid in issuing any bill of lading or other
document of like nature in lieu thereof, which bill or document is to accompany
a shipment of goods or property by truck, trailer, semitrailer, commercial
tractor, or any other commercial vehicle used for the transportation of
property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons (3T.), with
intent to defraud by misrepresenting thereon the weight of such goods or
property to be so transported.
      (2)   Any driver or operator of a commercial car, trailer, or semitrailer
may obtain from any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or association,
including the owner, lessee, or operator of such commercial car, trailer, or
semitrailer, owning and operating sealed scales in this State, a written
"statement of gross vehicle weight" showing the gross weight of the vehicle
including the cargo on the vehicle, the name and address of the person issuing
the statement, and the date and place where the vehicle and its cargo were
weighed. The driver or operator of the commercial car, trailer, or semitrailer
shall retain such statement of gross vehicle weight on his person, and any law
enforcement officer of this City may request that such driver or operator
exhibit it to him.
      (3)   No person shall willfully issue a written statement of gross
vehicle weight and knowingly give any false information in such statement.
(ORC 5577.10)
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than
five hundred dollars ($500) or imprisoned for not less than thirty (30) days
nor more than six (6) months, or both.
(ORC 5577.99)
436.27 EXEMPTION TO SIZE AND WEIGHT PROVISIONS FOR TOWING VEHICLES.
   (a)   Exemptions. The size and weight provisions of this Chapter do not
apply to any of the following:
      (1)   A person who is engaged in the initial towing or removal of a
wrecked or disabled motor vehicle from the site of an emergency on a public
street or highway where the vehicle became wrecked or disabled to the nearest
site where the vehicle can be brought into conformance with the requirements of
this Chapter, to the nearest storage facility, or to the nearest qualified
repair facility.
      (2)   A person who is enroute to the site of an emergency on a public
street or highway to remove a wrecked or disabled motor vehicle.
      (3)   A person who is returning from delivering a wrecked or disabled
motor vehicle to a site, storage facility, or repair facility, as specified in
division (a)(1) of this section.
   (b)   Subsequent Towing. Any subsequent towing of a wrecked or disabled
vehicle shall comply with the size and weight provisions of this Chapter.
   (c)   No Penalty or Civil Liability. No court shall impose any penalty
prescribed in, nor impose the civil liability established in, Section
436.99  of this Traffic Code upon a person who is operating a vehicle in the
manner described in division (a) of this section.
(ORC 5577.15)
436.99 PENALTIES.
   (a)   Penalties for Violations of Weight Provisions.
      (1)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of Sections
436.15 to
436.23 of this Traffic Code shall be fined eighty dollars ($80) for the first
two thousand pounds (2,000 lbs.), or fraction thereof, of overload; for
overloads in excess of two thousand pounds (2,000 lbs.) but not in excess of
five thousand pounds (5,000 lbs.), such person shall be fined one hundred
dollars ($100), and in addition thereto one dollar ($1) per one hundred pounds
(100 lbs.) of overload; for overloads in excess of five thousand pounds (5,000
lbs.) but not in excess of ten thousand pounds (10,000 lbs.), such person shall
be fined one hundred thirty dollars ($130), and in addition thereto two dollars
($2) per one hundred pounds (100 lbs.) of overload, or imprisoned not more than
thirty (30) days, or both. For all overloads in excess of ten thousand pounds
(10,000 lbs.), such person shall be fined one hundred sixty dollars ($160), and
in addition thereto three dollars ($3) per one hundred pounds (100 lbs.) of
overload, or imprisoned not more than thirty (30) days, or both. Whoever
violates the weight provision of vehicle and load relating to gross load limits
shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100). No penalty prescribed
in this division shall be imposed on any vehicle combination if the overload on
any axle does not exceed one thousand pounds (1,000 lbs.), and if the
immediately preceding or following axle, excepting the front axle of the
vehicle combination, is underloaded by the same or a greater amount. For
purposes of this division, two (2) axles on one vehicle less than eight feet
(8') apart, shall be considered as one (1) axle.
      (2)   Whoever violates Section
436.26 of this Traffic Code shall be fined not more than five thousand dollars
($5,000) or imprisoned for not less than thirty (30) days nor more than six (6)
months, or both.
(ORC 5577.99)
   (b)   Liability for Damages. Any person violating any law relating to or
regulating the use of the improved public streets, highways, or roads shall be
liable for all damage resulting to any such street, highway, bridge, or culvert
by reason of such violation.
      (1)   In the case of any injury to a state highway, route, bridge, or
culvert, such damages shall be brought in the name of the state, on the
relation of the Ohio Director of Transportation, and the Ohio Attorney General
or the Greene County Prosecuting Attorney shall institute such action, when
requested by the Ohio Director of Transportation to prosecute it to final
judgment. Damages collected under this division (b)(1) shall be paid into the
treasury of the State and credited to any fund for the repair of streets,
highways, roads, bridges, or culverts.
      (2)   In case of any injury to a City street, highway, bridge, or
culvert, such damages shall be collected by civil action, brought in the name
of the City, and the City Law Director shall institute such action, when
requested by the Public Safety Director to prosecute it to final action.
Damages collected under this division (b)(2) shall be paid into the treasury of
the City and credited to any fund for the repair of streets, highways, roads,
bridges, or culverts.
(ORC 5577.12)
   (c)   Penalty Not Otherwise Provided. See Section
402.99  of this Traffic Code for penalties for provisions of this Chapter for
which no penalty is otherwise provided in the section violated.
(Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
CHAPTER 438
Unsafe Vehicles; Lights; Equipment and Safety Requirements
438.01   Prohibitions against Operating Unsafe Vehicles
438.02   Lighted Lights Required
438.03   Headlights
438.04   Taillights and Illumination of Rear License Plate
438.05   Rear Red Reflectors
438.06   Vehicle Stop Lights
438.07   Obscured Lights on Vehicles in Combination
438.08   Red Light or Flag Required on Extended Loads
438.09   Lights on Parked or Stopped Vehicles
438.10   Directional Signals
438.11   Spotlight and Auxiliary Driving Lights
438.12   Cowl, Fender, and Back-up Lights
438.13   Two Lights Displayed
438.14   When Headlights Required; Dimming High Beams
438.15   (Reserved)
438.16   Number of Lights Permitted; Limitations On Red and Flashing Lights
438.17   Lights and Sign on Vehicles Transporting Preschool Children
438.18   Focus, Aim and Color of Headlights
438.19   Brake Equipment; Jake-Braking
438.20   Horns, Sirens, and Warning Devices
438.21   Mufflers; Muffler Cutout; Excessive Smoke, Gas, or Noise
438.22   Rear View Mirrors
438.23   Windshields and Wipers; Visibility; Electronic Devices
438.24   Rules Governing Materials Used in Windshields and Windows
438.25   Decals on Side Windows or Sidewings
438.26   Safety Glass in Motor Vehicles
438.27   Motor Vehicle Bumper Regulations
438.28   Anchorage Units for Safety Belts
438.29   Child-Restraint Systems; Exceptions
438.30   Seat Belt Requirements; Exceptions
438.31   Solid Tire Requirements
438.32   Studded Tires and Tire Chains
438.33   Traction Engines or Tractors with Ice Picks, Spikes, or Chains
438.34   Securing of Loads
438.35   Limitation on Load Extension on Left Side of Vehicle
438.36   Towing Requirements
438.37   Installation of Nonconforming Air Bags
438.38   Noise Control; Maximum Permissible Noise Limits
438.39   Vehicles Exempt from Standards
438.99   Penalties
   CROSS REFERENCES
      See Sectional histories for similar State law
      Alternate Reflective Materials - see OAC Ch. 4501-39
      Bumpers, Maximum Height of - see OAC Ch. 4501-43
      Child-Restraint Systems - see OAC Ch. 4501-37
      Commercial Vehicles, Additional Requirements for - see TRAF.
CH. 436
      Definitions - see TRAF.
400.08
      Equipment of Bicycles and Electric Bicycles -TRAF.
422.02
      Equipment of Motorcycles and Motor Scooters - TRAF.
422.04
      Equipment of Motorized Bicycles and Mopeds - TRAF.
422.03
      Motor Vehicle Lighting Specifications - see OAC Ch. 4501-15
      Penalty, when not otherwise provided - TRAF.
402.99
      Slow-Moving Vehicles - see TRAF.
CH. 430.
      Transparent, Nontransparent, Translucent and Reflectorized Materials On
Motor Vehicle Windows - see OAC Ch. 4501-41
      Vehicles Transporting Preschool Children - see OAC Ch. 4501-25
438.01 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST OPERATING UNSAFE VEHICLES.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall drive or move, or cause or knowingly
permit to be driven or moved, on any street or highway within this City any
vehicle or combination of vehicles which is in such unsafe condition as to
endanger any person.
   (b)   Power of Law Enforcement Officer. When any motor vehicle is found to
be unsafe for operation, the law enforcement officer may order it removed from
the street or highway and not operated, except for the purposes of removal and
repair.
   (c)   Penalties. Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.02(A), (E), (H))
438.02 LIGHTED LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (a)   Requirements. Every vehicle, other than a motorized bicycle, operated
on a street or highway within this City shall display lighted lights and
illuminating devices as required by Section 438.03 and other provisions of this
Traffic Code during all of the following times:
      (1)   The time from sunset to sunrise.
      (2)   At any other time when, due to insufficient natural light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons, vehicles, and substantial objects
on the street or highway are not discernible at a distance of one-thousand feet
(1,000') ahead.
      (3)   At any time when the windshield wipers of the vehicle are in use
because of precipitation on the windshield.
      (4)   No motor vehicle, during any time specified in this section, shall
be operated upon a street or highway within this City using only parking lights
as illumination.
   (b)   Measurement of Distances and Heights.
      (1)   Whenever in this Traffic Code a requirement is declared as to the
distance from which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible, or
within which such lamps or devices shall be visible, such distance shall be
measured upon a straight, level, unlighted street or highway under normal
atmospheric conditions unless a different condition is expressly stated.
      (2)   Whenever in this Traffic Code a requirement is declared as to the
mounted height of lights or devices, it shall mean from the center of such
light or device to the level ground upon which the vehicle stands.
   (c)   Secondary Offense. Notwithstanding any provision of law to the
contrary, no law enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a vehicle
being operated upon a street or highway within this City to stop the vehicle
solely because the officer observes that a violation of division (a)(3) of this
section has been or is being committed, or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation, or summons for a violation of that division, or causing the
arrest of, or commencing a prosecution of, a person for a violation of that
division.
   (d)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.03)
EDITOR'S NOTE: See
422.06(b) for requirements for motorized bicycles.
438.03 HEADLIGHTS.
   (a)   Requirements. Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, shall be
equipped with at least two (2) headlights with at least one near each side of
the front of the motor vehicle.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.04)
EDITOR'S NOTE: See Section
422.04 for requirements for motorcycles.
438.04 TAILLIGHTS AND ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLATE.
   (a)   Requirements.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, pole trailer, or vehicle
which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles shall be equipped with
at least one (1) tail light mounted on the rear which, when lighted, shall emit
a red light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear;
provided that, in the case of a train of vehicles, only the tail light on the
rearmost vehicle need be visible from the distance specified.
      (2)   Either a taillight or a separate light shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate, with a white light, the rear registration plate, when
such registration plate is required, and render it legible from a distance of
fifty feet (50') to the rear. Any taillight, together with any separate light
for illuminating the rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be
lighted whenever the headlights or auxiliary driving lights are lighted, except
where separate lighting systems are provided for trailers for the purpose of
illuminating such registration plate.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.05)
438.05 REAR RED REFLECTORS.
   (a)   Requirements.
      (1)   Every new motor vehicle sold after September 6, 1941, and operated
on a street or highway within this City, other than a commercial tractor to
which a trailer or semitrailer is attached, shall carry at the rear, either as
a part of the tail lamps or separately, two (2) red reflectors meeting the
requirements of this section, except that vehicles of the type mentioned in
Section 436.04 of this Traffic Code or a substantially equivalent state law
shall be equipped with reflectors as required by the regulations provided for
in that section.
      (2)   Every such reflector shall be of such size and characteristics and
so maintained as to be visible at night from all distances within three hundred
feet (300') to fifty feet (50') from such vehicle.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.06)
438.06 VEHICLE STOP LIGHTS.
   (a)   Requirements.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, and pole trailer when
operated upon a street or highway within this City shall be equipped with two
(2) or more stop lights, except that passenger cars manufactured or assembled
prior to January 1, 1967, shall be equipped with at least one (1) stop light.
Stop lights shall be mounted on the rear of the vehicle, actuated upon
application of the service brake, and may be incorporated with other rear
lights. Such stop lights when actuated shall emit a red light visible from a
distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear; provided that, in the case of
a train of vehicles, only the stop lights on the rearmost vehicle need be
visible from the distance specified.
      (2)   Such stop lights, when actuated, shall give a steady warning light
to the rear of a vehicle or train of vehicles to indicate the intention of the
operator to diminish the speed of or stop a vehicle or train of vehicles.
      (3)   When stop lights are used as required by this section, they shall
be constructed or installed so as to provide adequate and reliable illumination
and shall conform to the appropriate rules and regulations established under
ORC 4513.19.
      (4)   Historical motor vehicles, as defined in ORC 4503.181, not
originally manufactured with stop lights are not subject to this section.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.071)
EDITOR'S NOTE: See Section
422.04 for requirements for motorcycles and motor scooters.
438.07 OBSCURED LIGHTS ON VEHICLES IN COMBINATION.
   (a)   Requirements. Whenever motor and other vehicles are operated in
combination within this City during the time that lights are required by
Section
438.02  of this Traffic Code, any light, except taillights, which by reason of
its location on a vehicle of the combination would be obscured by another
vehicle of the combination need not be lighted, but this section does not
affect the requirement that lighted clearance lights be displayed on the front
of the foremost vehicle required to have clearance lights or that all lights
required on the rear of the rearmost vehicle of any combination shall be
lighted.
(ORC 4513.08)
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.99)
438.08 RED LIGHT OR FLAG REQUIRED ON EXTENDED LOADS.
   (a)   Requirements. Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear
four feet (4') or more beyond the bed or body of such vehicle, there shall be
displayed at the extreme rear end of the load, at the times specified in
Section
438.02  of this Traffic Code, a red light or lantern plainly visible from a
distance of at least five hundred feet (500') to the sides and rear. The red
light or lantern required by this section is in addition to the red rear light
required upon every vehicle. At any other time, there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear-end of such load a red flag or cloth not less than sixteen inches
(16") square.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.09)
438.09 LIGHTS ON PARKED OR STOPPED VEHICLES.
   (a)   Requirements. Except in case of an emergency, whenever a vehicle is
parked or stopped upon a roadway open to traffic or a shoulder adjacent thereto
within this City, whether attended or unattended, during the times mentioned in
Section 438.02 of this Traffic Code or a substantially equivalent state law,
such vehicle shall be equipped with one (1) or more lights which shall exhibit
a white or amber light on the roadway-side visible from a distance of five
hundred feet (500') to the front of such vehicle, and a red light visible from
a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear. No lights need be displayed
upon any such vehicle when it is stopped or parked within the City where there
is sufficient light to reveal any person or substantial object within a
distance of five hundred feet (500') upon such street or highway. Any lighted
headlights upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or dimmed.
(ORC 4513.10)
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.99)
438.10 DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS.
   (a)   Requirements.
      (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle manufactured or assembled
on or after January 1, 1954, unless the vehicle is equipped with electrical or
mechanical directional signals.
      (2)   All mechanical signal devices shall be self-illuminating devices
when in use at the times mentioned in Section
438.02 of this Traffic Code.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
   (c)   Definitions. "Directional signals" means an electrical or mechanical
signal device capable of clearly indicating an intention to turn either to the
right or to the left and which shall be visible from both the front and rear.
(ORC 4513.261)
438.11 SPOTLIGHT AND AUXILIARY DRIVING LIGHTS.
   (a)   Spotlights. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one
(1) spotlight and every lighted spotlight shall be so aimed and used upon
approaching another vehicle that no part of the high-intensity portion of the
beam will be directed to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left-side
of the vehicle, nor more than one hundred feet (100') ahead of the vehicle.
   (b)   Auxiliary Lights. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than
three (3) auxiliary driving lights mounted on the front of the vehicle. Any
such lights which do not conform to the specifications for auxiliary driving
lights and the regulations for their use prescribed by the Ohio Director of
Public Safety shall not be used.
   (c)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.12)
438.12 COWL, FENDER, AND BACK-UP LIGHTS.
   (a)   Cowl, Fender, and Back-up Lights.
      (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with side cowl or fender lights,
which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with lights on each side thereof,
which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (3)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with back-up lights, either
separately or in combination with another light. No back-up lights shall be
continuously lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.13)
438.13 TWO LIGHTS DISPLAYED.
   (a)   Two Lights Required. At all times mentioned in Section 438.02 of this
Traffic Code, or a substantially equivalent state law, at least two (2) lighted
lights shall be displayed, one near each side of the front of every motor
vehicle, except when such vehicle is parked, subject to the regulations
governing lights on parked vehicles.
(ORC 4513.14)
   (b)   Lights of Less Intensity. Any motor vehicle may be operated under the
conditions specified in Section
438.02  of this Traffic Code, or a substantially equivalent state law, when it
is equipped with two (2) lighted lights upon the front thereof capable of
revealing persons and substantial objects seventy-five feet (75') ahead in lieu
of lights required in division (a) this section or a substantially equivalent
state law; provided that such vehicle shall not be operated at a speed in
excess of twenty miles per hour (20 mph).
(ORC 4513.16)
   (c)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.14; ORC 4513.16)
438.14 WHEN HEADLIGHTS REQUIRED; DIMMING HIGH BEAMS.
   (a)   Requirements. Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway
or shoulder adjacent thereto within this City during the times specified in
Section 438.02 of this Traffic Code, or a substantially equivalent state law,
the driver shall use a distribution of light or composite beam, directed high
enough and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons, vehicles, and substantial
objects at a safe distance in advance of the vehicle.
   (b)   Dimming High Beams. Whenever the driver of a vehicle approaches an
oncoming vehicle, such driver shall use a distribution of light or composite
beam, so aimed that the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the
oncoming driver.
   (c)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.15)
438.15( RESERVED)
438.16 NUMBER OF LIGHTS PERMITTED; LIMITATIONS ON RED AND FLASHING LIGHTS.
   (a)   Number of Lights Permitted; Intensity.
      (1)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with headlights also is equipped
with any auxiliary lights or spotlight or any other light on the front thereof
projecting a beam of an intensity greater than three hundred candle power (300
CP), not more than a total of five (5) of any such lights on the front of a
vehicle shall be lighted at any one time when the vehicle is upon a street or
highway within this City.
      (2)   Any lighted light or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle,
other than headlights, spotlights, signal lights, or auxiliary driving lights,
that projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than three hundred candle
power (300 CP) shall be so directed that no part of the beam will strike the
level of the roadway on which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than
seventy-five feet (75') from the vehicle.
   (b)   Limitations on Red and Flashing Lights.
      (1)   Flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles, except as a means
for indicating a right or a left turn, or in the presence of vehicular traffic
hazard requiring unusual care in approaching or overtaking or passing.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (b)(1) of this section does not apply
to any of the following:
         A.   Emergency vehicles; road service vehicles servicing or towing a
disabled vehicle; stationary waste collection vehicles actively collecting
garbage, refuse trash, or recyclable materials on the roadside; rural mail
delivery vehicles; vehicles transporting preschool children (as provided in
Section
438.17 of this Traffic Code); highway or street maintenance vehicles, and
similar equipment operated by the Ohio Department of Transportation or City
Public Service Department, provided such vehicles are equipped with and
display, when used on a street or highway for the special purpose necessitating
such lights, a flashing, oscillating, or rotating amber light.
         B.   Vehicles or machinery permitted by Section
430.02 of this Traffic Code or ORC 4513.111 to have a flashing red light.
         C.   Farm machinery and vehicles escorting farm machinery, provided
such machinery and vehicles are equipped with and display, when used on a
street or highway within this City, a flashing, oscillating, or rotating amber
light. Farm machinery also may display the lights described in Section
430.02 of this Traffic Code.
         D.   A funeral hearse or funeral escort vehicle, provided that the
funeral hearse or funeral escort vehicle is equipped with and displays, when
used on a street or highway for the special purpose necessitating such lights,
a flashing, oscillating, or rotating purple or amber light.
         E.   A vehicle being used for emergency preparedness, response, and
recovery activities, as those terms are defined in ORC 5502.21, that is
equipped with and displays, when used on a street or highway for the special
purpose necessitating such lights, a flashing, oscillating, or rotating amber
or red and white light, provided that the vehicle is being operated by a person
from one of the following and the vehicle is clearly marked with the applicable
agency's or authority's insignia:
            (i)   The Ohio Emergency Management Agency;
            (ii)   A countywide emergency management agency established under
ORC 5502.26;
            (iii)   A regional authority for emergency management established
under ORC 5502.27;
            (iv)   A program for emergency management established under ORC
5502.271.
      (3)   Division (b)(1) of this section does not apply to animal-drawn
vehicles subject to Section
430.05 of this Traffic Code.
   (c)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   Except a person operating a public safety vehicle (as defined in
ORC 4511.01), an emergency management vehicle (as described in division (b)
(2)E. of this section), or a school bus, no person shall operate, move, or park
upon, or permit to stand within the right-of-way of any public street or
highway any vehicle or equipment that is equipped with and displaying a
flashing red or a flashing combination red and white light, or an oscillating
or rotating red light, or a combination red and white oscillating or rotating
light.
      (2)   Except a public law enforcement officer, or other person sworn to
enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the City or State, operating a public
safety vehicle when on duty, no person shall operate, move, or park upon, or
permit to stand within the right-of-way of any street or highway any vehicle or
equipment that is equipped with, or upon which is mounted, and displaying a
flashing blue or a flashing combination blue and white light, or an oscillating
or rotating blue light, or a combination blue and white oscillating or rotating
light.
   (d)   Exceptions. This section does not prohibit the use of warning lights
required by law or the simultaneous flashing of turn signals on disabled
vehicles or on vehicles being operated in unfavorable atmospheric conditions in
order to enhance their visibility. This section also does not prohibit the
simultaneous flashing of turn signals or warning lights either on farm
machinery or vehicles escorting farm machinery, when used on a street or
highway.
   (e)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.17)
438.17 LIGHTS AND SIGN ON VEHICLES TRANSPORTING PRESCHOOL CHILDREN.
   (a)   Required Lights and Sign. No person shall operate any motor vehicle
owned, leased, or hired by a nursery school, kindergarten, or child care
center, while transporting preschool children to or from such an institution,
unless the motor vehicle is equipped with and displaying two (2) amber flashing
lights mounted on a bar attached to the top of the vehicle, and a sign bearing
the designation "CAUTION--CHILDREN," which shall be attached to the bar
carrying the amber flashing lights in such a manner as to be legible to persons
both in front of and behind the vehicle. The lights and sign shall meet
standards and specifications adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
   (b)   Limitations. No person shall operate a motor vehicle displaying the
lights and sign required by this section for any purpose other than the
transportation of preschool children as provided in this section.
(ORC 4513.182)
   (c)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.99)
438.18 FOCUS, AIM AND COLOR OF HEADLIGHTS.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall use any lights mentioned in this Chapter
or ORC 4513.03 through 4513.18 upon any motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer
unless these lights are equipped, mounted and adjusted as to focus and aim in
accordance with regulations which are prescribed by the Ohio Director of Public
Safety.
   (b)   Headlight Color. The headlights on any motor vehicle shall comply with
the headlamp color requirements contained in federal motor vehicle safety
standards number 108 (49 CFR 571.108). No person shall operate a motor vehicle
in violation of this division.
   (c)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.19)
438.19 BRAKE EQUIPMENT; JAKE-BRAKING.
   (a)   Requirements. The following requirements govern as to brake equipment
on vehicles:
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, when operated upon a
street or highway within the City shall be equipped with brakes adequate to
control the movement of and to stop and hold the motor vehicle, including two
separate means of applying the brakes, each of which means shall be effective
to apply the brakes to at least two (2) wheels. If these two separate means of
applying the brakes are connected in any way, then on such motor vehicles
manufactured or assembled after January 1, 1942, they shall be so constructed
that failure of any one part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the
motor vehicle without brakes on at least two (2) wheels.
      (2)   When operated upon the streets or highways within this City, the
following vehicles shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the
movement of and to stop and to hold the vehicle, designed to be applied by the
driver of the towing motor vehicle from its cab, and also designed and
connected so that, in case of a breakaway of the towed vehicle, the brakes
shall be automatically applied:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every trailer or
semitrailer, except a pole trailer, with an empty weight of two thousand pounds
(2,000 lbs.) or more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1942;
         B.   Every manufactured home or travel trailer with an empty weight of
two thousand pounds (2,000 lbs.) or more, manufactured or assembled on or after
January 1, 2001.
      (3)   Every watercraft trailer with a gross weight or manufacturer's
gross vehicle weight rating of three thousand pounds (3,000 lbs.) or more that
is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 2008, shall have separate
brakes equipped with hydraulic surge or electrically operated brakes on two (2)
wheels.
      (4)   In any combination of motor-drawn trailers or semitrailers equipped
with brakes, means shall be provided for applying the rearmost brakes in
approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle, and developing
the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest rate; or
means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the rearmost
brakes; or both of the above means, capable of being used alternatively, may be
employed.
      (5)   Every vehicle and combination of vehicles, except motorcycles and
motorized bicycles, and except trailers and semitrailers of a gross weight of
less than two thousand pounds (2,000 lbs.) and pole trailers, shall be equipped
with parking brakes adequate to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is
operated, under all conditions of loading, on a surface free from snow, ice, or
loose material. The parking brakes shall be capable of being applied in
conformance with the foregoing requirements by the driver's muscular effort or
by spring action or by equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the
service brakes or other source of power provided that failure of the service
brake actuation system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the
parking brakes from being applied in conformance with the foregoing
requirements. The parking brakes shall be so designed that when once applied
they shall remain applied with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of
any source of energy or leakage of any kind.
      (6)   The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies, brake shoe
anchors, and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally associated with
the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service brakes and the
parking brakes. If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (7)   Every motor vehicle or combination of motor-drawn vehicles shall be
capable, at all times and under all conditions of loading, of being stopped on
a dry, smooth, level road free from loose material upon application of the
service or foot brake within the following specified distances, or shall be
capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate corresponding to these
distances:
         A.   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles having brakes on all wheels
shall come to a stop in thirty feet (30') or less from a speed of twenty miles
per hour (20 mph).
         B.   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles not having brakes on all
wheels shall come to a stop in forty feet (40') or less from a speed of twenty
miles per hour (20 mph).
      (8)   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be
so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels
on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(ORC 4513.20)
   (b)   Noise Prevention and Mechanical Exhaust Braking Systems (Jake-
Braking).
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use or
operate or cause to be used or operated within the City any compression release
brake or mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the braking or
deceleration of any vehicle which results in the excessive, loud, unusual or
explosive noise from such vehicle, or otherwise known as "jake-braking."
      (2)   Signs shall be posted at all major points into the City indicating
that all such compression release brakes or mechanical exhaust braking systems
are prohibited in the City.
(Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
   (c)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.99)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each subsequent offense within one year
after the first offense such person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
EDITOR'S NOTE: See Section
422.03 for brake requirements for motorized bicycles or mopeds. See Section
422.04 for brake requirements for motorcycles or motor scooters.
438.20 HORNS, SIRENS, AND WARNING DEVICES.
   (a)   Horns. Every motor vehicle when operated upon a street or highway
within the City shall be equipped with a horn which is in good working order
and capable of emitting sound audible, under normal conditions, from a distance
of not less than two hundred feet (200').
   (b)   Sirens and Warning Signals on Motor Vehicles. No motor vehicle shall
be equipped with, nor shall any person use upon a vehicle, any siren, whistle,
or bell. Any vehicle may be equipped with a theft alarm signal device which
shall be so arranged that it cannot be used as an ordinary warning signal.
   (c)   Emergency Vehicles. Every emergency vehicle shall be equipped with a
siren, whistle, or bell capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than five hundred feet (500') and of a
type approved by the Ohio Director of Public Safety. Such equipment shall not
be used except when such vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call
or is in the immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law,
in which case the driver of the emergency vehicle shall sound such equipment
when it is necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the approach
thereof.
   (d)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.21)
438.21 MUFFLERS; MUFFLER CUTOUT; EXCESSIVE SMOKE, GAS, OR NOISE.
   (a)   Mufflers Required.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle with an internal combustion engine shall at all
times be equipped with a muffler which is in good working order and in constant
operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise, and no person shall use a
muffler cutout, bypass, or similar device upon a motor vehicle on a street or
highway within the City.
      (2)   No person shall own, operate, or have in the person's possession
any motor vehicle equipped with a device for producing excessive smoke or gas,
or so equipped as to permit oil or any other chemical to flow into or upon the
exhaust pipe or muffler of such vehicle, or equipped in any way to produce or
emit smoke or dangerous or annoying gases from any portion of such vehicle
other than the ordinary gases emitted by the exhaust of an internal combustion
engine under normal operation.
(ORC 4513.22)
      (3)   No person shall own, operate, or have in the person's possession
any motor vehicle equipped with a muffler that has been modified in a manner
which will amplify or increase the noise emitted by the motor of such vehicle
above that emitted by the muffler originally installed on the vehicle.
(Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
   (b)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated any motor vehicle,
agricultural tractor, motorcycle, all-purpose vehicle, or snowmobile not
equipped with a factory-installed muffler or equivalent muffler in good working
order and in constant operation.
      (2)   No person shall remove or render inoperative, or cause to be
removed or rendered inoperative, other than for purposes of maintenance,
repair, or replacement, of any muffler.
      (3)   The discharge into the open air of exhaust of any stationary or
portable internal combustion engine is prohibited, except through a factory-
installed muffler or equivalent muffler in good working order and in constant
operation.
      (4)   No person shall race the motor of any vehicle described in division
(b)(1) of this section in such a manner that the exhaust system emits a loud,
cracking, or chattering noise unusual to its normal operation.
(Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
Statutory reference: ORC 4513.221
   (c)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.22; Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
438.22 REAR VIEW MIRRORS.
   (a)   Requirements. Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a mirror so
located as to reflect to the operator a view of the street or highway to the
rear of such vehicle. Operators of vehicles shall have a clear and unobstructed
view to the front and to both sides of their vehicles and shall have a clear
view to the rear of their vehicles by mirror.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.23)
EDITOR'S NOTE: See Section
422.04 for requirements applicable to motorcycles.
438.23 WINDSHIELDS AND WIPERS; VISIBILITY; ELECTRONIC DEVICES.
   (a)   Windshield Required. No person shall drive any motor vehicle on a
street or highway within this City, other than a motorcycle or motorized
bicycle, that is not equipped with a windshield.
   (b)   Visibility of VIN; Signs; Electronic Devices.
      (1)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle, other than a bus, with any
sign, poster, or other nontransparent material upon the front windshield,
sidewings, side, or rear windows of such vehicle other than a certificate or
other paper required to be displayed by law, except that there may be in the
lower left-hand or right-hand corner of the windshield a sign, poster, or decal
not to exceed four inches in height by six inches in width (4' x 6"). No sign,
poster, or decal shall be displayed in the front windshield in such a manner as
to conceal the vehicle identification number (VIN) for the motor vehicle when,
in accordance with federal law, that number is located inside the vehicle
passenger compartment and so placed as to be readable through the vehicle
glazing without moving any part of the vehicle.
      (2)   Division (b)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a passenger car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if either of
the following apply to the device:
         A.   It is a "vehicle safe technology," as defined in 49 CFR 393.5,
and complies with 49 CFR 393.60(e)(1)(ii).
         B.   It does not restrict the vehicle operator's sight lines to the
road and street or highway signs and signals, and is mounted not more than
eight and one-half inches (8.5") below the upper edge of the windshield.
   (c)   Windshield Wipers Required. The windshield on every motor vehicle
shall be equipped with a device for cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from
the windshield. The device shall be maintained in good working order and so
constructed as to be controlled or operated by the operator of the vehicle.
   (d)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.24)
438.24 RULES GOVERNING MATERIALS USED IN WINDSHIELDS AND WINDOWS.
   (a)   Tinted Glass, Transparent, Translucent and Other Materials.
      (1)   No person shall operate on any street or highway, or other public
or private property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking within
this City, or lease or rent any motor vehicle that is registered in this state,
unless the motor vehicle conforms to the rules of the Ohio Director of Public
Safety, adopted pursuant to ORC 4513.241, regarding the use of tinted glass and
the use of transparent, nontransparent, translucent, and reflectorized
materials in or on motor vehicle windshields, side windows, sidewings, and rear
windows.
      (2)   No person shall install in or on any motor vehicle any glass or
other material that fails to conform to the rules of the Ohio Director of
Public Safety, adopted pursuant to ORC 4513.241, regarding the use of tinted
glass and the use of transparent, nontransparent, translucent, and
reflectorized materials in or on motor vehicle windshields, side windows,
sidewings, and rear windows.
      (3)   No used motor vehicle dealer or new motor vehicle dealer, as
defined in ORC 4517.01, shall sell any motor vehicle that fails to conform to
the rules of the Ohio Director of Public Safety, adopted pursuant to ORC
4513.241, regarding the use of tinted glass and the use of transparent,
nontransparent, translucent, and reflectorized materials in or on motor vehicle
windshields, side windows, sidewings, and rear windows.
      (4)   No manufacturer, remanufacturer or distributor, as defined in ORC
4517.01, shall provide to a motor vehicle dealer licensed under ORC Chapter
4517. or to any other person, a motor vehicle that fails to conform to the
rules of the Ohio Director of Public Safety, adopted pursuant to ORC 4513.241,
regarding the use of tinted glass and the use of transparent, nontransparent,
translucent, and reflectorized materials in or on motor vehicle windshields,
side windows, sidewings, and rear windows.
   (b)   Reflectorized Materials. No reflectorized materials shall be permitted
upon or in any front windshield, side windows, sidewings, or rear window.
   (c)   Exceptions.
      (1)   This section does not apply to the manufacturer's tinting or
glazing of motor vehicle windows or windshields that is otherwise in compliance
with or permitted by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 205.
      (2)   With regard to any side window behind a driver's seat or any rear
window, other than any window on an emergency door, this section does not apply
to any school bus used to transport a child with disabilities pursuant to ORC
Chapter 3323. whom it is impossible or impractical to transport by regular
school bus in the course of regular route transportation provided by a school
district. As used in this division, "child with disabilities" has the same
meaning as in ORC 3323.01.
   (d)   Exceptions for Law Enforcement Vehicles.
      (1)   This section and any rules of the Ohio Director of Public Safety
adopted pursuant to ORC 4513.241 do not apply to a motor vehicle used by a law
enforcement agency under either of the following circumstances:
         A.   The vehicle does not have distinctive markings of a law
enforcement vehicle but is operated by or on behalf of the law enforcement
agency in an authorized investigation or other activity requiring that the
presence and identity of the vehicle occupants be undisclosed.
         B.   The vehicle is primarily used by the law enforcement canine unit
for transporting a police dog.
      (2)   As used in this division, "law enforcement agency" means a police
department, the office of a sheriff, the state highway patrol, a county
prosecuting attorney, or a federal, state or local government body that
enforces criminal laws and that has employees who have a statutory power of
arrest.
   (e)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (a)(1), (a)(4) or (b) of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (a)(3) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor if the dealer or the dealer's agent knew of the nonconformity
at the time of sale.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (a)(2) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree, except that an organization may not be
convicted unless the act of installation was authorized by the board of
directors, trustees, partners, or by a high managerial officer acting on behalf
of the organization, and installation was performed by an employee of the
organization acting within the scope of the person's employment. In addition to
any other penalty imposed under this section:
         A.   Whoever violates division (a)(2) of this section is liable in
civil action to the owner of a motor vehicle on which was installed the
nonconforming glass or material for any damages incurred by that person as a
result of the installation of the nonconforming glass or material, costs of
maintaining the civil action, and attorney fees.
         B.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty
to a violation of division (a)(2) of this section and the offender is a motor
vehicle repair operator registered under ORC Chapter 4775. or a motor vehicle
dealer licensed under ORC Chapter 4517., whoever violates division (a)(2) of
this section is subject to a registration or license suspension, as applicable,
for a period of not more than one hundred eighty (180) days.
   (f)   Records. The Clerk of the Xenia Municipal Court shall keep a full
record of every case in which a person is charged with any violation of this
section. If a person is convicted of or forfeits bail in relation to a
violation of division (a)(2) of this section, the Clerk, within ten (10) days
after the conviction or bail forfeiture, shall prepare and immediately forward
to the Ohio Motor Vehicle Repair Board and the Ohio Motor Vehicle Dealers
Board, an abstract, certified by the preparer to be true and correct, of the
court record covering the case in which the person was convicted or forfeited
bail.
(ORC 4513.241)
438.25 DECALS ON SIDE WINDOWS OR SIDEWINGS.
   (a)   When Display Allowed. Notwithstanding Section
438.21  and Section
438.24 (b) of this Traffic Code, or any rules of the Ohio Director of Public
Safety adopted pursuant to ORC 4513.241, a decal, whether reflectorized or not,
may be displayed upon any side window or sidewing of a motor vehicle if all of
the following are met:
      (1)   The decal is necessary for public or private security arrangements
to which the motor vehicle periodically is subjected.
      (2)   The decal is no larger than is necessary to accomplish the security
arrangements.
      (3)   The decal does not obscure the vision of the motor vehicle operator
or prevent a person looking into the motor vehicle from seeing or identifying
persons or objects inside the motor vehicle.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.242)
438.26 SAFETY GLASS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (a)   Requirements.
      (1)   No person shall sell any new motor vehicle, nor shall any new motor
vehicle be registered, and no person shall operate any motor vehicle, which is
registered in this State and which has been manufactured or assembled on or
after January 1, 1936, unless the motor vehicle is equipped with safety glass
wherever glass is used in the windshields, doors, partitions, rear windows, and
windows on each side immediately adjacent to the rear window.
      (2)   "Safety glass" means any product composed of glass so manufactured,
fabricated, or treated as substantially to prevent shattering and flying of the
glass when it is struck or broken, or such other or similar product as may be
approved by the registrar of motor vehicles.
      (3)   Glass, other than safety glass, shall not be offered for sale, or
sold for use in, or installed in any door, window, partition, or windshield
that is required by this section to be equipped with safety glass.
(ORC 4513.26)
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.99)
438.27 MOTOR VEHICLE BUMPER REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Regulations. Rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety, in
accordance with ORC 4513.021, shall govern the maximum bumper height or, in the
absence of bumpers and in cases where bumper heights have been lowered or
modified, the maximum height to the bottom of the frame rail, of any passenger
car, multipurpose passenger vehicle, or truck.
   (b)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No person shall operate upon a street or highway within the City
any passenger car, multipurpose passenger vehicle, or truck registered in this
state that does not conform to the requirements of this section or any
applicable rule adopted pursuant to ORC 4513.021.
      (2)   No person shall modify any motor vehicle registered in this state
in such a manner as to cause the vehicle body or chassis to come in contact
with the ground, expose the fuel tank to damage from collision, or cause the
wheels to come in contact with the body under normal operation, and no person
shall disconnect any part of the original suspension system of the vehicle to
defeat the safe operation of that system.
   (c)   Application. Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to
prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   The installation upon a passenger car, multipurpose passenger
vehicle, or truck registered in this state of heavy-duty equipment, including
shock absorbers and overload springs;
      (2)   The operation on a street or highway of a passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle, or truck registered in this state with normal
wear to the suspension system if the normal wear does not adversely affect the
control of the vehicle.
   (d)   Exceptions. This section does not apply to any specially designed or
modified passenger car, multipurpose passenger vehicle, or truck when operated
off a street or highway in races and similar events.
   (e)   Penalties. Whoever violates this division is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
   (f)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "Gross vehicle weight rating" means the manufacturer's gross
vehicle weight rating established for that vehicle.
      (2)   "Manufacturer" has the same meaning as in ORC 4501.01.
      (3)   "Multipurpose passenger vehicle" means a motor vehicle with motive
power, except a motorcycle, designed to carry ten (10) persons or less, that is
constructed either on a truck chassis or with special features for occasional
off-road operation.
      (4)   "Passenger car" means any motor vehicle with motive power, designed
for carrying ten (10) persons or less, except a multipurpose passenger vehicle
or motorcycle.
      (5)   "Truck" means every motor vehicle, except trailers and semi-
trailers, designed and used to carry property and having a gross vehicle weight
rating of ten thousand pounds (10,000 lbs.) or less.
(ORC 4513.021)
438.28 ANCHORAGE UNITS FOR SAFETY BELTS.
   (a)   Requirements.
      (1)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate any passenger car, as
defined in ORC 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this State
and that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1962, unless the
passenger car is equipped with sufficient anchorage units at the attachment
points for attaching at least two (2) sets of seat safety belts to its front
seat. Such anchorage units at the attachment points shall be of such
construction, design, and strength to support a loop load pull of not less than
four thousand pounds (4,000 lbs.) for each belt.
      (2)   No person shall sell, lease, or rent any passenger car, as defined
in ORC 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this State and
that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1966, unless the
passenger car has installed in its front seat at least two (2) seat safety belt
assemblies.
   (b)   Penalties.
      (1)   Each sale, lease, or rental in violation of this section
constitutes a separate offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
   (c)   Definitions. As used in this section and in Section
438.30  of this Traffic Code, the component parts of a "seat safety belt"
include a belt, anchor attachment assembly, and a buckle or closing device.
(ORC 4513.262)
438.29 CHILD-RESTRAINT SYSTEMS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   Passenger Vehicles. When any child who is in either or both of the
following categories is being transported in a motor vehicle within this City,
other than a taxicab or public safety vehicle as defined in ORC 4511.01, that
is required by the United States Department of Transportation to be equipped
with seat belts at the time of manufacture or assembly, the operator of the
motor vehicle shall have the child properly secured in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions in a child-restraint system that meets federal
motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four (4) years of age.
      (2)   A child who weighs less than forty pounds (40 lbs.).
   (b)   Preschool Transportation. When any child who is in either or both of
the following categories is being transported in a motor vehicle within this
City, other than a taxicab, that is owned, leased, or otherwise under the
control of a nursery school or child care center, the operator of the motor
vehicle shall have the child properly secured in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions in a child restraint system that meets federal
motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four (4) years of age.
      (2)   A child who weighs less than forty pounds (40 lbs.).
   (c)   Children under Eight Years of Age. When any child who is less than
eight (8) years of age and less than four feet nine inches (4'9") in height,
who is not required by division (a) or (b) of this section to be secured in a
child restraint system, is being transported in a motor vehicle within this
City, other than a taxicab or public safety vehicle as defined in ORC 4511.01
or a vehicle that is regulated under ORC 5104.015, that is required by the
United States Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at
the time of manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall
have the child properly secured in accordance with the manufacturer's
instructions on a booster seat that meets federal motor vehicle safety
standards.
   (d)   Children at least Eight but Under Fifteen Years of Age. When any child
who is at least eight (8) years of age but not older than fifteen (15) years of
age, and who is not otherwise required by division (a), (b), or (c) of this
section to be secured in a child restraint system or booster seat, is being
transported in a motor vehicle within this City, other than a taxicab or public
safety vehicle as defined in ORC 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly restrained either in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions
in a child restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards
or in an occupant restraining device as defined in Section 438.30 of this
Traffic Code or substantially equivalent state law.
   (e)   Secondary Offense. Notwithstanding any provision of law to the
contrary, no law enforcement officer shall cause an operator of a motor vehicle
being operated on any street or highway within this City to stop the motor
vehicle for the sole purpose of determining whether a violation of division (c)
or (d) of this section has been or is being committed or for the sole purpose
of issuing a ticket, citation or summons for a violation of division (c) or (d)
of this section or causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a
person for a violation of division (c) or (d) of this section, and absent
another violation of law, a law enforcement officer's view of the interior or
visual inspection of a motor vehicle being operated on any street or highway
may not be used for the purpose of determining whether a violation of division
(c) or (d) of this section has been or is being committed.
   (f)   Admissibility of Evidence. The failure of an operator of a motor
vehicle to secure a child in a child restraint system, a booster seat, or in an
occupant-restraining device as required in this section is not negligence
imputable to the child; is not admissible as evidence in any civil action
involving the rights of the child against any other person allegedly liable for
injuries to the child; is not to be used as a basis for a criminal prosecution
of the operator of the motor vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation
of this section; and is not admissible as evidence in any criminal action
involving the operator of the motor vehicle other than a prosecution for a
violation of this section.
   (g)   Exceptions. This section does not apply when an emergency exists that
threatens the life of any person operating or occupying a motor vehicle that is
being used to transport a child who otherwise would be required to be
restrained under this section. This section does not apply to a person
operating a motor vehicle who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed
to practice in this state under ORC Chapter 4731. or a chiropractor licensed to
practice in this State under ORC Chapter 4734. that states that the child who
otherwise would be required to be restrained under this section has a physical
impairment that makes use of a child restraint system, booster seat, or an
occupant restraining device impossible or impractical; provided that the person
operating the vehicle has safely and appropriately restrained the child in
accordance with any recommendations of the physician or chiropractor as noted
on the affidavit.
   (h)   Proof of Child's Age. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
require any person to carry with the person the birth certificate of a child to
prove the age of the child, but the production of a valid birth certificate for
a child showing that the child was not of an age to which this section applies
is a defense against any ticket, citation, or summons issued for violating this
section.
   (i)   Penalties. Whoever violates division (a), (b), (c), or (d) of this
section shall be punished as follows; provided that the failure of an operator
of a motor vehicle to secure more than one (1) child in a child-restraint
system, booster seat, or occupant-restraining device as required by this
section that occurred at the same time, on the same day, and at the same
location is deemed to be a single violation of this section:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (i)(2) of this section,
the offender is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seventy-five dollars ($75.00).
      (2)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to
a violation of division (a), (b), (c) or (d) of this section or of a state law
or municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of those
divisions, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(ORC 4511.81)
438.30 SEAT BELT REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   Prohibited Acts. No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway within this City
unless that person is wearing all of the available elements of a properly
adjusted occupant restraining device, or operate a school bus that has an
occupant-restraining device installed for use in its operator's seat, unless
that person is wearing all of the available elements of the device, as properly
adjusted;
      (2)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway within this City
unless each passenger in the automobile who is subject to the requirement set
forth in division (a)(3) of this section is wearing all of the available
elements of a properly adjusted occupant-restraining device;
      (3)   Occupy, as a passenger, a seating position on the front seat of an
automobile being operated on any street or highway within this City unless that
person is wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted
occupant-restraining device;
      (4)   Operate a taxicab on any street or highway unless all factory-
equipped occupant-restraining devices in the taxicab are maintained in usable
form.
   (b)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Division (a)(3) of this section does not apply to a person who is
required by Section
438.29 of this Traffic Code to be secured in a child restraint device or
booster seat.
      (2)   Division (a)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
an employee of the United States Postal Service or of a newspaper home delivery
service, during any period in which the person is engaged in the operation of
an automobile to deliver mail or newspapers to addressees.
      (3)   Divisions (a)(1) and (a)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under ORC Chapter 4731. or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under ORC Chapter 4734. that states the following:
         A.   That the person has a physical impairment that makes use of an
occupant restraining device impossible or impractical;
         B.   Whether the physical impairment is temporary, permanent, or
reasonably expected to be permanent;
         C.   If the physical impairment is temporary, how long the physical
impairment is expected to make the use of an occupant restraining device
impossible or impractical.
      (4)   Divisions (a)(1) and (a)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has registered with the registrar of motor vehicles in accordance
with division (b)(5) of this section.
      (5)   A person who has received an affidavit under division (b)(3) of
this section stating that the person has a permanent or reasonably expected to
be permanent physical impairment that makes use of an occupant restraining
device impossible or impracticable may register with the registrar attesting to
that fact. Upon such registration, the registrar shall make that information
available in the law enforcement automated data system (LEADS). A person
included in the database under division (b)(5) of this section is not required
to have the affidavit obtained in accordance with division (b)(3) of this
section in their possession while operating or occupying an automobile.
      (6)   A physician or chiropractor who issues an affidavit for the
purposes of division (b)(3) or (b)(5) of this section is immune from civil
liability arising from any injury or death sustained by the person who was
issued the affidavit due to the failure of the person to wear an occupant
restraining device unless the physician or chiropractor, in issuing the
affidavit, acted in a manner that constituted willful, wanton, or reckless
misconduct.
   (c)   Secondary Offense. Notwithstanding any provision of law to the
contrary, no law enforcement officer shall cause an operator of an automobile
being operated on any street or highway to stop the automobile for the sole
purpose of determining whether a violation of division (a) of this section has
been or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket,
citation, or summons for a violation of that nature or for causing the arrest
of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of that nature, and
no law enforcement officer shall view the interior or visually inspect any
automobile being operated on any street or highway within this City for the
sole purpose of determining whether the violation has been or is being
committed.
   (d)   Admissibility of Evidence.
      (1)   Subject to division (d)(2) of this section, the failure of a person
to wear all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant-
restraining device in violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(3) of this section,
or the failure of a person to ensure that each minor who is a passenger of an
automobile being operated by that person is wearing all of the available
elements of a properly adjusted occupant-restraining device in violation of
division (a)(2) of this section, shall not be considered or used by the trier
of fact in a tort action as evidence of negligence or contributory negligence.
But, the trier of fact may determine, based on evidence admitted consistent
with the Ohio Rules of Evidence, that the failure contributed to the harm
alleged in the tort action and may diminish a recovery of compensatory damages
that represents noneconomic loss, as defined in ORC 2307.011, in a tort action
that could have been recovered but for the plaintiff's failure to wear all of
the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant-restraining device.
Evidence of that failure shall not be used as a basis for a criminal
prosecution of the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this
section; and shall not be admissible as evidence in a criminal action involving
the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
      (2)   If, at the time of an accident involving a passenger car equipped
with occupant-restraining devices, any occupant of the passenger car who
sustained injury or death was not wearing an available occupant-restraining
device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a device, or was
not wearing such a device as properly adjusted, then, consistent with the Ohio
Rules of Evidence, the fact that the occupant was not wearing the available
occupant-restraining device, was not wearing all of the available elements of
such a device, or was not wearing such a device as properly adjusted is
admissible in evidence in relation to any claim for relief in a tort action to
the extent that the claim for relief satisfies all of the following:
         A.   It seeks to recover damages for injury or death to the occupant;
         B.   The defendant in question is the manufacturer, designer,
distributor, or seller of the passenger car; and
         C.   The claim for relief against the defendant in question is that
the injury or death sustained by the occupant was enhanced or aggravated by
some design defect in the passenger car or that the passenger car was not
crashworthy.
   (e)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (a)(1) of this section shall be fined
thirty dollars ($30.00).
      (2)   Whoever violates division (a)(3) of this section shall be fined
twenty dollars ($20.00).
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a)(4) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to a violation of
division (a)(4) of this section, whoever violates division of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (f)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "Automobile" means any commercial tractor, passenger car,
commercial car, or truck that is required to be factory-equipped with an
occupant-restraining device for the operator or any passenger by regulations
adopted by the United States Secretary of Transportation pursuant to the
National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966, 80 Stat. 719, 15 USC
1392.
      (2)   "Commercial tractor," "passenger car," and "commercial car" have
the same meanings as in ORC 4501.01.
      (3)   "Occupant-restraining device" means a seat safety belt, shoulder
belt, harness, or other safety device for restraining a person who is an
operator of or passenger in an automobile and that satisfies the minimum
federal vehicle safety standards established by the United States Department of
Transportation.
      (4)   "Passenger" means any person in an automobile, other than its
operator, who is occupying a seating position for which an occupant-restraining
device is provided.
      (5)   "Tort action" means a civil action for damages for injury, death,
or loss to person or property. "Tort action" includes a product liability
claim, as defined in ORC 2307.71, and an asbestos claim, as defined in ORC
2307.91, but does not include a civil action for damages for breach of contract
or another agreement between persons.
      (6)   "Vehicle" and "motor vehicle," as used in the definitions of the
terms set forth in division (f)(2) of this section, have the same meanings as
in ORC 4511.01.
(ORC 4513.263)
438.31 SOLID TIRE REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Requirements. Every solid tire, as defined in ORC 4501.01, on a
vehicle shall have rubber or other resilient material on its entire traction
surface at least one inch (1") thick above the edge of the flange of the entire
periphery.
(ORC 4513.25)
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.99)
438.32 STUDDED TIRES AND TIRE CHAINS.
   (a)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (a)(2) of this section, no person
shall operate any motor vehicle, other than a public safety vehicle or school
bus, that is equipped with studded tires on any street or highway within this
City, except during the period extending from the first day of November of each
year through the fifteenth day of April of the succeeding year.
      (2)   A person may operate a motor vehicle that is equipped with
retractable studded tires with the studs retracted at any time of the year but
shall operate the motor vehicle with the studs extended only as provided in
division (a)(1) of this section.
   (b)   Exception. This section does not apply to the use of tire chains when
there is snow or ice on the streets or highways where such chains are being
used, or the immediate vicinity thereof.
(ORC 5589.081)
   (c)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 5589.99)
   (d)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, "studded tire" means any
tire designed for use on a vehicle and equipped with metal studs or studs of
wear-resisting material that project beyond the tread of the traction surface
of the tire; and "motor vehicle," "street or highway," "public safety vehicle,"
and "school bus" have the same meanings as given those terms in ORC 4511.01.
(ORC 5589.081)
438.33 TRACTION ENGINES OR TRACTORS WITH ICE PICKS, SPIKES, OR CHAINS.
   (a)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No person shall drive over the improved streets or highways of this
City a traction engine or tractor with tires or wheels equipped with ice picks,
spuds, spikes, chains, or other projections of any kind extending beyond the
cleats.
      (2)   No person shall tow or in any way pull another vehicle over the
improved streets or highways within this City, when the towed or pulled vehicle
has tires or wheels equipped with ice picks, spuds, spikes, chains, or other
projections of any kind.
(ORC 5589.08)
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 5589.99)
   (c)   Definitions. "Traction engine" or "tractor," as used in this section,
applies to all self-propelling engines equipped with metal-tired wheels
operated or propelled by any form of engine, motor, or mechanical power.
(ORC 5589.08)
438.34 SECURING OF LOADS.
   (a)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street or highway within
the City unless the vehicle is so constructed, loaded, or covered as to prevent
any of its load from dropping, sifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping
therefrom, except that sand or other substance may be dropped for the purpose
of securing traction, or water or other substance may be sprinkled on a roadway
in cleaning or maintaining the roadway.
      (2)   Except for a farm vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials or a rubbish vehicle in the process of
acquiring its load, no vehicle loaded with garbage, swill, cans, bottles, waste
paper, ashes, refuse, trash, rubbish, waste, wire, paper, cartons, boxes,
glass, solid waste, or any other material of an unsanitary nature that is
susceptible to blowing or bouncing from a moving vehicle shall be driven or
moved on any street or highway within this City unless the load is covered with
a sufficient cover to prevent the load or any part of the load from spilling
onto the street or highway.
(ORC 4513.31)
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.99(A))
438.35 LIMITATION ON LOAD EXTENSION ON LEFT SIDE OF VEHICLE.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on a street
or highway within the City with any load carried on the vehicle which extends
more than six inches (6") beyond the line of the fenders on the vehicle's left
side.
(ORC 4513.30)
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.99)
438.36 TOWING REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Towing Another Vehicle.
      (1)   When one vehicle is towing another vehicle, the drawbar or other
connection shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed
thereby, and the drawbar or other connection shall not exceed fifteen feet
(15') from one vehicle to the other, except the connection between any two (2)
vehicles transporting poles, pipe, machinery, or other objects of structural
nature which cannot readily be dismembered.
      (2)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists only
of a chain, rope, or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a
white flag or cloth not less than twelve inches (12") square.
   (b)   Towing a Trailer. In addition to such drawbar or other connection,
each trailer and each semitrailer which is not connected to a commercial
tractor by means of a fifth wheel shall be coupled with stay chains or cables
to the vehicle by which it is being drawn. The chains or cables shall be of
sufficient size and strength to prevent the towed vehicle's parting from the
drawing vehicle in case the drawbar or other connection should break or become
disengaged. In case of a loaded pole trailer, the connecting pole to the
drawing vehicle shall be coupled to the drawing vehicle with stay chains or
cables of sufficient size and strength to prevent the towed vehicle's parting
from the drawing vehicle.
   (c)   Trailers or Semitrailers. Every trailer or semitrailer, except pole
and cable trailers and pole and cable dollies operated by a public utility, as
defined in ORC 5727.01, shall be equipped with a coupling device, which shall
be so designed and constructed that the trailer will follow substantially in
the path of the vehicle drawing it, without whipping or swerving from side-to-
side.
   (d)   Agricultural Produce, Equipment, or Tractors. Vehicles used to
transport agricultural produce or agricultural production materials between a
local place of storage and supply and the farm, when drawn or towed on a street
or highway at a speed of twenty-five miles per hour (25 mph) or less, shall
have a drawbar or other connection, including the hitch, mounted on the towing
vehicle, which shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed
thereby. Only one such vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials as provided in this section may be towed or
drawn at one time, except as follows:
      (1)   An agricultural tractor may tow or draw more than one such vehicle.
      (2)   A pickup truck or straight truck designed by the manufacturer to
carry a load of not less than one-half ( ) ton and not more than two (2) tons
may tow or draw not more than two such vehicles that are being used to
transport agricultural produce from the farm to a local place of storage. No
vehicle being so towed by such a pickup truck or straight truck shall be
considered to be a motor vehicle.
   (e)   Boat Trailers. Vehicles designed and used exclusively to transport a
boat between a place of storage and a marina, or in and around a marina, when
drawn or towed on a street or highway for a distance of no more than ten (10)
miles and at a speed of twenty-five miles per hour (25 mph) or less, shall have
a drawbar or other connection, including the hitch, mounted on the towing
vehicle, which shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed
thereby.
(ORC 4513.32)
   (f)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.99)
438.37 INSTALLATION OF NONCONFORMING AIR BAGS.
   (a)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No person shall install or reinstall in any motor vehicle a
counterfeit or nonfunctional air bag or any object intended to fulfill the
function of an air bag other than an air bag that was designed in conformance
with or that is regulated by federal motor vehicle safety standard number 208
for the make, model, and model year of the vehicle, knowing that the object is
not in accordance with that standard.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly sell, install or reinstall a device in a
motor vehicle that causes the diagnostic system of a vehicle to inaccurately
indicate that the vehicle is equipped with a functional air bag.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
improper replacement of a motor vehicle air bag, a misdemeanor of the first
degree on a first offense. On each subsequent offense, or if the violation
results in serious physical harm to an individual, the person is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Each installation,
reinstallation, sale, or offer for sale in violation of this section shall
constitute a separate and distinct violation.
   (c)   Definitions. As used in this section "air bag," "counterfeit air bag"
and "nonfunctional air bag" shall have the same meaning as in ORC 4549.20(A).
(ORC 4549.20)
438.38 NOISE CONTROL; MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE NOISE LIMITS.
   (a)   Noise Limits. No person shall operate, within the speed limits
specified herein, a passenger car or motorcycles, of a type subject to
registration, at any time or under any condition of load, acceleration, or
deceleration in such a manner as to exceed the following maximum noise limits,
based on a distance of not less than fifty feet (50') from the center of the
line of travel:
      (1)   For passenger cars:
         A.   When operated at a speed of thirty-five miles per hour (35 mph)
or less, a maximum noise limit of seventy decibels (70 dB);
         B.   When operated at a speed of more than thirty-five miles per hour
(35 mph), a maximum noise limit of seventy-nine decibels (79 dB).
      (2)   For motorcycles:
         A.   When operated at a speed of thirty-five miles per hour (35 mph)
or less, a maximum noise limit of eighty-two decibels (82 dB);
         B.   When operated at a speed of more than thirty-five miles per hour
(35 mph), a maximum noise limit of eighty-six decibels (86 dB).
   (b)   Measuring Noise Limits. The maximum noise limits established pursuant
to division (a) of this section shall be measured on the "A" scale of a
standard sound level meter meeting the applicable requirements for a type 2
sound level meter as defined in American National Standards Institute Standard
S1.4--1983, or the most recent revision thereof. Measurement practices shall be
in substantial conformity with standards and recommended practice established
by the Society of Automotive Engineers, including SAE Standard J 986 A NOV81,
SAE Standard J 366 MAR85, SAE Standard J 331 A, and such other standards and
practices as may be approved by the federal government.
   (c)   Signs Required. The noise limits established under division (a) of
this section shall not become effective until signs giving notice of the
regulation are posted upon or at the entrance to the street, highway or part
thereof affected, as may be most appropriate.
   (d)   Exception. This section shall not apply to commercial racetrack
operations.
   (e)   Penalties. Whoever violates any maximum noise limits established in
division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
Statutory reference: ORC 4513.221
438.39 VEHICLES EXEMPT FROM STANDARDS.
   (a)   Collector's or Historical Vehicles.
      (1)   No person shall be prohibited from owning or operating a licensed
collector's vehicle or historical motor vehicle that is equipped with a feature
of design, type of material, or article of equipment that was not in violation
of any motor vehicle equipment law of this City or this State in effect during
the calendar year the vehicle was manufactured, and no licensed collector's
vehicle or historical motor vehicle shall be prohibited from displaying or
using any such feature of design, type of material, or article of equipment.
      (2)   No person shall be prohibited from owning or operating a licensed
collector's vehicle or historical motor vehicle for failing to comply with an
equipment provision contained in this Chapter 438. or in any ordinance that was
enacted or adopted in a year subsequent to that in which the vehicle was
manufactured, and no licensed collector's vehicle or historical motor vehicle
shall be required to comply with an equipment provision in this Chapter 438. or
in any ordinance that was enacted or adopted subsequent to the calendar year in
which it was manufactured.
(ORC 4513.38)
      (3)   Except as provided in ORC 4505.061, no person shall be required to
submit his collector's vehicle to a physical inspection prior to or in
connection with an issuance of title to, or the sale or transfer of ownership
of such vehicle, except that a police officer may inspect it to determine
ownership.
(ORC 4513.41(C))
   (b)   Collector's or Historical Agricultural Tractor or Traction Engine.
      (1)   No owner of a licensed collector's vehicle, a historical motor
vehicle, or a collector's vehicle that is an agricultural tractor or traction
engine shall be required to comply with an emission or noise control provisions
contained in this Chapter 438. that was enacted or adopted subsequent to the
calendar year in which the vehicle was manufactured.
      (2)   No person shall be prohibited from operating a licensed collector's
vehicle, a historical motor vehicle, or a collector's vehicle that is an
agricultural tractor or traction engine for failing to comply with an emission
or noise control law or rule of this City that was enacted or adopted
subsequent to the calendar year in which his vehicle was manufactured.
(ORC 4513.41)
   (c)   Farm Machinery or Road Equipment. Sections
438.01  to
438.37  of this Traffic Code, with respect to equipment on vehicles, do not
apply to implements of husbandry, road machinery, road rollers, or agricultural
tractors, except as made applicable to such articles of machinery.
(ORC 4513.02(G))
438.99 PENALTIES.
   See Section
402.99 of this Traffic Code for penalties for provisions of this Chapter for
which no penalty is otherwise provided in the section violated.
TITLE TEN - DRIVERS' LICENSES; CDLs; MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSING
CHAPTER 440
Drivers' Licenses; Suspensions; Accidents
440.01   Driver's or Commercial Driver's License Required
440.02   Possession of More than One License Prohibited; License Requirements
for New Residents
440.03   Temporary Instruction Permit; Prohibitions
440.04   Driver's Licenses; Prohibited Acts
440.05   Prohibitions against Permitting a Minor to Operate Vehicle
440.06   Display of Driver's License
440.07   Probationary Licenses; Restrictions
440.08   Driving under Suspension or in Violation of License Restriction or
Driving Privileges Limitations
440.09   Driving under Failure to Appear or Pay Suspension, Unruly Child
Suspension, Violation of Liquor or Tobacco Laws Suspension, or Child Support
Suspension
440.10   Operating a Motor Vehicle or Motorcycle Without a Valid License
440.11   Driving under OVI Suspension
440.12   Driving under FRA or Nonpayment of Judgment Suspension
440.13   Driving under 12-Point Suspension
440.14   Proof of Financial Responsibility
440.15   Misleading Police Officer as Falsification
440.16   Failure to Reinstate License
440.17   Affirmative Defenses
440.18   Seizure of Vehicle upon Arrest for Driving under OVI Suspension or for
Wrongful Entrustment
440.19   Failure to Return License upon Suspension
440.20   Stopping after Accident on Public Streets; Exchange of Information
440.21   Stopping after Accident on Property Other than Public Streets
440.22   Accident Resulting in Damage to Real Property
440.23   Prohibitions against Failure to Report Accident
440.24   Removal of Vehicle or Accident Debris
440.99   Penalties
   CROSS REFERENCES
      See Sectional histories for similar State law
      ALS Suspension for OVI - TRAF.
434.10
      Commercial Drivers' Licenses - see TRAF.
CH. 442.
      Definitions - TRAF.
400.08
      Driver's License Law - see ORC Chapter 4507.
      Driver's License Suspension and Cancellation - see ORC Chapter 4510.
      Financial Responsibility - see ORC Chapter 4509.
      Operation of Immobilized Vehicle - TRAF.
434.14
      Penalty, when not otherwise provided - TRAF.
402.99
      Removal of Vehicle from Accident Scene - see ORC 4513.68
      Suspension of Driver's License - TRAF.
402.13; ORC Chapter 4510.
440.01 DRIVER'S OR COMMERCIAL DRIVER'S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   License Required. No person shall permit the operation of a motor
vehicle upon any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking within this City knowing the operator does not have
a valid driver's license issued to the operator by the registrar of motor
vehicles or a deputy registrar under ORC Chapter 4507. or a valid commercial
driver's license issued under ORC Chapter 4506.
(ORC 4507.02(A)(1))
   (b)   Exemptions.
      (1)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver's or commercial
driver's license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling a road roller or road machinery upon a street or highway.
      (2)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver's or commercial
driver's license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling any agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a
street or highway at a speed of twenty-five miles per hour (25 mph) or less.
      (3)   No person shall drive, operate, draw, move, or propel any
agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a street or highway at a
speed greater than twenty-five miles per hour (25 mph) unless the person has a
current, valid driver's or commercial driver's license.
      (4)   No person having a valid driver's or commercial driver's license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator's endorsement to operate a
motorcycle having three (3) wheels with a motor of not more than fifty cubic
centimeters (50 cm3) piston displacement.
      (5)   No person having a valid driver's or commercial driver's license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator's endorsement to operate an
autocycle or a cab-enclosed motorcycle.
      (6)   Every person on active duty in the armed forces of the United
States, when furnished with a driver's permit, and when operating an official
motor vehicle in connection with such duty, is exempt from the license
requirements of this Chapter and ORC Chapters 4506. and 4507. Every person on
active duty in the armed forces of the United States or in service with the
Peace Corps, Volunteers in Service to America, or the foreign service of the
United States is exempt from such license requirements for the period of the
person's active duty or service and for six (6) months thereafter, provided the
person was a licensee under those chapters at the time the person commenced the
person's active duty or service.
      (7)   The spouse or a dependent of any such person on active duty or in
service also is exempt from the license requirements of this Chapter and ORC
Chapters 4506. and 4507. for the period of the person's active duty or service
and for six (6) months thereafter, provided the spouse or dependent was a
licensee under those chapters at the time the person commenced the active duty
or service, and provided further that the person's active duty or service
causes the spouse or dependent to relocate outside of this State during the
period of the active duty or service.
      (8)   Nothing in divisions (b)(5) or (b)(6) shall prevent a person
described in division (b)(5) or the person's spouse or dependent from making an
application, as provided in ORC 4507.10(C), for the renewal of a driver's
license or motorcycle operator's endorsement or, as provided in ORC 4506.14,
for the renewal of a commercial driver's license during the period of the
person's active duty or service.
(ORC 4507.03)
      (9)   Nonresidents, permitted to drive upon the highways of their own
states, may operate any motor vehicle upon any street or highway in this City
without examination or license under ORC 4507.01 to 4507.39, inclusive, upon
condition that such nonresidents may be required at any time or place to prove
lawful possession or their right to operate such motor vehicle, and to
establish proper identity.
(ORC 4507.04)
   (c)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to Sections
698.02 and
698.03 of the City's General Offenses Code (or ORC 2929.21 to 2929.28), except
that the offender shall not be sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not
be sentenced to a community residential sanction pursuant to Section
698.02(d) (or ORC 2929.26); notwithstanding Section
698.02(f)(1)B.(i) (or ORC 2929.28(A)(2)(a)), the offender may be fined up to
one thousand dollars ($1,000); and, notwithstanding Section
698.02(e)(1)C. (or ORC 2929.27(A)(3)), the offender may be ordered pursuant to
Section
698.02(e)(3) (or ORC 2929.27(C)) to serve a term of community service of up to
five hundred (500) hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of
community service imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal
contempt under ORC 2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three (3) years of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pled guilty to two (2) or more violations of division
(a) of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 4507.02(A)(1))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (b)(3) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 4507.03)
440.02 POSSESSION OF MORE THAN ONE LICENSE PROHIBITED; LICENSE REQUIREMENTS FOR
NEW RESIDENTS.
   (a)   Possessing Multiple Licenses Prohibited. No person shall possess more
than one valid driver's license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card at any time.
(ORC 4507.02(A)(4))
   (b)   Requirement for New Residents. Any person who becomes a resident of
this state, within thirty (30) days of becoming a resident, shall surrender any
driver's license, temporary instruction permit, or identification card issued
by another state to the registrar of motor vehicles or a deputy registrar. If
such a person intends to operate a motor vehicle upon the public roads or
highways within this City, the person shall apply for a driver's license in
this state. If the person fails to apply for a driver's license within thirty
(30) days of becoming a resident, the person shall not operate any motor
vehicle in this state under a license issued by another state.
(ORC 4507.213)
   (c)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 4507.99)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. The offense established under (c)(2) of this section is a strict
liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state for the
purposes of ORC 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict liability
offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for which there
is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
   (d)   Definitions. For the purposes of division (b) of this section,
"resident" means any person to whom any of the following applies:
      (1)   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person's active service in the
United States armed forces.
      (2)   The person is determined by the registrar of motor vehicles to be a
resident in accordance with standards adopted by the registrar under ORC
4507.01.
(ORC 4507.213)
440.03 TEMPORARY INSTRUCTION PERMIT; PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   Conditions. No holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under
ORC 4507.05 shall operate a motor vehicle on a street, highway, or any public
or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking within this City unless all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   If the holder is at least fifteen (15) years six (6) months of age,
but less than sixteen (16) years of age:
         A.   The vehicle is not a commercial motor vehicle;
         B.   The permit and identification card are in the holder's immediate
possession;
         C.   The holder is accompanied by an eligible adult who actually
occupies the seat beside the permit holder and does not have a prohibited
concentration of alcohol in the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or
urine, as provided in Section
434.09 of this Traffic Code or ORC 4511.19; and
         D.   The total number of occupants in the vehicle does not exceed the
total number of occupant-restraining devices originally installed in the motor
vehicle by its manufacturer, and each occupant of the vehicle is wearing all of
the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant-restraining device.
      (2)   If the holder is at least sixteen (16) years of age:
         A.   The vehicle is not a commercial vehicle;
         B.   The permit and identification card are in the holder's immediate
possession;
         C.   The holder is accompanied by a licensed operator who is at least
twenty-one (21) years of age who actually occupies the seat beside the permit
holder and does not have a prohibited concentration of alcohol in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine, as provided in Section
434.09 of this Traffic Code or ORC 4511.19; and
         D.   The total number of occupants in the vehicle does not exceed the
total number of occupant-restraining devices originally installed in the motor
vehicle by its manufacturer, and each occupant of the vehicle is wearing all of
the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant-restraining device.
   (b)   Violations.
      (1)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit shall operate a motor
vehicle upon a street, highway, or any public or private property used by the
public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking in violation of the
conditions established under division (a) of this section.
      (2)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit who has not attained
the age of eighteen (18) years shall operate a motor vehicle upon a street,
highway, or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m.,
unless, at the time of such operation, the holder is accompanied by the
holder's parent, guardian, or custodian, and the parent, guardian, or custodian
holds a current valid driver's or commercial driver's license issued by this
state, is actually occupying the seat beside the permit holder, and does not
have a prohibited concentration of alcohol in the whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath or urine, as provided in Section
434.09 of this Traffic Code or ORC 4511.19.
      (3)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit and temporary
instruction permit identification card to operate a motorcycle, motor-driven
cycle or motor scooter, or motorized bicycle shall operate a motorcycle, motor-
driven cycle or motor scooter, or motorized bicycle upon a street or highway,
or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking, without having in the holder's immediate possession the
holder's temporary instruction permit and temporary instruction permit
identification card.
   (c)   Secondary Offense.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether each occupant of the motor vehicle is wearing all of the
available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device as
required by division (a)(1)D. or (a)(2)D. of this section, or for the sole
purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or summons if the requirement in those
divisions have been or are being violated, or for causing the arrest of or
commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of division (a)(1)D. or
(a)(2)D. of this section.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (b)(2) of this section has been or
is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for such a violation or for causing the arrest of or commencing a
prosecution of a person for such violation.
   (d)   Penalties. Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
   (e)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "Eligible adult" means any of the following:
         A.   An instructor of a driver training course approved by the Ohio
Department of Public Safety; or
         B.   Any of the following persons who holds a current valid driver's
or commercial driver's license issued by this State:
            (i)   A parent, guardian, or custodian of the permit holder;
            (ii)   A person twenty-one (21) years of age or older who acts in
loco parentis of the permit holder.
      (2)   "Occupant-restraining device" has the same meaning as in ORC
4513.263.
      (3)   "Temporary instruction permit" means a permit issued by the
registrar of motor vehicles, or a deputy registrar, in accordance with ORC
4507.05(A).
(ORC 4507.05)
440.04 DRIVER'S LICENSES; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Display, or cause or permit to be displayed, or possess any
identification card, driver's or commercial driver's license, temporary
instruction permit, or commercial driver's license temporary instruction permit
knowing the same to be fictitious, or to have been canceled, suspended, or
altered.
      (2)   Lend to a person not entitled thereto, or knowingly permit a person
not entitled thereto, to use any identification card, driver's or commercial
driver's license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial driver's license
temporary instruction permit issued to the person so lending or permitting the
use thereof.
      (3)   Display, or represent as one's own, any identification card,
driver's or commercial driver's license, temporary instruction permit, or
commercial driver's license temporary instruction permit not issued to the
person so displaying the same.
      (4)   Fail to surrender to the registrar of motor vehicles, upon the
registrar's demand, any identification card, driver's or commercial driver's
license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial driver's license temporary
instruction permit that has been suspended or canceled.
      (5)   In any application for an identification card, driver's or
commercial driver's license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial
driver's license temporary instruction permit, or any renewal, reprint, or
duplicate thereof, knowingly conceal a material fact, or present any
physician's statement required under ORC 4507.08 or 4507.081 when knowing the
same to be false or fictitious.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
(ORC 4507.30)
440.05 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST PERMITTING A MINOR TO OPERATE VEHICLE.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall cause or knowingly permit any minor to
drive a motor vehicle upon any street or highway within this City as an
operator, unless the minor has first obtained a license or permit to drive a
motor vehicle under ORC Chapter 4507.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
(4507.31)
440.06 DISPLAY OF DRIVER'S LICENSE.
   (a)   Furnishing License Upon Demand. The operator of a motor vehicle shall
display the operator's driver's license, or furnish satisfactory proof that the
operator has a driver's license, upon demand of any peace officer or of any
person damaged or injured in any collision in which the licensee may be
involved. When a demand is properly made and the operator has the operator's
driver's license on or about the operator's person, the operator shall not
refuse to display the license. A person's failure to furnish satisfactory
evidence that the person is licensed under ORC Chapter 4507. when the person
does not have the person's license on or about the person's person shall be
prima-facie evidence of the person's not having obtained a driver's license.
   (b)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(2), whoever violates
this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an
unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to Sections
698.02 and
698.03 of the City's General Offenses Code (or ORC 2929.21 to 2929.28), except
that the offender shall not be sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not
be sentenced to a community residential sanction pursuant to Section
698.02(d) (or ORC 2929.26); notwithstanding Section
698.02(f)(1)B.1. (or ORC 2929.28(A)(2)(a)), the offender may be fined up to one
thousand dollars ($1,000); and notwithstanding Section
698.02(e)(1)C. (or ORC 2929.27(A)(3)), the offender may be ordered pursuant to
Section
698.02(e)(3) (or ORC 2929.27(C)) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under ORC
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three (3) years of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pled guilty to two (2) or more violations of this
section, or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, the
offense is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 4507.35)
440.07 PROBATIONARY LICENSES; RESTRICTIONS.
   (a)   Restrictions.
      (1)   No holder of a probationary driver's license who has held the
license for less than twelve (12) months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a
street, highway, or any public or private property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking between the hours of midnight and 6:00
a.m., unless the holder is accompanied by the holder's parent or guardian.
      (2)   No holder of a probationary driver's license who has held the
license for twelve (12) months or longer shall operate a motor vehicle upon a
street, highway, or any public or private property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00
a.m., unless the holder is accompanied by the holder's parent or guardian.
      (3)   No holder of a probationary driver's license who has held the
license for less than twelve (12) months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a
street, highway, or any public or private property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking with more than one (1) person who is
not a family member occupying the vehicle, unless the probationary license
holder is accompanied by the probationary license holder's parent, guardian, or
custodian.
      (4)   No holder of a probationary license shall operate a motor vehicle
upon a street, highway, or any public or private property used by the public
for purposes of vehicular travel or parking unless the total number of
occupants of the vehicle does not exceed the total number of occupant
restraining devices originally installed in the motor vehicle by its
manufacturer, and each occupant of the vehicle is wearing all of the available
elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
   (b)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Subject to division (d)(1) of this section, division (a)(1) of this
section does not apply to the holder of a probationary driver's license who is
doing either of the following:
         A.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of midnight and 6:00
a.m., provided that the holder has, in the holder's immediate possession,
written documentation from the holder's employer.
         B.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the school
the holder attends between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided that
the holder has, in the holder's immediate possession, written documentation
from an appropriate official of the school.
         C.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided that the holder has, in the holder's
immediate possession, written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
         D.   The written documentation required under this division (b)(1) may
be on the form provided by the registrar of motor vehicles or any other written
documentation that meets the requirements of this division.
      (2)   Division (a)(2) of this section does not apply to the holder of a
probationary driver's license who is doing either of the following:
         A.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00
a.m. and who has, in the holder's immediate possession, written documentation
from the holder's employer.
         B.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the school
the holder attends between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m., provided that
the holder has, in the holder's immediate possession, written documentation
from an appropriate official of the school.
         C.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has, in the holder's
immediate possession, written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
         D.   The written documentation required under this division (b)(2) may
be on the form provided by the registrar of motor vehicles or any other written
documentation that meets the requirements of this division.
      (3)   An employer, school official or official affiliated with a
religious event is not liable in damages in a civil action for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises from, or is related
to, the fact that the employer provided an employee who is the holder of a
probationary driver's license with the written documentation described in
divisions (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section.
   (c)   Affirmative Defense. It is an affirmative defense to a violation of
division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section if, at the time of the violation, an
emergency existed that required the holder of the probationary driver's license
to operate a motor vehicle in violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this
section, or the holder was an emancipated minor.
   (d)   Effect of Moving Violation.
      (1)   If a person is issued a probationary driver's license prior to
attaining the age of seventeen (17) years and the person pleads guilty to, is
convicted of, or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed, a moving
violation during the six (6) month period commencing on the date on which the
person is issued the probationary driver's license, the court with jurisdiction
over the violation may order that the holder must be accompanied by the
holder's parent or guardian whenever the holder is operating a motor vehicle
upon a street, highway, or any public or private property used by the public
for purpose of vehicular travel or parking for a period not to exceed six (6)
months or the date the holder attains the age of seventeen (17) years,
whichever occurs first.
      (2)   Any person who is subject to the operating restrictions established
under division (d)(1) of this section as a result of a first moving violation
may petition the court for driving privileges without being accompanied by the
holder's parent or guardian during the period of time determined by the court
under that division. In granting the driving privileges, the court shall
specify the purposes, times, and places of the privileges and shall issue the
person appropriate forms setting forth the privileges granted. If a person is
convicted of, pleads guilty to, or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having
committed, a second or subsequent moving violation, the court with jurisdiction
over the violation may terminate any driving privileges previously granted
under this division.
      (3)   No person shall violate any operating restriction imposed under
division (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section.
   (e)   Secondary Offense.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether each occupant of the motor vehicle is wearing all of the
available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device as
required by division (a)(4) of this section, or for the sole purpose of issuing
a ticket, citation, or summons if the requirement in that division has been or
is being violated, or for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of
a person for a violation of that requirement.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section
has been or is being committed, or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket,
citation, or summons for such a violation, or for causing the arrest of or
commencing a prosecution of a person for such violation.
   (f)   Penalties. Whoever violates division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4) or
(d)(3) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
   (g)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "Family member" of a probationary license holder includes any of
the following:
         A.   A spouse;
         B.   A child or stepchild;
         C.   A parent, stepparent, grandparent, or parent-in-law;
         D.   An aunt or uncle;
         E.   A sibling, whether of the whole or half-blood or by adoption, a
brother-in-law or a sister-in-law;
         F.   A son or daughter of the probationary license holder's stepparent
if the stepparent has not adopted the probationary license holder;
         G.   An eligible adult, as defined in ORC 4507.05.
      (2)   "Moving violation" means any violation of any City ordinance or
state statute that regulates the operation of vehicles on streets or highways.
"Moving violation" does not include a violation of Section 438.30 of this
Traffic Code, ORC 4513.263, or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, or a violation of any ordinance or statute regulating
pedestrians, the parking of vehicles, vehicle size or load limitations, vehicle
fitness requirements, or vehicle registration.
      (3)   "Occupant restraining device" has the same meaning as in ORC
4513.263.
(ORC 4507.071)
440.08 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR IN VIOLATION OF LICENSE RESTRICTION OR
DRIVING PRIVILEGES LIMITATIONS.
   (a)   Driving Under Suspension. Except as provided in division (b) of this
section and in Sections 440.09 and 440.12 of this Traffic Code, no person whose
driver's or commercial driver's license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege has been suspended under any applicable provision of this Traffic
Code or under any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, other than ORC Chapter
4509., or under any applicable law in any other jurisdiction in which the
person's license or permit was issued, shall operate any motor vehicle upon the
public streets, roads and highways or upon any public or private property used
by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking within this City
during the period of suspension, unless the person is granted limited driving
privileges and is operating the vehicle in accordance with the terms of the
limited driving privileges.
   (b)   Driving in Violation of License Restriction. No person shall operate
any motor vehicle upon a street, highway, or any public or private property
used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking in this City in
violation of any restriction of the person's driver's or commercial driver's
license or permit imposed under ORC 4506.10(D) or 4507.14.
   (c)   Prima-Facie Evidence. Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting
authority, a noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system
(LEADS) report or a noncertified copy of a record of the registrar of motor
vehicles that shows the name, date of birth, and social security number of a
person charged with a violation of division (a) or (b) of this section may be
admitted into evidence as prima-facie evidence that the license of the person
was under suspension at the time of the alleged violation of division (a) of
this section or the person operated a motor vehicle in violation of a
restriction at the time of the alleged violation of division (b) of this
section. The person charged with a violation of division (a) or (b) of this
section may offer evidence to rebut this prima-facie evidence.
   (d)   Penalties. Whoever violates division (a) or (b) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. The court may impose upon the
offender a class seven suspension of the offender's driver's license,
commercial driver's license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in ORC
4510.02(A)(7).
   (e)   Immobilization.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (e)(2) or (f)(1) of this section,
the court, in addition to any other penalty that it imposes on the offender and
if the vehicle is registered in the offender's name and if, within three (3)
years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled
guilty to one (1) violation of this section, Sections
440.09 or
440.12 of this Traffic Code, or a substantially equivalent State law or
municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to or independent of any other
sentence that it imposes upon the offender, may order the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense for thirty (30) days and the impoundment of
that vehicle's license plates for thirty (30) days in accordance with ORC
4503.233.
      (2)   If the vehicle is registered in the offender's name and if, within
three (3) years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
or pled guilty to two (2) violations of this section, or any combination of two
(2) violations of this section, Sections 4
440.09 or
440.12 of this Traffic Code, or a substantially equivalent State law or
municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to any other sentence that it
imposes on the offender, may order the immobilization of the vehicle involved
in the offense for sixty (60) days and the impoundment of that vehicle's
license plates for sixty (60) days in accordance with ORC 4503.233.
      (3)   Any order for immobilization and impoundment under this section
shall be issued and enforced under ORC 4503.233 and 4507.02, as applicable. The
court shall not release a vehicle from immobilization ordered under this
section unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
   (f)   Criminal Forfeiture.
      (1)   If the vehicle is registered in the offender's name and if, within
three (3) years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
or pled guilty to three (3) or more violations of this section, Sections
440.09 or
440.12 of this Traffic Code, or a substantially equivalent State law or
municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to any other sentence that it
imposes on the offender, may order the criminal forfeiture of the vehicle
involved in the offense to the City or the State.
      (2)   Any order of criminal forfeiture under this section shall be issued
and enforced under ORC 4503.234. Upon receipt of the copy of the order from the
court, neither the registrar of motor vehicles nor a deputy registrar shall
accept any application for the registration or transfer of registration of any
motor vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the declaration of
forfeiture. The period of registration denial shall be five (5) years after the
date of the order, unless, during that period, the court having jurisdiction of
the offense that led to the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the
registrar of the termination. The registrar then shall take necessary measures
to permit the person to register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to
transfer registration of the vehicle.
   (g)   Proof of Financial Responsibility. The offender shall provide the
court with proof of financial responsibility, as defined in ORC 4509.01. If the
offender fails to provide that proof of financial responsibility, then, in
addition to any other penalties provided by law, the court may order
restitution pursuant to Section
698.02 (f) (or ORC 2929.28) in an amount not exceeding five thousand dollars
($5,000) for any economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was
the direct and proximate result of the offender's operation of the vehicle
before, during, or after committing the offense for which the offender is
sentenced under this section.
(ORC 4510.11)
   (h)   Driving in Violation of Driving Privileges.
      (1)   Unless division (h)(2) applies, a person granted limited driving
privileges under this Traffic Code or ORC 4510.17 who operates a vehicle for
other than limited purposes, in violation of any condition imposed by the court
or without having the order in the person's possession is guilty of a violation
of this section.
      (2)   No person who has been granted limited or unlimited driving
privileges under ORC 4510.17(E) subject to an immobilizing or disabling device
order shall operate a motor vehicle prior to obtaining a restricted license.
Any person who violates this prohibition is subject to the penalties prescribed
in Section
440.11 of this Traffic Code.
      (3)   The offenses established under division (h)(1) and (h)(2) of this
section are strict liability offenses and ORC 2901.20 does not apply.
(ORC 4510.17(E)(7))
440.09 DRIVING UNDER FAILURE TO APPEAR OR PAY SUSPENSION, UNRULY CHILD
SUSPENSION, VIOLATION OF LIQUOR OR TOBACCO LAWS SUSPENSION, OR CHILD SUPPORT
SUSPENSION.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a street,
highway, or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking in this City whose driver's or commercial driver's
license has been suspended pursuant to the following sections of the ORC:
      (1)   ORC 2151.354 (Unruly Child Suspension).
      (2)   ORC 2151.87 (Cigarettes/Tobacco Violation Suspension).
      (3)   ORC 2935.27 (Security for Appearance in Court Suspension).
      (4)   ORC 3123.58 (Child Support Default Suspension).
      (5)   ORC 4301.99 (Liquor Control Law Violation Suspension).
      (6)   ORC 4510.032 (Abstracts where Charges Dismissed or Reduced; Bail
Forfeiture).
      (7)   ORC 4510.22 (Failure to Appear or Pay Court Fines Suspension).
      (8)   ORC 4510.33 (Use of License to Violate Liquor Laws Suspension).
   (b)   Prima-Facie Evidence. Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting
authority, a noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system
(LEADS) report or a noncertified copy of a record of the registrar of motor
vehicles that shows the name, date of birth, and social security number of a
person charged with a violation of division (a) of this section may be admitted
into evidence as prima-facie evidence that the license of the person was under
suspension at the time of the alleged violation of division (a) of this
section. The person charged with a violation of division (a) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima-facie evidence.
   (c)   Penalties. Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
driving under suspension and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(2) of this section,
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. The offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to Sections
698.02 and
698.03 of the City's General Offenses Code (or ORC 2929.21 to 2929.28), except
that the offender shall not be sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not
be sentenced to a community residential sanction pursuant to Section
698.02(d) (or ORC 2929.26); notwithstanding Section
698.02(f)(1)B.1. (or ORC 2929.28(A)(2)(a)), the offender may be fined up to one
thousand dollars ($1,000); and notwithstanding Section
698.02(e)(1)C. (or ORC 2929.27(A)(3)), the offender may be ordered pursuant to
Section
698.02(e)(3) (or ORC 2929.27(C)) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under ORC
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three (3) years of the offense, the offender previously
was convicted of or pled guilty to two (2) or more violations of division (a)
of this section, or any combination of two (2) or more violations of division
(a) of this section, or Section
440.08 or
440.12 of this Traffic Code, or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, and the
offender shall provide the court with proof of financial responsibility as
defined in ORC 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide that proof of
financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties provided by
law, the court may order restitution pursuant to ORC 2929.28 in an amount not
exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000) for any economic loss arising from an
accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the
offender's operation of the vehicle before, during or after committing the
offense for which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(ORC 4510.111)
440.10 OPERATING A MOTOR VEHICLE OR MOTORCYCLE WITHOUT A VALID LICENSE.
   (a)   Operating a Motor Vehicle without a Valid License. No person, except
those expressly exempted under Sections
440.01 (b) or
440.03  of this Traffic Code, or under ORC 4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall
operate any motor vehicle upon a public street, road, or highway or any public
or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking in this City unless the person has a valid driver's license issued
under ORC Chapter 4507. or a commercial driver's license issued under ORC
Chapter 4506.
   (b)   Operating a Motorcycle without a Valid License. No person, except a
person expressly exempted under Sections
440.01 (b) or
440.03  of this Traffic Code, or under ORC 4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall
operate any motorcycle upon a public street, road, or highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
in this City unless the person has a valid license as a motorcycle operator
that was issued upon application by the registrar of motor vehicles under ORC
Chapter 4507. The license shall be in the form of an endorsement, as determined
by the registrar, upon a driver's or commercial driver's license, if the person
has a valid license to operate a motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle, or
in the form of a restricted license, as provided in ORC 4507.14, if the person
does not have a valid license to operate a motor vehicle or commercial motor
vehicle.
   (c)   Prima Facie Evidence. Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting
authority, a noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system
(LEADS) report or a noncertified copy of a record of the registrar of motor
vehicles that shows the name, date of birth, and social security number of a
person charged with a violation of division (a) or (b) of this section may be
admitted into evidence as prima-facie evidence that the person did not have
either a valid driver's or commercial driver's license at the time of the
alleged violation of division (a) of this section or a valid license as a
motorcycle operator either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver's or
commercial driver's license or a restricted license at the time of the alleged
violation of division (b) of this section. The person charged with a violation
of division (a) or (b) of this section may offer evidence to rebut this prima-
facie evidence.
   (d)   Violations and Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of
operating a motor vehicle or motorcycle without a valid license and shall be
punished as follows:
      (1)   If the trier of fact finds that the offender never has held a valid
driver's or commercial driver's license issued by this state or any other
jurisdiction, or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the
offender if the offender has never held a valid license as a motorcycle
operator either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver's or commercial
driver's license or in the form of a restricted license, except as otherwise
provided in this division (c), the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to Sections
698.02 and
698.03 of the City's General Offenses Code (or ORC 2929.21 to 2929.28), except
that the offender shall not be sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not
be sentenced to a community residential sanction pursuant to Section
698.02(d) (or ORC 2929.26); notwithstanding Section
698.02(f)(1)B.1. (or ORC 2929.28(A)(2)(a)), the offender may be fined up to one
thousand dollars ($1,000); and notwithstanding Section
698.02(e)(1)C. (or ORC 2929.27(A)(3)), the offender may be ordered pursuant to
Section
698.02(e)(3) (or ORC 2929.27(C)) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under ORC
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to
any violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If the offender's driver's or commercial driver's license or permit
or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the offender, the
offender's driver's or commercial driver's license bearing the motorcycle
endorsement or the offender's restricted license, was expired at the time of
the offense, except as otherwise provided in this division, the offense is a
minor misdemeanor. If, within three (3) years of the offense, the offender
previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to two (2) or more violations
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
the offense is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (e)   License Suspension.
      (1)   The court shall not impose a license suspension for a first
violation of this section or if more than three (3) years have passed since the
offender's last violation of this section, or a substantially equivalent state
law or municipal ordinance.
      (2)   If the offender is sentenced under division (d)(3) of this section,
if within three (3) years of the offense the offender previously was convicted
of or pled guilty to one (1) or more violations of this section, or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, and if the
offender's license was expired for more than six (6) months at the time of the
offense, the court may impose a class seven suspension of the offender's
driver's license, commercial driver's license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in ORC 4510.02(A)(7).
(ORC 4510.12)
440.11 DRIVING UNDER OVI SUSPENSION.
   (a)   Driving Under OVI Suspension. No person whose driver's or commercial
driver's license, or permit, or nonresident operating privilege has been
suspended under Sections
434.09 ,
434.11 , or
434.13  of this Traffic Code, or ORC 4511.19, 4511.191, or 4511.196, or ORC
4510.07 for a conviction of a violation of a municipal OVI ordinance, shall
operate any motor vehicle upon the public streets, roads, or highways within
this City during the period of the suspension.
   (b)   Violations and Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of
driving under OVI suspension. The court shall sentence the offender under ORC
Chapter 2929., subject to the differences authorized or required by this
section:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this
section, driving under an OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         A.   A mandatory jail term of three (3) consecutive days. The three-
day term shall be imposed unless, subject to division (c) of this section, the
court instead imposes a sentence of not less than thirty (30) consecutive days
of house arrest with electronic monitoring. A period of house arrest with
electronic monitoring imposed under this division shall not exceed six (6)
months. If the court imposes a mandatory three-day jail term under this
division, the court may impose a jail term in addition to that term, provided
that in no case shall the cumulative jail term imposed for the offense exceed
six (6) months;
         B.   A fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250) and not
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000);
         C.   A licenses suspension under division (e) of this section; and
         D.   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender's name, immobilization for thirty (30)
days of the offender's vehicle and impoundment for thirty (30) days of the
identification license plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and
impoundment shall be issued and enforced in accordance with ORC 4503.233.
      (2)   If, within six (6) years of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pled guilty to one (1) violation of this section, ORC
4510.14, or an equivalent state or municipal offense, driving under OVI
suspension is a misdemeanor of the first degree. The court shall sentence the
offender to all of the following:
         A.   A mandatory jail term of ten (10) consecutive days.
Notwithstanding the jail terms provided in ORC 2929.21 to 2929.28, the court
may sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one (1) year.
The mandatory ten (10) day jail term shall be imposed unless, subject to
division (c) of this section, the court instead imposes a sentence of not less
than ninety (90) consecutive days of house arrest with electronic monitoring.
The period of house arrest with electronic monitoring shall not exceed one (1)
year;
         B.   Notwithstanding the fines provided for in ORC Chapter 2929., a
fine of not less than five hundred dollars ($500) and not more than two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500);
         C.   A licenses suspension under division (e) of this section; and
         D.   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender's name, immobilization for sixty (60)
days of the offender's vehicle and impoundment for sixty (60) days of the
identification license plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and
impoundment shall be issued and enforced in accordance with ORC 4503.233.
      (3)   If, within six (6) years of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pled guilty to two (2) or more violations of this
section, ORC 4510.14, or an equivalent state or municipal offense, driving
under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first degree. The court shall
sentence the offender to all of the following:
         A.   A mandatory jail term of thirty (30) consecutive days.
Notwithstanding the jail terms provided in ORC 2929.21 to 2929.28, the court
may sentence the offender to a jail term of not more than one (1) year. The
court shall not sentence the offender to a term of house arrest with electronic
monitoring in lieu of the mandatory portion of the jail term;
         B.   Notwithstanding the fines provided for in ORC Chapter 2929., a
fine of not less than five hundred dollars ($500) and not more than two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500);
         C.   A licenses suspension under division (e) of this section; and
         D.   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender's name, criminal forfeiture to the City
or State of the offender's vehicle. The order of criminal forfeiture shall be
issued and enforced in accordance with ORC 4503.234. If title to a motor
vehicle that is subject to an order of criminal forfeiture under this division
is assigned or transferred and ORC 4503.234(B)(2) or (3) applies, the court may
fine the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the
National Automobile Dealers' Association. The proceeds from any fine so imposed
shall be distributed in accordance with ORC 4503.234(C)(2).
   (c)   House Arrest in Lieu of Mandatory Jail Term.
      (1)   No court shall impose an alternative sentence of house arrest with
electronic monitoring under division (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section unless,
within sixty (60) days of the date of sentencing, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the jail term imposed, the offender
will not be able to begin serving that term within the sixty-day period
following the date of sentencing.
      (2)   An offender sentenced under this section to a period of house
arrest with electronic monitoring shall be permitted work release during that
period.
   (d)   Indigent Drivers' Alcohol Treatment Fund. Fifty percent (50%) of any
fine imposed by the court under divisions (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of this
section shall be deposited into the indigent drivers' alcohol treatment fund
under the control of the court, as created pursuant to ORC 4511.191(H).
   (e)   License Suspension.
      (1)   In addition to or independent of all other penalties provided by
law or ordinance, the trial judge of any court of record shall impose on an
offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section a
class seven suspension of the offender's driver's or commercial driver's
license, or permit, or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified
in ORC 4510.02(A)(7).
      (2)   When permitted, as specified in ORC 4510.021, if the court grants
limited driving privileges during a suspension imposed under this section, the
privileges shall be granted on the additional condition that the offender must
display restricted licenses plates, issued under ORC 4503.231, on the vehicle
driven subject to the privileges, except as provided in ORC 4503.231(B).
      (3)   A suspension of a commercial driver's license under this section
shall be concurrent with any period of suspension or disqualification under ORC
3123.58 or 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from holding a
commercial driver's license under ORC 4506.16 shall be issued a driver's
license under ORC Chapter 4507. during the period for which the commercial
driver's license was suspended under this section, and no person whose
commercial driver's license is suspended under this section shall be issued a
driver's license under ORC Chapter 4507. during the period of the suspension.
   (f)   Proof of Financial Responsibility. The offender shall provide the
court with proof of financial responsibility, as defined in ORC 4509.01. If the
offender fails to provide that proof of financial responsibility, then, in
addition to any other penalties provided by law, the court may order
restitution pursuant to Section
698.02 (f) of the City's General Offenses Code or ORC 2929.28 in an amount not
exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000) for any economic loss arising from an
accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the
offender's operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the
offense for which the offender is sentenced under this section.
   (g)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "Electronic monitoring" has the same meaning as in ORC 2929.01.
      (2)   "Equivalent offense" means any of the following:
         A.   A violation of a municipal ordinance, law of another state, or
law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to division (a) of
this section;
         B.   A violation of a former law of this City or State that was
substantially equivalent to division (a) of this section.
      (3)   "Jail" has the same meaning as in ORC 2929.01.
      (4)   "Mandatory jail term" means the mandatory term in jail of three
(3), ten (10), or thirty (30) consecutive days that must be imposed under
division (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of this section upon an offender convicted
of a violation of division (a) of this section and in relation to which all of
the following apply:
         A.   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
must be served in a jail.
         B.   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to any provision
of this Traffic Code or the Ohio Revised Code.
(ORC 4510.14)
440.12 DRIVING UNDER FRA OR NONPAYMENT OF JUDGMENT SUSPENSION.
   (a)   Driving Under FRA Suspension or Cancellation. No person, whose
driver's or commercial driver's license, or temporary instruction permit, or
nonresident's operating privilege has been suspended or canceled pursuant to
ORC Chapter 4509. shall operate any motor vehicle within this City, or
knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to be operated by
another person within this City, during the period of the suspension or
cancellation, except as specifically authorized by ORC Chapter 4509. No person
shall operate a motor vehicle within this City, or knowingly permit any motor
vehicle owned by the person to be operated by another person within this City,
during the period in which the person is required by ORC 4509.45 to file and
maintain proof of financial responsibility for a violation of ORC 4509.101,
unless proof of financial responsibility is maintained with respect to that
vehicle.
   (b)   Driving under Nonpayment of Judgment Suspension. No person shall
operate any motor vehicle upon a street, highway, or any public or private
property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking in this
City if the person's driver's or commercial driver's license or temporary
instruction permit, or nonresident operating privilege has been suspended
pursuant to ORC 4509.37 or 4509.40 for nonpayment of a judgment.
   (c)   Prima Facie Evidence. Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting
authority, a noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system
(LEADS) report or a noncertified copy of a record of the registrar of motor
vehicles that shows the name, date of birth, and social security number of a
person charged with a violation of division (a) or (b) of this section may be
admitted into evidence as prima-facie evidence that the license of the person
was under either a financial responsibility law suspension at the time of the
alleged violation of division (a) of this section or a nonpayment of judgment
suspension at the time of the alleged violation of division (b) of this
section. The person charged with a violation of division (a) or (b) of this
section may offer evidence to rebut this prima-facie evidence.
   (d)   Penalties. Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
driving under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation and shall
be punished as provided in this division (d). Whoever violates division (b) of
this section is guilty of driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension and
shall be punished as provided in this division (d).
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (d)(2) of this section,
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified
misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to Sections
698.02 and
698.03 of the City's General Offenses Code (or ORC 2929.21 to 2929.28), except
that the offender shall not be sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not
be sentenced to a community residential sanction pursuant to Section
698.02(d) (or ORC 2929.26); notwithstanding Section
698.02(f)(1)B.1. (or ORC 2929.28(A)(2)(a)), the offender may be fined up to one
thousand dollars ($1,000); and notwithstanding Section
698.02(e)(1)C. (or ORC 2929.27(A)(3)), the offender may be ordered pursuant to
Section
698.02(e)(3) (or ORC 2929.27(C)) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under ORC
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three (3) years of the offense, the offender previously
was convicted of or pled guilty to two (2) or more violations of this section,
or any combination of two violations of this section, Section
440.08 or
440.09 of this Traffic Code, or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in ORC 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide that
proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to ORC 2929.28 in an
amount not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000) for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender's operation of the vehicle before, during or after committing
the offense for which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(ORC 4510.16)
440.13 DRIVING UNDER 12-POINT SUSPENSION.
   (a)   Repeat Traffic Offenders. Any person whose driver's or commercial
driver's license or permit or nonresident operating privileges are suspended as
a repeat traffic offender under ORC 4510.037 and who, during the suspension,
operates any motor vehicle upon any public streets, roads, or highways within
this City is guilty of driving under a twelve-point suspension.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to a minimum term of
three (3) days in jail. No court shall suspend the first three (3) days of jail
time imposed pursuant to this division.
(ORC 4510.037(J))
440.14 PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (a)   Confiscation of License, Certificate of Registration and License
Plates. Any peace officer who, in the performance of the peace officer's duties
as authorized by law, becomes aware of a person whose license is under an order
of suspension, or whose certificate of registration and license plates are
under an order of impoundment pursuant to ORC 4509.101 may confiscate the
license, certificate of registration, and license plates and return them to the
registrar.
   (b)   Producing Proof of Financial Responsibility.
      (1)   A peace officer shall request the owner or operator of a motor
vehicle to produce proof of financial responsibility in a manner described in
division (c) of this section at the time the peace officer acts to enforce the
provisions of this Traffic Code or the traffic laws of the state.
      (2)   A peace officer shall indicate on every traffic ticket whether the
person receiving the traffic ticket produced proof of the maintenance of
financial responsibility in response to the officer's request under division
(b)(1) of this section. The peace officer shall inform every person who
receives a traffic ticket and who has failed to produce proof of the
maintenance of financial responsibility that the person must submit proof to
the traffic violations bureau with any payment of a fine and costs for the
ticketed violation or, if the person is to appear in court for the violation,
the person must submit proof to the court.
      (3)   A.   If a person who has failed to produce proof of the maintenance
of financial responsibility appears in court for a ticketed violation, the
court may permit the defendant to present evidence of proof of financial
responsibility to the court at such time and in such manner as the court
determines to be necessary or appropriate. In a manner prescribed by the
Registrar, the clerk of courts shall provide the Registrar with the identity of
any person who fails to submit proof of the maintenance of financial
responsibility pursuant to division (b)(2) of this section.
         B.   If a person who has failed to produce the proof of the
maintenance of financial responsibility also fails to submit that proof to the
traffic violations bureau with payment of a fine and costs for the ticketed
violation, the traffic violations bureau, in a manner prescribed by the
registrar, shall notify the registrar of the identity of that person.
      (4)   Upon receiving notice from a clerk of courts or traffic violations
bureau pursuant to division (b)(3) of this section, the registrar shall proceed
in accordance with ORC 4509.101(D)(5).
      (5)   A peace officer may charge an owner or operator of a motor vehicle
with a violation of Section
440.12 of this Traffic Code when the owner or operator fails to show proof of
the maintenance of financial responsibility pursuant to a peace officer's
request under division (b)(1) of this section if a check of the owner or
operator's driving record indicates that the owner or operator, at the time of
the operation of the motor vehicle, is required to file and maintain proof of
financial responsibility under ORC 4509.45 for a previous violation of this
Chapter of the Traffic Code or of ORC Chapter 4509.
      (6)   Neither the City, nor its Police Division, nor any officer of the
Xenia Police Division, nor peace officer, law enforcement agency employing a
peace officer, or political subdivision or governmental agency that employs a
peace officer shall be liable in a civil action for damages or loss to persons
arising out of the performance of any duty required or authorized by this
section.
(ORC 4509.101(D))
   (c)   Proof of Financial Responsibility.
      (1)   A.   The registrar, court, traffic violations bureau, or peace
officer may require proof of financial responsibility to be demonstrated by use
of a standard form prescribed by the registrar of motor vehicles. If the use of
a standard form is not required, a person may demonstrate proof of financial
responsibility under this section by presenting to the traffic violations
bureau, court, registrar, or peace officer any of the following documents or a
copy of the documents:
            (i)   A financial responsibility identification card, as provided
in ORC 4509.103;
            (ii)   A certificate of proof of financial responsibility on a form
provided and approved by the Registrar for the filing of an accident report
required to be filed under ORC 4509.06;
            (iii)   A policy of liability insurance, a declaration page of a
policy of liability insurance, or liability bond, if the policy or bond
complies with ORC 4509.20 or ORC 4509.49 to 4509.61;
            (iv)   A bond or certification of the issuance of a bond as
provided in ORC 4509.59;
            (v)   A certificate of deposit of money or securities as provided
in ORC 4509.62; or
            (vi)   A certificate of self-insurance as provided in ORC 4509.72.
         B.   A person may also present proof of financial responsibility under
this section to the traffic violations bureau, court, registrar, or peace
officer through the use of an electronic wireless communication device as
specified under ORC 4509.103.
      (2)   If a person fails to demonstrate proof of financial responsibility
in a manner described in division (c)(1) of this section, the person may
demonstrate proof of financial responsibility under this section by any other
method that the court or the bureau, by reason of circumstances in a particular
case, may consider appropriate.
      (3)   A motor carrier certificated by the Interstate Commerce Commission
or by the Ohio Public Utilities Commission may demonstrate proof of financial
responsibility by providing a statement designating the motor carrier's
operating authority and averring that the insurance coverage required by the
certificating authority is in full force and effect.
(ORC 4509.101(G))
   (d)   Documentation or Display. In order for any document or display of text
or images on an electronic wireless communications device described in division
(c)(1) of this section to be used for the demonstration of proof of financial
responsibility under this section, the document or words or images shall state
the name of the insured or obligor, the name of the insurer or surety company,
and the effective and expiration dates of the financial responsibility, and
designate by explicit description or by appropriate reference all motor
vehicles covered which may include a reference to fleet insurance coverage.
(ORC 4509.101(H))
   (e)   Use of Electronic Wireless Communications Device.
      (1)   When a person utilizes an electronic wireless communication device
to present proof of financial responsibility, only the evidence of financial
responsibility on the device shall be viewed by the registrar, a peace officer,
employee or official of the traffic violations bureau, or the court. No other
content of the device shall be viewed for purposes of obtaining proof of
financial responsibility.
      (2)   When a person provides an electronic wireless communications device
to the registrar, a peace officer, an employee or official of the traffic
violations bureau, or the court, the person assumes the risk of any resulting
damage unless registrar, a peace officer, an employee or official of the
traffic violations bureau, or court personnel purposely, knowingly or
recklessly commits an action that results in damage to the device.
(ORC 4509.101(N))
   (f)   Enforcement. For the purposes of enforcing this section, every peace
officer is deemed to be an agent of the registrar, as authorized by ORC
4509.101(D)(1)(a).
   (g)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section:
      (1)   "Electronic wireless communications device" includes any of the
following:
         A.   A wireless telephone, including a cellular telephone;
         B.   A personal digital assistant;
         C.   A computer, including a laptop computer, a netbook computer and a
tablet computer;
         D.   Any other substantially similar wireless device that is designed
or used to communicate and display text or images.
(ORC 4509.103(A))
      (2)   "Owner" does not include a licensed motor vehicle leasing dealer as
defined in ORC 4517.01 but does include a motor vehicle renting dealer as
defined in ORC 4549.65. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit
a motor vehicle renting dealer from entering into a contractual agreement with
a person whereby the person renting the motor vehicle agrees to be solely
responsible for maintaining proof of financial responsibility, in accordance
with this section, with respect to the operation, maintenance or use of a motor
vehicle during the period of the motor vehicle's rental.
(ORC 4509.101(I))
      (3)   "Peace officer" has the meaning set forth in ORC 2935.01.
(ORC 4509.101(D)(9))
440.15 MISLEADING POLICE OFFICER AS FALSIFICATION.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person who has knowingly failed to maintain proof of
financial responsibility in accordance with Section
440.14  of this Traffic Code or ORC 4509.101 shall produce any document or
present to a peace officer an electronic wireless communications device that is
displaying any text or images with the purpose to mislead a peace officer upon
the request of a peace officer for proof of financial responsibility made in
accordance with Section
440.14 (b)(1) of this Traffic Code or with ORC 4509.101(D)(2).
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of falsification
under ORC 2921.13 or under the City's General Offenses Code.
   (c)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, "electronic wireless
communications device" has the same meaning as in Section
440.14 (g) of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4509.102)
440.16 FAILURE TO REINSTATE LICENSE.
   (a)   Failure to Reinstate. No person whose driver's license, commercial
driver's license, temporary instruction permit, or nonresident's operating
privilege has been suspended shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public road
or highway or any public or private property within this City after the
suspension has expired, unless the person has complied with all license
reinstatement requirements imposed by the court, the Bureau of Motor Vehicles,
or another provision of this Traffic Code or the Ohio Revised Code.
   (b)   Prima Facie Evidence. Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting
authority, a noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system
(LEADS) report or a noncertified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles that shows the name, date of birth, and social security number of a
person charged with a violation of division (a) of this section may be admitted
into evidence as prima-facie evidence that the license of the person had not
been reinstated by the person at the time of the alleged violation of division
(a) of this section. The person charged with a violation of division (a) of
this section may offer evidence to rebut this prima-facie evidence.
   (c)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to
reinstate a license and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(2) of this section,
whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of an unclassified
misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender
shall be sentenced pursuant to Sections
698.02 and
698.03 of the City's General Offenses Code (or ORC 2929.21 to 2929.28), except
that the offender shall not be sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not
be sentenced to a community residential sanction pursuant to Section
698.02(d) (or ORC 2929.26); notwithstanding Section
698.02(f)(1)B.1. (or ORC 2929.28(A)(2)(a)), the offender may be fined up to one
thousand dollars ($1,000); and notwithstanding Section
698.02(e)(1)C. (or ORC 2929.27(A)(3)), the offender may be ordered pursuant to
Section
698.02(e)(3) (or ORC 2929.27(C)) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under ORC
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three (3) years of a violation of division (a) of this
section, the offender previously was convicted of or pled guilty to two (2) or
more violations of division (a) of this section, or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (3)   In all cases, the court may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender's driver's license, commercial driver's license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary driver's license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in ORC 4510.02(A)(7).
(ORC 4510.21)
440.17 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES.
   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under Section
440.08(a),
440.09,
440.11,
440.12,
440.13, or
440.16 or under any substantially equivalent state law that the alleged
offender drove under suspension, without a valid permit or driver's or
commercial driver's license, or in violation of a restriction because of a
substantial emergency, and because no other person was reasonably available to
drive in response to the emergency.
(ORC 4510.04)
440.18 SEIZURE OF VEHICLE UPON ARREST FOR DRIVING UNDER OVI SUSPENSION OR FOR
WRONGFUL ENTRUSTMENT.
   (a)   When Seizure is Required. If a person is arrested for a violation of
Section
440.11  or Section
434.17  of this Traffic Code or a state law or municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to either of those sections, the arresting officer or
another officer of the Xenia Police Division, as the law enforcement agency
that employs the arresting officer, in addition to any action that the
arresting officer is required or authorized to take by any other provision of
law, shall seize the vehicle that the person was operating at the time of, or
that was involved in, the alleged offense if the vehicle is registered in the
arrested person's name and its license plates. The Xenia Police Division, as
the law enforcement agency that employs a law enforcement officer who makes an
arrest of a type that is described in this division and that involves a rented
or leased vehicle that is being rented or leased for a period of thirty (30)
days or less shall notify, within twenty-four (24) hours after the officer
makes the arrest, the lessor or owner of the vehicle regarding the
circumstances of the arrest and the location at which the vehicle may be picked
up. At the time of the seizure of the vehicle, the law enforcement officer who
made the arrest shall give the arrested person written notice that the vehicle
and its license plates have been seized; that the vehicle either will be kept
by the Xenia Police Division, as the officer's law enforcement agency, or will
be immobilized at least until the person's initial appearance on the charge of
the offense for which the arrest was made; that at the initial appearance the
court, in certain circumstances, may order that the vehicle and license plates
be released to the arrested person until the disposition of that charge; that
if the arrested person is convicted of that charge, the court generally must
order the immobilization of the vehicle and the impoundment of its license
plates or the forfeiture of the vehicle; and that the arrested person may be
charged expenses or charged incurred under this section and ORC 4503.233 for
the removal and storage of the vehicle.
   (b)   Written Notice.
      (1)   The arresting officer or another officer of the Xenia Police
Division, as the law enforcement agency that employs the arresting officer,
shall give written notice of the seizure under division (a) of this section to
the court that will conduct the initial appearance of the arrested person on
the charges arising out of the arrest. Upon receipt of the notice, the court
promptly shall determine whether the arrested person is the vehicle owner. If
the court determines that the arrested person is not the vehicle owner, it
promptly shall send by regular mail written notice of the seizure to the
vehicle's registered owner. The written notice shall contain all of the
information required by division (a) of this section to be in a notice to be
given to the arrested person and also shall specify the date, time, and place
of the arrested person's initial appearance. The notice also shall inform the
vehicle owner that if title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order for
criminal forfeiture under this section is assigned or transferred and ORC
4503.234(B)(2) or (3) applies, the court may fine the arrested person the value
of the vehicle. The notice also shall state that if the vehicle is immobilized
under ORC 4503.233(A), seven (7) days after the end of the period of
immobilization, a law enforcement agency will send the vehicle owner a notice,
informing the owner that if the release of the vehicle is not obtained in
accordance with ORC 4503.233(D)(3), the vehicle shall be forfeited. The notice
also shall inform the vehicle owner that the owner may be charged expenses or
charges incurred under this section and ORC 4503.233 for the removal and
storage of the vehicle.
      (2)   The written notice that is given to the arrested person also shall
state that if the person is convicted of or pleads guilty to the offense and
the court issues an immobilization and impoundment order relative to that
vehicle, ORC 4503.233(D)(4) prohibits the vehicle from being sold during the
period of immobilization without the prior approval of the court.
   (c)   Initial Appearance. At or before the initial appearance, the vehicle
owner may file a motion requesting the court to order that the vehicle and its
license plates be released to the vehicle owner. Except as provided in this
division and subject to the payment of expenses or charges incurred in the
removal and storage of the vehicle, the court, in its discretion, then may
issue an order releasing the vehicle and its license plates to the vehicle
owner. Such an order may be conditioned upon such terms as the court determines
appropriate, including the posting of a bond in an amount determined by the
court. If the arrested person is not the vehicle owner, and if the vehicle
owner is not present at the arrested person's initial appearance, and if the
court believes that the vehicle owner was not provided with adequate notice of
the initial appearance, the court, in its discretion, may allow the vehicle
owner to file a motion within seven (7) days of the initial appearance. If the
court allows the vehicle owner to file such a motion after the initial
appearance, the extension of time granted by the court does not extend the time
within which the initial appearance is to be conducted. If the court issues an
order for the release of the vehicle and its license plates, a copy of the
order shall be made available to the vehicle owner. If the vehicle owner
presents a copy of the order to the law enforcement agency that employs the law
enforcement officer who arrested the arrested person, the law enforcement
agency promptly shall release the vehicle and its license plates to the vehicle
owner upon payment by the vehicle owner of any expenses or charges incurred in
the removal or storage of the vehicle.
   (d)   Towing and Storage of Vehicle.
      (1)   A vehicle seized under division (a) of this section either shall be
towed to a place specified by the Xenia Police Division, as the law enforcement
agency that employs the arresting officer, to be safely kept at that place for
the time and in the manner specified in this section, or shall be otherwise
immobilized for the time and in the manner specified in this section. The
license plates shall remain on the seized vehicle unless otherwise ordered by
the court. No vehicle that is seized and either towed or immobilized pursuant
to this division shall be considered contraband for purposes ORC Chapter 2981.
The vehicle shall not be immobilized at any place other than a commercially
operated private storage lot, a place owned by a law enforcement or other
government agency, or a place to which one of the following applies:
         A.   The place is leased by or otherwise under the control of a law
enforcement or other government agency;
         B.   The place is owned by the arrested person, the arrested person's
spouse, or a parent or child of the arrested person;
         C.   The place is owned by a private person or entity and, prior to
the immobilization, the private entity or person that owns the place, or the
authorized agent of that private entity or person, has given express written
consent for the immobilization to be carried out at that place; or
         D.   The place is a public street or highway on which the vehicle is
parked in accordance with the law.
      (2)   A vehicle seized under division (a) of this section shall be safely
kept at the place to which it is towed or otherwise moved by the Xenia Police
Division, as the law enforcement agency that employs the arresting officer
until the initial appearance of the arrested person relative to the charge in
question. The license plates shall remain on the seized vehicle unless
otherwise ordered by the court.
   (e)   Sentencing Provisions. At the initial appearance, or not less than
seven (7) days prior to the date of final disposition, the court shall notify
the arrested person that if title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an
order for criminal forfeiture under this section is assigned or transferred and
ORC 4503.234(B)(2) or (3) applies, the court may fine the arrested person the
value of the vehicle. If, at the initial appearance, the arrested person pleads
guilty to the violation of Section
440.11  or
434.17  of this Traffic Code, or a state law or municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to either of those sections, or pleads no contest to
and is convicted of the violation, the following sentencing provisions apply:
      (1)   Driving Under OVI Suspension: If the person violated Section
440.11 of this Traffic Code, or a state law or municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to that section, the court shall impose sentence upon
the person as provided by law or ordinance; the court shall order the
immobilization of the vehicle the arrested person was operating at the time of,
or that was involved in, the offense if registered in the arrested person's
name and the impoundment of its license plates under ORC 4503.233 and Section
440.11 of this Traffic Code (or ORC 4510.14), or the criminal forfeiture to the
City or the State of the vehicle if registered in the arrested person's name
under ORC 4503.234 and Section
440.11 of this Traffic Code (or ORC 4510.14), whichever is applicable; and the
vehicle and its license plates shall not be returned or released to the
arrested person.
      (2)   Wrongful Entrustment: If the person violated Section
434.17 of this Traffic Code, or a state law or municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to that section, the court shall impose sentence upon
the person as provided by law or ordinance; the court may order the
immobilization of the vehicle the arrested person was operating at the time of,
or that was involved in, the offense if registered in the arrested person's
name and the impoundment of its license plates under ORC 4503.233 and Section
434.17 of this Traffic Code (or ORC 4511.203), or the criminal forfeiture to
the City or the State of the vehicle if registered in the arrested person's
name under ORC 4503.234 and Section
434.17 of this Traffic Code (or ORC 4511.203), whichever is applicable; and the
vehicle and its license plates shall not be returned or released to the
arrested person.
      (3)   If, at any time, the charge that the arrested person violated
Section
440.11 or
434.17 of this Traffic Code, or a state law or municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to either of those sections, is dismissed for any
reason, the court shall order that the vehicle seized at the time of the arrest
and its license plates immediately be released to the person.
   (f)   Final Disposition. If a vehicle and its license plates are seized
under division (a) of this section and are not returned or released to the
arrested person pursuant to division (e) of this section, the vehicle and its
license plates shall be retained until the final disposition of the charge in
question. Upon the final disposition of that charge, the court shall do
whichever of the following is applicable:
      (1)   Driving Under OVI Suspension: If the arrested person is convicted
of or pleads guilty to the violation of Section
440.11 of this Traffic Code, or a state law or municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to that section, the court shall impose sentence upon
the person as provided by law or ordinance and shall order the immobilization
of the vehicle the person was operating at the time of, or that was involved
in, the offense if it is registered in the arrested person's name and the
impoundment of its license plates under ORC 4503.233 and Section
440.11 of this Traffic Code (or ORC 4510.14), or the criminal forfeiture of the
vehicle if it is registered in the arrested person's name under ORC 4503.234
and Section
440.11 (or ORC 4510.14), whichever is applicable.
      (2)   Wrongful Entrustment: If the arrested person is convicted of or
pleads guilty to the violation of Section
434.17 of this Traffic Code, or a state law or municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to that section, the court shall impose sentence upon
the person as provided by law or ordinance and may order the immobilization of
the vehicle the person was operating at the time of, or that was involved in,
the offense if it is registered in the arrested person's name and the
impoundment of its license plates under ORC 4503.233 and Section
434.17 of this Traffic Code (or ORC 4511.203), or the criminal forfeiture of
the vehicle if it is registered in the arrested person's name under ORC
4503.234 and Section
434.17 of this Traffic Code (or ORC 4511.203), whichever is applicable.
      (3)   If the arrested person is found not guilty of the violation of
Section
440.11 or
434.17 of this Traffic Code, or a state law or municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to either of those sections, the court shall order
that the vehicle and its license plates immediately be released to the arrested
person.
      (4)   If the charge that the arrested person violated Section
440.11 or
434.17 of this Traffic Code, or a State law or municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to either of those sections, is dismissed for any
reason, the court shall order that the vehicle and its license plates
immediately be released to the arrested person.
      (5)   If the impoundment of the vehicle was not authorized under this
section, the court shall order that the vehicle and its license plates be
returned immediately to the arrested person or, if the arrested person is not
the vehicle owner, to the vehicle owner, and shall order that the City, as the
political subdivision of the law enforcement agency served by the law
enforcement officer who seized the vehicle, pay all expenses and charges
incurred in its removal and storage.
      (6)   If a vehicle is seized under division (a) of this section, the time
between the seizure of the vehicle and either its release to the arrested
person pursuant to this division (e) of this section or the issuance of an
order of immobilization of the vehicle under ORC 4503.233 shall be credited
against the period of immobilization ordered by the court.
   (g)   Towing and Storage Expenses.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (f)(4) of this section, the arrested
person may be charged expenses or charges incurred in the removal and storage
of the immobilized vehicle. The court with jurisdiction over the case, after
notice to all interested parties, including lienholders, and after an
opportunity for them to be heard if the court finds that the arrested person
does not intend to seek release of the vehicle at the end of the period of
immobilization under ORC 4503.233 or that the arrested person is not or will
not be able to pay the expenses and charges incurred in its removal and
storage, may order that title to the vehicle be transferred, in order of
priority, first into the name of the person or entity that removed it, next
into the name of a lienholder, or lastly into the name of the owner of the
place of storage.
      (2)   Any lienholder that receives title under a court order shall do so
on the condition that it pay any expenses or charges incurred in the vehicle's
removal and storage. If the person or entity that receives title to the vehicle
is the person or entity that removed it, the person or entity shall receive
title on the condition that it pay any lien on the vehicle. The court shall not
order that title be transferred to any person or entity other than the owner of
the place of storage if the person or entity refuses to receive the title. Any
person or entity that receives title either may keep title to the vehicle or
may dispose of the vehicle in any legal manner that it considers appropriate,
including assignment of the certificate of title to the motor vehicle to a
salvage dealer or a scrap metal processing facility. The person or entity shall
not transfer the vehicle to the person who is the vehicle's immediate previous
owner.
      (3)   If the person or entity that receives title assigns the motor
vehicle to a salvage dealer or scrap metal processing facility, the person or
entity shall send the assigned certificate of title to the motor vehicle to the
clerk of the court of common pleas of the county in which the salvage dealer or
scrap metal processing facility is located. The person or entity shall mark the
face of the certificate of title with the words "FOR DESTRUCTION" and shall
deliver a photocopy of the certificate of title to the salvage dealer or scrap
metal processing facility for its records.
      (4)   Whenever a court issues an order under division (g)(1) to (g)(3) of
this section, the court also shall order removal of the license plates from the
vehicle and cause them to be sent to the Registrar if they have not already
been sent to the registrar. Thereafter, no further proceedings shall take place
under this section or under ORC 4503.233.
      (5)   Prior to initiating a proceeding under division (g)(1) to (g)(3) of
this section, and upon payment of the fee under ORC 4505.14(B), any interested
party may cause a search to be made of the public records of the Bureau of
Motor Vehicles or the clerk of the court of common pleas, to ascertain the
identity of any lienholder of the vehicle. The initiating party shall furnish
this information to the clerk of the court with jurisdiction over the case, and
the clerk shall provide notice to the arrested person, any lienholder, and any
other interested parties listed by the initiating party, at the last known
address supplied by the initiating party, by certified mail, or, at the option
of the initiating party, by personal service or ordinary mail.
   (h)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "Arrested person" means a person who is arrested for a violation of
Section
440.11 or
434.17 of this Traffic Code, or a state law or municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to either of those sections, and whose arrest results
in a vehicle being seized under division (a) of this section.
      (2)   "Interested party" includes the owner of a vehicle seized under
this section, all lienholders, the arrested person, the owner of the place of
storage at which a vehicle seized under this section is stored, and the person
or entity that caused the vehicle to be removed.
      (3)   "Vehicle owner" means either of the following:
         A.   The person in whose name is registered, at the time of the
seizure, a vehicle that is seized under division (a) of this section; or
         B.   A person to whom the certificate of title to a vehicle that is
seized under division (a) of this section has been assigned and who has not
obtained a certificate of title to the vehicle in that person's name, but who
is deemed by the court as being the owner of the vehicle at the time the
vehicle was seized under division (a) of this section.
(ORC 4510.41)
440.19 FAILURE TO RETURN LICENSE UPON SUSPENSION.
   (a)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   Any person whose license or registration has been suspended, or
whose policy of insurance or bond has been canceled or terminated, or who
neglects to furnish other proof of financial responsibility upon request of the
registrar of motor vehicles, shall immediately return his license and
registration including the registration plates to the registrar.
         (ORC 4509.69)
      (2)   No person shall willfully fail to comply with division (a)(1) of
this section.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates division (a)(2) of this section shall be
fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500), imprisoned for not more than
thirty (30) days, or both.
(ORC 4509.77)
440.20 STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT ON PUBLIC STREETS; EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION.
   (a)   Stopping after Accident; Exchange of Information. In the case of a
motor vehicle accident or collision with persons or property on a public street
or highway, the operator of the motor vehicle, having knowledge of the accident
or collision, immediately shall stop the operator's motor vehicle at the scene
of the accident or collision. The operator shall remain at the scene of the
accident or collision until the operator has given the operator's name and
address and, if the operator is not the owner, the name and address of the
owner of that motor vehicle, together with the registered number of that motor
vehicle, to all of the following:
      (1)   Any person injured in the accident or collision.
      (2)   The operator, occupant, owner, or attendant of any motor vehicle
damaged in the accident or collision.
      (3)   The police officer at the scene of the accident or collision.
   (b)   Injured Persons. In the event an injured person is unable to
comprehend and record the information required to be given under division (a)
of this section, the other operator involved in the accident or collision shall
notify the City's Police Division concerning the location of the accident or
collision, and the operator's name, address, and the registered number of the
motor vehicle the operator was operating. The operator shall remain at the
scene of the accident or collision until a police officer arrives, unless
removed from the scene by an emergency vehicle operated by the City or other
political subdivision or an ambulance.
   (c)   Unattended Vehicle. If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied
or unattended motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle
shall securely attach the information required to be given in this section, in
writing, to a conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor
vehicle.
   (d)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to stop after an
accident. Except as otherwise provided in division (d)(2) or (d)(3) of this
section, failure to stop after an accident is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm or
death to a person, failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collusion results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender's driver's license, commercial driver's license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in ORC 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six (6) months
of suspension of an offender's license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
   (e)   Proof of Financial Responsibility. The offender shall provide the
court with proof of financial responsibility, as defined in ORC 4509.01. If the
offender fails to provide that proof of financial responsibility, then, in
addition to any other penalties provided by law, the court may order
restitution pursuant to ORC 2919.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding five
thousand dollars ($5,000) for any economic loss arising from an accident or
collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender's operation
of the motor vehicle before, during or after committing the offense charged
under this section.
(ORC 4549.02)
440.21 STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT ON PROPERTY OTHER THAN PUBLIC STREETS.
   (a)   Exchange of Information.
      (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision resulting in
injury or damage to persons or property on any public or private property
within the corporate limits of the City, other than a public street or highway,
the operator of the motor vehicle, having knowledge of the accident or
collision, shall stop at the scene of the accident or collision. Upon request
of any person who is injured or damaged, or any other person, the operator
shall give that person the operator's name and address and, if the driver or
operator is not the owner, the name and address of the owner of that motor
vehicle, together with the registered number of that motor vehicle, and, if
available, shall exhibit the operator's driver's or commercial driver's
license.
      (2)   If the operator of the motor vehicle involved in the accident or
collision does not provide the information specified in division (a)(1) of this
section, the operator shall give that information, within twenty-four (24)
hours after the accident or collision, to the Xenia Police Division.
   (b)   Unattended Vehicle. If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied
or unattended motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle
shall securely attach the information required under division (a)(1) of this
section, in writing, to a conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or
unattended motor vehicle.
   (c)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to stop after a
nonpublic road accident. Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(2) or (c)
(3) of this section, failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm or
death to a person, failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender's driver's license, commercial driver's license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in ORC 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six (6) months
of suspension of an offender's license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
   (d)   Proof of Financial Responsibility. The offender shall provide the
court with proof of financial responsibility, as defined in ORC 4509.01. If the
offender fails to provide that proof of financial responsibility, then, in
addition to any other penalties provided by law, the court may order
restitution pursuant to ORC 2919.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding five
thousand dollars ($5,000) for any economic loss arising from an accident or
collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender's operation
of the motor vehicle before, during or after committing the offense charged
under this section.
(ORC 4549.021)
440.22 ACCIDENT RESULTING IN DAMAGE TO REAL PROPERTY.
   (a)   Providing Information.
      (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
damage to real property, or personal property attached to real property legally
upon or adjacent to a public street or highway, immediately shall stop and take
reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of the
property of that fact, of the driver's name and address, and of the
registration number of vehicle the driver is driving and, upon request and if
available, shall exhibit the his or her driver's or commercial driver's
license.
      (2)   If the owner or person in charge of the property cannot be located
after reasonable search, the driver of the vehicle involved in the accident
resulting in damage to the property, within twenty-four (24) hours after the
accident, shall forward to the City's Police Division the same information
required to be given to the owner or person in control of the property and give
the location of the accident and a description of the damage insofar as it is
known.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident involving the property of others, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (c)   Proof of Financial Responsibility. The offender shall provide the
court with proof of financial responsibility, as defined in ORC 4509.01. If the
offender fails to provide that proof of financial responsibility, then, in
addition to any other penalties provided by law, the court may order
restitution pursuant to ORC 2919.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding five
thousand dollars ($5,000) for any economic loss arising from an accident or
collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender's operation
of the motor vehicle before, during or after committing the offense charged
under this section.
(ORC 4549.03)
440.23 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST FAILURE TO REPORT ACCIDENT.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall fail to report a motor vehicle accident
as required under this Traffic Code.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4509.74)
440.24 REMOVAL OF VEHICLE OR ACCIDENT DEBRIS.
   (a)   Removal of Vehicle or Accident Debris. If a motor vehicle accident
occurs on any highway, public street, or other property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular travel and if any motor vehicle, cargo, or personal
property that has been damaged or spilled as a result of the motor vehicle
accident is blocking the highway, street, or other property or is otherwise
endangering public safety, a public safety official may do either of the
following without the consent of the owner but with the approval of the law
enforcement agency conducting any investigation of the accident:
      (1)   Remove, or order the removal of, the motor vehicle (if the motor
vehicle is unoccupied), cargo, or personal property from the portion of the
highway, public street, or property ordinarily used for vehicular travel on the
highway, public street, or other property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel.
      (2)   If the motor vehicle is a commercial motor vehicle, allow the owner
or operator of the vehicle the opportunity to arrange for the removal of the
motor vehicle within a period of time specified by the public safety official.
If the public safety official determines that the motor vehicle cannot be
removed within the specified period of time, the public safety official shall
remove or order the removal of the motor vehicle.
   (b)   Immunities.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (b)(2) of this section, a public
safety official who authorizes or participates in the removal of any unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by division (a) of
this section, regardless of whether the removal is executed by a private towing
service, is not liable for civil damages for any injury, death, or loss to
person or property that results from the removal of that unoccupied motor
vehicle, cargo, or personal property. Further, except as provided in division
(b)(2) of this section, if a public safety official authorizes, employs, or
arranges to have a private towing service remove any unoccupied motor vehicle,
cargo, or personal property as authorized by division (a) of this section, that
private towing service is not liable for civil damages for any injury, death,
or loss to person or property that results from the removal of that unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property.
      (2)   Division (b)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         A.   Any person or entity involved in the removal of an unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property pursuant to division (a) of this
section if that removal causes or contributes to the release of a hazardous
material or to structural damage to the roadway;
         B.   A private towing service that was not authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to remove an unoccupied motor vehicle,
cargo or personal property under this section;
         C.   Except as provided in division (b)(2)D. of this section, a
private towing service that was authorized, employed, or arranged by a public
safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo,
or personal property, but the private towing service performed the removal in a
negligent manner;
         D.   A private towing service that was authorized, employed or
arranged by a public safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo or personal property that was endangering public safety,
but the private towing service performed the removal in a reckless manner.
   (c)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "Hazardous material" has the same meaning as in ORC 2305.232.
      (2)   "Public Safety Official" means any of the following:
         A.   The Chief of the Xenia Police Division, or a duly authorized
subordinate acting on behalf of the Police Chief;
         B.   A state highway patrol trooper;
         C.   The Chief of the Xenia Fire & EMS Division, or a duly authorized
subordinate acting on behalf of the Fire & EMS Chief.
(ORC 4513.66)
440.99 PENALTIES.
   See Section
402.99 of this Traffic Code for penalties for provisions of this Chapter for
which no penalty is otherwise provided in the section violated.
CHAPTER 442
Commercial Drivers' Licenses; Registration
442.01   Prerequisites to Operation of a Commercial Motor Vehicle
442.02   CDL Prohibitions and Requirements
442.03   CDL Criminal Offenses; Power of Peace Officers
442.04   Alcohol and Controlled Substance Testing; Disqualification
442.05   Employment of Drivers of Commercial Vehicles
442.06   Employment of a Minor to Operate a Taxicab
442.07   Limousines and Livery Services; Prohibitions
442.08   Driving with Impaired Alertness or Ability
442.09   School Bus Licensing
442.10   Notice of Arrest
442.90   Definitions; Use of Actual Gross Weight
442.99   Penalties
   CROSS REFERENCES
      See Section Histories for Similar State Law CDL Required - TRAF.
440.01
      Definitions - TRAF.
400.08
      Driver's License Suspensions - see TRAF.
CH. 440.; ORC CH. 4510.
      Exemptions for Emergency and Public Safety Vehicles - TRAF.
402.07
      General Operation of Motor Vehicles - see TRAF.
Ch. 432.
      License Suspension for OVI - TRAF.
440.11
      License Suspension for Reckless Operation - see ORC 4510.15
      Mandatory Suspension Period; Immobilizing Device; Restricted License -
see ORC 4510.13
      Seizure of Vehicle upon Arrest for Wrongful Entrustment - TRAF.
440.18
      State Manual (for Uniform System of Traffic-Control Devices) - TRAF.
400.04
      Suspension of License for Violation of Municipal OVI Ordinance - see ORC
4510.07
      Taxicabs - see BUS. REG.
CH. 862
      Walking on Street While Intoxicated - TRAF.
420.08
442.01 PREREQUISITES TO OPERATION OF COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (a)   Prerequisites. Except as provided in division (b) of this section, the
following shall apply:
      (1)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a street or
highway in this City unless the person holds, and has in the person's
possession, any of the following:
         A.   A valid commercial driver's license (CDL) with proper
endorsements for the motor vehicle being driven, issued by the registrar of
motor vehicles or by another jurisdiction recognized by the State of Ohio;
         B.   A valid examiner's commercial driving permit issued under ORC
4506.13;
         C.   A valid restricted commercial driver's license and waiver for
farm-related service industries issued under ORC 4506.24; or
         D.   A valid commercial driver's license temporary instruction permit
issued by the registrar; provided that the person is accompanied by an
authorized state driver's license examiner or tester or a person who has been
issued and has in the person's immediate possession a current, valid commercial
driver's license (CDL) and who meets the requirements of division (d) of this
section.
      (2)   No person who has been a resident of the State of Ohio for thirty
(30) days or longer shall drive a commercial motor vehicle under the authority
of a commercial driver's license issued by another jurisdiction.
   (b)   Exceptions. Nothing in division (a) of this section applies to any
qualified person when engaged in the operation of any of the following:
      (1)   A farm truck.
      (2)   Fire equipment for a fire department, volunteer or non-volunteer
fire company, fire district, joint fire district, or the state fire marshal.
      (3)   A public safety vehicle used to provide transportation or emergency
medical service for ill or injured persons.
      (4)   A recreational vehicle.
      (5)   A commercial motor vehicle owned by the City, operated within the
boundaries of the City, by a City employee who is operating the commercial
motor vehicle for the purpose of removing snow and ice from a roadway by
plowing, sanding, or salting, but only if either the employee who holds a CDL
and ordinarily operates the commercial motor vehicle for these purposes is
unable to operate the vehicle, or if the City determines that a snow or ice
emergency exists that requires additional assistance.
      (6)   A vehicle operated for military purposes by any member or uniformed
employee of the armed forces of the United States or their reserve components,
including the Ohio national guard. This exception does not apply to United
States reserve technicians.
      (7)   A commercial motor vehicle that is operated for nonbusiness
purposes. "Operated for nonbusiness purposes" means that the commercial motor
vehicle is not used in commerce as "commerce" is defined in 49 C.F.R. 383.5, as
amended, and is not regulated by the Ohio Public Utilities Commission pursuant
to ORC Chapters 4905., 4921., or 4923.
      (8)   A motor vehicle that is designed primarily for the transportation
of goods and not persons, while that motor vehicle is being used for the
occasional transportation of personal property by individuals not for
compensation and not in the furtherance of a commercial enterprise.
      (9)   A police SWAT team vehicle.
      (10)   A police vehicle used to transport prisoners.
(ORC 4506.03)
   (c)   Additional Prerequisites.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a person may drive a
commercial motor vehicle on a street or highway in this City if all of the
following conditions are met:
         A.   The person has a valid commercial driver's license (CDL) or
commercial driver's license temporary permit issued by any state or
jurisdiction in accordance with the minimum standards adopted by the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration under the Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety
Act of 1986, 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 USCA App. 2701 for the issuance of CDLs;
         B.   The person's CDL or temporary instruction permit is not
suspended, revoked or canceled, and the person has the appropriate endorsements
for the vehicle that is being driven;
         C.   The person is not disqualified from driving a commercial motor
vehicle;
         D.   The person is not subject to an out-of-service order; and
         E.   The person is medically certified as physically qualified to
operate a commercial motor vehicle in accordance with ORC Chapter 4506.
            (i)   A person who submitted a medical examiner's certificate to
the registrar of motor vehicles, in accordance with ORC 4506.10, and whose
medical certification information is maintained in the State CDL Information
System is not required to have the medical examiner's certificate in the
person's possession when on-duty.
            (ii)   A person whose medical certification information is not
maintained in the State CDL Information System shall have in the person's
possession when on-duty the original or a copy of the current medical
examiner's certificate that was submitted to the registrar of motor vehicles;
however, the person may operate a commercial motor vehicle with such proof of
medical certification for not more than fifteen (15) days after the date the
current medical examiner's certificate was issued to the person.
            (iii)   A person who has a medical variance shall have in the
person's possession the original or a copy of the medical variance
documentation at all times while on-duty.
      (2)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway or
street in this City if the person does not meet the conditions specified in
division (c)(1) of this section.
      (3)   Except as set forth in 49 CFR 390.3(f), 391.2, 391.62, 391.67 and
391.68, no person holding a commercial driver's license temporary instruction
permit or a commercial driver's license issued under ORC Chapter 4506 may drive
a commercial motor vehicle in interstate commerce until the person is at least
twenty-one (21) years of age.
(ORC 4506.05)
   (d)   Temporary Instruction Permit. The holder of a commercial driver's
license temporary instruction permit, unless otherwise disqualified, may drive
a commercial motor vehicle only when the holder has the permit in the holder's
actual possession and accompanied by a person who:
      (1)   Holds a valid commercial driver's license and all necessary
endorsements for the type of vehicle being driven;
      (2)   Occupies a seat beside the permit holder for the purpose of giving
instruction in driving the motor vehicle; and
      (3)   Has the permit holder under observation and direct supervision.
(ORC 4506.06(B))
   (e)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 4506.03)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. The offenses established under division (c) of
this section are strict liability offenses and ORC 2901.20 does not apply. The
designation of these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be
construed to imply that any other offense, for which there is no specified
degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(ORC 4506.05)
      (3)   Whoever violates division (d) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 4506.06)
442.02 CDL PROHIBITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having in the person's
possession or otherwise under the person's control more than one (1) valid
driver's license issued by this State, any other state, or by a foreign
jurisdiction.
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle on a street or highway in this
City in violation of an out-of-service order, while the person's driving
privilege is suspended, revoked, or canceled, or while the person is subject to
disqualification.
      (3)   Drive a motor vehicle on a street or highway in this City under
authority of a commercial driver's license issued by another State or a foreign
jurisdiction, after having been a resident of the State of Ohio for thirty (30)
days or longer.
      (4)   Knowingly give false information in any application or
certification required by ORC 4506.07;
      (5)   Knowingly provide false statements or engage in any fraudulent act
related to testing for a CDL as required in ORC 4506.09.
(ORC 4506.04)
   (b)   Notice of Change of Address. Each person licensed as a driver under
ORC Chapter 4506. shall notify the registrar of any change in the person's
address within ten (10) days following that change. The notification shall be
in writing on a form provided by the registrar and shall include the full name,
date of birth, license number, county of residence, social security number, and
new address of the person.
(ORC 4506.14(D))
   (c)   Required Endorsements. No person shall drive any commercial motor
vehicle for which an endorsement is required under ORC 4506.12 unless the
proper endorsement appears on the person's commercial driver's license or
commercial driver's license temporary instruction permit. No person shall drive
a commercial motor vehicle in violation of a restriction established under ORC
4506.12 that appears on the person's commercial driver's license or commercial
driver's license temporary instruction permit.
(ORC 4506.12(I))
   (d)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (a)(1), (2), or (3) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (a)(4) of this section is guilty of
falsification, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition, the provisions
of ORC 4507.19 apply.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (a)(5) of this section is guilty of
falsification, a misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition, the provisions
of ORC 4507.19 apply.
(ORC 4506.04)
      (4)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4506.14(E))
      (5)   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. The offenses established under division (c) of
this section are strict liability offenses and ORC 2901.20 does not apply. The
designation of these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be
construed to imply that any other offense for which there is no specified
degree of culpability, whether in this section or another section of the
Revised Code, is not a strict liability offense.
(ORC 4506.12(J))
442.03 CDL CRIMINAL OFFENSES; POWER OF PEACE OFFICERS.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person who holds a commercial driver's license or
commercial driver's license temporary instruction permit or who operates a
motor vehicle for which a commercial driver's license or permit is required
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having a measurable or
detectable amount of alcohol or of a controlled substance in the person's
blood, breath, or urine.
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of four-hundredths of one per cent (0.04%) or more by whole blood
or breath.
      (3)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of forty-eight-thousandths of one per cent (0.048%) or more by
blood serum or blood plasma.
      (4)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of fifty-six-thousandths of one per cent (0.056%) or more by
urine.
      (5)   Drive a motor vehicle while under the influence of a controlled
substance.
      (6)   Drive a motor vehicle in violation of Section
434.09 of this Traffic Code or ORC 4511.19.
      (7)   Use a motor vehicle in the commission of a felony.
      (8)   Refuse to submit to a test under Sections
434.10 or
442.04 of this Traffic Code, or ORC 4506.17 or 4511.191.
      (9)   Operate a commercial motor vehicle while the person's commercial
driver's licenses or permit or other driving privileges are revoked, suspended,
canceled, or disqualified.
      (10)   Cause a fatality through the negligent operation of a commercial
motor vehicle including, but not limited to, the offenses of aggravated
vehicular homicide, vehicular homicide, and vehicular manslaughter.
      (11)   Fail to stop after an accident in violation of Sections
440.20 to
440.22 of this Traffic Code.
      (12)   Use a motor vehicle in the commission of a felony involving the
manufacture, distribution, or dispensing of a controlled substance, as defined
in ORC 3719.01, or the possession with intent to manufacture, distribute, or
dispense a controlled substance.
      (13)   Use a commercial motor vehicle in the commission of a violation of
ORC 2905.32 or any other substantially equivalent offense established under
federal law or the laws of another state.
(ORC 4506.15)
   (b)   Powers of Peace Officers.
      (1)   Within the jurisdictional limits of the City, any Xenia peace
officer shall stop and detain any person found violating division (a) of this
section, without obtaining a warrant. When there is reasonable ground to
believe that a violation of division (a) of this section has been committed and
a test or tests of the person's whole blood, blood plasma or blood serum,
breath, or urine is necessary, the peace officer shall take the person to an
appropriate place for testing. If a person refuses to submit to a test after
being warned as provided in division (c)(1) of Section
442.04 of this Traffic Code, or submits to a test that discloses the presence
of a controlled substance or an alcohol concentration of four-hundredths of one
per cent (0.04%) or more by whole blood or breath, an alcohol concentration of
forty-eight-thousandths of one per cent (0.048%) or more by blood serum or
blood plasma, or an alcohol concentration of fifty-six-thousandths of one per
cent (0.056%) or more by urine, the peace officer shall require that the person
immediately surrender the person's CDL to the peace officer.
      (2)   As used in this division, "jurisdictional limits" means the limits
within which a peace officer may arrest and detain a person without a warrant
under ORC 2935.03.
(ORC 4506.23)
   (c)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. The offenses established under division (a) of
this section are strict liability offenses and ORC 2901.20 does not apply. The
designation of these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be
construed to imply that any other offense, for which there is no specified
degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(ORC 4506.15)
      (2)   In addition, whoever violates this section may be subject to an
out-of-service order or disqualification under ORC 4506.16.
(ORC 4506.16)
442.04 ALCOHOL AND CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE TESTING; DISQUALIFICATION.
   (a)   Implied Consent. Both of the following are deemed to have given
consent to a test or tests of the person's whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine for the purpose of determining the person's alcohol
concentration or the presence of any controlled substance or a metabolite of a
controlled substance:
      (1)   A person while operating a commercial motor vehicle that requires a
commercial driver's license or commercial driver's license temporary
instruction permit.
      (2)   A person who holds a commercial driver's license or commercial
driver's license temporary instruction permit while operating a motor vehicle,
including a commercial motor vehicle.
   (b)   Testing. A test or tests as provided in division (a) of this section
may be administered at the direction of a peace officer having reasonable
ground to stop or detain the person and, after investigating the circumstances
surrounding the operation of the motor vehicle, also having reasonable ground
to believe the person was driving the motor vehicle while having a measurable
or detectable amount of alcohol or of a controlled substance or a metabolite of
a controlled substance in the person's whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine. Any such test shall be given within two (2) hours of the time
of the alleged violation.
   (c)   Refusal.
      (1)   A person requested by a peace officer to submit to a test under
division (a) of this section shall be advised by the peace officer that a
refusal to submit to the test will result in the person immediately being
placed out-of-service for a period of twenty-four (24) hours and being
disqualified from operating a commercial motor vehicle for a period of not less
than one (1) year, and that the person is required to surrender the person's
CDL or permit to the peace officer.
      (2)   If a person refuses to submit to a test after being warned as
provided in division (c)(1) of this section, or submits to a test that
discloses the presence of an amount of alcohol or a controlled substance
prohibited by divisions (a)(1) to (a)(5) of Section
442.03 of this Traffic Code or a metabolite of a controlled substance, the
person immediately shall surrender the person's CDL or permit to the peace
officer. The peace officer shall forward the CDL or permit, together with a
sworn report, to the registrar of motor vehicles certifying that the test was
requested pursuant to division (a) of this section and that the person either
refused to submit to testing or submitted to a test that disclosed the presence
of one of the prohibited concentrations of a substance listed in divisions (a)
(1) to (a)(5) of Section
442.03 of this Traffic Code or a metabolite of a controlled substance. The form
and contents of the report required by this section shall be established by the
registrar by rule but shall contain the advice to be read to the driver and a
statement to be signed by the driver acknowledging that the driver has been
read the advice and that the form was shown to the driver.
   (d)   Disqualification. Upon receipt of a sworn report from a peace officer
as provided in division (c) of this section, the registrar shall disqualify the
person named in the report from driving a commercial motor vehicle for the
period described below:
      (1)   Upon a first incident, one (1) year.
      (2)   Upon an incident of refusal or of a prohibited concentration of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance
after one (1) or more previous incidents of either refusal or of a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance, the person shall be disqualified for life or such lesser
period as prescribed by rule by the registrar.
      (3)   The registrar immediately shall notify a driver who is subject to
disqualification of the disqualification, of the length of the
disqualification, and that the driver may request a hearing within thirty (30)
days of the mailing of the notice to show cause why the driver should not be
disqualified from operating a commercial motor vehicle. If a request for such a
hearing is not made within thirty (30) days of the mailing of the notice, the
order of disqualification is final. The registrar may designate hearing
examiners who, after affording all parties reasonable notice, shall conduct a
hearing to determine whether the disqualification order is supported by
reliable evidence.
      (4)   Any person who is disqualified from operating a commercial motor
vehicle under this section may apply to the registrar for a driver's license to
operate a motor vehicle other than a commercial motor vehicle, provided the
person's CDL is not otherwise suspended. A person whose CDL is suspended shall
not apply to the registrar for or receive a driver's license under ORC Chapter
4507. during the period of suspension.
   (e)   Blood Tests. A test of a person's whole blood or a person's blood
serum or plasma given under this section shall comply with the applicable
provisions of ORC 4511.19(D) and any physician, registered nurse, emergency
medical technician-intermediate, emergency medical technician-paramedic, or
qualified technician, chemist, or phlebotomist who withdraws whole blood or
blood serum or plasma from a person under this section, and any hospital,
first-aid station, clinic, or other facility at which whole blood or blood
serum or plasma is withdrawn from a person pursuant to this section, is immune
from criminal liability and from civil liability that is based upon a claim of
assault and battery or based upon any other claim of malpractice for any act
performed in withdrawing whole blood or blood serum or plasma from the person.
The immunity provided in this division also extends to an emergency medical
service organization that employs an emergency medical technician- intermediate
or emergency medical technician-paramedic who withdraws blood under this
section.
   (f)   Testing Results. When a person submits to a test under this section,
the results of the test, at the person's request, shall be made available to
the person, the person's attorney, or the person's agent, immediately upon
completion of the chemical test analysis. The person also may have an
additional test administered by a physician, a registered nurse, or a qualified
technician, chemist, or phlebotomist of the person's own choosing as provided
in ORC 4511.19(D) for tests administered under that section, and the failure to
obtain such a test has the same effect as in that division.
   (g)   Surrender of License.
      (1)   No person shall refuse to immediately surrender the person's CDL or
permit to a peace officer when required to do so by this section.
      (2)   A peace officer issuing an out-of-service order or receiving a CDL
or permit surrendered under this section may remove or arrange for the removal
of any commercial motor vehicle affected by the issuance of that order or the
surrender of that license.
   (h)   Immunities.
      (1)   Except for civil actions arising out of the operation of a motor
vehicle and civil actions in which the City is a plaintiff, no peace officer of
the City's Police Division is liable in compensatory damages in any civil
action that arises under this Traffic Code, the Ohio Revised Code, or common
law of the State of Ohio for an injury, death, or loss to person or property
caused in the performance of official duties under this section and rules
adopted under this section, unless the officer's actions were manifestly
outside the scope of the officer's employment or official responsibilities, or
unless the officer acted with malicious purpose, in bad faith, or in a wanton
or reckless manner.
      (2)   Except for civil actions that arise out of the operation of a motor
vehicle and civil actions in which the City is a plaintiff, no peace officer of
the City's Police Division is liable in punitive or exemplary damages in any
civil action that arises under this Traffic Code, the Ohio Revised Code, or
common law of the State of Ohio for any injury, death, or loss to person or
property caused in the performance of official duties under this section and
rules adopted under this section, unless the officer's actions were manifestly
outside the scope of the officer's employment or official responsibilities, or
unless the officer acted with malicious purpose, in bad faith, or in a wanton
or reckless manner.
   (i)   Penalties. Whoever violates division (g)(1) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (j)   Definitions. As used in this section, "emergency medical technician-
intermediate" and "emergency medical technician-paramedic" have the same
meanings as in ORC 4765.01.
(ORC 4506.17)
442.05 EMPLOYMENT OF DRIVERS OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (a)   Duties of Employers.
      (1)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize any driver employed
by the employer to drive a commercial motor vehicle during any period in which
any of the following apply:
         A.   The driver's commercial driver's license (CDL) is suspended,
revoked or canceled by any state or foreign jurisdiction;
         B.   The driver has lost the privilege to drive, or currently is
disqualified from driving, a commercial motor vehicle in any state or foreign
jurisdiction;
         C.   The driver, the commercial motor vehicle the driver is driving,
or the motor carrier operation is subject to an out-of-service order in any
state or foreign jurisdiction; and/or
         D.   The driver has more than one (1) driver's license.
      (2)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate
a commercial motor vehicle in violation of Section
442.03 of this Traffic Code.
      (3)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate
a commercial motor vehicle if the driver does not hold a valid, current
commercial driver's license or commercial driver's license temporary
instruction permit bearing the proper class or endorsements for the vehicle.
      (4)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate
a commercial motor vehicle in violation of the restrictions on the driver's
commercial driver's license or commercial driver's license temporary
instruction permit.
(ORC 4506.20)
   (b)   Duties of Employees.
      (1)   Any driver who hold a commercial driver's license issued by this
State and is convicted in another state or a foreign jurisdiction of violating
any law or ordinance relating to motor vehicle traffic control, other than a
parking violation, shall provide written notice of that conviction within
thirty (30) days after the date of conviction to the Bureau of Motor Vehicles
and to the driver's employer, in accordance with the provisions of 49 CFR 383,
subpart C, as amended.
(ORC 4506.18)
      (2)   The provisions of 49 CFR 383, subpart C, as amended, shall apply to
all commercial drivers or persons who apply for employment as commercial
drivers. No person shall fail to make a report to the person's employer as
required by this section.
(ORC 4506.19)
   (c)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (a)(1), (a)(3) or (a)(4) of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (a)(2) of this section may be assessed a
fine not to exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000).
(ORC 4506.20)
      (3)   Whoever violates division (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 4506.18; 4506.19)
442.06 EMPLOYMENT OF A MINOR TO OPERATE A TAXICAB.
   (a)   Prohibitions. Notwithstanding the definition of "chauffeur" as
contained in ORC 4505.01, no person shall employ any minor for the purpose of
operating a taxicab.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
(ORC 4507.321)
442.07 LIMOUSINES AND LIVERY SERVICES; PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   Picking up Passengers. The operator of a chauffeured limousine shall
accept passengers only on the basis of prearranged contracts, as defined in ORC
4501.01(LL), and shall not cruise in search of patronage, unless the limousine
is in compliance with any state statute or City ordinance governing the
operation of taxicabs or other similar vehicles for hire.
   (b)   Dispatching Service. The operator of a chauffeured limousine may
provide transportation to passengers who arrange for the transportation through
an intermediary, including a digital dispatching service. Notwithstanding any
law to the contrary, when providing transportation arranged through an
intermediary, the operator of a chauffeured limousine may establish the fare
and method of fare calculation, so long as the method of fare calculation is
provided to the passenger upon request.
   (c)   Registration Required. No person shall advertise or hold self out as
doing business as a limousine service or livery service or other similar
designation unless each vehicle used by the person to provide the service is
registered in accordance with ORC 4503.24 and is in compliance with ORC 4509.80
and any City ordinances governing the operation of vehicles for hire.
(ORC 4511.85)
   (d)   Proof of Financial Responsibility. Upon the request of a law
enforcement officer, the operator of any chauffeured limousine shall produce
proof of financial responsibility, as required under ORC 4509.80. The law
enforcement officer requesting such proof shall notify the registrar of motor
vehicles of any failure by the operator of any chauffeured limousine to produce
such proof. The notice to the registrar shall be on a form prescribed by the
registrar and supplied by the registrar and shall include the license plate
number of the chauffeured limousine and any other information the registrar
requires.
(ORC 4509.80(C))
   (e)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
(ORC 4511.85; ORC 4509.80)
442.08 DRIVING WITH IMPAIRED ALERTNESS OR ABILITY.
   (a)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No person shall drive a "commercial motor vehicle," as defined in
ORC 4506.01, or a "commercial car" or "commercial tractor," as defined in ORC
4501.01, while the person's ability or alertness is so impaired by fatigue,
illness, or other causes that it is unsafe for the person to drive such
vehicle. No driver shall use any drug which would adversely affect the driver's
ability or alertness.
      (2)   No owner, as defined in ORC 4501.01, of a "commercial motor
vehicle," "commercial car," or "commercial tractor," or a person employing or
otherwise directing the driver of such vehicle, shall require or knowingly
permit a driver in any such condition described in division (a) of this section
to drive such vehicle upon any street or highway.
   (b)   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender
previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one or more violations of
this section or Sections
436.09  to
436.13  of this Traffic Code or ORC 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762,
4511.764, or 4511.77, or a municipal ordinance that is substantially similar to
any of those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree.
(ORC 4511.79)
442.09 SCHOOL BUS LICENSING.
   (a)   Special License Required. No person, partnership, association, or
corporation shall transport pupils to or from school on a school bus or enter
into a contract with a board of education of any school district for the
transportation of pupils on a school bus, without being licensed by the Ohio
Department of Public Safety.
   (b)   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one (1) year
of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to
one (1) predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one (1)
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pled
guilty to two (2) or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.763)
442.10 NOTICE OF ARREST.
   Whenever the driver or operator of any truck, trailer, semitrailer,
commercial tractor, or any other commercial vehicle used for the transportation
of goods or property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons,
has been arrested for a violation of any provision of this Traffic Code, the
officer making such arrest shall immediately notify, in writing, the person,
firm, association, or corporation holding the certificate of public convenience
and necessity or permit under which such vehicle is being driven or operated,
and in whose name the vehicle is registered with and licensed by the Bureau of
Motor Vehicles, of the fact of such arrest. Such notification shall describe
the vehicle involved, the name of the driver or operator thereof, and the time,
place, and nature of the offense committed. Copies of such notification shall
be immediately transmitted by the arresting officer to the Ohio Public
Utilities Commission and to the Superintendent of the State Highway Patrol.
(ORC 5577.14)
442.90 DEFINITIONS; USE OF ACTUAL GROSS WEIGHT.
    (a)   Definitions. The definitions set forth in ORC 4506.01, as applicable,
shall apply to this Chapter.
   (b)   Use of Actual Gross Weight of Vehicle. For purposes of this chapter,
the actual gross weight of a vehicle or combination of vehicles may be used in
lieu of a gross vehicle weight rating to determine whether a vehicle or
combination of vehicles qualifies as a commercial motor vehicle if the gross
vehicle weight rating specified by the manufacturer for the vehicle or
combination of vehicles is not determinable, or if the manufacturer of the
vehicle has not specified a gross vehicle weight rating.
(ORC 4506.011)
442.99 PENALTIES.
   (a)   Prohibition on Limited Driving Privileges; Modification of Records. No
court shall issue an order granting limited driving privileges for operation of
a commercial motor vehicle to any person whose driver's license or commercial
driver's license has been suspended or who has been disqualified from operating
a commercial motor vehicle. Regarding an offense involving the operation of a
commercial motor vehicle, no court shall modify any record, or consent to the
modification of any record, if the resulting record would no longer reflect the
operation of a commercial motor vehicle by the person, unless a determination
of the facts indicates that that person was not operating a commercial motor
vehicle at the time of the offense.
(ORC 4506.161)
   (b)   Penalties Not Otherwise Provided. See Section
402.99  of this Traffic Code for penalties for provisions of this Chapter for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section violated.
CHAPTER 444
Motor Vehicle Licensing; License Plates; Certificates of Title
444.01   Display of License Plates
444.02   Use of Unauthorized License Plates
444.03   Illegal Operation of Manufacturer's or Dealer's Motor Vehicle
444.04   Improper License Plates and Identification
444.05   Registration Requirements for New Residents
444.06   Special Plates for Persons Whose Registration and License Plates Have
Been Impounded
444.07   Misuse of Walking-Impaired Person License Plates or Placard
444.08   Misuse of Volunteer Firefighter License Plates
444.09   Temporary Motor Vehicle License Registration
444.10   Display of License Plates Issued to Manufacturers or Dealers
444.11   Use of Special License Plates by Persons Other Than Manufacturers,
Dealers, or Distributors
444.12   Exemption for Foreign Trailers
444.13   Removal of Plates upon Transfer of Ownership and Registration
444.14   Operation or Sale of Motor Vehicle Without Certificate of Title
444.15   Certificate of Title Offenses
444.16   Certificate of Title Required for Sale or Disposal
444.17   Salvage Certificate of Title Prohibitions
444.90   Definitions
444.99   Penalties
   CROSS REFERENCES
      See Section Histories for Similar State Law
      Certificate of Motor Vehicle Law - see ORC Ch. 4505.
      Definitions - TRAF.
400.08
      Licensing of Motor Vehicles - see ORC Ch. 4503.
      Parking for Disabled Persons - see TRAF. 351.12
      Parking Vehicle with Expired Plates on Street - TRAF.
452.11
      Penalty, when not otherwise provided - TRAF.
402.99
      Proof of Financial Responsibility - TRAF.
440.14
444.01    DISPLAY OF LICENSE PLATES.
   (a)   Display of License Plates or Temporary License Placard.
      (1)   No person who is the owner or operator of a motor vehicle shall
fail to display in plain view on the rear of the motor vehicle a license plate
that bears the distinctive number and registration mark assigned to the motor
vehicle by the Ohio Director of Public Safety, including any county
identification sticker and any validation sticker when required by and issued
under ORC 4503.19 and 4503.191; however, a commercial tractor shall display the
license plate on the front of the commercial tractor and a chauffeured
limousine shall display a livery sticker along with a validation sticker, as
provided in ORC 4503.24.
      (2)   The license plate shall be securely fastened so as not to swing and
shall not be covered by any material that obstructs its visibility.
      (3)   No person to whom a temporary motor vehicle license registration
has been issued for the use of a motor vehicle under ORC 4503.182, and no
operator of that motor vehicle, shall fail to display the temporary motor
vehicle license registration in plain view from the rear of the vehicle either
in the rear window or on an external rear surface of the motor vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall cover a temporary motor vehicle license
registration by any material that obstructs its visibility.
(ORC 4503.21)
   (b)   Annual Registration Required. Except as provided by ORC 4503.103,
4503.173, 4503.41, 4503.43, and 4503.46, no person who is the owner or
chauffeur of a motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or
highways shall fail to file annually the application for registration or to pay
the tax therefor.
(ORC 4503.11)
   (c)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4503.11, 4503.21)
      (2)   The offenses established under division (a) of this section are
strict liability offenses and ORC 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
is not a strict liability offense.
(ORC 4503.21)
   (d)   Display of Single License Plate and Validation Sticker. The display of
a single current license plate and validation sticker on a motor vehicle as
required under ORC 4503.19 sufficiently indicates that the vehicle is
registered in this state. Any reference in this Traffic Code to license plates,
a set of license plates, registration plates, or validation stickers is deemed
to be a reference to the single license plate and validation sticker required
by ORC 4503.19.
(ORC 4503.193)
444.02    USE OF UNAUTHORIZED LICENSE PLATES.
   (a)   Use of Unauthorized Plates. No person shall operate or drive a motor
vehicle upon the public roads, streets or highways in this City if it displays
a license plate or a distinctive number or identification mark that meets any
of the following criteria:
      (1)   It is fictitious.
      (2)   It is a counterfeit or an unlawfully made copy of any distinctive
number or identification mark.
      (3)   It belongs to another motor vehicle; provided that this section
does not apply to a motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads,
streets, and highways in this City when the motor vehicle displays license
plates that originally were issued for a motor vehicle that previously was
owned by the same person who owns the motor vehicle that is operated on the
public roads, streets, and highways in this City during the thirty (30) day
period described in ORC 4503.12(A)(4).
   (b)   Transfer of Registration Violation. A person who fails to comply with
the transfer of registration provisions of Section
444.11  of this Traffic Code and is charged with a violation of that section
shall not be charged with a violation of this section.
   (c)   Penalties. Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
operating a motor vehicle bearing an invalid license plate or identification
mark, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor
of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(ORC 4549.08)
444.03    ILLEGAL OPERATION OF MANUFACTURER'S OR DEALER'S MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall operate, or cause to be operated, upon a
public road, street, or highway within this City a motor vehicle of a
manufacturer or dealer unless the vehicle carries and displays a placard,
except as provided in Section
444.01  of this Traffic Code or ORC 4503.21, issued by the Ohio Director of
Public Safety that bears the registration number of its manufacturer or dealer.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal
operation of a manufacturer's or dealer's motor vehicle, a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4549.10)
444.04    IMPROPER LICENSE PLATES AND IDENTIFICATION.
   (a)   Operating with Number of Former Owner. No person shall operate or
drive on the roads, streets, or highways in this City a motor vehicle acquired
from a former owner who has registered the motor vehicle, while the motor
vehicle displays the distinctive number or identification mark assigned to it
upon its original registration.
(ORC 4549.11)
   (b)   Resident Operating with Number Issued by Foreign State. No person who
is the owner of a motor vehicle and a resident of this State shall operate or
drive a motor vehicle upon the roads, streets, or highways in this City while
the motor vehicle displays a distinctive number or identification mark issued
by or under the authority of another state without complying with the laws of
this state relating to the registration and identification of motor vehicles.
(ORC 4549.12)
   (c)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
operation of a motor vehicle bearing license plates or an identification mark
issued to another, a minor misdemeanor on the first offense and a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree on each subsequent offense.
(ORC 4549.11)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation by a resident of this state of a motor vehicle bearing the
distinctive number or identification mark issued by foreign jurisdiction, a
minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4549.12)
444.05    REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS FOR NEW RESIDENTS.
   (a)   Registration Requirement. Within thirty (30) days of becoming a
resident of Ohio, any person who owns a motor vehicle operated or driven upon
the public streets or highways within the City shall register the vehicle in
Ohio. If such a person fails to register a vehicle owned by the person, the
person shall not operate any motor vehicle in this City under a license issued
by another state.
   (b)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
      (2)   The offense established under division (b)(1) of this section is a
strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state for
purposes of ORC 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict liability
offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for which there
is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
   (c)   Definitions. For the purposes of division (a) of this section,
"resident" means any person to whom any of the following applies:
      (1)   The person maintains their principal residence in Ohio and does not
reside in Ohio as a result of the person's active service in the United States
armed forces; or
      (2)   The person is determined by the registrar of motor vehicles to be a
resident of Ohio.
(ORC 4503.111)
444.06    SPECIAL PLATES FOR PERSONS WHOSE REGISTRATION AND LICENSE PLATES HAVE
BEEN IMPOUNDED.
   (a)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No motor vehicle registered in the name of a person whose
certificate of registration and identification license plates have been
impounded as provided by ORC 4507.02(B)(1), and no vehicle that may be operated
pursuant to an immobilization waiver order issued pursuant to ORC 4503.235,
shall be operated on any street or highway in this City unless it displays
restricted license plates that are a different color from those regularly
issued and carry a special serial number that may be readily identified by law
enforcement officers.
      (2)   No person operating a motor vehicle displaying restricted license
plates as described in this division shall knowingly disguise or obscure the
color of the restricted plate.
   (b)   Operation of an Employer's Vehicle. If a person has been granted
limited driving privileges with a condition of the privileges being that the
person must display on the vehicle that is driven under the privileges
restricted license plates that are described in this section, the person may
operate a motor vehicle that is owned by the person's employer only if the
person is required to operate that motor vehicle in the course and scope of the
person's employment. Such a person may operate that vehicle without displaying
on that vehicle restricted license plates that are issued under this section if
the employer has been notified that the person has limited driving privileges
and of the nature of the restriction and if the person has proof of the
employer's notification in the person's possession while operating the
employer's vehicle for normal business duties. A motor vehicle owned by a
business that is partly or entirely owned or controlled by the person with the
limited driving privileges is not a motor vehicle owned by an employer, for
purposes of this division.
   (c)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4503.231)
444.07    MISUSE OF WALKING-IMPAIRED PERSON LICENSE PLATES OR PLACARD.
   (a)   False Application. No person or organization that is not eligible for
the issuance of license plates or any placard under ORC 4503.44 shall willfully
and falsely represent that the person or organization is so eligible.
   (b)   Special License Plates. No person or organization shall display
license plates issued under ORC 4503.44 unless the license plates have been
issued for the vehicle on which they are displayed and are valid.
   (c)   Windshield Placard. No person or organization to which a removable
windshield placard is issued shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Display or permit the display of the placard on any motor vehicle
when having reasonable cause to believe the motor vehicle is being used in
connection with an activity that does not include providing transportation for
persons with disabilities that limit or impair the ability to walk.
      (2)   Refuse to return or surrender the placard, when required under ORC
4503.44.
   (d)   Enforcement.
      (1)   For the purposes of enforcing this section, every peace officer is
deemed to be an agent of the registrar. Any peace officer or any authorized
employee of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles who, in the performance of duties
authorized by law, becomes aware of a person whose removable windshield placard
or parking card has been revoked pursuant to ORC 4503.44, may confiscate that
placard or parking card and return it to the registrar.
      (2)   No Xenia Police Officer, nor the Xenia Police Division as the law
enforcement agency employing a peace officer, nor the City of Xenia, is liable
in a civil action for damages or loss to persons arising out of the performance
of any duty required or authorized by this section.
   (e)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
   (f)   Report of Conviction. Upon a conviction of division (a), (b) or (c) of
this section, the court shall report the conviction, and send the placard, if
available, to the registrar, who thereupon shall revoke the privilege of using
the placard and send notice in writing to the placard holder at that holder's
last known address as shown in the records of the bureau, and the placard
holder shall return the placard if not previously surrendered to the court, to
the registrar within ten (10) days following the mailing of the notice.
   (g)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "Advanced practice registered nurse" means a certified nurse
practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, certified registered nurse
anesthetist, or certified nurse-midwife who holds a certificate of authority
issued by the Ohio Board of Nursing under ORC Chapter 4723.
      (2)   "Chiropractor" means a person licensed to practice chiropractic
under ORC Chapter 4734.
      (3)   "Health care provider" means a physician, physician assistant,
advanced practice registered nurse, optometrist, or chiropractor as defined in
this section except that an optometrist shall only make a determination as to
division (g)(6)G. of this section.
      (4)   "Optometrist" means a person licensed to engage in the practice of
optometry under ORC Chapter 4725.
      (5)   "Organization" means any private organization or corporation, or
any governmental board, agency, department, division or office that, as part of
its business or program, transports persons with disabilities that limit or
impair the ability to walk on a regular basis in a motor vehicle that has not
been altered for the purpose of providing it with special equipment for use by
persons with disabilities. This definition does not apply to division (c) of
this section.
      (6)   "Person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to
walk" means any person who, as determined by a health care provider, meets any
of the following criteria:
         A.   Cannot walk two hundred feet (200') without a rest;
         B.   Cannot walk without the use of, or assistance from, a brace,
cane, crutch, another person, prosthetic device, wheelchair, or other assistive
device;
         C.   Is restricted by a lung disease to such an extent that the
person's forced (respiratory) expiratory volume for one second, when measured
by spirometry, is less than one liter (1L) or the arterial oxygen tension is
less than sixty millimeters (60 ml) of mercury on room air at rest;
         D.   Uses portable oxygen;
         E.   Has a cardiac condition to the extent that the person's
functional limitations are classified in severity as class III or IV according
to the standards set by the American Heart Association;
         F.   Is severely limited in the ability to walk due to an arthritic,
neurological or orthopedic condition; or
         G.   Is blind, legally blind, or severely visually impaired.
      (7)   "Physician" means a person licensed to practice medicine or surgery
or osteopathic medicine and surgery under ORC Chapter 4731.
      (8)   "Physician assistant" means a person who is licensed as a physician
assistant under ORC Chapter 4730.
      (9)   "Removable windshield placard" includes a standard removable
windshield placard, a temporary removable windshield placard, or a permanent
removable windshield placard, unless otherwise specified.
(ORC 4503.44)
444.08    MISUSE OF VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER LICENSE PLATES.
   (a)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No person who is not a volunteer firefighter shall willfully and
falsely represent that the person is a volunteer firefighter for the purpose of
obtaining volunteer firefighter license plates under ORC 4503.47.
      (2)   No person shall own a vehicle bearing volunteer firefighter license
plates unless the person is eligible to be issued such license plates.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
(ORC 4503.47)
444.09    TEMPORARY MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSE REGISTRATION.
   (a)   Use of Temporary License Registration. Temporary motor vehicle license
registration shall only be used to allow the purchaser of a motor vehicle to
legally operate the motor vehicle while proper title, license plates, and a
certificate of registration are being obtained, and the temporary license
registration shall not be displayed on any other vehicle.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
(ORC 4503.182)
444.10    DISPLAY OF LICENSE PLATES ISSUED TO MANUFACTURERS OR DEALERS.
   (a)   Display of Dealer or Manufacturer License Plates.
      (1)   Any license plates issued by the registrar of motor vehicles and
bearing the distinctive number assigned to a manufacturer, dealer, or
distributor pursuant to ORC 4503.27 may be displayed on any motor vehicle,
other than commercial cars, or on any motorized bicycle owned by the
manufacturer, dealer, or distributor, or lawfully in the possession or control
of the manufacturer, or the agent or employee of the manufacturer, the dealer,
or the agent or employee of the dealer, the distributor, or the agent or
employee of the distributor, and shall be displayed on no other motor vehicle
or motorized bicycle. Such license plates shall be displayed on no other motor
vehicle or motorized bicycle.
      (2)   A license plate issued to a dealer under ORC 4503.27 may be
displayed on a motor vehicle, other than a commercial car, owned by a dealer
when the vehicle is in transit from a dealer to a purchaser, when the vehicle
is being demonstrated for sale or lease, or when the vehicle otherwise is being
utilized by the dealer.
      (3)   A vehicle bearing a license plate issued to a dealer under ORC
4503.27 may be operated by the dealer, an agent or employee of the dealer, a
prospective purchaser, or a third party operating the vehicle with the
permission of the dealer.
      (4)   A license plate issued to a manufacturer, dealer, or distributor
pursuant to ORC 4503.27 may be displayed on commercial cars only when the cars
are in transit from a manufacturer to a dealer, from a distributor to a dealer
or distributor, or from a dealer to a purchaser, or when the cars are being
demonstrated for sale or lease. Such license plate shall not be displayed when
the cars are being used for delivery, hauling, transporting, or other
commercial purpose.
(ORC 4503.30)
   (b)   Commercial Car Demonstration License Plates.
      (1)   Commercial car demonstration license plates, as defined by ORC
4503.301, may be displayed on commercial cars, commercial tractors, trailers
and semitrailers owned by the manufacturer, dealer, or distributor, when those
vehicles are operated by or being demonstrated to a prospective purchaser. In
addition to the purposes permitted by division (a) of this section, the license
plates provided for in this division may be displayed on vehicles operated or
used for delivery, hauling, transporting, or any other lawful purpose. When
such license plates are used, the license plates provided for in division (a)
of this section need not be displayed.
      (2)   The operator of any commercial car, commercial tractor, trailer, or
semitrailer displaying the license plates provided for in this division (b), at
all times, shall carry with the operator a letter from the manufacturer,
dealer, or distributor authorizing the use of such manufacturer's, dealer's, or
distributor's commercial car demonstration license plates.
      (3)   No manufacturer, dealer, or distributor of motor vehicles shall use
the commercial car demonstration license plates for purposes other than those
authorized by this division (b).
(ORC 4503.301)
   (c)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
(ORC 4503.30; 4503.301)
444.11    USE OF SPECIAL LICENSE PLATES BY PERSONS OTHER THAN MANUFACTURERS,
DEALERS, OR DISTRIBUTORS.
   (a)   Display of Special License Plates Issued Pursuant to ORC 4503.31.
      (1)   Except as provided in divisions (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section,
license plates issued pursuant to ORC 4503.31 may be used only on the
following:
         A.   Motor vehicles or motorized bicycles owned and being used in
testing or being demonstrated for purposes of sale or lease;
         B.   Motor vehicles subject to the rights and remedies of a secured
party being exercised under ORC Chapter 1309.;
         C.   Motor vehicles being held or transported by any insurance company
for purposes of salvage disposition;
         D.   Motor vehicles being transported by any persons regularly engaged
in salvage operations or scrap metal processing from the point of acquisition
to their established place of business;
         E.   Motor vehicles owned by or in the lawful possession of an Ohio
nonprofit corporation while being used in the testing of those motor vehicles.
      (2)   Licenses plates issued pursuant to ORC 4503.31 also may be used by
all of the following:
         A.   Persons regularly engaged in the business of rustproofing,
reconditioning, or installing equipment or trim on motor vehicles for motor
vehicle dealers and shall be used exclusively when such motor vehicles are
being transported to or from the motor vehicle dealer's place of business;
         B.   Persons engaged in manufacturing articles for attachment to motor
vehicles when such motor vehicles are being transported to or from places where
mechanical equipment is attached to the chassis of such new motor vehicles;
         C.   Motor vehicles being towed by any persons regularly and primarily
engaged in the business of towing motor vehicles while such vehicle is being
towed to a point of storage.
      (3)   License plates issued pursuant to ORC 4503.31 also may be used on
trailers being transported by persons engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property other than motor vehicles.
(ORC 4503.31)
   (b)   In-Transit Permits Required. A person, firm, or corporation engaged as
a drive-away operator or trailer transporter or both in the business of
transporting and delivering, by means of the full mount method, the saddle
mount method, the tow bar method, tow-away method, or any combination thereof,
or under their own power, new motor vehicles from the manufacturer or any other
point of origin to any point of destination, or used motor vehicles from any
individual, firm, or corporation to any point of destination, or both, shall
apply to the registrar of motor vehicles for an "in transit" permit pursuant to
ORC 4503.33. The "in transit" license plate shall be carried and displayed by
each motor vehicle in like manner as provided by law for other motor vehicles
while operated upon a public street or highway in transit from the manufacturer
or any other point of origin to any point of destination.
(ORC 4503.33)
   (c)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No person shall use the special license plates provided for in
division (a) of this section contrary to said division (a).
         (4503.32)
      (2)   No person who is a drive-away operator or trail transporter, or
both, engaged in the business of transporting and delivering new motor vehicles
or used motor vehicles, or both, by means of the full mount method, the saddle
mount method, the tow bar method, the tow-away method, or any combination
thereof, or under their own power, shall fail to obtain and display the in-
transit license plates, as required under division (b) of this section.
         (4503.34)
   (d)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (c)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (ORC 4503.32)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (c)(2) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         (ORC 4503.34)
   (e)   Definitions. As used in division (a) of this section, "person"
includes, but is not limited to, any person engaged in the business of
manufacturing or distributing, or selling at retail, displaying, offering for
sale, or dealing in, motorized bicycles who is not subject to ORC 4503.09, or
an Ohio nonprofit corporation engaged in the business of testing of motor
vehicles.
(ORC 4503.31)
444.12    EXEMPTION FOR FOREIGN TRAILERS.
   A trailer that is duly registered in any state, district, country or
sovereignty other than Ohio is exempt from the regulations of this Chapter
pertaining to registration and licensing and the penal statutes related
thereto.
(ORC 4503.38)
444.13    REMOVAL OF PLATES UPON TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP AND REGISTRATION.
   (a)   Duty to Remove License Plates. Upon the transfer of ownership of a
motor vehicle, the registration of the motor vehicle expires, and the original
owner immediately shall remove the license plates from the motor vehicle,
except when:
      (1)   If a statutory merger or consolidation results in the transfer of
ownership of a motor vehicle from a constituent corporation to the surviving
corporation, or if the incorporation of a proprietorship or partnership results
in the transfer of ownership of a motor vehicle from the proprietorship or
partnership to the corporation, the registration shall be continued upon the
filing by the surviving or new corporation, within thirty (30) days of such
transfer, an amended certificate of registration.
      (2)   If the death of the owner of a motor vehicle results in the
transfer of ownership of the motor vehicle to the surviving spouse of the owner
or if a motor vehicle is owned by two persons under joint ownership with right
of survivorship established under ORC 2131.12 and one of those persons dies,
the registration shall be continued upon the filing by the survivor of an
application for an amended certificate of registration. In relation to a motor
vehicle that is owned by two persons under joint ownership with right of
survivorship established under ORC 2131.12, the application shall be
accompanied by a copy of the certificate of title that specifies that the
vehicle is owned under joint ownership with right of survivorship.
      (3)   If the death of the owner of a motor vehicle results in the
transfer of ownership of the motor vehicle to a transfer-on-death beneficiary
or beneficiaries designated under ORC 2131.13, the registration shall be
continued upon the filing by the transfer-on-death beneficiary or beneficiaries
of an application for an amended certificate of registration. The application
shall be accompanied by a copy of the certificate of title that specifies that
the owner of the motor vehicle has designated the motor vehicle in beneficiary
form under ORC 2131.13.
      (4)   If the original owner of a motor vehicle that has been transferred
makes application for the registration of another motor vehicle at any time
during the remainder of the registration period for which the transferred motor
vehicle was registered, the owner may file an application for transfer of the
registration and, where applicable, the license plates. The transfer of the
registration and, where applicable, the license plates from the motor vehicle
for which they originally were issued to a succeeding motor vehicle purchased
by the same person in whose name the original registration and license plates
were issued shall be done within a period not to exceed thirty (30) days.
During that thirty-day period, the license plates from the motor vehicle for
which they originally were issued may be displayed on the succeeding motor
vehicle, and the succeeding motor vehicle may be operated on the public roads
and highways in this state.
      (5)   The owner of a commercial car, having a gross vehicle weight or
combined gross vehicle weight of more than ten thousand pounds (10,000 lbs.)
may transfer the registration of that commercial car to another commercial car
the owner owns without transferring ownership of the first commercial car. At
any time during the remainder of the registration period for which the first
commercial car was registered, the owner may file an application for the
transfer of the registration and, where applicable, the license plates,
accompanied by the certificate of registration of the first commercial car. No
commercial car to which a registration is transferred under this division shall
be operated on a public road or highway in this state until after the transfer
of registration is completed in accordance with ORC 4503.12(a)(5).
      (6)   Upon application to the registrar or a deputy registrar, a person
who owns or leases a motor vehicle may transfer special license plates assigned
to that vehicle to any other vehicle that the person owns or leases or that is
owned or leased by the person's spouse. As appropriate, the application also
shall be accompanied by a power of attorney for the registration of a leased
vehicle and a written statement releasing the special plates to the applicant.
      (7)   If a corporation transfers the ownership of a motor vehicle to an
affiliated corporation, the affiliated corporation may apply to the registrar
for the transfer of the registration and any license plates. The registrar may
require the applicant to submit documentation of the corporate relationship and
shall determine whether the application for registration transfer is made in
good faith and not for the purposes of circumventing the provisions of this
Chapter or ORC Chapter 4503.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates division (a) this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (c)   Definitions. As used in division (a)(6) of this section, "special
license plates" means either of the following:
      (1)   Any license plates for which the person to whom the license plates
are issued must pay an additional fee in excess of the fees prescribed in ORC
4503.04, Chapter 4504., and the service fee prescribed in ORC 4503.10(D) or
(G); or
      (2)   License plates issued under ORC 4503.44.
(ORC 4503.12)
444.14    OPERATION OR SALE OF MOTOR VEHICLE WITHOUT CERTIFICATE OF TITLE.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this City a motor vehicle for which a certificate of
title is required without having that certificate in accordance with ORC
Chapter 4505. or, if a physical certificate of title has not been issued for a
motor vehicle, operate the motor vehicle in this City knowing that the
ownership information relating to the vehicle has not been entered into the
automated title processing system by a clerk of a court of common pleas.
      (2)   Display or display for sale or sell as a dealer or acting on behalf
of a dealer, a motor vehicle without having obtained a manufacturer's or
importer's certificate, a certificate of title, or an assignment of a
certificate of title for it as provided in ORC 4505.
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title or any certificate of
registration or license plates upon cancellation of the same by the registrar
of motor vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed in ORC Chapter
4505.
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a clerk of a court of
common pleas as provided in ORC Chapter 4505. in case of the destruction or
dismantling or change of a motor vehicle in such respect that it is not the
motor vehicle described in the certificate of title.
      (5)   Violate any rules adopted pursuant to this
Chapter 444. of the Traffic Code or ORC Chapter 4505.
      (6)   Except as otherwise provided in ORC Chapters 4505. and 4517., sell
at wholesale a motor vehicle ownership of which is not evidenced by an Ohio
certificate of title, or the current certificate of title issued for the motor
vehicle, or the manufacturer's certificate of origin, and all title assignments
that evidence the seller's ownership of the motor vehicle, and an odometer
disclosure statement that complies with ORC 4505.06 and subchapter IV of the
Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act, 86 Stat. 961 (1972), 15 USC
1981.
      (7)   Operate in this City a motor vehicle knowing that the certificate
of title to the vehicle or ownership of the vehicle as otherwise reflected in
the automated title processing system has been canceled.
   (b)   Exceptions.
      (1)   This section does not apply to persons engaged in the business of
warehousing or transporting motor vehicles for the purpose of salvage
disposition.
(ORC 4505.18)
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (a) of this section, a motor vehicle
dealer or person acting on behalf of a motor vehicle dealer may display, offer
for sale, or sell a used motor vehicle and a manufactured housing dealer or a
person acting on behalf of a manufactured housing dealer may display, offer for
sale, or sell a used a used manufactured home or used mobile home without
having first obtained a certificate of title for the vehicle in the name of the
dealer by complying with ORC 4505.181.
(ORC 4505.181)
   (c)   Penalties. Whoever violates division (a) this section shall be fined
not more than two hundred dollars ($200), imprisoned not more than ninety (90)
days, or both.
(ORC 4505.18)
444.15    CERTIFICATE OF TITLE OFFENSES.
   (a)   Offenses. No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Procure or attempt to procure a certificate of title or a salvage
certificate of title or assignment form as prescribed by the registrar of motor
vehicles for a motor vehicle, or pass or attempt to pass a certificate of
title, a salvage certificate of title, an assignment form, or any assignment of
a certificate of title or salvage certificate of title or assignment form for a
motor vehicle, or in any other manner gain or attempt to gain ownership to a
motor vehicle, knowing or having reason to believe that the motor vehicle or
any part of the motor vehicle has been acquired through commission of a theft
offense as defined in ORC 2913.01.
      (2)   Purport to sell or transfer a motor vehicle without delivering to
the purchaser or transferee of it a certificate of title, a salvage certificate
of title, an assignment form, or a manufacturer's or importer's certificate to
it, assigned to the purchaser as provided for in ORC Chapter 4505., except as
otherwise provided in ORC Chapter 4505.
      (3)   With intent to defraud, possess, sell, offer to sell, counterfeit,
or supply a blank, forged, fictitious, counterfeit, stolen, or fraudulently or
unlawfully obtained certificate of title, registration, bill of sale, or other
instruments of ownership of a motor vehicle, or conspire to do any of the
foregoing.
      (4)   Knowingly obtain goods, services, credit, or money by means of an
invalid, fictitious, forged, counterfeit, stolen, or unlawfully obtained
original or duplicate certificate of title, registration, bill of sale, or
other instrument of ownership of a motor vehicle.
      (5)   Knowingly obtain goods, services, credit, or money by means of a
certificate of title to a motor vehicle, which is required to be surrendered to
the registrar of motor vehicles or the clerk of the court of common pleas as
provided in ORC Chapter 4505.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than
five thousand dollars ($5,000) or imprisoned in the county jail not less than
six (6) months nor more than one (1) year, or both, or in a state correctional
institution not less than one (1) year nor more than five (5) years.
(ORC 4505.19)
444.16    CERTIFICATE OF TITLE REQUIRED FOR SALE OR DISPOSAL.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person, except as provided in ORC 4505.032 and
4505.05 shall sell or otherwise dispose of a motor vehicle without delivering
to the buyer or transferee of it a certificate of title with an assignment on
it as is necessary to show title in the buyer or transferee; nor shall any
person, except as provided in ORC 4505.032 or 4505.11 buy or otherwise acquire
a motor vehicle without obtaining a certificate of title for it in the person's
name in accordance with ORC Chapter 4505.
(ORC 4505.03)
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than
two hundred dollars ($200), imprisoned not more than ninety (90) days, or both.
(ORC 4505.99)
444.17    SALVAGE CERTIFICATE OF TITLE PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No person shall operate upon the streets or highways within this
City a motor vehicle, title to which is evidenced by a salvage certificate of
title, except to deliver the motor vehicle pursuant to an appointment for an
inspection under ORC 4505.11.
      (2)   No motor vehicle the certificate of title or assignment form to
which has been marked "FOR DESTRUCTION" and surrendered to a clerk of a court
of common pleas shall be used for anything except parts and scrap metal.
   (b)   Application. This section shall also apply to all-purpose vehicles and
off-highway motorcycles, as defined in ORC 4519.01.
   (c)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (a)(1) of this section shall be fined not
more than two thousand dollars ($2,000), imprisoned not more than one (1) year,
or both.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (a)(2) of this section shall be fined not
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000), imprisoned not more than six (6)
months, or both.
(ORC 4505.11)
444.90    DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   For the purposes of Sections
444.01,
444.09, and
444.13, the term "motor vehicle" also includes a motorized bicycle and a
trailer or semitrailer whose weight is four thousand pounds (4,000 lbs.) or
less.
   (b)   As used in this Chapter, "motor vehicle" does not include a concrete
pump or a concrete conveyor.
(ORC 4503.01)
444.99    PENALTIES.
   See Section
402.99    of this Traffic Code for penalties for provisions of this Chapter for
which no penalty is otherwise provided in the section violated.
TITLE TWELVE - PARKING
CHAPTER 450
Parking Violations Bureau
450.01   Definitions
450.02   Parking Violations Bureau
450.03   Parking Tickets; Service
450.04   Answers to Charge; Penalties
450.05   Failure to Answer; Notice of Violation
450.06   Waiver of Fine or Ticket
450.07   Denials; Hearings
450.08   Judgments
450.09   Joint Liability of Owner and Operator; Rental Vehicles
450.10   Effect of Multiple Judgments
450.11   Impoundment; Immobilization
450.12   Fines, Penalties and Costs
   CROSS REFERENCES
      See Section Histories for Similar State Law
      Abandoned and Unclaimed Vehicles - see TRAF.
Ch. 454.
      Noncriminal Parking Infractions - see ORC Ch. 4521
      Parking Regulations - see TRAF.
Ch. 452.
      Private Tow-Away Zones - TRAF.
454.02
450.01    DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this Chapter and Chapter 452. of this Traffic Code, the
following meanings shall apply:
   (a)   Accessible Parking Space. "Accessible Parking Space" means a motor
vehicle parking location that is reserved for the exclusive standing or parking
of a vehicle that is operated by or on behalf of a person with a disability
that limits or impairs the ability to walk and displays a placard or license
plates issued under ORC 4503.44.
   (b)   Law Enforcement Officer. "Law Enforcement Officer" or "Officer" means
every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic and shall also mean any
City employee and/or agent whose duties include the issuance of parking tickets
while engaged in such duty.
   (c)   Parking Violation. "Parking Violation" means a violation of any
provision of
Chapter 452  of this Traffic Code.
   (d)   Person with a Disability that Limits or Impairs the Ability to Walk.
"Person with a Disability that Limits or Impairs the Ability to Walk" has the
same meaning as in ORC 4503.44.
   (e)   Vehicle. "Vehicle" has the same meaning as in ORC 4511.01.
Statutory Reference: ORC 4521.01
(Ord. 2018-31. Adopted 10/25/18; Ord. 2023-22. Adopted 08/10/23)
450.02    PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (a)   Establishment. There is hereby established a Parking Violations
Bureau, within the Police Division, within the Department of Public Safety.
   (b)   Jurisdiction.
      (1)   The Parking Violations Bureau shall have jurisdiction over each
parking violation that is a violation of
Chapter 452. of this Traffic Code and each parking violation that is a
violation of a parking regulation issued by the Public Safety Director under
Section
240.02 of the City's Administrative Code and/or Section
400.03 of this Traffic Code that occurs within the City. Notwithstanding any
other provision of law to the contrary, each parking violation is a violation
of
Chapter 452. of this Traffic Code and each parking violation that is a
violation of a parking regulation issued by the Public Safety Director under
Section
240.02 of the City's Administrative Code and/or Section
400.03 of this Traffic Code that occur within the City, and the enforcement of
the same, shall be handled pursuant to and be governed by the provisions of
this Chapter.
      (2)   The Greene County Juvenile Court and the Xenia Municipal Court's
Traffic Violations Bureau shall retain jurisdiction over each parking
infraction that occurs within the territorial jurisdiction of the respective
court that is not within the jurisdiction of the Parking Violations Bureau as
determined under division (b)(1) of this section. However, notwithstanding any
other provision of law to the contrary, each such parking violation and the
enforcement of such parking violation shall be handled by the Juvenile Court or
the Traffic Violations Bureau pursuant to, and be governed by, the provisions
of this Chapter.
   (c)   Violations Clerk. The Public Safety Director is hereby appointed the
Violations Clerk for the Bureau and shall appoint hearing examiners and
necessary clerical employees for the Bureau. No person shall be employed as a
hearing examiner unless such person is an attorney admitted to the practice of
law in the State of Ohio or is a former law enforcement officer. The Public
Safety Director may designate, in his or her sole discretion, any of the powers
or duties of the Violations Clerk provided for under this Chapter to any deputy
violations clerks.
   (d)   Contracted Services. The Public Safety Director is hereby authorized
to contract with any governmental or nongovernmental entity to provide services
in processing, collection and enforcing parking tickets issued by law
enforcement officers and civil judgments and default civil judgments entered
pursuant to this Chapter. No contract so entered into shall affect the
responsibilities of hearing examiners, as prescribed in this Chapter, or the
ultimate responsibility of the Violations Clerk to collect, retain and disburse
fines, penalties, fees, and costs for parking violations, and monies paid in
satisfaction of judgments and default judgments.
   (e)   Fines and Penalties.
      (1)   The fines, penalties, fees, and costs for parking violations,
failure to timely answer a parking ticket, failure to timely answer a notice of
violation, hearing costs, failure to timely pay judgments, judgement releases
and immobilization fees shall be as set forth in the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A of the City Government Code.
      (2)   The fines, penalties, fees, and costs for parking violations, and
monies paid for satisfaction of judgments, which are collected by the Bureau,
shall be collected, retained and disbursed by the Bureau to the City of Xenia.
      (3)   The fines and penalties for parking violations shall be collected,
retained, and disbursed by the clerk of the juvenile court or the violations
clerk of the traffic violations bureau if the parking violation occurred within
the territorial jurisdiction of the respective court and if it did not occur
within the jurisdiction of the Parking Violations Bureau. The fines and
penalties collected by the clerk of the juvenile court or the violations clerk
of the traffic violations bureau shall be disbursed by the clerk to the local
authority whose ordinance, resolution, or regulation was violated.
Statutory Reference: ORC 4521.04; 4521.05
(Ord. 2018-31. Adopted 10/25/18; Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
450.03    PARKING TICKETS; SERVICE.
   (a)   Adoption. A parking ticket, in the form prescribed by division (b) of
this section, is hereby adopted and shall be used in all cases in which a
person is charged with committing a parking violation under
Chapter 452  of this Traffic Code and/or each parking violation that is a
violation of a parking regulation issued by the Public Safety Director under
Section
240.02  of the City's Administrative Code and/or Section
400.03  of this Traffic Code. In the alternative, the "Ohio Uniform Traffic
Ticket" described in State Traffic Rule 3(A) and (B) may be used as the parking
ticket. Any parking ticket issued for a parking violation under
Chapter 452 . of this Traffic Code and/or each parking violation that is a
violation of a parking regulation issued by the Public Safety Director under
Section
240.02  of the City's Administrative Code and/or Section
400.03  of this Traffic Code shall be the summons and complaint for the
purposes of this Chapter.
   (b)   Contents. A parking ticket issued for a violation of any provision of
Chapter 452 . of this Traffic Code and/or a violation of a parking regulation
issued by the Public Safety Director under Section
240.02  of the City's Administrative Code and/or Section
400.03  of this Traffic Code shall contain provisions that:
      (1)   Advise the person to whom the ticket is issued that he or she must
answer in relation to the parking violation charged in the ticket.
      (2)   Advise the person to whom the ticket is issued that if he or she
fails to answer in a timely manner, additional penalties shall apply.
      (3)   Specify the allowable answers that may be made to the parking
violation charged, as provided in Section
450.04.
      (4)   Advise the person that he or she will be afforded a hearing if he
or she denies in his or her answer that he or she committed the parking
violation.
      (5)   Specify the entity to which, the time within which, and the
allowable manners in which the answer must be made.
      (6)   Indicate the penalties that may result from failure to timely
answer and the fine that arises from the parking ticket.
      (7)   Warn that failure to timely answer or to appear at a requested
hearing will be considered an admission of the parking violation.
      (8)   Warn that a default civil judgment potentially may be entered
against the person and, if different, the owner of the vehicle if the person
fails to timely answer or to appear at a requested hearing; and
      (9)   Any other information as required by law.
   (c)   Duty of Issuing Officer. The law enforcement officer issuing the
parking ticket shall complete the parking ticket by:
      (1)   Identifying the parking violation charged.
      (2)   Recording the license plate number, type, and make or model of the
vehicle.
      (3)   Indicating the date, time and place of the violation.
      (4)   Signing the ticket and affirming the facts it contains.
      (5)   Identifying the offender and serve the ticket by one of the
following methods:
         A.   If the operator of the vehicle is present, the officer shall
record on the parking ticket, in the space provided for identification of the
offender, the name of the operator and shall then personally serve the ticket
upon the operator.
         B.   If the operator of the vehicle is not present, the officer shall
insert the word "owner" in the space provided for the identification of the
offender and shall then constructively serve the parking ticket upon the owner
of the vehicle by affixing it to the vehicle in a conspicuous place.
   (d)   Constructive Service.
      (1)   Constructive service of a parking ticket upon an owner of a vehicle
by affixation as provided in division (c)(5) of this section, or by the
procedure described in division (d)(2) of this section, has the same force and
effect, and potentially subjects both the owner and the operator of the vehicle
whose act or omission resulted in the parking infraction, if different, to the
same fine and the same penalties for failure to timely answer or to appear, if
a hearing is requested, as if the parking ticket were personally served on both
the owner and operator of the vehicle at the time of the violation.
      (2)   An operator of a vehicle who is not the owner of the vehicle, but
who operates it with the express or implied permission of the owner is the
agent of the owner for purposes of the receipt of parking tickets served in
accordance with this section, and personal service of a parking ticket upon the
operator in accordance with this section constitutes constructive service upon
the owner for purposes of this Chapter. The operator of a rented or leased
vehicle whose act or omission resulted in an alleged parking infraction shall
not be considered an agent of the owner if the owner is engaged in the business
of renting and leasing vehicles pursuant to a written rental or lease agreement
and if the owner follows the procedures set forth in Section
450.09 of this Chapter.
   (e)   Joint Liability. Except as provided in Section
450.09  of this Chapter, when a parking ticket is issued for a parking
infraction and is served pursuant to this section, the operator of the vehicle
whose act or omission resulted in the parking infraction for which the ticket
was issued and the owner of the vehicle involved in the parking infraction, if
different, are jointly liable for the parking infraction and any fine or
penalty arising out of the parking infraction. Any owner of a vehicle who pays
any fine or penalty imposed for a parking infraction pursuant to this Chapter
may recover the amount paid from the operator of the vehicle whose act or
omission resulted in the parking infraction.
   (f)   No Arrest. No person upon whom a parking ticket charging a parking
violation under
Chapter 452 . of the City's Traffic Code shall be arrested as a result of the
commission of the parking violation.
   (g)   Records. The original of the parking ticket issued pursuant to this
section or any true copy of the same shall be considered a record kept in the
ordinary course of business of the City and the Police Division and shall be
prima facie evidence of the facts it contains.
Statutory Reference: ORC 4521.03
(Ord. 2018-31. Adopted 10/25/18; Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
450.04    ANSWERS TO CHARGE; PENALTIES.
   (a)   Answer to Charge. A person who is personally or constructively served
with a parking ticket charging the commission of a parking violation under
Chapter 452 . of this Traffic Code and/or a parking violation that is a
violation of a parking regulation issued by the Public Safety Director under
Section 240.02 of the City's Administrative Code and/or Section 400.03 of this
Traffic Code shall answer the charge in person or by mail to the Parking
Violations Bureau. Such answer shall be made within thirty (30) days of the
date of issuance of the ticket, and shall be in one of the following forms:
      (1)   An admission that the person committed the parking violation, by
payment of the fine for said parking violation, as established in the City's
Fee Schedule, Appendix A to the City Government Code, in accordance with
division (b)(1) of this section.
      (2)   An admission that the person committed the parking violation, with
a written request that the fine be waived or reduced, in accordance with
division (b)(2) of this section.
      (3)   A denial that the person committed the parking violation and
request for a hearing relative to the parking violation, in accordance with
division (b)(3) of this section. If the person desires the presence, at the
hearing, of the officer who issued the parking ticket, the person must request
the officer's presence in his or her answer.
   (b)   Manner of Answering.
      (1)   If the person answers by admitting the parking violation and paying
the fine, such payment shall be made by paying in person at the City's Utility
Billing Division, by sending payment through the mail to the City's Utility
Billing Division, or by utilizing the online payment option on the City's
website. The person shall note the number of the parking ticket on their method
of payment, when paying by check or credit card, or the person shall send a
copy of the ticket with his or her payment.
      (2)   If the person answers by admitting the parking violation but that
admission includes a request that the fine be waived, the person shall submit a
written explanation and evidence to the Parking Violations Bureau with his or
her answer. The explanation and evidence shall explain the circumstances
surrounding the parking violation. The answer, written explanation and evidence
may be submitted to the Parking Violations Bureau in person or by mail. The
person's request for a waiver shall be processed in accordance with Section
450.06 of this Chapter.
      (3)   If the person answers by denying the parking violation and
requesting a hearing relative to the parking violation, the written answer and
request for hearing shall be submitted to the Parking Violations Bureau in
person or by mail and shall be processed in accordance with Section
450.07 of this Chapter.
   (c)   Timeliness of Answer. For an answer to be considered timely, it must
be submitted in one of the manners provided in division (b) of this section on
or before the date that is thirty (30) days from the date of issuance of the
parking ticket. For answers that are mailed, the postmark must be a date that
is on or before the date that is thirty (30) days from the date of issuance of
the parking ticket.
   (d)   Failure to Answer. If a person who is personally or constructively
served with a parking ticket charging the commission of a parking violation
under
Chapter 452 . of this Traffic Code and/or each parking violation that is a
violation of a parking regulation issued by the Public Safety Director under
Section
240.02  of the City's Administrative Code and/or Section
400.03  of this Traffic Code fails to timely answer the charge, as provided in
division (a) of this section, the Parking Violations Bureau shall issue the
proper notifications of infraction pursuant to Section
450.05  of this Chapter and proceed according to that section.
   (e)   Additional Penalty. Failure to timely answer to a charge may result in
the imposition of additional penalties, as set forth in the City's Fee
Schedule, Appendix A to the City Government Code.
   (f)   Records. The issuance of a parking ticket, the filing of or failure to
file an answer by a person personally or constructively served with the ticket,
the substance of the answer, the payment of any fine, and all other relevant
information shall be entered into the records of the Parking Violations Bureau.
Statutory Reference: ORC 4521.06
(Ord. 2018-31. Adopted 10/25/18; Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
450.05    FAILURE TO ANSWER; NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (a)   Notice. When a person is personally or constructively served with a
parking ticket charging the commission of a parking violation under
Chapter 452 . of this Traffic Code or a violation of any parking regulation
issued by the Public Safety Director under Section
240.02  of the City's Administrative Code and/or Section
400.03  of this Traffic Code and the person fails to answer the charge within
thirty (30) days of the date of issuance of the ticket, the Parking Violations
Bureau shall send notifications of the parking violation as follows:
      (1)   If the person who fails to answer was the operator of the vehicle
involved in the parking violation at the time of the commission of the parking
violation and was personally served with the parking ticket, a notification of
the violation shall be sent to that person, and additionally if such person is
not the owner of the vehicle, as determined from the records of the Bureau of
Motor Vehicles, a notification of the violation also shall be sent to the owner
at his or her most recent address appearing in such records.
      (2)   If the person who fails to answer was the owner of the vehicle and
was constructively served with the parking ticket, a notification of the
violation shall be sent to the owner at his or her most recent address
appearing in the records of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
   (b)   Content of Notice. A notification of violation shall be sent within
twelve (12) months after the expiration of time specified in Section
450.04 (a) for making an answer, shall be sent by first class mail, and shall
contain all of the following:
      (1)   An identification of the parking violation with which the person
was charged and the time and date of the parking violation, which
identification may be a copy of the parking ticket charging the parking
violation that was personally or constructively served upon the person.
      (2)   An identification of the amount of the fine, penalties, and costs
arising out of the parking violation that are due.
      (3)   A warning that the person must answer the parking violation charged
in the ticket within thirty (30) days or a default civil judgment in the amount
of the fines, penalties, and costs due may be entered against the person.
      (4)   A description of the allowable answers that may be made, and the
manners in which they may be made, as set forth in Section
450.04 of this Chapter, and notification that the person will be afforded a
hearing before a hearing officer if he or she denies in his or her answer that
the parking violation was committed.
      (5)   An identification of the manners in which and the entity to which
an answer may be made.
      (6)   A warning that if the person fails to appear at a requested
hearing, a default civil judgement in the amount of the fine, penalties, and
costs due may be entered against the person.
   (c)   Answer to Notice. A person who receives a notice for failure to answer
pursuant to this section may answer the parking violation with which he or she
is charged by answering as provided in Section
450.04 (a). An answer to a notice sent pursuant to this section shall be made
within thirty (30) days after the date on which the notice was mailed and shall
be one of the answers specified in Section
450.04 (a), except that, if the answer includes payment of the fine arising out
of the parking infraction, any penalty arising out of such infraction also
shall be paid. The answer shall be governed by the provision of Section
450.04 (b), except that any determination of the amount to be paid under an
answer admitting the commission of the parking violation with explanation also
shall consider any penalty arising out of such infraction.
   (d)   Failure to Answer Notice. If a person who is issued a notice for
failure to answer under this section fails to timely answer the notice, as
provided in division (c) of this section, the failure to answer shall be
considered an admission that the person committed the parking violation, and a
default civil judgment, in the amount of the fine, penalties, and costs due may
be entered against the person. Failure to timely answer the notice may result
in the imposition of additional penalties, as set forth in the City's Fee
Schedule, Appendix A to the City Government Code.
   (e)   Records. The sending of the notification for failure to answer, the
filing or failure to file an answer to the notice by the person to whom it was
sent, the substance of the answer, the payment of any fine, and any other
relevant information shall be entered into the record of the Parking Violations
Bureau.
Statutory Reference ORC 4521.07
(Ord. 2018-31. Adopted 10/25/18; Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
450.06    WAIVER OF FINE OR TICKET.
   (a)   Admission and Request for Waiver. When a person answers by admitting
the parking violation but that admission includes a request that the fine be
waived, in accordance with Section
450.04 (a)(2) and (b)(2), the Violations Clerk, or his designee, shall, within
thirty (30) days, determine whether the explanation and evidence mitigates the
fact that the person committed the parking violation and notify the person, in
writing, of the determination.
   (b)   Determination.
      (1)   If the Violations Clerk, or his designee, determines that the
explanation meets any of the conditions outlined in division (d) of this
section and mitigates the fact that the person committed the parking violation,
the Clerk shall eliminate or reduce the amount of the fine arising out of the
parking violation. If the fine is eliminated or reduced and the person has
previously paid the fine, the amount paid in excess of the revised fine shall
be returned to the person; if the fine is eliminated or reduced and the person
has not previously paid the fine, the person shall be instructed to pay only
the amount of the revised fine, if any.
      (2)   If the Violations Clerk, or his designee, determines that the
explanation does not meet any of the conditions outlined in division (d) of
this section and does not mitigate the fact that the person committed the
parking violation, the person shall be instructed to pay the full amount of the
fine arising out of the parking violation.
   (c)   Timely Payment. If the person has admitted he or she committed a
parking violation and the person's fine is reduced in accordance with (b)(1) of
this section and the person has not previously paid the fine, or if the person
owes the full amount of the fine in accordance with (b)(2) of this section, the
determination sent to the person shall instruct him or her to pay the amount
due within ten (10) days of receipt of the notice of determination. Failure to
pay the amount of the fine due within the ten (10) days indicated, may result
in the imposition of additional penalties, as set forth in the City's Fee
Schedule, Appendix A to the City Government Code. Furthermore, the
determination and the amounts due shall be considered a judgment and shall be
treated as if they were a judgment rendered subsequent to a hearing held
pursuant to Section
450.07  of this Chapter.
Statutory Reference: ORC 4521.06
   (d)   Conditions for Waiver. The Violations Clerk, or his designee, is
authorized to waive the parking ticket, or waive the fine, or reduce the fine
if the Clerk, or his designee, determines that the explanation provided by the
person to whom the parking ticket was issued meets any of the following
conditions:
      (1)   The vehicle was temporarily disabled.
      (2)   The parking meter was defective.
      (3)   Emergency parking due to a medical emergency.
      (4)   The vehicle is a government vehicle parked while the operator is on
official government business and that business has caused the vehicle to be
parked in excess of the posted time limit or on an expired meter.
      (5)   The person was cited for a violation of
452.08 and provides proof that at the time of violation, the person or the
person for whose transport the motor vehicle was being operated had been issued
a removable windshield placard that was then valid, or accessible license
plates that were then valid, or a parking card that was then valid, but the
person failed or neglected to display the placard, plates or parking card as
required (in such cases the fine may be reduced that that set forth in the
City's Fee Schedule, Appendix A to the City Government Code.
      (6)   Any other extraordinary circumstance that mitigates the fact that
the person committed a parking violation.
   (e)   Conditions for Waiver or Reduction for Disabled Parking Space
Violation. The Violations Clerk, or his designee, is authorized to waive the
parking ticket, or waive the fine, or reduce the fine if the Clerk, or his
designee, in cases where the parking ticket was issued for a violation of
Section
452.08  of this Traffic Code in the following circumstances only:
      (1)   If the person is charged with a violation of Section
452.08(b)(1)A.(i) or (ii) of this Traffic Code and provides a sworn affidavit
from a licensed medical professional showing that the person suffered an injury
not more than seventy-two (72) hours prior to the time the person was issued
the ticket and that, because of the injury, the person meets at least one (1)
of the criteria contained in ORC 4503.44(A)(1), the fine may be waived.
      (2)   If the person is charged with a violation of Section
452.08(b)(1)A.(i) or (ii) of this Traffic Code and the person provides written
proof showing that at the time of the violation, the offender or the person for
whose transport the motor vehicle was being operated had been issued a
removable windshield placard that then was valid or special license plates that
then were valid, or a parking card that then was valid or accessible license
plates that then were valid, but the offender or the person neglected to
display the placard, license plates, parking card or accessible license plates
as required, the fine may be reduced in accordance with the fees set forth in
the City's Fee Schedule, Appendix A to the City Government Code.
(Ord. 2018-31. Adopted 10/25/18; Ord. 2023-22. Adopted 08/10/23; Ord. 2024-25.
Adopted 10/10/24)
450.07    DENIALS; HEARINGS.
   (a)   Right to Hearing. A person who is personally or constructively served
with a parking ticket charging the commission of a parking violation under
Chapter 452 . of the City's Traffic Code and/or a parking violation that is a
violation of a parking regulation issued by the Public Safety Director under
Section
240.02  of the City's Administrative Code and/or Section 400.03 of this Traffic
Code, or who receives notice of the violation pursuant to Section
450.05  of this Chapter, who answers by denying he or she committed the parking
violation shall be granted a hearing to determine if the person committed the
parking violation.
   (b)   Hearing. The Parking Violations Bureau shall set a date for the
hearing and notify the person, in writing, of the date, time, and place of the
hearing. The hearing shall be conducted by a hearing examiner of the Parking
Violations Bureau, and each hearing shall be conducted in such manner as the
hearing examiner considers appropriate. Rules regarding the admissibility of
evidence shall not be strictly applied in the hearing, but all testimony shall
be under oath.
   (c)   Burden of Proof; Evidence.
      (1)   At the hearing, the City has the burden of proving, by a
preponderance of the evidence, that the person for whom the hearing is being
conducted committed the parking violation. The City shall submit the original
parking ticket that was personally or constructively served on the person or a
true copy of the ticket, and information from the Ohio Bureau of Motor Vehicles
that identifies the owner of the vehicle. The ticket and information in proper
form is prima-facie evidence that the registered owner of the vehicle was the
person who committed the parking violation.
      (2)   The City may present additional evidence and testimony at the
hearing. The City does not have to be represented at the hearing by an
attorney.
      (3)   The person for whom the hearing is being conducted may present any
relevant evidence and testimony at the hearing. The person does not have to
attend the hearing if he or she submits documentary evidence to the hearing
examiner prior to the day of the hearing.
   (d)   Presence of Officer. If the person, in his or her answer, denied that
he or she committed the parking violation and requested the presence at the
hearing of the officer who issued the parking ticket, the officer shall be
required to attend the hearing unless the hearing examiner determines that the
officer's presence is not required. If the officer's presence at the hearing
has been requested and the officer is unable to attend the hearing on the day
and at the time scheduled, the hearing examiner may grant a reasonable
continuance.
   (e)   Decisions.
      (1)   If the person for whom the hearing is being conducted appears at
the scheduled hearing or submits evidence in accordance with division (c)(3) of
this section, the hearing examiner shall consider all evidence and testimony
presented and shall determine whether the City has established, by a
preponderance of the evidence, that the person committed the parking violation.
If the hearing examiner determines that the person committed the parking
violation, an order indicating the determination as a judgment against the
person and requiring the person to pay the appropriate fine and any additional
penalties and/or hearing costs shall be entered in the records of the Parking
Violations Bureau.
      (2)   If the person for whom the hearing is being conducted fails to
appear at the scheduled hearing and fails to submit evidence in accordance with
division (c)(3) of this section, the hearing examiner shall, if he or she
determines for any evidence and testimony presented at the hearing, by a
preponderance of the evidence, that the person committed the parking violation,
enter a default judgment against the person and require the person to pay the
appropriate fine and any additional penalties and/or hearing costs. A default
judgment entered under this division shall be entered in the records of the
Parking Violations Bureau.
      (3)   If a person who is sent a notification of violation pursuant to
Section 450.05 does not timely answer, as provided in Section
450.05(c), the hearing examiner shall, if he or she determines from any
evidence and testimony presented by the City, by a preponderance of the
evidence, that the person committed the parking violation, enter a default
judgment against the person and require the person to pay the appropriate fine
and any additional penalties and/or hearing costs. A default judgment entered
under this division shall be entered in the records of the Parking Violations
Bureau.
      (4)   If the hearing examiner does not determine, by a preponderance of
the evidence, that a person in any of the classes described in divisions (e)
(1), (2) or (3) of this section committed the parking violation, the hearing
examiner shall enter judgment against the City and shall enter the judgment and
dismissal in the records of the Parking Violations Bureau. No additional
penalties or hearing costs shall be entered against the person if the hearing
examiner finds the person did not commit the parking violation.
   (f)   Default Judgments. A default judgment entered under this section may
be vacated by the hearing examiner who entered it if all of the following
apply:
      (1)   The person against whom the default judgment was entered files a
motion with the Parking Violations Bureau within one (1) year of the date of
entry of the judgment.
      (2)   The motion sets forth a sufficient defense to the parking violation
out of which the judgment arose.
      (3)   The motion sets forth excusable neglect as to the person's failure
to attend the hearing or answer the notification of the violation.
   (g)   Hearing Costs. When authorized under division (e) hereof, the hearing
examiner may include in the judgment entered against any person the costs
associated with the requested hearing, as set forth in the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code.
Statutory Reference: ORC 4521.08
(Ord. 2018-31. Adopted 10/25/18; Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
450.08    JUDGMENTS.
   (a)   Payment of Judgments. Payment of any judgment or default judgment
entered against a person pursuant to this Chapter shall be made to the Parking
Violations Bureau Clerk or his designee within ten (10) days of entry. All
money paid in satisfaction of a judgment or default judgment shall be disbursed
by the Clerk to the City's General Fund, and the Clerk shall enter the fact of
payment of the money and its disbursement in the records of the Bureau. If
payment is not made within the required ten (10) days, the Parking Violation
Bureau may assess an additional penalty, as set forth in the City's Fee
Schedule, Appendix A to the City Government Code. The judgment or default
judgment may then be filed with the Clerk of the Xenia Municipal Court, and
when so filed, shall have the same force and effect as a money judgment in a
civil action rendered in the Court.
   (b)   Judgments Filed with the Xenia Municipal Court. Judgments and default
judgments filed with a court pursuant to this division shall be maintained in
accordance with ORC 4521.08(C). When a judgment or default judgment is filed
with the Court, execution may be levied, and such other measures may be taken
for its collection as are authorized for the collection of an unpaid money
judgment in a civil action rendered in the Court. The Xenia Municipal Court may
assess costs against the judgment debtor, in an amount not exceeding ten
dollars ($10) for each parking violation, to be paid upon satisfaction of the
judgment.
   (c)   Appeals. Any person against whom a judgment or default judgment is
entered pursuant to Section
450.07 , and the City if a judgment is entered against it pursuant to Section
450.07 , may appeal the judgment or default judgment to the Xenia Municipal
Court if the judgment or default judgment was entered by the bureau, or to the
Greene County Juvenile Court if the judgment or default judgment was entered by
a referee of the Juvenile Court, by filing notices of appeal with the Parking
Violations Bureau or the referee of the Juvenile Court, and the Xenia Municipal
Court or the Clerk of the Juvenile Court within fifteen (15) days of the date
of entry of the judgment and by the payment of such reasonable costs as the
Xenia Municipal Court or the Greene County Juvenile Court requires. Upon the
filing of an appeal, the applicable court shall schedule a hearing date and
notify the parties of the date, time, and place of the hearing. The hearing
shall be held by the applicable court in accordance with the rules of the
court. Service of a notice of appeal under this division by a person does not
stay enforcement and collection of the judgment or default judgment from which
appeal is taken by the person unless the person who files the appeal posts bond
with the Parking Violations Bureau or the Greene County Juvenile Court in the
full amount of the judgment, plus court costs, at or before the service of the
notice of appeal. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the judgment on
appeal of the Xenia Municipal Court or the Greene County Juvenile Court is
final, and no other appeal of the judgment of the Parking Violations Bureau, or
the referee of the Juvenile Court, whichever is applicable, and no appeal of
the judgment of the Xenia Municipal Court or the Juvenile Court may be taken.
   (d)   Time for Filing Judgment. A judgment or default judgment entered
pursuant to Section
450.07  may be filed with the Xenia Municipal Court under division (b) of this
section at any time within three (3) years after the date of issuance of the
parking ticket charging the parking violation out of which the judgment arose.
Statutory Reference: ORC 4521.08
(Ord. 2018-31. Adopted 10/25/18; Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
450.09    JOINT LIABILITY OF OWNER AND OPERATOR; RENTAL VEHICLES.
   (a)   When Owner Not Liable. An owner of a vehicle is not jointly liable
with the operator of the vehicle whose act or omission resulted in a parking
ticket for the parking violation or any fine, penalty, or processing fee
arising out of the parking violation under this Chapter if either of the
following apply:
      (1)   The owner answers the charge of the parking violation under Section
450.04 or
450.05 of this Chapter, the answer denies that the owner committed the
violation and requests a hearing concerning the violation, the owner
additionally asserts and provides reasonable evidence at that time to prove
that the vehicle, at the time of the commission of the parking violation, was
being used by the operator without the owner's express or implied consent, and
the Parking Violations Bureau or the Greene County Juvenile Court determines
that the vehicle was being used without the owner's express or implied consent
at that time. If the Bureau or the Juvenile Court does not so determine, it
shall conduct the hearing concerning the parking violation according to Section
450.07 of this Chapter.
      (2)   The owner answers the charge of the parking violation under Section
450.04 or
450.05 of this Chapter, the answer denies that the owner committed the parking
violation, the owner additionally submits evidence at that time that proves
that, at the time of the alleged commission of the parking violation, the owner
was engaged in the business of renting or leasing vehicles under written rental
or lease agreements, and the owner additional submits evidence that proves
that, at the time of the alleged commission of the parking violation, the
vehicle in question was in the care, custody, or control of a person other than
the owner pursuant to a written rental or lease agreement. If the owner does
not so prove, the Parking Violations Bureau or the Greene County Juvenile Court
shall conduct a hearing relating to the parking violation according to Section
450.07 of this Chapter.
      (3)   The owner, at a hearing concerning the parking violation conduction
in accordance with Section
450.07 of this Chapter, proves that the vehicle, at the time of the parking
violation, was being used by the operator without the owner's express or
implied consent or proves the facts described in division (a)(2) of this
section.
   (b)   Rentals.
      (1)   An owner of a vehicle who is engaged in the business of renting or
leasing vehicles under written rental or lease agreements, but who does not
satisfy the additional requirements of division (a)(2) of this section is not
liable for any penalties or processing fees arising out of a parking violation
involving the vehicle if at the time of the commission of the parking
violation, the vehicle was in the care, custody, or control of a person other
than the owner pursuant to a written rental or lease agreement, and if the
owner answers the charge of the parking violation by denying that the owner
committed the parking violation or by paying the fine arising out of the
parking violation within thirty (30) days after actual receipt of the parking
ticket charging the violation or, if the owner did not receive the parking
ticket, within thirty (30) days after receipt of the notification of violation.
      (2)   Proof that the vehicle was in the care, custody, or control of a
person other than the owner pursuant to a written rental or lease agreement at
the time of the alleged parking violation shall be established by sending a
true copy of the rental or lease agreement or an affidavit to that effect to
the Parking Violations Bureau or the Greene County Juvenile Court, as
applicable, within thirty (30) days after the date of receipt by the owner of
the parking ticket charging the violation or, if the owner did not receive the
parking ticket, within thirty (30) days after receipt of the notification of
violation. The submission of a true copy of a written rental or lease agreement
or affidavit shall be prima-facie evidence that a vehicle was in the care,
custody, or control of a person other than the owner. The affidavit authorized
by this section shall be accompanied by a postage-paid, self-addressed
envelope, shall be in a form the Ohio Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall
prescribe, and shall include space for the Parking Violations Bureau or the
Juvenile Court to indicate receipt of the affidavit. Within thirty (30) days of
receipt of the affidavit, the Bureau or Court shall return a receipted copy of
the affidavit to the rental or lease company. In addition, any information
required by division (a)(2) of this section may be provided on magnetic tape or
another computer readable media in a format acceptable to the Parking
Violations Bureau or Juvenile Court.
Statutory reference: ORC 4521.09
(Ord. 2018-31. Adopted 10/25/18)
450.10    EFFECT OF MULTIPLE JUDGMENTS.
   (a)   Notice of Judgment to Registrar.
      (1)   If a judgment or default judgment is entered against a person
pursuant to Section
450.08 of this Chapter for a violation of Section
450.08 of this Traffic Code and the person has not paid the judgment or default
judgment within ten (10) days of the date of entry of the judgment, the Parking
Violations Bureau may give notice of that fact to the Ohio registrar of motor
vehicles. The notice, if given, shall be given not earlier than sixteen (16)
days nor later than three (3) years after the date of entry of the judgment,
and shall be in a form and manner, and contain such information, as the
registrar prescribes.
      (2)   If three (3) or more judgments or default judgments have been
entered against a person pursuant to Section
450.08 of this Chapter and the person has not paid the judgments or default
judgments within ten (10) days of the date of entry of the third judgment, the
Parking Violations Bureau may give notice of that fact to the registrar. The
notice, if given, shall be given not earlier than sixteen (16) days nor later
than three (3) years after the date of entry of the third judgment, and shall
be in a form and manner, and contain such information, as the registrar
prescribes.
   (b)   Issuance of Certificate of Registration Prohibited. Upon receipt of a
notice as provided in division (a) of this section, neither the registrar nor
any deputy registrar shall accept any application for the registration or
transfer of registration of any motor vehicle owned or leased by the person
named in the notice unless the person presents a release as provided in
division (c) of this section or unless the registrar is properly notified by
the Parking Violations Bureau that the judgment or default judgment described
in division (a)(1) of this section or the judgments or default judgments
described in division (a)(2) of this section have been paid, dismissed, or
reversed on appeal, or that the initial notice was given in error and is
therefore canceled.
   (c)   Release of Vehicle. When a notice as provided in division (a) of this
section is given to the registrar and the judgments or default judgments are
subsequently paid, dismissed, or reversed on appeal, or it is discovered that
the notice was given in error and is therefore canceled, the Parking Violations
Bureau shall immediately notify the registrar of such payment, dismissal,
reversal, or cancellation. The notification shall be in a form and manner, and
contain such information, as the registrar prescribes. If the initial notice
was not given in error, the Parking Violations Bureau shall charge the person a
processing fee, as set forth in the City's Fee Schedule, Appendix A of the City
Government Code, for each judgment or default judgment to cover the costs of
the bureau of motor vehicles in administering this section. Upon payment of the
fee, the Parking Violations Bureau shall give to the person a release to be
presented at the time of registering or transferring the registration of a
motor vehicle owned or leased by the person. All fees collected under this
division shall be transmitted monthly to the registrar for deposit in the
public safety highway purposes fund established by ORC 4501.06.
   (d)   Yearly Notice. The Parking Violations Bureau shall provide further
notice to the Registrar no later than thirteen (13) months after the date the
Registrar entered the original notice into the records of any judgments or
default judgments that are still outstanding.
   (e)   Determining Number of Judgments. In determining whether the judgments
or default judgments that have been entered against a person as provided in
division (a)(2) of this section total three (3) or more, the Parking Violations
Bureau may apply to that total any violation the person committed during the
relevant time period by illegally standing or parking a vehicle in an
accessible parking space, irrespective of the amount of the fine imposed for
such violation.
Statutory Reference: ORC 4521.10
(Ord. 2018-31. Adopted 10/25/18; Ord. 2023-22. Adopted 08/10/23; Ord. 2024-25.
Adopted 10/10/24)
450.11    IMPOUNDMENT; IMMOBILIZATION.
   (a)   Impoundment or Immobilization.
      (1)   Any vehicle with three (3) or more parking violations in which
judgments or default judgments have been filed with the Xenia Municipal Court
pursuant to Section
450.08 of this Chapter is subject to impoundment or immobilization by the Xenia
Police Division. Impoundment or immobilization pursuant to this division is
permitted without regard to whether the vehicle, at the time of the impoundment
or immobilization, is legally parked.
      (2)   Any vehicle that is illegally parked in a manner that constitutes
an obstruction to traffic or a danger to persons or property may be impounded
or removed pursuant to Section
452.16 of this Traffic Code.
   (b)   Release of Vehicle.
      (1)   Impoundment:
         A.   A vehicle impounded under division (a)(1) of this section shall
be released to the owner upon the owner or any lienholder of the vehicle
presenting a valid certificate of title to the vehicle to the Parking
Violations Bureau and upon the owner or lienholder either paying the payment of
the judgments or default fault judgments and paying the fines, penalties, fees,
and costs due on the parking violation(s) issued or outstanding or upon the
owner or any lienholder of the vehicle posting a bond equal to the amount of
any fine, fees, or costs associated with the parking violation; however, in no
case shall the required bond be in excess of one thousand dollars ($1,000).
         B.   A vehicle impounded under division (a)(2) of this section shall
be released to the owner upon the owner or any lienholder of the vehicle
presenting a valid certificate of title to the vehicle to the Parking
Violations Bureau and upon the owner or lienholder either admitting the parking
violation and paying the fine for said violation or upon the owner or
lienholder posting a bond equal to the amount of any fine, fees, or costs
associated with the parking violation; however, in no case shall the required
bond be in excess of one thousand dollars ($1,000).
         C.   Upon payment of any monies due under division (b)(1)A. or (b)
(1)B. or the posting of bond under division (b)(1)B. of this section, the owner
or any lienholder of the vehicle may claim the vehicle from the place of
storage upon presentation of proof of ownership, and the payment of all
expenses, charges, or fines incurred with the place of storage for towing and
storing the vehicle.
      (2)   Immobilization: A vehicle immobilized under division (a)(1) of this
section shall be released to the owner upon the owner or any lienholder of the
vehicle presenting a valid certificate of title to the vehicle to the Parking
Violations Bureau and upon the owner or lienholder paying the payment of the
judgments or default fault judgments, and any costs associated with
immobilizing the vehicle, as set forth in the City's Fee Schedule, Appendix A
to the City Government Code, and paying the fines, penalties, fees, and costs
due on the parking violation(s) issued or outstanding or upon the owner or any
lienholder of the vehicle posting a bond equal to the amount of any fine, fees,
or costs associated with the parking violation; however, in no case shall the
required bond be in excess of one thousand dollars ($1,000).
Statutory Reference: ORC 4521.02
(Ord. 2018-31. Adopted 10/25/18; Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
450.12    FINES, PENALTIES AND COSTS.
   On or after the effective date of this Chapter, the fines, penalties, costs
and fees for any parking violation administered pursuant to this Chapter shall
be as set forth in the City's Fee Schedule, Appendix A to the City Government
Code.
(Ord. 2018-31. Adopted 10/25/18; Ord. 2024-25. Adopted 10/10/24)
CHAPTER 452
Parking on Public or Private Property; Parking Facilities
452.01   Prohibitions against Parking on Traveled Portion of Street or Highways
452.02   Requirements when Leaving Vehicle Unattended
452.03   Parking Prohibitions on Streets and Right-of-Ways
452.04   Parking near Curb
452.05   Manner of Angle Parking
452.06   Parking in Alleys or on Narrow Streets
452.07   Other Parking Prohibitions; Designated Parking Spaces on Public
Property
452.08   Parking for Disabled Persons
452.09   Parking during Snow Emergencies
452.10   Parking of Certain Vehicles Prohibited
452.11   Parking Vehicle with No Valid License Plate on Street or Public
Property
452.12   Selling, Washing or Repairing Vehicle Upon Roadway
452.13   Loading Zones; Bus Stops; Taxi Stands
452.14   Prohibitions Applicable to Off-Street Parking Facilities
452.15   Parking on Private Property
452.16   Removal of Illegally Parked Vehicle; Reclamation
452.17   (Reserved)
452.18   (Reserved)
452.19   (Reserved)
452.20   (Reserved)
452.21   Exceptions
452.90   Civil Liability for Parking Violations
452.91   Liability of Owner for Parking Violations
452.92   Definitions
452.99   Penalties
   CROSS REFERENCES
      See Section Histories for Similar State Law
      Abandoned and Unclaimed Vehicles - see TRAF.
Ch. 454
      Local Option to Create Noncriminal Violations - see ORC 4521.02
      Parking Violations Bureau - see TRAF.
Ch. 450
      Private Tow-Away Zones - see TRAF.
454.02
452.01    PROHIBITIONS AGAINST PARKING ON TRAVELED PORTION OF STREET OR
HIGHWAY.
   (a)   Prohibitions. Upon any street or highway outside a business or
residential district, no person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle,
whether attended or unattended, upon the paved or main traveled part of the
street or highway if it is practicable to stop, park or so leave such vehicle
off the paved or main traveled part of the street or highway. In every event, a
clear and unobstructed portion of the street or highway opposite such standing
vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view
of such stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of two hundred feet
(200') in each direction upon such street or highway.
   (b)   Exceptions. This section does not apply to the driver of any vehicle
which is disabled while on the paved or improved or main traveled portion of a
street or highway in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to
avoid stopping and temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle in such position.
(ORC 4511.66)
   (c)   Removal of Obstructing Vehicle.
      (1)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a street
or highway in violation of this section, such officer may move such vehicle, or
require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move the same,
to a position off the paved or improved or main-traveled part of such street or
highway.
      (2)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any
street, highway, bridge or causeway, or in any tunnel, where such vehicle
constitutes an obstruction to traffic, such officer may provide for the removal
of such vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(ORC 4511.67)
452.02    REQUIREMENTS WHEN LEAVING VEHICLE UNATTENDED.
   (a)   Requirements. No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall
permit it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the
ignition, removing the key from the ignition, effectively setting the parking
brake, and, when the motor vehicle is standing upon any grade, turning the
front wheels to the curb or side of the street or highway.
   (b)   Exceptions. The requirements of this section relating to the stopping
of the engine, locking of the ignition, and removing the key from the ignition
of a motor vehicle do not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   A motor vehicle that is parked on residential property;
      (2)   A motor vehicle that is locked, regardless of where it is parked;
      (3)   An emergency vehicle; or
      (4)   A public safety vehicle.
(ORC 4511.661)
452.03    PARKING PROHIBITIONS ON STREETS AND RIGHT-OF-WAYS.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall stand or park a vehicle, except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or to comply with the provisions
of this Traffic Code, or while obeying the directions of a police officer or a
traffic-control device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk, except as provided in division (b) of this section;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within ten feet (10') of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within thirty feet (30') of, and upon the approach to, any flashing
beacon, stop sign or traffic-control device;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety zone,
unless a different length is indicated by a traffic-control device;
      (9)   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within twenty feet (20') of a driveway entrance to any fire
station, and on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire
station, within seventy-five feet (75') of the entrance when it is properly
posted with signs;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   Alongside any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a street or
highway, or within a street or highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where signs prohibit stopping;
      (15)   Within one foot (1') of another parked vehicle; or
      (16)   On the roadway portion of a freeway, expressway, or thruway.
   (b)   Exceptions. A person shall be permitted, without charge or
restriction, to stand or park on a sidewalk a motor-driven cycle or motor
scooter that has an engine not larger than one hundred and fifty (150) cubic
centimeters, or a bicycle; provided that the motor-driven cycle, motor scooter
or bicycle does not impede the normal flow of pedestrian traffic. This division
does not authorize any person to operate a vehicle in violation of Section
432.24  of this Traffic Code.
(ORC 4511.68)
452.04    PARKING NEAR CURB.
   (a)   Parking on Right-Hand Side of Street. Every vehicle stopped or parked
upon a roadway where there is an adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with
the right-hand wheels of the vehicle parallel with and not more than twelve
inches (12") from the right-hand curb, unless it is impossible to approach so
close to the curb; in such case the stop shall be made as close to the curb as
possible and only for the time necessary to discharge and receive passengers or
to load or unload merchandise.
   (b)   Parking on Left-Hand Side of Street. On those one-way streets where
the City has permitted parking of vehicles on the left-hand side of the street,
such vehicles shall be parked with the left-hand wheels adjacent to and within
twelve inches (12") of the left-hand curb.
   (c)   Facing Direction of Travel.
      (1)   A.   Except as provided in division (c)(1)B. of this section, no
vehicle shall be stopped or parked on a street or highway with the vehicle
facing in a direction other than the direction of travel on that side of the
street or highway.
         B.   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into an
angled parking space so that when the motorcycle is parked it is facing in a
direction other than the direction of travel on that side of the street or
highway.
      (2)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into a parking
space that is located on the side of, and parallel to, a street or highway. The
motorcycle may face any direction when so parked. Not more than two (2)
motorcycles at a time shall be parked in a parking space as described in
division (c)(2) of this section, irrespective of whether or not the space is
metered.
(ORC 4511.69 (A) - (C))
452.05    MANNER OF ANGLE PARKING.
   Upon streets where angle parking is permitted, no person shall stop, stand,
or park a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or edge of roadway as
indicated by appropriate signs or markings.
(Ord. 2018-31. Passed 10/25/18)
452.06    PARKING IN ALLEYS OR ON NARROW STREETS.
   (a)   Narrow Streets. No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a
street, other than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to
leave available less than ten feet (10') of the width of the roadway for free
movement of vehicular traffic; except that a driver may stop temporarily during
the actual loading or unloading of passengers or when directed to by a police
officer or traffic control signal.
   (b)   Alleys. Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle within an alley except while actually loading and
unloading, and then only for a period not to exceed thirty (30) minutes.
(Ord. 2018-31. Passed 10/25/18)
452.07    OTHER PARKING PROHIBITIONS; DESIGNATED PARKING SPACES ON PUBLIC
PROPERTY.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except
where necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or while obeying the
directions of a police officer, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On any freeway entrance or exit ramp or the shoulder adjacent
thereto;
      (2)   In a designated fire lane, whether on public or private property;
      (3)   On or in a street lawn area or front lawn or on a curb;
      (4)   On a bicycle path or brindle path; or
      (5)   Where the curbing is painted yellow.
   (b)   Prohibitions Applicable to Designated Parking Spaces on Public
Property. No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except where necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or while obeying the directions of a
police officer, in any of the following spaces:
      (1)   In a designated parking space on public property, whether metered
or unmetered, in excess of the maximum time limit indicated by signs;
      (2)   In a designated parking space on public property, whether metered
or unmetered, in such a way that the vehicle is not entirely within the limits
of the space so designated by marked lines;
      (3)   In a designated, metered parking space on public property, during
the hours when parking limits applicable to such space are in effect, when no
legal parking time is displayed on the meter;
      (4)   In a designated parking space on public property, whether metered
or unmetered, in violation of any posted restrictions regarding hours, time
limits, reserved parking, "authorized only" parking, "employee only" parking or
any other parking restriction;
      (5)   In a parking space on public property designated as permit-only
parking without prominently displaying the required permit on the dashboard or
hanging from the rearview mirror; or
      (6)   In parking space on public property in violation of any parking
rule or regulation established by the Director of Public Safety in accordance
with Section 238.02 of the City's Administration Code.
(Ord. 2018-31. Passed 10/25/18)
452.08    PARKING FOR DISABLED PERSONS.
   (a)   Accessible Parking Spaces.
      (1)   Public Offices and Facilities: Accessible parking locations and
privileges for persons with disabilities that limit or impair the ability to
walk shall be provided and designated by the City and by the State and all
agencies and instrumentalities thereof at all offices and facilities where
parking is provided, whether owned, rented or leased, and at all publicly owned
parking garages. The locations shall be designated through the posting of an
elevated sign, whether permanently affixed or movable, imprinted with the
international symbol of access and shall be reasonably close to exits,
entrances, elevators, and ramps. All elevated signs posted in accordance with
this division shall be mounted on a fixed or movable post, and the distance
from the ground to the bottom edge of the sign shall measure not less than five
feet (5'). If a new sign or a replacement sign designating an accessible
parking location is posted on or after October 14, 1999, there also shall be
affixed upon the surface of that sign or affixed next to the designating sign a
notice that states the fine applicable for the offense of parking a motor
vehicle in the designated accessible parking location if the motor vehicle is
not legally entitled to be parked in that location.
(4511.69(E))
      (2)   Private Property: Accessible parking locations and privileges for
persons with disabilities that limit or impair the ability to walk shall be
provided as required by the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and Ohio law.
The locations shall be designated through the posting of an elevated sign,
whether permanently affixed or movable, imprinted with the international symbol
of access and shall be reasonably close to exits, entrances, elevators, and
ramps. All elevated signs posted in accordance with this division shall be
mounted on a fixed or movable post, and the distance from the ground to the
bottom edge of the sign shall measure not less than five feet (5'). If a new
sign or a replacement sign designating an accessible parking location is posted
on or after October 14, 1999, there also shall be affixed upon the surface of
that sign or affixed next to the designating sign a notice that states the fine
applicable for the offense of parking a motor vehicle in the designated
accessible parking location if the motor vehicle is not legally entitled to be
parked in that location.
(Statutory reference: ORC 3781.111)
   (b)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   A.   No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle at
accessible parking locations provided under division (a)(1) of this section, or
at accessible clearly marked parking locations provided in or on privately-
owned parking lots, parking garages, or other parking areas, that are
designated in accordance with division (a)(2), unless one of the following
applies:
            (i)   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport
of a person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a valid removable windshield placard or accessible license plates;
or
            (ii)   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport
of a person with a disability and is displaying a parking card or accessible
license plates.
(4511.69(F)(1)(a))
         B.   Any motor vehicle that is parked in an accessible marked parking
location in violation of division (b)(1)A.(i) or (ii) of this section may be
towed or otherwise removed from the parking location by the City's Division of
Police. A motor vehicle that is so towed or removed shall not be released to
its owner until the owner presents proof of ownership of the motor vehicle and
pays all towing and storage fees normally imposed by the City or the place of
storage for towing and storing motor vehicles. If the motor vehicle is a leased
vehicle, it shall not be released to the lessee until the lessee presents proof
that that person is the lessee of the motor vehicle and pays all towing and
storage fees normally imposed by the City or the place of storage for towing
and storing motor vehicles.
(4511.69(F)(1)(b))
      (2)   No person shall stop, stand or park any motor vehicle in an area
that is commonly known as an access aisle, which area is marked by diagonal
stripes and is located immediately adjacent to an accessible parking location
provided under division (a)(1) of this section or at an accessible clearly
marked parking location provided in or on a privately-owned parking lot,
parking garage or other parking area and designated in accordance with division
(a)(2) of this section.
(4511.69(F)(2))
   (c)   Accessible Parking in Excess of Posted Time Limits. When a motor
vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a person with a disability
that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is displaying a removable
windshield placard or accessible license plates, or when a motor vehicle is
being operated by or for the transport of a person with a disability and is
displaying a parking card or accessible license plates, the motor vehicle shall
not be permitted to park for a period in excess of the legal parking period
permitted.
(4511.69(G))
   (d)   Designated Parking Spaces. No owner of an office, facility, or parking
garage where accessible parking locations are required to be designated in
accordance with division (a)(1) of this section shall fail to properly mark the
accessible parking locations in accordance with that division or fail to
maintain the markings of the accessible locations, including the erection and
maintenance of the fixed or movable signs.
(4511.69(H))
   (e)   Exceptions.
      (1)   If a person is charged with a violation of division (b)(1)A.(i) or
(ii) of this section, it is an affirmative defense to the charge that the
person suffered an injury not more than seventy-two (72) hours prior to the
time the person was issued the ticket and that, because of the injury, the
person meets at least one (1) of the criteria contained in ORC 4503.44(A)(1).
In such cases the person may admit the parking violation and request a waiver
of the fine in accordance with Section
450.04(a)(2) and Section
450.06(e)(1) of this Traffic Code.
(4511.69(F)(1)(c))
      (2)   If a person is charged with a violation of division (b)(1)A.(i) of
this section and if at the time of the violation, the offender or the person
for whose transport the motor vehicle was being operated had been issued a
removable windshield placard that then was valid or accessible license plates
that then were valid but the offender or the person neglected to display the
placard or license plates as required. In such cases, the person may admit the
parking violation and request a reduction in the fine in accordance with
Section 4504.04(a)(2) and Section
450.06(e)(2) of this Traffic Code.
      (3)   If a person is charged with a violation of division (b)(1)A.(ii) of
this section and if at the time of the violation, the offender or the person
for whose transport the motor vehicle was being operated had been issued a
parking card that then was valid or accessible license plates that then were
valid but the offender or the person neglected to display the placard or
license plates as required. In such cases, the person may admit the parking
violation and request a reduction in the fine in accordance with Section
4504.04(a)(2) and Section
450.06(e)(2) of this Traffic Code.
(Statutory reference: see ORC 4511.69(J))
   (f)   Placards or License Plates Issued under Prior Law. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to require a person or organization to apply for a
removable windshield placard or special license plates if the parking card or
special license plates issued to the person or organization under prior law
have not expired or been surrendered or revoked.
(4511.69(I))
   (g)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)    Person with a Disability means any person who has lost the use of
one or both legs or one or both arms, who is blind, deaf, or unable to move
without the aid of crutches or a wheelchair, or whose mobility is restricted by
a permanent cardiovascular, pulmonary, or other disabling condition.
      (2)    Person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to
walk has the same meaning as in ORC 4503.44.
      (3)    Accessible license plates and removable windshield placard mean
any license plates or standard removable windshield placard, permanent
removable windshield placard, or temporary removable windshield placard issued
under ORC 4503.41 or 4503.44, and also mean any substantially similar license
plates or removable windshield placard issued by a state, district, country, or
sovereignty.
(ORC 4511.69(K))
(Ord. 2023-22. Adopted 08/10/23)
(EDITOR'S NOTE: See Section
450.01 for the definition of "disability parking space," and "vehicle")
452.09    PARKING DURING SNOW EMERGENCIES.
   (a)   Declared Snow Emergency. No person shall park any vehicle on any
street or roadway upon which are posted permanent signs giving notice that
parking is limited or prohibited during a snow emergency during any period of
time when a properly declared snow emergency is in effect.
   (b)   Removal of Illegally Parked Vehicle. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this section, any police officer may immediately order into
storage any vehicle parked in violation of this section. The owner or any
lienholder of a vehicle ordered into storage may claim the vehicle upon
presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by a certificate of
title to the vehicle, and payment of all expenses, charges and fines incurred
as a result of the removal and storage of the vehicle.
(Ord. 2018-31. Passed 10/25/18)
452.10    PARKING OF CERTAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (a)   Prohibition on Vehicles. No person shall park any commercial tractor,
semitrailer, trailer, agricultural tractor, box truck, travel trailer,
recreational vehicle, motor home, bus, boat, vehicle with more than two (2)
axles, or truck designed by the manufacturer to carry a load of more than two
thousand and one pounds (2,001 lbs.) on any street or right-of-way within a
business or residential district, except when loading or unloading or in cases
of emergencies.
   (b)   Prohibition on Trailers. No person shall park any trailer or
semitrailer on any street or right-of-way within the City when such trailer or
semitrailer is not attached to a tractor or other vehicle of motor power used
in connection with the movement thereof.
   (c)   Definitions. As used herein, "travel trailer" and "motor home" have
the same meaning as defined in ORC 4501.01.
(Ord. 2018-31. Passed 10/25/18; Ord. 2023-22. Adopted 08/10/23)
452.11    PARKING VEHICLE WITH NO VALID LICENSE PLATE ON STREET OR PUBLIC
PROPERTY.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon any public street, highway or public
parking lot or area within the City upon which no license plate is displayed,
or upon which is displayed any license plate that has expired, or upon which is
displayed any license plate not legally registered and issued for such vehicle.
(Ord. 2018-31. Adopted 10/25/18; Ord. 2022-02. Adopted 02/10/22)
452.12    SELLING, WASHING OR REPAIRING VEHICLE UPON ROADWAY.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon any
street, highway or public parking lot or parking area within the City,
including the right-of-way, for the purpose of:
      (1)   Displaying such vehicle for sale;
      (2)   Washing or cleaning the exterior or interior of the vehicle,
including any trunk or storage space; or
      (3)   Greasing or making any repairs to the vehicle, except where the
repairs are necessitated by an emergency.
(Ord. 2018-31. Passed 10/25/18)
452.13    LOADING ZONES, BUS STOPS AND TAXI STANDS.
   (a)   Business Loading Zones. No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle
upon a street or right-of-way in a business or commercial district for any
purpose or length of time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading,
delivery, or pickup of materials or merchandise within a marked loading zone,
during the permitted hours, as indicated upon the sign marking the loading
zone. In no case shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed
thirty (30) minutes.
   (b)   Bus Stops.
      (1)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle other than a bus in
a bus stop when any such stop or stand has been officially designated and
appropriately posted; except that the driver of a passenger vehicle may
temporarily stop therein for the purpose of, and while actually engaged in,
loading or unloading passengers and luggage, but only when such stopping does
not interfere with any bus waiting to enter or about to enter such zone, and
then only for a period not to exceed three (3) minutes, if such stopping is not
otherwise prohibited therein by posted signs.
      (2)   The operator of a bus shall not stop, stand, or park such vehicle
upon any street at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers
or their baggage other than at a bus stop so designated and posted as such,
except in case of an emergency.
      (3)   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop on a public street in
such a manner that the bus when stopped to load or unload passengers or baggage
shall be in a position with the right front wheel of such vehicle not further
than eighteen inches (18") from the curb and the bus approximately parallel to
the curb, so as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular traffic.
   (c)   Taxi Stands.
      (1)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle other than a
registered taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any such taxi stand has been
officially designated and appropriately posted; except that the driver of a
passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of, and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers and luggage, but only when
such stopping does not interfere with any taxi waiting to enter or about to
enter the taxi stand, and then only for a period not to exceed three (3)
minutes, if such stopping is not otherwise prohibited by posted signs.
      (2)   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such vehicle upon
any street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so designated and posted
as such. This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking provisions at
any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers and luggage.
(Ord. 2018-31. Passed 10/25/18)
452.14    PROHIBITIONS APPLICABLE TO OFF-STREET PARKING FACILITIES.
   (a)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No person, while in or upon an off-street parking facility, shall
race the motor of any vehicle, needlessly bring to a sudden start or stop any
vehicle, needlessly blow the horn of any vehicle, engage in racing with another
vehicle, or engage in any other behavior so as to create a nuisance or
disturbance that would annoy or endanger any persons, property or other
vehicles in or upon the facility.
      (2)   No person shall consume any alcoholic beverage in or upon any off-
street parking facility.
      (3)   No person, alone or in concert with others, shall assemble or
congregate in or upon any off-street parking facility for the purpose of
lingering or loitering.
   (b)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "Off-Street parking facility" means any off-street parking facility
open to the public for vehicles including, but not limited to, parking lots,
parking garages or any other place where vehicles may be parked, stored, housed
or kept, whether on public or private property.
      (2)   "Vehicle" shall be defined in ORC 4501.01(A).
(Ord. 2018-31. Passed 10/25/18)
452.15    PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   If an owner of private property posts on the property, in a conspicuous
manner, a prohibition against parking on the property or conditions and
regulations under which parking is permitted, no person shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   Park a vehicle on the property without the owner's consent; or
      (2)   Park a vehicle on the property in violation of any condition or
regulation posted by the owner.
         (ORC 4511.681)
(EDITOR'S NOTE: see Section
454.02 of this Traffic Code for regulations on establishing private tow-away
zones)
452.16    REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE; RECLAMATION.
   (a)   Police May Order Removal. Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle
unattended and parked in violation of any provision of this Chapter, and where
in the officer's discretion such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic
or a danger to persons or property, such officer may provide for the removal of
such vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
   (b)   Impoundment or Immobilization of Vehicle. Whenever any police officer
finds a vehicle standing or parked in violation of any provision of this
Chapter, such officer may provide for the impoundment or immobilization of said
vehicle.
   (c)   Reclamation.
      (1)   Whenever a police officer has ordered the removal or impoundment of
a vehicle under this section, the owner or any lienholder of the vehicle
ordered into storage may claim the vehicle from the place of storage upon
presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by a certificate of
title to the vehicle, and payment of all expenses, charges, and fines incurred
as a result of the removal or impoundment and storage of the vehicle.
      (2)   Whenever a police officer has ordered the immobilization of a
vehicle under this section, the owner or any lienholder of the vehicle may
claim the vehicle from the Xenia Police Division upon presentation of proof of
ownership, which may be evidenced by a certificate of title to the vehicle, and
payment of all expenses, charges and fines incurred as a result of the
immobilization of the vehicle.
(Ord. 2018-31. Passed 10/25/18)
(EDITOR'S NOTE: ORC 4521.02 authorizes the impoundment, immobilization and
payment for release of a vehicle)
452.17   (RESERVED)
452.18    (RESERVED)
452.19    (RESERVED)
452.20    (RESERVED)
452.21    EXCEPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter, air compressors,
tractors, trucks and other equipment, while being used in the construction,
reconstruction, installation, repair or removal of facilities near, on, over or
under a street or highway, may stop, stand or park where necessary in order to
perform such work; provided, however, that a flagperson is on duty or warning
signs or lights are displayed as may be prescribed by the Ohio Director of
Transportation or the City's Public Safety Director.
(ORC 4511.69(D))
452.90    CIVIL LIABILITY FOR PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   Violation of any section of this Chapter shall not be considered a criminal
offense for any purpose. A person who commits the violation shall not be
arrested as a result of the commission of the violation, and all violations of
this Chapter shall be handled pursuant to
Chapter 450. of this Traffic Code.
Statutory Reference: ORC 4521.02
(Ord. 2018-31. Passed 10/25/18)
452.91    LIABILITY OF OWNER FOR PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   In any hearing of any person charged with a violation of this Chapter,
testimony that a vehicle bearing a certain license plate was found unlawfully
parked as prohibited by the provisions of this Chapter and a noncertified copy
of the law enforcement automated data system or a noncertified copy of a record
of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles showing that the license plate was issued to
that person or that the vehicle is registered in the person's name, shall be
prima-facie evidence that the vehicle which was unlawfully parked, was so
parked by that person, except as provided in Section
450.09 of this Traffic Code.
(Ord. 2018-31. Passed 10/25/18)
452.92    DEFINITIONS.
Any word or phrase not specifically defined in this Chapter shall have same
meaning as in Ohio Revised Code Chapters 4511. or 4521., as applicable.
(Ord. 2018-31. Passed 10/25/18)
452.99    PENALTIES.
   All violations of this Chapter, including the penalties and fines therefor,
shall be handled pursuant to
Chapter 450. of this Traffic Code. The fines and penalties for violations of
this Chapter shall be as set forth in the fee schedule in Part Two, Title
Twelve, Section 298.01(b) of the City's Administration Code.
(Ord. 2018-31. Passed 10/25/18)
CHAPTER 454
Private Tow-Away Zones; Abandoned or Unclaimed Vehicles; Reclamation; Disposal
454.01   Impounding Motor Vehicle left on Private Residential or Agricultural
Property or at Repair Garage
454.02   Private Tow-Away Zones
454.03   Impounding Abandoned Motor Vehicle Or Vehicle that has come into the
Possession of Law Enforcement Officers
454.04   Civil Action Against Towing Service Or Storage Facility
454.05   Disposition of Unclaimed Motor Vehicles in Storage
454.06   Junk Motor Vehicles: Order to Cover or Remove
454.07   Prohibition against Abandonment of Junk Motor Vehicle
454.08   Disposition of Abandoned Junk Motor Vehicle
454.09   Prohibitions Related to Motor Vehicle Towing
454.10   Applicability
454.99   Penalties
   CROSS REFERENCES
      See Section Histories for Similar State Law
      Parking on Private Property Violations - see TRAF.
452.15
      Prohibitions Related to Vehicle Towing - see ORC 4513.67
      Storage Facility Requirements - see ORC 4513.69
454.01    IMPOUNDING MOTOR VEHICLE LEFT ON PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL OR AGRICULTURAL
PROPERTY OR AT REPAIR GARAGE.
   (a)   Impoundment.
      (1)   The City's Chief of Police, upon complaint of any person adversely
affected, may order into storage any motor vehicle, other than an abandoned
junk motor vehicle as defined in Section
454.08 of this Traffic Code, that has been left on private residential or
private agricultural property within the City for at least four (4) hours
without the permission of the person having the right to the possession of the
property. The Chief of Police, upon complaint of a repair garage or place of
storage, may order into storage any motor vehicle, other than an abandoned junk
motor vehicle, that has been left at the garage or place of storage for a
longer period than that agreed upon. When ordering a motor vehicle into storage
pursuant to this division, the Chief of Police may arrange for the removal of
the motor vehicle by a private towing service and shall designate a storage
facility.
      (2)   A towing service towing a motor vehicle under division (a)(1) of
this section shall remove the motor vehicle in accordance with that division.
The towing service shall deliver the motor vehicle to the location designated
by the Chief of Police not more than two (2) hours after the time it is removed
from private property, unless the towing service is unable to deliver the motor
vehicle within two (2) hours due to an uncontrollable force, natural disaster
or other event that is not within the power of the towing service.
      (3)   Subject to division (b) of this section, the owner of a motor
vehicle that has been removed pursuant to this division may recover the vehicle
only in accordance with division (d) of this section.
   (b)   Reclamation While Vehicle is Being Prepared for Removal.
      (1)   If the owner or operator of a motor vehicle that has been ordered
into storage pursuant to division (a)(1) of this section arrives after the
motor vehicle has been prepared for removal, but prior to its actual removal
from the property, the towing service shall give the owner or operator oral or
written notification at the time of such arrival that the vehicle owner or
operator may pay a fee of not more than one-half ( ) of the fee for the removal
of the motor vehicle established by the Ohio Public Utilities Commission in
rules adopted under ORC 4921.25, in order to obtain release of the motor
vehicle. However, if the City has established a vehicle removal fee, the towing
service shall give the owner or operator oral or written notification that the
owner or operator may pay not more than one-half ( ) of that fee to obtain
release of the motor vehicle. That fee may be paid by use of a major credit
card unless the towing service uses a mobile credit card processor and mobile
service is not available at the time of the transaction.
      (2)   Upon payment of the applicable fee, the towing service shall give
the vehicle owner or operator a receipt showing both the full amount normally
assessed and the actual amount received and shall release the motor vehicle to
the owner or operator. Upon its release, the owner or operator immediately
shall move it so that it is not on the private residential or private
agricultural property without the permission of the person having the right to
possession of the property, or is not at the garage or place of storage without
the permission of the owner, whichever is applicable.
   (c)   Record of Vehicles.
      (1)   The City's Chief of Police shall maintain a record of motor
vehicles that the Chief orders into storage pursuant to division (a)(1) of this
section. The record shall include an entry for each such motor vehicle that
identifies the motor vehicle's license number, make, model, and color, the
location from which it was removed, the date and time of its removal, the
telephone number of the person from whom it may be recovered, and the address
of the place to which it has been taken and from which it may be recovered. The
Chief of Police shall provide any information in the record that pertains to a
particular motor vehicle to any person who, either in person or pursuant to a
telephone call, identifies self as the owner or operator of the motor vehicle
and requests information pertaining to its location.
      (2)   Any person who registers a complaint that is the basis of the
Police Chief's order for the removal and storage of a motor vehicle under
division (a)(1) shall provide the identity of the law enforcement agency with
which the complaint was registered to any person who identifies self as the
owner or operator of the motor vehicle and requests information pertaining to
its location.
   (d)   Reclamation of Vehicle from Storage.
      (1)   The owner or lienholder of a motor vehicle that is ordered into
storage pursuant to division (a)(1) of this section may reclaim it upon both of
the following:
         A.   Payment of all applicable fees established by the Ohio Public
Utilities Commission in rules adopted under ORC 4921.25 or, if the City has
established fees for vehicle removal and storage, payment of all applicable
fees established by the City.
         B.   Presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by a
certificate of title to the motor vehicle, a certificate of registration for
the motor vehicle or a lease agreement.
         C.   When the owner of a vehicle towed under this section retrieves
the vehicle, the towing service or storage facility in possession of the
vehicle shall give the owner written notice that if the owner disputes that the
motor vehicle was lawfully towed, the owner may be able to file a civil action
under Section
454.04 of this Traffic Code or under ORC 4513.611.
      (2)   Upon presentation of proof of ownership as required under division
(d)(1)B. of this section, the owner of a motor vehicle that is ordered into
storage under division (a)(1) of this section may retrieve any personal items
from the motor vehicle without retrieving the vehicle and without paying any
fee. However, a towing service or storage facility may charge an after-hours
retrieval fee established by the Ohio Public Utilities Commission in rules
adopted under ORC 4921.25 if the owner retrieves the personal items after
hours, unless the towing service or storage facility fails to provide the
notice required under ORC 4513.69, if applicable. The owner of a motor vehicle
shall not do either of the following:
         A.   Retrieve any personal item that has been determined by the Chief
of Police to be necessary to a criminal investigation; or
         B.   Retrieve any personal item from a vehicle if it would endanger
the safety of the owner, unless the owner agrees to sign a waiver of liability.
         For the purposes of division (d)(2) of this section, "personal items"
do not include any items that are attached to the motor vehicle.
      (3)   If a motor vehicle that is ordered into storage pursuant to
division (a)(1) of this section remains unclaimed by the owner for thirty (30)
days, the procedures established by Sections
454.03 and
454.05 of this Traffic Code shall apply.
   (e)   Duties of Towing Service.
      (1)   No person shall remove, or cause the removal of, any motor vehicle
from any private residential or private agricultural property other than in
accordance with division (a)(1) of this section or Sections
454.03 to
454.08 of this Traffic Code.
      (2)   No towing service or storage facility shall fail to comply with the
requirements of this section.
   (f)   Limitations. This section does not apply to any private residential or
private agricultural property that is established as a private tow-away zone in
accordance with Section
454.02  of this Traffic Code.
   (g)   Penalties. Whoever violates division (e) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
   (h)   Definitions. As used in this section, "private residential property"
means private property on which is located one (1) or more structures that are
used as a home, residence, or sleeping place by one (1) or more persons, if no
more than three (3) separate households are maintained in the structure or
structures. "Private residential property" does not include any private
property on which is located one (1) or more structures that are used as a
home, residence, or sleeping place by two (2) or more persons, if more than
three (3) separate households are maintained in the structure or structures.
(ORC 4513.60)
454.02    PRIVATE TOW-AWAY ZONES.
   (a)   Establishing Private Tow-Away Zones. The owner of a private property
may establish a private tow-away zone, but may do so only if all of the
following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The owner of the private property posts on the property a sign,
that is at least eighteen inches by twenty-four inches (18" x 24") in size,
that is visible from all entrances to the property, and that includes all of
the following information:
         A.   A statement that the property is a tow-away zone;
         B.   A description of persons authorized to park on the property. If
the property is a residential property, the owner of the private property may
include on the sign a statement that only tenants and guests may park in the
private tow-away zone, subject to the terms of the property owner. If the
property is a commercial property, the owner of the private property may
include on the sign a statement that only customers may park in the private
tow-away zone. In all cases, if it is not apparent which persons may park in
the private tow-away zone, the owner of the private property shall include on
the sign the address of the property on which the private tow-away zone is
located or the name of the business that is located on the property designated
as a private tow-away zone;
         C.   If the private tow-away zone is not enforceable at all times, the
times during which the parking restrictions are enforced;
         D.   The telephone number and the address of the place from which a
towed vehicle may be recovered at any time during the day or night; and
         E.   A statement that the failure to recover a towed vehicle may
result in the loss of the title to the vehicle, as provided in ORC 4505.101(B).
         F.   In order to comply with the requirements of division (a)(1) of
this section, the owner of a private property may modify an existing sign by
affixing to the existing sign stickers or an addendum in lieu of replacing the
sign.
      (2)   A towing service ensures that a vehicle towed under this section is
taken to a location from which it may be recovered that complies with all of
the following:
         A.   It is located within twenty-five (25) linear miles of the
location of the private tow-away zone, unless it is not practicable to take the
vehicle to a place of storage within twenty-five (25) linear miles;
         B.   It is well-lighted; and
         C.   It is on or within a reasonable distance of a regularly scheduled
route of one or more modes of public transportation, if any public
transportation is available in the municipal corporation or township in which
the private tow-away zone is located.
   (b)   Removal of Vehicle from Tow-Away Zone.
      (1)   If a vehicle is parked on private property that is established as a
private tow-away zone in accordance with division (a) of this section, without
the consent of the owner of the private property or in violation of any posted
parking condition or regulation, the owner of the private property may cause
the removal of the vehicle by a towing service. The towing service shall remove
the vehicle in accordance with this section. The vehicle owner and the operator
of the vehicle are considered to have consented to the removal and storage of
the vehicle, to the payment of the applicable fees established by the Ohio
Public Utilities Commission in rules adopted under ORC 4921.25, and to the
right of a towing service to obtain title to the vehicle if it remains
unclaimed, as provided in ORC 4505.101. The owner or lienholder of a vehicle
that has been removed under this section, subject to division (c) of this
section, may recover a vehicle in accordance with division (g) of this section.
      (2)   If the City requires tow trucks and tow truck operators to be
licensed, no owner of a private property located within the City shall cause
the removal and storage of any vehicle pursuant to division (b) of this section
by an unlicensed tow truck or unlicensed tow truck operator.
      (3)   No towing service shall remove a vehicle from a private tow-away
zone except pursuant to a written contract for the removal of vehicles entered
into with the owner of the private property on which the private tow-away zone
is located.
   (c)   Reclamation While Vehicle is Being Prepared for Removal. If the owner
or operator of a vehicle that is being removed under authority of division (b)
of this section arrives after the vehicle has been prepared for removal, but
prior to its actual removal from the property, the towing service shall give
the owner or operator oral or written notification at the time of such arrival
that the vehicle owner or operator may pay a fee of not more than one-half (1/
2) of the fee for the removal of the vehicle established by the Ohio Public
Utilities Commission in rules adopted under ORC 4921.25 in order to obtain
release of the vehicle. That fee may be paid by use of a major credit card
unless the towing service uses a mobile credit card processor and mobile
service is not available at the time of the transaction. Upon payment of that
fee, the towing service shall give the vehicle owner or operator a receipt
showing both the full amount normally assessed and the actual amount received
and shall release the vehicle to the owner or operator. Upon its release, the
owner or operator immediately shall move the vehicle so that the vehicle is not
parked on the private property established as a private tow-away zone without
the consent of the owner of the private property or in violation of any posted
parking condition or regulation.
   (d)   Duties of Towing Service.
      (1)   Prior to towing a vehicle under division (b) of this section, a
towing service shall make all reasonable efforts to take as many photographs as
necessary to evidence that the vehicle is clearly parked on private property in
violation of a private tow-away zone established under division (a) of this
section. The towing service shall record the time and date of the photographs
taken under this section. The towing service shall retain the photographs and
the record of the time and date, in electronic or printed form, for at least
thirty (30) days after the date on which the vehicle is recovered by the owner
or lienholder or at least two (2) years after the date on which the vehicle was
towed, whichever is earlier.
      (2)   A towing service shall deliver a vehicle towed under division (b)
of this section to the location from which it may be recovered not more than
two (2) hours after the time it was removed from the private tow-away zone,
unless the towing service is unable to deliver the motor vehicle within two (2)
hours due to an uncontrollable force, natural disaster or other event that is
not within the power of the towing service.
   (e)   Notice to Police Division; Record of Vehicles.
      (1)   If an owner of a private property that is established as a private
tow-away zone in accordance with division (a) of this section causes the
removal of a vehicle from that property by a towing service under division (b)
of this section, the towing service, within two (2) hours of removing the
vehicle, shall provide notice to the City's Police Division, if the private
property is located within the City, concerning all of the following:
         A.   The vehicle's license number, make, model and color;
         B.   The location from which the vehicle was removed;
         C.   The date and time the vehicle was removed;
         D.   The telephone number of the person from whom the vehicle may be
recovered; and
         E.   The address of the place from which the vehicle may be recovered.
      (2)   The Chief of Police shall maintain a record of any vehicle removed
from private property within the City that is established as a private tow-away
zone of which the Chief has received notice under this section. The record
shall include all information submitted by the towing service. The Chief shall
provide any information in the record that pertains to a particular vehicle to
a person who, either in person or pursuant to a telephone call, identifies self
as the owner, operator or lienholder of the vehicle and requests information
pertaining to the vehicle.
   (f)   Notice to Owner and Lienholder by Towing Service or Storage Facility.
      (1)   When a vehicle is removed from private property in accordance with
this section, within three (3) business days of the removal, the towing service
or storage facility from which the vehicle may be recovered shall cause a
search to be made of the records of the Ohio Bureau of Motor Vehicles to
ascertain the identity of the owner and any lienholder of the motor vehicle.
Subject to division (f)(4) of this section, the towing service or storage
facility shall send notice to the vehicle owner and any known lienholders as
follows:
         A.   Within five (5) business days after the Ohio Registrar of Motor
Vehicles provides the identity of the owner and any lienholder of the motor
vehicle, if the vehicle remains unclaimed, to the owner's and lienholder's last
known address by certified or express mail with return receipt requested or by
a commercial carrier service utilizing any form of delivery requiring a return
receipt;
         B.   If the vehicle remains unclaimed thirty (30) days after the first
notice is sent, in the manner required under division (f)(1)A. of this section;
         C.   If the vehicle remains unclaimed forty-five (45) days after the
first notice is sent, in the manner required under division (f)(1)A. of this
section.
      (2)   Sixty (60) days after any notice sent pursuant to division (f)(1)
of this section is received, as evidenced by a receipt signed by any person, or
the towing service or storage facility has been notified that delivery was not
possible, the towing service or storage facility, if authorized under ORC
4505.101(B), may initiate the process for obtaining a certificate of title to
the motor vehicle as provided in ORC 4505.101(B).
      (3)   A towing service or storage facility that does not receive a signed
receipt of notice, or a notification that delivery was not possible, shall not
obtain, and shall not attempt to obtain, a certificate of title to the motor
vehicle under ORC 4505.101(B).
      (4)   With respect to a vehicle concerning which a towing service or a
storage facility is not eligible to obtain title under ORC 4505.101, the towing
service or storage facility need only comply with the initial notice required
under division (f)(1)A. of this section.
   (g)   Reclamation of Vehicle from Storage.
      (1)   The owner or lienholder of a vehicle that is removed under division
(b) of this section may reclaim it upon both of the following:
         A.   Presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by a
certificate of title to the vehicle, a certificate of registration for the
motor vehicle or a lease agreement;
         B.   Payment of the following fees:
            (i)   All applicable fees established by the Ohio Public Utilities
Commission in rules adopted under ORC 4921.25, except that the lienholder of a
vehicle may retrieve the vehicle without paying any storage fee for the period
of time that the vehicle was in the possession of the towing service or storage
facility prior to the date the lienholder received the notice send under
division (f)(1)A. of this section;
            (ii)   If notice has been sent to the owner and lienholder as
described in division (f) of this section, a processing fee of twenty-five
dollars ($25).
      (2)   A towing service or storage facility in possession of a vehicle
that is removed under authority of division (b) of this section shall show the
vehicle owner, operator or lienholder who contest the removal of the vehicle
all photographs taken under division (d) of this section. Upon request, the
towing service or storage facility shall provide a copy of all photographs in
the medium in which the photographs are stored, whether paper, electronic or
otherwise.
      (3)   When the owner of a vehicle towed under this section retrieves the
vehicle, the towing service or storage facility in possession of the vehicle
shall give the owner written notice that if the owner disputes that the motor
vehicle was lawfully towed, the owner may be able to file a civil action under
section
454.04 of this Traffic Code or ORC 4513.611.
      (4)   Upon presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by
a certificate of title to the vehicle, a certificate of registration for the
motor vehicle or a lease agreement, the owner of a vehicle that is removed
under authority of division (b) of this section may retrieve any personal items
from the vehicle without retrieving the vehicle and without paying any fee. The
owner of the vehicle shall not retrieve any personal items from a vehicle if it
would endanger the safety of the owner, unless the owner agrees to sign a
waiver of liability. For the purposes of division (g)(4) of this section,
"personal items" do not include any items that are attached to the vehicle.
   (h)   Prohibitions. No person shall remove, or cause the removal of, any
vehicle from private property that is established as a private tow-away zone
under Section 454.02 of this Traffic Code or store such a vehicle other than in
accordance with this section, or otherwise fail to comply with any applicable
requirement of this section.
   (i)   Limitations. This section does not affect or limit the operation of
Sections
454.01  or
454.03  to
454.08  of this Traffic Code as they relate to property other than private
property that is established as a private tow-away zone under division (a) of
this section.
   (j)   Penalties. Whoever violates division (h)(1) of this section is guilty
of a minor misdemeanor.
   (k)   Definitions. As used in this section, "owner of a private property" or
"owner of the private property" includes, with respect to a private property,
any of the following:
      (1)   Any person who holds title to the property;
      (2)   Any person who is a lessee or sublessee with respect to a lease or
sublease agreement for the property;
      (3)   A person who is authorized to manage the property;
      (4)   A duly authorized agent of any person listed in divisions (k)(1) to
(k)(3) of this section.
(ORC 4513.601)
(EDITOR'S NOTE: See Section
452.15 of this Traffic Code regarding parking on private property violations)
454.03    IMPOUNDING ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE OR VEHICLE THAT HAS COME INTO THE
POSSESSION OF LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
   (a)   Impoundment. The City's Chief of Police, or a state highway patrol
trooper, upon notification to the Chief of such action and of the location of
the place of storage, may order into storage any motor vehicle, including an
abandoned junk motor vehicle as defined in Section
454.08  of this Traffic Code, that:
      (1)   Has come into the possession of the Chief or state highway patrol
trooper as a result of the performance of the Chief's or trooper's duties; or
      (2)   Has been abandoned on a public street or other property open to the
public for purposes of vehicular travel, or upon or within the right-of-way of
any road or highway, for forty-eight (48) hours or longer without notification
to the Chief of Police of the reasons for leaving the motor vehicle in such
place. However, when such a motor vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic
it may be ordered into storage immediately unless either of the following
applies:
         A.   The vehicle was involved in an accident and is subject to ORC
4513.66; or
         B.   The vehicle is a commercial motor vehicle. If the vehicle is a
commercial motor vehicle, the Chief of Police or state highway patrol trooper
shall allow the owner or operator of the vehicle the opportunity to arrange for
the removal of the motor vehicle within a period of time specified by the Chief
of Police or state highway patrol trooper. If the Chief of Police or state
highway patrol trooper determines that the vehicle cannot be removed within the
specified period of time, the Chief of Police or state highway patrol trooper
shall order the removal of the vehicle.
      (3)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to investigate why the
motor vehicle has remained in the same place for seventy-two (72) hours or more
and may determine, in his sole discretion, whether such motor vehicle has been
abandoned.
      (4)   Subject to Section
454.03(c), the Chief shall designate the place of storage of any motor vehicle
so ordered removed.
   (b)   Delivery to Place of Storage. If the Chief of Police or state highway
patrol trooper issues an order under division (a) of this section and arranges
for the removal of a motor vehicle by a towing service, the towing service
shall deliver the motor vehicle to the location designated by the Chief of
Police not more than two (2) hours after the time it is removed.
   (c)   Notice to Vehicle Owner.
      (1)   The Chief of Police shall cause a search to be made of the records
of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles to ascertain the identity of the owner and any
lienholder of a motor vehicle ordered into storage by the Chief or by a state
highway patrol trooper within five (5) business days of the removal of the
vehicle. Upon obtaining such identity, the Chief of Police shall send or cause
to be sent to the owner or lienholder at the owner's or lienholder's last known
address by certified mail with return receipt requested, notice that informs
the owner or lienholder that the motor vehicle will be declared a nuisance and
disposed of if not claimed within ten (10) days of the date of mailing of the
notice.
      (2)   The owner or lienholder of the motor vehicle may reclaim the motor
vehicle upon payment of any expenses or charges incurred in its removal and
storage, and presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by a
certificate of title or memorandum certificate of title to the motor vehicle, a
certificate of registration for the motor vehicle, or a lease agreement. Upon
presentation of proof of ownership evidenced as provided above, the owner of
the motor vehicle also may retrieve any personal items from the vehicle without
retrieving the vehicle and without paying any fee. However, a towing service or
storage facility may charge an after-hours retrieval fee established by the
Ohio Public Utilities Commission in rules adopted under ORC 4921.25 if the
owner retrieves the personal items after hours, unless the towing services or
storage facility fails to provide the notice required under ORC 4513.69(B)(3),
if applicable. However, the owner shall not do either of the following:
         A.   Retrieve any personal item that has been determined by the Chief
of Police to be necessary to a criminal investigation;
         B.   Retrieve any personal item from a vehicle if it would endanger
the safety of the owner, unless the owner agrees to sign a waiver of liability.
         For the purposes of division (c)(2) of this section, "personal items"
do not include any items that are attached to the vehicle.
      (3)   If the owner or lienholder of the motor vehicle reclaims it after a
search of the records of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles has been conducted and
after notice has been sent to the owner or lienholder as described in this
section, and the search was conducted by the place of storage, and the notice
was sent to the motor vehicle owner by the owner of the place of storage or the
owner's employee, the owner or lienholder shall pay to the place of storage a
processing fee of twenty-five dollars ($25), in addition to any expenses or
charges incurred in the removal and storage of the vehicle.
   (d)   Disposal of Vehicle When Unclaimed. If the owner or lienholder makes
no claim to the motor vehicle within ten (10) days of the date of mailing of
the notice, and if the vehicle is to be disposed of at public auction, as
provided in Section 454.05 of this Traffic Code, the Chief of Police shall
proceed in accordance with ORC 4513.61(D).
   (e)   Duties of Towing Service or Storage Facility. No towing service or
storage facility shall fail to comply with this section.
(ORC 4513.61)
454.04    CIVIL ACTION AGAINST TOWING SERVICE OR STORAGE FACILITY.
   (a)   Civil Action.
      (1)   A vehicle owner may bring a civil action in a court of competent
jurisdiction against a towing service or storage facility that commits a major
or minor violation.
      (2)   If a court determines that the towing service or storage facility
committed a minor violation, the Court shall award the vehicle owner the
following:
         A.   If the towing service or storage facility has not committed a
prior minor violation within one (1) year of the minor violation for which the
Court has determined the towing service or storage facility is liable, one
hundred fifty dollars ($150).
         B.   If the towing service or storage facility has committed one (1)
prior minor violation within one (1) year of the minor violation for which the
Court has determined the towing service or storage facility is liable, three
hundred fifty dollars ($350).
         C.   If the towing service or storage facility has committed two (2)
prior minor violations within one (1) year of the minor violation for which the
Court has determined the towing service or storage facility is liable, the
violation constitutes a major violation and division (a)(3) of this section
applies.
         D.   If the towing service or storage facility has committed three (3)
prior minor violations within one (1) year of the minor violation for which the
Court has determined the towing service or storage facility is liable, one
thousand five hundred dollars ($1.500).
         E.   If the towing service or storage facility has committed four (4)
prior minor violations within one (1) year of the minor violation for which the
Court has determined the towing service or storage facility is liable, two
thousand dollars ($2,000).
         F.   If the towing service or storage facility has committed five (5)
prior minor violations within one (1) year of the minor violation for which the
Court has determined the towing service or storage facility is liable, the
violation constitutes a major violation and division (a)(3) of this section
applies.
         G.   If the towing service or storage facility has committed six (6)
or seven (7) prior minor violations within one (1) year of the minor violation
for which the Court has determined the towing service or storage facility is
liable, two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500).
         H.   If the towing service or storage facility has committed eight (8)
prior minor violations within one (1) year of the minor violation for which the
Court has determined the towing service or storage facility is liable, the
violation constitutes a major violation and division (a)(3) of this section
applies.
      (3)   If a court determines that the towing service or storage facility
committed a major violation, the Court shall award the vehicle owner the
following:
         A.   If the towing service or storage facility has not committed any
prior major violations within one (1) year of the major violation for which the
Court has determined the towing service or storage facility is liable, one
thousand dollars ($1,000).
         B.   If the towing or storage facility has committed one (1) prior
major violation within one (1) year of the major violation for which the Court
has determined the towing service or storage facility is liable, two thousand
five hundred dollars ($2,500).
         C.   If the towing service or storage facility has committed two (2)
prior major violations within one (1) year of the major violation for which the
Court has determined the towing service or storage facility is liable, three
thousand five hundred dollars ($3,500). In addition, the Court shall order the
Ohio Public Utilities Commission to revoke the towing service's or storage
facility's certificate of public convenience and necessity for six (6) months.
The Commission shall comply with the order.
      (4)   If a vehicle owner brings a civil action against a towing service
or storage facility that alleges multiple minor or major violations, the court
shall award, with regard to each violation for which the towing service or
storage facility is determined to be liable, a civil penalty as required under
division (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section. The court shall consider each
violation as a separate violation for purposes of determining how many
violations the towing service or storage facility has committed within one (1)
year.
      (5)   In determining if a towing service or storage facility has
committed prior minor or major violations within the applicable one -year
period, a court shall consider only violations that have been determined by a
court of competent jurisdiction to have been committed by the towing service or
storage facility.
   (b)   Revocations. Upon expiration of the six-month revocation under
division (a)(3)C. of this section, a court shall not consider any violation
committed by the towing service or storage facility prior to the revocation for
purposes of a civil action initiated after the expiration of the six-month
revocation.
   (c)   Damages. In addition to an award made under division (a) of this
section, if a court determines that a towing service or a storage facility
committed a violation that caused actual damages, the court shall award the
vehicle owner three times (3x) the actual damages and reasonable attorney fees.
   (d)   Notification to Public Utilities Commission. A court that issues a
judgment under this section against a towing service or storage facility shall
send a copy of that judgment to the Ohio Public Utilities Commission. The
Commission shall provide a copy of the judgment upon request.
   (e)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "Minor violation" means any of the following:
         A.   Failure to deliver a vehicle to the designated location within
two (2) hours after removal, unless the towing service was unable to deliver
the motor vehicle within two (2) hours due to an uncontrollable force, natural
disaster or other event that was not within the power of the towing service, as
required under Section
454.01(a)(2) or Section
454.02(d)(2) of this Traffic Code;
         B.   Failure to provide a receipt as required under Section
454.01(b) or Section
454.02(c) of this Traffic Code;
         C.   Failure to take a towed vehicle to a location that meets the
requirements of Section
454.02(a)(2) of this Traffic Code as required under that division;
         D.   Failure to comply with any photograph-related requirement
established under Section
454.02(d)(1) or (g)(2) of this Traffic Code. If a court determines that a
towing service or storage facility committed more than one (1) violation of
Section
454.02(d)(1) or (g)(2) of this Traffic Code with regard to the same
transaction, the court shall find the towing service or storage facility liable
for only one (1) minor violation under this section;
         E.   Failure to send notice to the owner and any lienholder as
required under Section
454.03(f)(1)A. of this Traffic Code;
         F.   Failure to provide an estimate as required under ORC 4513.68,
containing the information required under that section;
         G.   Charging a fee that does not comply with ORC 4513.68(C) if the
towing service fee is required to be reduced under that division;
         H.   Failure to post a notice pertaining to fee limitations as
required under ORC 4513.68(D).
      (2)   "Major Violation" means any of the following:
         A.   Failure to give the owner of a vehicle, who arrives after the
owner's vehicle has been prepared for removal but prior to its actual removal,
notification that the owner may pay a fee of not more than one-half ( ) of the
fee for the removal of the vehicle for the immediate release of the vehicle, as
required under Section
454.01(b) or
454.02(c) of this Traffic Code;
         B.   Failure to release a vehicle upon payment of not more than one-
half ( ) of the fee for the removal of the vehicle as permitted under Section
454.01(b) or Section 454.02(c) of this Traffic Code;
         C.   Refusal to allow a vehicle owner to reclaim the owner's vehicle
upon payment of the applicable fees established by the Ohio Public Utilities
Commission and presentation of proof of ownership as permitted under Section
454.01(d)(2) or Section
454.02(g)(1) of this Traffic Code;
         D.   Refusal to allow a vehicle owner to retrieve personal items from
the owner's vehicle under circumstances in which the owner is permitted to
retrieve personal items under Section
454.01(d)(2) or Section
454.02(g)(4) of this Traffic Code;
         E.   Failure to provide notice to the appropriate law enforcement
agency within two (2) hours of removing a vehicle as required under Section
454.02(e)(1) of this Traffic Code;
         F.   Failure to send notice that a vehicle has been towed to the
vehicle owner and any known lienholder within thirty (30) days of removal of
the vehicle from a private tow-away zone under Section
454.02 of this Traffic Code. If a court determines that a towing service or
storage facility committed a violation specified in division (d)(2)F. of this
section and a violation of division (d)(1)E. of this section with regard to the
same transaction, the Court shall find the towing service or storage facility
liable for only the major violation;
         G.   Failure to visibly display the certificate of public convenience
and necessity number a required under ORC 4513.67(B)(1).
(ORC 4513.611)
454.05    DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED MOTOR VEHICLES IN STORAGE.
   Unclaimed motor vehicles ordered into storage pursuant to Sections
454.01 or
454.03 of this Traffic Code shall be disposed of at the order of the City's
Chief of Police to a motor vehicle salvage dealer or scrap metal processing
facility, as defined in ORC 4737.05, or to any other facility owned by or under
contract with the City for the disposal of such motor vehicles, or shall be
sold by the Chief or licensed auctioneer at public auction after giving notice
thereof by advertisement, published once a week for two (2) successive weeks,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county or as provided in ORC 7.16.
Any moneys accruing from the disposition of an unclaimed motor vehicle that are
in excess of the expenses resulting from the removal and storage of the vehicle
shall be credited to the City's General Fund.
(ORC 4513.62)
454.06    JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE; ORDER TO COVER OR REMOVE.
   (a)   Junk Motor Vehicle Defined. For purposes of this section, "junk motor
vehicle" means any motor vehicle meeting the requirements of divisions (a)(2),
(a)(3), (a)(4), and (a)(5) of Section 454.08 of this Traffic Code that is left
uncovered in the open on private property for more than seventy-two (72) hours
with the permission of the person having the right to the possession of the
property, except if the person is operating a junk yard or scrap metal
processing facility licensed under authority of ORC 4737.05 to 4737.12 or
regulated under authority of the City; or if the property on which the motor
vehicle is left is not subject to licensure or regulation by any governmental
authority, unless the person having the right to the possession of the property
can establish that the motor vehicle is part of a bona fide commercial
operation; or if the motor vehicle is a collector's vehicle.
   (b)   Unlicensed Collector's Vehicles. The City shall not prevent a person
from storing or keeping, or restrict a person in the method of storing or
keeping, any collector's vehicle on private property with the permission of the
person having the right to the possession of the property; except that the City
may require a person having such permission to conceal, by means of buildings,
fences, vegetation, terrain, or other suitable obstruction, any unlicensed
collector's vehicle stored in the open.
   (c)   Order to Conceal or Remove. The City's Chief of Police, the City
Council, or the City's Planning and Zoning Department may send notice, by
certified mail with return receipt requested, to the person having the right to
the possession of the property on which a junk motor vehicle is left, that
within ten (10) days of receipt of the notice, the junk motor vehicle either
shall be covered by being housed in a garage or other suitable structure, or
shall be removed from the property.
   (d)   Prohibitions. No person shall willfully leave a junk motor vehicle
uncovered in the open for more than ten (10) days after receipt of a notice as
provided in this section. The fact that a junk motor vehicle is so left is
prima-facie evidence of willful failure to comply with the notice, and each day
that a junk motor vehicle continues to be so left constitutes a separate
offense.
(ORC 4513.65)
   (e)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (d) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on the first offense, and the Court shall impose a mandatory fine
of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00).
      (2)   If, within two (2) years of the offense, the offender has
previously been convicted of or pled guilty to a violation of this section, the
offender shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on the first
offense and the Court shall impose a mandatory fine of not less than one
hundred twenty-five dollars ($125.00), in addition to any other penalties
provided by law.
      (3)   If, within two (2) years of the offense, the offender has
previously been convicted of or pled guilty to two (2) violations of this
section, the offender shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and
the Court shall impose a mandatory fine of not less than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00), in addition to any other penalties provided by law.
      (4)   If, within two (2) years of the offense, the offender has
previously been convicted of or pled guilty to three (3) violations of this
section, the offender shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree and
the Court shall impose a mandatory fine of not less than three hundred seventy-
five dollars ($375), in addition to any other penalties provided by law.
      (5)   If, within two (2) years of the offense, the offender has
previously been convicted or pled guilty to four (4) or more violations of this
section, the offender shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and
the Court shall impose a mandatory fine of not less than five hundred dollars
($500), in addition to any other penalties provided by law.
      (6)   In addition, the offender may be assessed any costs incurred by the
City in removing and/or in disposing of the abandoned junk motor vehicle that
is the basis of the violation, less any money accruing to the City from the
disposal of the vehicle.
(Ord. 2018-31. Passed 10/25/18)
454.07    PROHIBITION AGAINST ABANDONMENT OF JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (a)   Prohibition against Abandonment of Junk Motor Vehicle.
      (1)   No person shall willfully leave an abandoned junk motor vehicle, as
defined in Section
454.08 of this Traffic Code, on private property within this City for more than
forty-eight (48) hours without the permission of the person having the right to
the possession of the property;
      (2)   No person shall willfully leave an abandoned junk motor vehicle, as
defined in Section
454.08 of this Traffic Code, on a public street or other property open to the
public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking within this City, or upon or
within the right-of-way of any road or highway, forty-eight (48) hours or
longer without notification to the City's Chief of Police of the reasons for
leaving the motor vehicle in such place.
      (3)   For purposes of this section, the fact that a motor vehicle has
been so left without permission or notification is prima-facie evidence of
abandonment.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor, and shall also be assessed any costs incurred by City in disposing
of the abandoned junk motor vehicle that is the basis of the violation, less
any money accruing to the City from the disposal of the vehicle.
(ORC 4513.64)
454.08    DISPOSITION OF ABANDONED JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (a)   Definition. "Abandoned Junk Motor Vehicle" means any motor vehicle
meeting all of the following requirements:
      (1)   Left on private property for forty-eight (48) hours or longer
without the permission of the person having the right to the possession of the
property, on a public street or other property open to the public for purposes
of vehicular travel or parking, or upon or within the right-of-way of any road
or highway, for forty-eight (48) hours or longer;
      (2)   Three (3) years old, or older;
      (3)   Extensively damaged, such damage including, but not limited to,
missing wheels, tires, motor, or transmission;
      (4)   Apparently inoperable; and
      (5)   Having a fair market value of one thousand five hundred dollars
($1,500) or less.
   (b)   Disposal.
      (1)   The City's Chief of Police, or state highway patrol trooper upon
notification to the Chief of such action, shall order any abandoned junk motor
vehicle to be photographed by a law enforcement officer. The officer shall
record the make of motor vehicle, the serial number when available, and shall
also detail the damage or missing equipment to substantiate the value of one
thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500) or less.
      (2)   The Chief of Police shall thereupon immediately dispose of the
abandoned junk motor vehicle to a motor vehicle salvage dealer, as defined in
ORC 4738.01, or a scrap metal processing facility, as defined in ORC 4737.05,
which is under contract to the City or to any other facility owned by or under
contract with the City for the destruction of such motor vehicles. The records
and photographs relating to the abandoned junk motor vehicle shall be retained
by the Division of Police for a period of at least two (2) years.
      (3)   The Division of Police shall execute in quadruplicate an affidavit,
as prescribed by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, describing the motor vehicle
and the manner in which it was disposed of and that all requirements of this
section have been complied with and, within thirty (30) days of disposing of
the vehicle, shall sign and file the affidavit with the clerk of courts of the
county in which the motor vehicle was abandoned.
      (4)   The clerk of courts shall retain the original of the affidavit for
the Clerk's files and shall furnish one (1) copy thereof to the Registrar, one
(1) copy to the motor vehicle salvage dealer or other facility handling the
disposal of the vehicle, and one (1) copy to the Division of Police, who shall
file such copy with the records and photographs relating to the disposal.
      (5)   Any moneys arising from the disposal of an abandoned junk motor
vehicle shall be deposited in the City's General Fund.
   (c)   Abandoned Junk Vehicle on Public Property. Notwithstanding Section
454.03  of this Traffic Code, any motor vehicle meeting the requirements of
divisions (a)(3), (a)(4) and (a)(5) of this section which has remained
unclaimed by the owner or lienholder for a period of ten (10) days or longer
following notification as provided in Section
454.03  of this Traffic Code may be disposed of as provided in this section.
(ORC 4513.63)
454.09    PROHIBITIONS RELATED TO MOTOR VEHICLE TOWING.
   (a)   Prohibition Against Monetary Compensation in Exchange for
Authorization to Tow. No towing service shall knowingly offer or provide
monetary compensation in exchange for the authorization to tow a motor vehicle
from a specified location or on behalf of the person to whom the towing service
offered or provided the compensation. This section does not prohibit a towing
service from negotiating or reducing towing and storage fees.
(ORC 4513.612)
   (b)   Prohibitions Related to Motor Vehicle Towing.
      (1)   No towing service shall permit the operation of a towing vehicle on
behalf of the towing service, unless both of the following apply:
         A.   The towing service holds a valid certificate of public
convenience and necessity as required by ORC Chapter 4921.; and
         B.   The certificate number and business telephone number is visibly
displayed on both the left and right sides of the towing vehicle.
      (2)   No towing service shall do either of the following:
         A.   Fail to make its current certificate of public convenience and
necessity available for public inspection during normal business hours;
         B.   Fail to include its certificate number on all written estimates,
contracts, invoices and advertising, except that the Ohio Public Utilities
Commission, by rule, may exempt from the requirements of division (b)(2)B. of
this section any type of advertising where the size or nature of the
advertisement makes it unreasonable to add a certificate number.
(ORC 4513.67)
   (c)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (a) this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.612)
      (2)   Except as provided in division (c)(3) of this section, whoever
violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. A
towing service that is issued a citation for a violation of division (b) of
this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty and waive the
right to contest the citation in a trial but instead must designate an agent to
appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge. If the towing
service is convicted of or pleads guilty to the offense, the court shall notify
the towing service that a subsequent offense will result in the seizure and
impoundment of any tow truck that is used to tow vehicles on behalf of the
towing service until the towing service obtains a certificate of public
convenience and necessity.
      (3)   If a towing service previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (b) of this section, a violation of division
(b) of this section is a misdemeanor and, notwithstanding ORC 2929.24 to
2929.28, the court shall impose upon the towing service a fine of five hundred
dollars ($500). The court shall require the towing service to disclose the
license plate number of every vehicle used to tow vehicles on behalf of the
towing service and the court shall order an appropriate law enforcement agency
to seize and impound all such vehicles. Upon presentation of a certificate of
public convenience and necessity for the towing service, the court shall
terminate the order and the law enforcement agency in possession of the
vehicles shall release the vehicles.
      (4)   The offenses established under division (b) of this section are
strict liability offenses and strict liability is a culpable mental state for
purposes of ORC 2901.20. The designation of these offenses as strict liability
offenses shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for which
there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(ORC 4513.67)
   (d)   Definitions. As used in division (b) of this section, "towing service"
means any for-hire motor carrier that is engaged on an intrastate basis
anywhere in this State in the business of towing a motor vehicle over any
public highway in this State.
(ORC 4513.67)
454.10    APPLICABILITY.
   Nothing in this Chapter shall be deemed to apply to stolen vehicles, which
shall be disposed of in accordance with ORC 2981.11 to 2981.13.
(Ord. 2018-31. Passed 10/25/18)
454.99    PENALTIES.
   See
Chapter 408. of this Traffic Code for penalties for provisions of this Chapter
for which no penalty is otherwise provided in the section violated.
(Ord. 2018-31. Passed 10/25/18)
PART SIX - GENERAL OFFENSES
            
Chap. 600. General Provisions.
            
Chap. 608. Administration, Enforcement and Public Service.
            
Chap. 612. Alcoholic Beverages.
            
Chap. 618. Animals.
            
Chap. 620. Civil Rights.
            
Chap. 622. Clean Indoor Air.
            
Chap. 624. Drugs.
            
Chap. 630. Gambling.
            
Chap. 636. Offenses Relating to Persons.
            
Chap. 642. Property Offenses.
            
Chap. 648. Peace Disturbances.
            
Chap. 660. Safety, Sanitation and Health.
            
Chap. 666. Sex Related Offenses.
            
Chap. 672. Theft and Fraud.
            
Chap. 676. Vegetation. (Repealed)
            
Chap. 678. Weapons and Explosives.
            
Chap. 698. Penalties and Sentencing.
CHAPTER 600: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
600.01   Definitions
600.02   Classification of Offenses
600.03   Offenses Defined
600.04   Rules of Construction; Prior Convictions
600.05   Burden of Proof; Affirmative Defenses; Reasonable Doubt; Battered
Woman Syndrome
600.06   Criminal Law Jurisdiction
600.07   Limitations on Criminal Prosecution
600.08   Requirements for Criminal Liability; Voluntary Intoxication
600.09   Culpable Mental States
600.10   Organizational Criminal Liability
600.11   Personal Accountability for Organizational Conduct
600.12   Misdemeanor Investigation; Examination of Witnesses and Evidence
600.13   Conspiracy
600.14   Attempt
600.15   Complicity
600.16   Self-Defense; Limitations on Duty to Retreat Prior to Using Force
   CROSS REFERENCES
      See Section Histories for Similar State Law
      Penalties and Sentencing - GEN. OFF.
Ch. 698
      Venue - ORC 2901.12
600.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this General Offenses Code, the definitions
set forth in ORC 2901.01, 2907.01, 2909.01, 2913.01, 2915.01, 2921.01, 2925.01,
and 2929.01, as applicable, shall apply to this General Offenses Code.
(Ord. 2024-42. Adopted 12/23/24)
600.02 CLASSIFICATION OF OFFENSES.
As used in this General Offenses Code:
   (a)   Included Offenses. Offenses include misdemeanors of the first, second,
third and fourth degree, minor misdemeanors, and offenses not specifically
classified.
   (b)   Offenses Classified as Misdemeanors. Regardless of the penalty that
may be imposed, any offense specifically classified as a misdemeanor is a
misdemeanor.
   (c)   Unclassified Misdemeanors. Any offense not specifically classified is
a misdemeanor if imprisonment for not more than one (1) year may be imposed as
a penalty.
   (d)   Minor Misdemeanors. Any offense not specifically classified is a minor
misdemeanor if the only penalty that may be imposed is one of the following:
      (1)   For an offense committed prior to January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding one hundred dollars ($100); or
      (2)   For an offense committed on or after January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding one hundred fifty dollars ($150), community service under ORC 2929.27
(D) or a financial sanction other than a fine under ORC 2929.28.
(ORC 2901.02)
600.03 OFFENSES DEFINED.
   (a)   When an Offense Exists. No conduct constitutes a criminal offense
against the City unless it is defined as an offense in either this General
Offenses Code or other section of the Xenia City Code.
   (b)   When an Offense is Defined. An offense is defined when one or more
sections of this General Offenses Code or other section of the Xenia City Code
states a positive prohibition or enjoins a specific duty and provides a penalty
for violation of such prohibition or failure to meet such duty.
   (c)   Contempt; Sanctions. This section does not affect the power of a court
to punish for contempt or to employ any sanction authorized by law to enforce
an order, civil judgment or decree.
(ORC 2901.03)
600.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; PRIOR CONVICTIONS.
   (a)   Liberally Construed in Favor of the Accused. Except as otherwise
provided in divisions (c) or (d) of this section, sections of this General
Offenses Code or sections of the Xenia City Code that define offenses or
penalties shall be strictly construed against the City and liberally construed
in favor of the accused.
   (b)   Criminal Procedure. Rules of criminal procedure and sections of this
General Offenses Code, other sections of the Xenia City Code, or applicable
sections of the Ohio Revised Code providing for criminal procedure shall be
construed so as to affect the fair, impartial, speedy and sure administration
of justice.
   (c)   Previous Convictions. Any provision of a section of this General
Offenses Code that refers to a previous conviction of or plea of guilty to a
violation of a section of this General Offenses Code, the Ohio Revised Code or
a division of a section of this General Offenses Code or the Ohio Revised Code
shall be construed to also refer to a previous conviction of or plea of guilty
to a substantially equivalent offense under an existing or former law of this
City, State, another state, or the United States or under an existing or former
municipal ordinance.
   (d)   Former Laws. Any provision of this General Offenses Code that refers
to a section, or to a division or subsection of a section, of this Code that
defines or specifies a criminal offense shall be construed to also refer to an
existing or former law of this State, another state, or the United States, to
an existing or former municipal ordinance, or to an existing or former division
or subsection of any such existing or former law or ordinance that defines or
specifies, or that defined or specified, a substantially equivalent offense.
(ORC 2901.04)
   (e)   Delinquency Adjudications Deemed Convictions. If a person is alleged
to have committed an offense and if the person previously has been adjudicated
a delinquent child or juvenile traffic offender for a violation of a law or
ordinance, except as provided in ORC 2901.08(B), the adjudication as a
delinquent child or as a juvenile traffic offender is a conviction for a
violation of the law or ordinance for purposes of determining the offense with
which the person should be charged and, if the person is convicted of or pleads
guilty to an offense, the sentence to be imposed upon the person relative to
the conviction or guilty plea.
(ORC 2901.08)
600.05 BURDEN OF PROOF; AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES; REASONABLE DOUBT; BATTERED WOMAN
SYNDROME.
   (a)   Burden of Proof. Every person accused of an offense is presumed
innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, and the burden of proof
for all elements of the offense is upon the prosecution. The burden of going
forward with the evidence of an affirmative defense, and the burden of proof,
by a preponderance of the evidence, for an affirmative defense other than self-
defense, defense of another, or defense of the accused's residence presented as
described in division (b)(1) of this section, is upon the accused.
   (b)   Defense of Self, Another, or Residence.
      (1)   A person is allowed to act in self-defense, defense of another, or
defense of that person's residence. If, at the trial of a person who is accused
of an offense that involved the person's use of force against another, there is
evidence presented that tends to support that the accused person used the force
in self-defense, defense of another, or defense of that person's residence, the
prosecution must prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the accused person did
not use the force in self-defense, defense of another, or defense of that
person's residence, as the case may be.
      (2)   Subject to division (b)(3) of this section, a person is presumed to
have acted in self-defense or defense of another when using defensive force
that is intended or likely to cause death or great bodily harm to another if
the person against whom the defensive force is used is in the process of
unlawfully and without privilege to do so entering, or has unlawfully and
without privilege to do so entered, the residence or vehicle occupied by the
person using the defensive force.
      (3)   The presumption set forth in division (b)(2) of this section does
not apply if either of the following is true:
         A.   The person against whom the defensive force is used has a right
to be in, or is a lawful resident of, the residence or vehicle.
         B.   The person who uses the defensive force uses it while in a
residence or vehicle and the person is unlawfully, and without privilege to be,
in that residence or vehicle.
      (4)   The presumption set forth in division (b)(2) of this section is a
rebuttable presumption and may be rebutted by a preponderance of the evidence,
provided that the prosecution's burden of proof remains proof beyond a
reasonable doubt as described in divisions (a) and (b)(1) of this section.
   (c)   Jury Instructions. As part of its charge to the jury in a criminal
case, the court shall read the definitions of "reasonable doubt" and "proof
beyond a reasonable doubt," contained in division (e) of this section.
   (d)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   An "affirmative defense" is either of the following:
         A.   A defense expressly designated as affirmative;
         B.   A defense involving an excuse or justification peculiarly within
the knowledge of the accused, on which the accused can fairly be required to
adduce supporting evidence.
      (2)   "Dwelling" means a building or conveyance of any kind that has a
roof over it and that is designed to be occupied by people lodging in the
building or conveyance at night, regardless of whether the building or
conveyance is temporary or permanent or is mobile or immobile. As used in this
division, a building or conveyance includes, but is not limited to, an attached
porch, and a building or conveyance with a roof over it includes, but is not
limited to, a tent.
      (3)   "Residence" means a dwelling in which a person resides either
temporarily or permanently or is visiting as a guest.
      (4)   "Vehicle" means a conveyance of any kind, whether or not motorized,
that is designed to transport people or property.
   (e)   Reasonable Doubt. "Reasonable doubt" is present when the jurors, after
they have carefully considered and compared all the evidence, cannot say they
are firmly convinced of the truth of the charge. It is a doubt based on reason
and common sense. Reasonable doubt is not mere possible doubt, because
everything relating to human affairs or depending on moral evidence is open to
some possible or imaginary doubt. "Proof beyond a reasonable doubt" is proof of
such character that an ordinary person would be willing to rely and act upon it
in the most important of the person's own affairs.
(ORC 2901.05)
   (f)   Battered Woman Syndrome. If a person is charged with an offense
involving the use of force against another and the person, as a defense to the
offense charged, raises the affirmative defense of self-defense, the person may
introduce expert testimony of the "battered woman syndrome" and expert
testimony that the person suffered from that syndrome as evidence to establish
the requisite belief of an imminent danger of death or great bodily harm that
is necessary, as an element of the affirmative defense, to justify the person's
use of the force in question. The introduction of any expert testimony under
this division shall be in accordance with the Ohio Rules of Evidence.
(ORC 2901.06(B))
600.06 CRIMINAL LAW JURISDICTION.
   (a)   Actions Giving Rise to Prosecution. A person is subject to criminal
prosecution and punishment in this City if any of the following occur:
      (1)   The person commits an offense under the laws of this City, any
element of which takes place in this City.
      (2)   While in this City, the person attempts to commit, or is guilty of
complicity in the commission of, an offense in another jurisdiction, which
offense is an offense under both the laws of this City and the other
jurisdiction or, while in this City, the person conspires to commit an offense
in another jurisdiction, which offense is an offense under both the laws of
this City and the other jurisdiction, and a substantial overt act in
furtherance of the conspiracy is undertaken in this City by the person or
another person involved in the conspiracy, subsequent to the person's entrance
into the conspiracy. In any case in which a person attempts to commit, is
guilty of complicity in the commission of, or conspires to commit an offense in
another jurisdiction as described in this division, the person is subject to
criminal prosecution and punishment in this City for the attempt, complicity,
or conspiracy, and for any resulting offense that is committed or completed in
the other jurisdiction.
      (3)   While out of this City, the person conspires or attempts to commit,
or is guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in this City.
      (4)   While out of this City, the person omits to perform a legal duty
imposed by the laws of this City, which omission affects a legitimate interest
of the City in protecting, governing or regulating any person, property, thing,
transaction or activity in this City.
      (5)   While out of this City, the person unlawfully takes or retains
property and subsequently brings any of the unlawfully taken or retained
property into this City.
      (6)   While out of this City, the person unlawfully takes or entices
another person and subsequently brings the other person into this City.
      (7)   The person, by means of a computer, computer system, computer
network, telecommunication, telecommunications device, telecommunications
service or information service, causes or knowingly permits any writing, data,
image or other telecommunication to be disseminated or transmitted into this
City in violation of the law of this State or City.
   (b)   Territorial Limits. This City includes the land and water within its
boundaries and the air space above that land and water, with respect to which
this City has either exclusive or concurrent legislative jurisdiction. Where
the boundary between this City and another jurisdiction is disputed, the
disputed territory is conclusively presumed to be within this City for purposes
of this section.
   (c)   Presumption of Location. When an offense is committed under the laws
of this City, and it appears beyond a reasonable doubt that the offense or any
element of the offense took place either in this City or in another
jurisdiction or jurisdictions, but it cannot reasonably be determined in which
it took place, the offense or element is conclusively presumed to have taken
place in this City for purposes of this section.
   (d)   Offense Committed Outside of City. When a person is subject to
criminal prosecution and punishment in this City for an offense committed or
completed outside this City, the person is subject to all specifications for
that offense that would be applicable if the offense had been committed within
this City.
   (e)   Complicity. Any act, conduct or element that is a basis of a person
being subject under this section to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
City need not be committed personally by the person as long as it is committed
by another person who is in complicity or conspiracy with the person.
   (f)   Application. This section shall be liberally construed, consistent
with constitutional limitations, to allow this City the broadest possible
jurisdiction over offenses and persons committing offenses in, or affecting,
this City.
   (g)   Definitions.
      (1)   For the purposes of division (a)(2) of this section, an overt act
is substantial when it is of a character that manifests a purpose on the part
of the actor that the object of the conspiracy should be completed.
      (2)   As used in this section, "computer," "computer system," "computer
network," "information service," "telecommunication," "telecommunications
device," "telecommunications service," "data," and "writing" have the same
meanings as in ORC 2913.01.
(ORC 2901.11)
600.07 LIMITATIONS ON CRIMINAL PROSECUTION.
   (a)   Time Limitations.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (a)(2) of this section or as
otherwise provided in this section, a prosecution under this General Offenses
Code shall be barred unless it is commenced within the following periods after
an offense is committed:
         A.   For a felony, six (6) years;
         B.   For a misdemeanor other than a minor misdemeanor, two (2) years;
and
         C.   For a minor misdemeanor, six (6) months.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (b) to (f) of this
section, a prosecution of any of the following offenses shall be barred unless
it is commenced within twenty (20) years after the offense is committed:
         A.   A violation of ORC 2907.04 or 2909.24 or substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
         B.   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing a violation of ORC 2907.04 or 2909.24 or substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or ORC 2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2905.01,
2905.32, 2907.05, 2907.21, 2909.02, 2909.22, 2909.23, 2909.26, 2909.27,
2909.28, 2909.29, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, or 2917.02 when such
conspiracy, attempt, or complicity is to be charged as a misdemeanor.
   (b)   Offenses Involving Fraud or Breach of Fiduciary Duty. Except as
otherwise provided in division (b)(2) of this section, if the period of
limitation provided in division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section has expired,
prosecution shall be commenced for an offense of which an element is fraud or
breach of fiduciary duty within one (1) year after discovery of the offense
either by an aggrieved person or by the aggrieved person's legal representative
who is not a party to the offense.
   (c)   Offenses Involving Public Servants.
      (1)   If the period of limitation provided in division (a)(1) or (a)(2)
of this section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for the following
misdemeanor offenses during the following specified periods of time:
         A.   For an offense involving misconduct in office by a public servant
at any time while the accused remains a public servant, or within two (2) years
thereafter;
         B.   For an offense by a person who is not a public servant but whose
offense is directly related to the misconduct in office of a public servant, at
any time while that public servant remains a public servant, or within two (2)
years thereafter.
      (2)   As used in this division:
         A.   The phrase "offense is directly related to the misconduct in
office of a public servant" includes, but is not limited to, a violation of ORC
Sections 101.71, 101.91, 121.61 or 2921.13, 102.03(F) or (H), 2921.02(A),
2921.43(A) or (B), or 3517.13(F) or (G), that is directly related to an offense
involving misconduct in office of a public servant, or a violation of any
municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to those ORC sections listed in
this division (c)(2)A.
         B.   "Public servant" has the same meaning as in ORC 2921.01.
   (d)   When an Offense is Committed. An offense is committed when every
element of the offense occurs. In the case of offense of which an element is a
continuing course of conduct, the period of limitation does not begin to run
until such course of conduct or the accused's accountability for it terminates,
whichever occurs first.
   (e)   When a Prosecution is Commenced. A prosecution is commenced on the
date an indictment is returned or an information is filed, or on the date a
lawful arrest without a warrant is made, or on the date a warrant, summons,
citation, or other process is issued, whichever occurs first. A prosecution is
not commenced by the return of an indictment or the filing of an information
unless reasonable diligence is exercised to issue and execute process on the
same. A prosecution is not commenced upon issuance of a warrant, summons,
citation, or other process unless reasonable diligence is exercised to execute
the same.
   (f)   When Limitations Periods Begin to Run.
      (1)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the
corpus delicti remains undiscovered.
      (2)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the
accused purposely avoids prosecution. Proof that the accused departed this City
or conceals the accused's identity or whereabouts is prima facie evidence of
the accused's purpose to avoid prosecution.
      (3)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time a
prosecution against the accused based on the same conduct is pending in this
City, even though the information or process that commenced the prosecution is
quashed or the proceedings on the information or process are set aside or
reversed on appeal.
      (4)   The period of limitation for a violation of this General Offenses
Code that involves a physical or mental wound, injury, disability, or condition
of a nature that reasonably indicates abuse or neglect of a child under
eighteen (18) years of age or of a child with a developmental disability or
physical impairment under twenty-one (21) years of age shall not begin to run
until either of the following occurs:
         A.   The victim of the offense reaches the age of majority.
         B.   A public children services agency, or a municipal or county peace
officer that is not the parent or guardian of the child, in the county in which
the child resides or in which the abuse or neglect is occurring or has occurred
has been notified that abuse or neglect is known, suspected, or believed to
have occurred.
      (5)   As used in this section, "peace officer" has the same meaning as in
ORC 2935.01.
(ORC 2901.13)
600.08 REQUIREMENTS FOR CRIMINAL LIABILITY; VOLUNTARY INTOXICATION.
   (a)   Requirements. Except as provided in division (b) of this section, a
person is not guilty of an offense unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person's liability is based on conduct that includes either a
voluntary act, or an omission to perform an act or duty that the person is
capable of performing; and
      (2)   The person has the requisite degree of culpability for each element
as to which a culpable mental state is specified by the language defining the
offense.
   (b)   Strict Liability. When the language defining an offense does not
specify any degree of culpability, and plainly indicates a purpose to impose
strict criminal liability for the conduct described in the section, then
culpability is not required for a person to be guilty of the offense. The fact
that one division of a section plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict
liability for an offense defined in that division does not by itself plainly
indicate a purpose to impose strict criminal liability for an offense defined
in other division of the section that do not specify a degree of culpability.
   (c)   Unspecified Culpability; Recklessly.
      (1)   When language defining an element of an offense that is related to
knowledge or intent or to which mens rea could fairly be applied neither
specifies culpability nor plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict
liability, the element of the offense is established only if a person acts
recklessly.
      (2)   Division (c)(1) of this section does not apply to offenses defined
in ORC Title XLV or the City's Traffic Code.
      (3)   Division (c)(1) of this section does not relieve the prosecution of
the burden of proving the culpable mental state required by any definition
incorporated into the offense.
   (d)   Voluntary Intoxication. Voluntary intoxication may not be taken into
consideration in determining the existence of a mental state that is an element
of a criminal offense. Voluntary intoxication does not relieve a person of a
duty to act if failure to act constitutes a criminal offense. Evidence that a
person was voluntarily intoxicated may be admissible to show whether or not the
person was physically capable of performing the act with which the person is
charged.
   (e)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   Possession is a voluntary act if the possessor knowingly procured
or received the thing possessed, or was aware of the possessor's control of the
thing possessed for a sufficient time to have ended possession.
      (2)   Reflexes, convulsions, body movements during unconsciousness or
sleep, and body movements that are not otherwise a product of the actor's
volition, are involuntary acts.
      (3)   "Culpability" means purpose, knowledge, recklessness, or
negligence, as defined in Section
600.09 of this General Offenses Code or ORC 2901.22.
(ORC 2901.21)
600.09 CULPABLE MENTAL STATES.
   (a)   Purposely. A person acts purposely when it is the person's specific
intention to cause a certain result, or, when the gist of the offense is a
prohibition against conduct of a certain nature, regardless of what the
offender intends to accomplish thereby, it is the offender's specific intention
to engage in conduct of that nature.
   (b)   Knowingly. A person acts knowingly, regardless of purpose, when the
person is aware that the person's conduct will probably cause a certain result
or will probably be of a certain nature. A person has knowledge of
circumstances when the person is aware that such circumstances probably exist.
When knowledge of the existence of a particular fact is an element of an
offense, such knowledge is established if a person subjectively believes that
there is a high probability of its existence and fails to make inquiry or acts
with a conscious purpose to avoid learning the fact.
   (c)   Recklessly. A person acts recklessly when, with heedless indifference
to the consequences, the person disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk
that the person's conduct is likely to cause a certain result or is likely to
be of a certain nature. A person is reckless with respect to circumstances
when, with heedless indifference to the consequences, the person disregards a
substantial and unjustifiable risk that such circumstances are likely to exist.
   (d)   Negligently. A person acts negligently when, because of a substantial
lapse from due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that the
person's conduct may cause a certain result or may be of a certain nature. A
person is negligent with respect to circumstances when, because of a
substantial lapse from due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk
that such circumstances may exist.
   (e)   Sufficient Culpability. When the section defining an offense provides
that negligence suffices to establish an element thereof, then recklessness,
knowledge, or purpose is also sufficient culpability for such element. When
recklessness suffices to establish an element of an offense, then knowledge or
purpose is also sufficient culpability for such element. When knowledge
suffices to establish an element of an offense, then purpose is also sufficient
culpability for such element.
(ORC 2901.22)
600.10 ORGANIZATIONAL CRIMINAL LIABILITY.
   (a)   Organizational Liability. An organization may be convicted of an
offense under any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The offense is a minor misdemeanor committed by an officer, agent
or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the scope of
the officer's, agent's, or employee's office or employment, except that if the
section defining the offense designates the officers, agents, or employees for
whose conduct the organization is accountable or the circumstances under which
it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (2)   A purpose to impose organizational liability plainly appears in the
section defining the offense, and the offense is committed by an officer, agent
or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the scope of
the officer's, agent's, or employee's office or employment, except that if the
section defining the offense designates the officers, agents or employees for
whose conduct the organization is accountable or the circumstances under which
it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (3)   The offense consists of an omission to discharge a specific duty
imposed by law on the organization.
      (4)   If, acting with the kind of culpability otherwise required for the
commission of the offense, its commission was authorized, requested, commanded,
tolerated or performed by the board of directors, trustees, partners or by a
high managerial officer, agent, or employee acting in behalf of the
organization and within the scope of such a board's or person's office or
employment.
   (b)   Strict Liability Offenses. If strict liability is imposed for the
commission of an offense, a purpose to impose organizational liability shall be
presumed, unless the contrary plainly appears.
   (c)   Affirmative Defense. In a prosecution of an organization for an
offense other than one for which strict liability is imposed, it is a defense
that the high managerial officer, agent, or employee having supervisory
responsibility over the subject matter of the offense exercised due diligence
to prevent its commission. This defense is not available if it plainly appears
inconsistent with the purpose of the section defining the offense.
   (d)   Definitions. As used in this section, "organization" means a
corporation for profit or not for profit, partnership, limited partnership,
joint venture, unincorporated nonprofit association, estate, trust, or other
commercial or legal entity. "Organization" does not include an entity organized
as or by a governmental agency for the execution of a governmental program.
(ORC 2901.23)
600.11 PERSONAL ACCOUNTABILITY FOR ORGANIZATIONAL CONDUCT.
   (a)   Personal Accountability. An officer, agent, or employee of an
organization, as defined in ORC 2901.23, may be prosecuted for an offense
committed by such organization, if he or she acts with the kind of culpability
required for the commission of the offense, and any of the following apply:
      (1)   In the name of the organization or in its behalf, he or she engages
in conduct constituting the offense, or causes another to engage in such
conduct, or tolerates such conduct when it is of a type for which he or she has
direct responsibility; or
      (2)   He or she has primary responsibility to discharge a duty imposed on
the organization by law, and such duty is not discharged.
   (b)   Penalties. When a person is convicted of an offense by reason of this
section, he or she is subject to the same penalty as if he or she had acted in
his or her own behalf.
(ORC 2901.24)
600.12 MISDEMEANOR INVESTIGATION; EXAMINATION OF WITNESSES AND EVIDENCE.
   (a)   Investigative Subpoenas.
      (1)   After a misdemeanor has been committed and before a criminal
complaint has been filed or arrest has been made, the Law Director, City
Prosecutor, or other legal counsel appointed by the Law Director may cause an
investigative subpoena, with a copy of this section attached, to issue and be
served for any person to give information concerning such misdemeanor offense,
including the production of designated books, documents, papers, notes, records
or other objects in written, printed, video, audio or electronic form. The
subpoena shall be returnable to the Xenia Law Department or other legal counsel
appointed by the Law Director.
      (2)   Alternatively, after misdemeanor has been committed and before a
criminal complaint has been filed or arrest has been made, the Law Director,
City Prosecutor, or other legal counsel appointed by the Law Director may file
a praecipe with the Xenia Municipal Court for the issuance and service of an
investigative subpoena to any person to give information concerning such
misdemeanor offense, including the production of designated books, documents,
papers notes, records or other objects in written, printed, video, audio or
electronic form. The Court may issue and serve the subpoena and shall not be
required to request an affidavit or conduct a probable cause hearing.
      (3)   A subpoena issued under division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section
shall require the witness to appear at a date, time, and location designated in
the subpoena or to produce the designated records by a specified date and time.
The subpoena shall be returnable to the Xenia Law Department or other legal
counsel appointed by the Law Director.
   (b)   Examining Witnesses.
      (1)   Before a witness is required to give testimony under this section,
the witness shall be informed of the purpose of the inquiry and that the
witness is required to tell the truth regarding the same. The witness shall
further be advised of the witness' Fifth Amendment rights regarding self-
incrimination. The witness shall then be sworn and examined under oath by the
Law Director, City Prosecutor, or other legal counsel appointed by the Law
Director.
      (2)   If, after being sworn, or during the examination, the witness
asserts the witness' constitutional rights against self-incrimination, the
examination of the witness shall cease.
   (c)   Motion to Quash. Any person served with an investigative subpoena for
books, documents, papers notes, records or other objects may file a motion to
quash or modify the subpoena if compliance would be unreasonable or oppressive.
Such motion shall be filed in the Xenia Municipal Court regardless of whom
issued the subpoena under this section. The Court may direct that the books,
documents, papers, notes, records or other objects designated in the subpoena
be produced before the court at a time specified by court and may, upon their
production, permit them or portions thereof to be inspected by the parties or
their attorneys.
   (d)   Failure to Respond. No person shall fail to appear for examination at
the date, time, and location designated in the investigative subpoena nor fail
to produce by the date and time designated in the investigative subpoena the
books, documents, papers, notes, records or other objects designated. A witness
who has been subpoenaed and intends to assert the constitutional right against
self-incrimination is not excused from appearing or being sworn in response to
a subpoena issued under this section, but may assert such privilege after
appearing and being sworn, in accordance with division (b) of this section.
   (e)   Penalties. Any person who violates division (d) of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor on the first offense, and is guilty of a third
degree misdemeanor on all subsequent offenses.
   (f)   Severability. If any provision of this section or the application
thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, that invalidity shall
not affect the other provisions of this section which can be given effect
without the invalid provision, and to this end, the provisions of this section
are severable.
(Ord. 2024-42. Adopted 12/23/24)
600.13 CONSPIRACY.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person, with purpose to commit or to promote or
facilitate the commission of aggravated murder, murder, kidnapping, abduction,
compelling prostitution, promoting prostitution, trafficking in persons,
aggravated arson, arson, aggravated robbery, robbery, aggravated burglary,
burglary, trespassing in a habitation when a person is present or likely to be
present, engaging in a pattern of corrupt activity, corrupting another with
drugs, a felony drug trafficking, manufacturing, processing, or possession
offense, theft of drugs, or illegal processing of drug documents, the
commission of a felony offense of unauthorized use of a vehicle, illegally
transmitting multiple commercial electronic mail messages or unauthorized
access of a computer in violation of ORC 2923.421, or the commission of a
violation of any provision of ORC Chapter 3734., other than ORC 3734.18, that
relates to hazardous wastes, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   With another person or persons, plan or aid in planning the
commission of any of the specified offenses;
      (2)   Agree with another person or persons that one or more of them will
engage in conduct that facilitates the commission of any of the specified
offenses.
   (b)   When Committed.
      (1)   When the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that a
person with whom the offender conspires also has conspired or is conspiring
with another to commit the same offense, the offender is guilty of conspiring
with that other person, even though the other person's identity may be unknown
to the offender.
      (2)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that, in
retrospect, commission of the offense that was the object of the conspiracy was
impossible under the circumstances.
      (3)   A person who conspires to commit more than one (1) offense is
guilty of only one (1) conspiracy, when the offenses are the object of the same
agreement or continuous conspiratorial relationship.
   (c)   Limitations.
      (1)   No person shall be convicted of conspiracy unless a substantial
overt act in furtherance of the conspiracy is alleged and proved to have been
done by the accused or a person with whom the accused conspired, subsequent to
the accused's entrance into the conspiracy. For purposes of this section, an
overt act is substantial when it is of a character that manifests a purpose on
the part of the actor that the object of the conspiracy should be completed.
      (2)   A conspiracy terminates when the offense or offenses that are its
objects are committed or when it is abandoned by all conspirators. In the
absence of abandonment, it is no defense to a charge under this section that no
offense that was the object of the conspiracy was committed.
      (3)   When a person is convicted of committing or attempting to commit a
specific offense or of complicity in the commission of or attempt to commit the
specific offense, the person shall not be convicted of conspiracy involving the
same offense.
   (d)   Testimony of Co-conspirators.
      (1)   No person shall be convicted of conspiracy upon the testimony of a
person with whom the defendant conspired, unsupported by other evidence.
      (2)   If a person with whom the defendant allegedly has conspired
testifies against the defendant in a case in which the defendant is charged
with conspiracy and if the testimony is supported by other evidence, the court,
when it charges the jury, shall state substantially the following:
            "The testimony of an accomplice that is supported by other evidence
does not become inadmissible because of the accomplice's complicity, moral
turpitude, or self-interest, but the admitted or claimed complicity of a
witness may affect the witness' credibility and make the witness' testimony
subject to grave suspicion, and require that it be weighed with great caution.
            It is for you, as jurors, in the light of all the facts presented
to you from the witness stand, to evaluate such testimony and to determine its
quality and worth or its lack of quality and worth."
      (3)   "Conspiracy," as used in division (d)(1) of this section, does not
include any conspiracy that results in an attempt to commit an offense or in
the commission of an offense.
   (e)   Affirmative Defenses. The following are affirmative defenses to a
charge of conspiracy:
      (1)   After conspiring to commit an offense, the actor thwarted the
success of the conspiracy under circumstances manifesting a complete and
voluntary renunciation of the actor's criminal purpose.
      (2)   After conspiring to commit an offense, the actor abandoned the
conspiracy prior to the commission of or attempt to commit any offense that was
the object of the conspiracy, either by advising all other conspirators of the
actor's abandonment, or by informing any law enforcement authority of the
existence of the conspiracy and of the actor's participation in the conspiracy.
   (f)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of conspiracy,
which is one of the following:
      (1)   A felony of the first degree, to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law, when one of the objects of the conspiracy is aggravated murder,
murder, or an offense for which the maximum penalty is imprisonment for life;
      (2)   A felony of the next lesser degree than the most serious offense
that is the object of the conspiracy, to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law, when the most serious offense that is the object of the conspiracy is a
felony of the first, second, third, or fourth degree;
      (3)   A felony punishable by a fine of not more than twenty-five thousand
dollars ($25,000) or imprisonment for not more than eighteen months, or both,
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law, when the offense that is the
object of the conspiracy is a violation of any provision of ORC Chapter 3734.,
other than ORC 3734.18, that relates to hazardous wastes;
      (4)   A misdemeanor of the first degree, when the most serious offense
that is the object of the conspiracy is a felony of the fifth degree.
   (g)   Where Offense is Otherwise Defined. This section does not define a
separate conspiracy offense or penalty where conspiracy is defined as a
misdemeanor offense by one or more sections of this General Offenses Code, or
is defined as a misdemeanor or a felony by one or more sections of the Ohio
Revised Code, other than this section or ORC 2923.01, as applicable. In such a
case, however:
      (1)   With respect to the offense specified as the object of the
conspiracy in the other section or sections of this General Offenses Code or
the Ohio Revised Code, division (a) of this section or ORC 2923.01, as
applicable, defines the voluntary act or acts and culpable mental state
necessary to constitute the conspiracy;
      (2)   Divisions (b) to (e) of this section are incorporated by reference
in the conspiracy offense defined by the other section or sections of this
General Offenses Code or divisions (B) to (I) of ORC Section 2923.01, as
applicable.
   (h)   Further Penalties.
      (1)   In addition to the penalties that otherwise are imposed for
conspiracy, a person who is found guilty of conspiracy to engage in a pattern
of corrupt activity is subject to ORC 2923.32(B)(2) and (3), ORC 2981.04(A),
and ORC 2981.06 (D).
      (2)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to conspiracy and if
the most serious offense that is the object of the conspiracy is a felony drug
trafficking, manufacturing, processing, or possession offense, in addition to
the penalties or sanctions that may be imposed for the conspiracy under ORC
2923.01(J)(2) or (4) of this section and ORC Chapter 2929., both of the
following apply:
         A.   The provisions of ORC 2925.03(D), (F), and (G), ORC 2925.04(D),
ORC 2925.05(D), ORC 2925.06(D), and ORC 2925.11(E) that pertain to mandatory
and additional fines, driver's or commercial driver's license or permit
suspensions, and professionally licensed persons and that would apply under the
appropriate provisions of those divisions to a person who is convicted of or
pleads guilty to the felony drug trafficking, manufacturing, processing, or
possession offense that is the most serious offense that is the basis of the
conspiracy shall apply to the person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to
the conspiracy as if the person had been convicted of or pleaded guilty to the
felony drug trafficking, manufacturing, processing, or possession offense that
is the most serious offense that is the basis of the conspiracy.
         B.   The court that imposes sentence upon the person who is convicted
of or pleads guilty to the conspiracy shall comply with the provisions
identified as being applicable under this division (h)(2) or ORC 2923.01(L)(2),
as applicable, in addition to any other penalty or sanction that it imposes for
the conspiracy under division (f)(2) or (f)(4) of this section or ORC 2923.01
(J)(2) or (J)(4), as applicable and ORC Chapter 2929.
   (i)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "Felony drug trafficking, manufacturing, processing, or possession
offense" means any of the following that is a felony:
         A.   A violation of ORC 2925.03, 2925.04, 2925.05, or 2925.06;
         B.   A violation of ORC 2925.11 that is not a minor drug possession
offense.
      (2)   "Minor drug possession offense" has the same meaning as in ORC
2925.01.
(ORC 2923.01)
600.14 ATTEMPT.
   (a)   Attempt. No person, purposely or knowingly, and when purpose or
knowledge is sufficient culpability for the commission of an offense, shall
engage in conduct that, if successful, would constitute or result in the
offense.
   (b)   No Defense. It is no defense to a charge under this section that, in
retrospect, commission of the offense that was the object of the attempt was
either factually or legally impossible under the attendant circumstances, if
that offense could have been committed had the attendant circumstances been as
the actor believed them to be.
   (c)   Limitations. No person who is convicted of committing a specific
offense, of complicity in the commission of an offense, or of conspiracy to
commit an offense, shall be convicted of an attempt to commit the same offense
in violation of this section.
   (d)   Affirmative Defense. It is an affirmative defense to a charge under
this section that the actor abandoned his or her effort to commit the offense
or otherwise prevented its commission, under circumstances manifesting a
complete and voluntary renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (e)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an attempt to commit an
offense.
      (2)   An attempt to commit a drug abuse offense for which the penalty is
determined by the amount or number of unit doses of the controlled substance
involved in the drug abuse offense is an offense of the same degree as the drug
abuse offense attempted would be if that drug abuse offense had been committed
and had involved an amount or number of unit doses of the controlled substance
that is within the next lower range of controlled substance amounts than was
involved in the attempt.
      (3)   An attempt to commit any other offense is an offense of the next
lesser degree than the offense attempted.
      (4)   In the case of an attempt to commit an offense other than a
violation of ORC Chapter 3734 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance
that is not specifically classified, an attempt is a misdemeanor of the first
degree if the offense attempted is a felony, and a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree if the offense attempted is a misdemeanor.
      (5)   An attempt to commit a minor misdemeanor, or to engage in
conspiracy, is not an offense under this section.
   (f)   Definitions. As used in this section, "drug abuse offense" has the
same meaning as in ORC 2925.01.
(ORC 2923.02)
600.15 COMPLICITY.
   (a)   Complicity. No person, acting with the kind of culpability required
for the commission of an offense, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Solicit or procure another to commit the offense;
      (2)   Aid or abet another in committing the offense;
      (3)   Conspire with another to commit the offense in violation of Section
600.13 or ORC 2923.01; or
      (4)   Cause an innocent or irresponsible person to commit the offense.
   (b)   No Defense. It is no defense to a charge under this section that no
person with whom the accused was in complicity has been convicted as a
principal offender.
   (c)   Limitations. No person shall be convicted of complicity under this
section unless an offense is actually committed, but a person may be convicted
of complicity in an attempt to commit an offense in violation of Section
600.14  or ORC 2923.02.
   (d)   Testimony of Accomplice. If an alleged accomplice of the defendant
testifies against the defendant in a case in which the defendant is charged
with complicity in the commission of or an attempt to commit an offense, an
attempt to commit an offense, or an offense, the court, when it charges the
jury, shall state substantially the following:
   "The testimony of an accomplice does not become inadmissible because of his
complicity, moral turpitude, or self-interest, but the admitted or claimed
complicity of a witness may affect his credibility and make his testimony
subject to grave suspicion, and require that it be weighed with great caution.
   It is for you, as jurors, in the light of all the facts presented to you
from the witness stand, to evaluate such testimony and to determine its quality
and worth or its lack of quality and worth."
   (e)   Affirmative Defense. It is an affirmative defense to a charge under
this section that, prior to the commission of or attempt to commit the offense,
the actor terminated his or her complicity, under circumstances manifesting a
complete and voluntary renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (f)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of complicity in
the commission of an offense and shall be prosecuted and punished as if he or
she were a principal offender. A charge of complicity may be stated in terms of
this section, or in terms of the principal offense.
(ORC 2923.03)
600.16 SELF-DEFENSE; LIMITATIONS ON DUTY TO RETREAT PRIOR TO USING FORCE.
   (a)   Limitation on Duty to Retreat. For the purposes of any section of this
General Offenses Code that sets forth a criminal offense, a person has no duty
to retreat before using force in self-defense, defense of another, or defense
of that person's residence if that person is in a place in which the person
lawfully has a right to be. A trier of fact shall not consider the possibility
of retreat as a factor in determining whether or not a person who used force in
self-defense, defense of another, or defense of that person's residence
reasonably believed that the force was necessary to prevent injury, loss, or
risk to life or safety.
   (b)   Definitions. As used in this section, "residence" has the same
meanings as in ORC 2901.05.
(ORC 2901.09)
CHAPTER 608: ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT AND PUBLIC SERVICE
Section
608.01   Falsification.
608.02   False report of child abuse or neglect. (Repealed)
608.03   Compounding a crime. (Repealed)
608.04   Failure to report a crime or death. (Repealed)
608.05   Failure to aid a law enforcement officer.
608.06   Obstructing official business. (Repealed)
608.07   Obstructing justice. (Repealed)
608.08   Resisting arrest. (Repealed)
608.09   Compliance with lawful order of police officer; fleeing. (Repealed)
608.10   Having an unlawful interest in a public contract. (Repealed)
608.11   Soliciting or receiving improper compensation. (Repealed)
608.12   Dereliction of duty. (Repealed)
608.13   Interfering with civil rights. (Repealed)
608.14   Impersonating an officer. (Repealed)
608.145   Using sham legal process.
608.15   Display of law enforcement agency emblem.
608.16   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property held by Police
Division.
608.17   Detention and arrest of shoplifters and those committing motion
picture piracy; protection of institutional property.
   CROSS REFERENCES
   Arrest without warrant for misdemeanor - see Ohio R.C. 2935.03
   Procedure on affidavit or complaint; withdrawal of unexecuted warrants - see
Ohio R.C. 2935.10
   Right of trial by jury - see Ohio R.C. 2945.17
   Time within which hearing or trial must be held - see Ohio R.C. 2945.71
   Extension of time for hearing or trial - see Ohio R.C. 2945.72
   Discharge for delay in trial - see Ohio R.C. 2945.73
   Degree of offense; charge and verdict; prior conviction - see Ohio R.C.
2945.75
        Satisfaction of fine; credit for time served - see Ohio R.C. 2947.14
   Registration of sex offenders in cities and counties - see Ohio R.C. 2950.01
et seq.
   Criteria for probation; conditions of probation - see Ohio R.C. 2951.02
   Treatment of drug dependent persons in lieu of conviction - see Ohio R.C.
2951.041
   Registration of dogs - see GEN. OFF. 618.08
   Rabies quarantine - see GEN. OFF.
618.11
   Justifiable use of force to suppress riot - see GEN. OFF.
648.03
   Misconduct at an emergency - see GEN. OFF.
648.06
   Rules of evidence in sex related offenses - see GEN. OFF.
666.10
   Declaratory judgment in sex related offenses - see GEN. OFF.
666.16
   Injunction and abatement of nuisance in sex related offenses - see GEN. OFF.
666.17
   Penalties and sentencing - see GEN. OFF. Ch.
698
§ 608.01 FALSIFICATION.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly swear
or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, when any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The statement is made in any official proceeding;
      (2)   The statement is made with purpose to incriminate another;
      (3)   The statement is made with purpose to mislead a public official in
performing his or her official function;
      (4)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the payment of
unemployment compensation; Ohio Works First; prevention, retention and
contingency benefits and services; disability financial assistance; retirement
benefits or health care coverage from a state retirement system; economic
development assistance as defined in Ohio R.C. 9.66; or other benefits
administered by a governmental agency or paid out of a public treasury;
      (5)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the issuance by a
governmental agency of a license, permit, authorization, certificate,
registration, release or provider agreement;
      (6)   The statement is sworn or affirmed before a notary public or
another person empowered to administer oaths;
      (7)   The statement is in writing on or in connection with a report or
return that is required or authorized by law;
      (8)   The statement is in writing, and is made with purpose to induce
another to extend credit to or employ the offender, or to confer any degree,
diploma, certificate of attainment, award of excellence, or honor on the
offender, or to extend to or bestow upon the offender any other valuable
benefit or distinction, when the person to whom the statement is directed
relies upon it to his or her detriment;
      (9)   The statement is made with purpose to commit or facilitate the
commission of a theft offense;
      (10)   The statement is knowingly made to a probate court in connection
with any action, proceeding, or other matter within its jurisdiction, either
orally or in a written document, including, but not limited to, an application,
petition, complaint, or other pleading, or an inventory, account, or report;
      (11)   The statement is made on an account, form, record, stamp, label or
other writing that is required by law;
      (12)   The statement is made in connection with the purchase of a
firearm, as defined in Ohio R.C. 2923.11, and in conjunction with the
furnishing to the seller of the firearm of a fictitious or altered driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit, a fictitious or altered identification
card, or any other document that contains false information about the
purchaser’s identity;
      (13)   The statement is made in a document or instrument of writing that
purports to be a judgment, lien, or claim of indebtedness and is filed or
recorded with the Secretary of State, a county recorder, or the clerk of a
court of record;
      (14)   The statement is made in an application filed with a county
sheriff pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2923.125 in order to obtain or renew a concealed
handgun license or is made in an affidavit submitted to a county sheriff to
obtain a concealed handgun license on a temporary emergency basis under Ohio
R.C. 2923.1213; or
      (15)   The statement is required under Ohio R.C. 5743.71 in connection
with the person’s purchase of cigarettes or tobacco products in a delivery
sale.
   (b)   No person, in connection with the purchase of a firearm as defined in
Ohio R.C. 2923.11, shall knowingly furnish to the seller of the firearm a
fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, a
fictitious or altered identification card, or any other document that contains
false information about the purchaser’s identity.
   (c)   No person, in an attempt to obtain a concealed handgun license under
Ohio R.C. 2923.125, shall knowingly present to a sheriff a fictitious or
altered document that purports to be certification of the person’s competence
in handling a handgun as described in division (B)(3) of that section.
   (d)   It is no defense to a charge under subsection (a)(6) of this section
that the oath or affirmation was administered or taken in an irregular manner.
   (e)   If contradictory statements relating to the same fact are made by the
offender within the period of the statute of limitations for falsification, it
is not necessary for the prosecution to prove which statement was false, but
only that one or the other was false.
   (f)   (1)   Whoever violates subsection (a)(1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6),
(7), (8), (10), (11), (13) or (15) of this section is guilty of falsification.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, falsification is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates subsection (a)(9) of this section is guilty of
falsification in a theft offense. Except as otherwise provided in this
subsection, falsification in a theft offense is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the value of the property or services stolen is one thousand dollars
($1,000) or more, falsification in a theft offense is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates subsection (a)(12) or (b) of this section is
guilty of falsification to purchase a firearm, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates subsection (a)(14) or (c) of this section is
guilty of falsification to obtain a concealed handgun license, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates subsection (a) of this section in removal
proceedings under R.C. § 319.26, 321.37, 507.13 or 733.78 is guilty of
falsification regarding a removal proceeding, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(ORC 2921.13)
   (g)   (1)   No person who has knowingly failed to maintain proof of
financial responsibility in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4509.101 shall produce
any document or present to a peace officer an electronic wireless
communications device that is displaying any text or images with the purpose to
mislead a peace officer upon the request of a peace officer for proof of
financial responsibility made in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4509.101(d)(2).
      (2)   Whoever violates this subsection (g) is guilty of falsification, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 4509.102)
§ 608.02 FALSE REPORT OF CHILD ABUSE OR NEGLECT. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 608.02 was repealed by Ordinance 99-47, passed 9-9-
1999.)
§ 608.03 COMPOUNDING A CRIME. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 608.03 was repealed by Ordinance 99-47, passed 9-9-
1999.)
§ 608.04 FAILURE TO REPORT A CRIME OR DEATH. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 608.04 was repealed by Ordinance 99-47, passed 9-9-
1999.)
§ 608.05 FAILURE TO AID A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (a)   No person shall negligently fail or refuse to aid a law enforcement
officer, when called upon for assistance in preventing or halting the
commission of an offense, or in apprehending or detaining an offender, when the
aid can be given without a substantial risk of physical harm to the person
giving it.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to aid a law
enforcement officer, a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 2921.23)
§ 608.06 OBSTRUCTING OFFICIAL BUSINESS. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 608.06 was repealed by Ordinance 99-47, passed 9-9-
1999.)
§ 608.07 OBSTRUCTING JUSTICE. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 608.07 was repealed by Ordinance 99-47, passed 9-9-
1999.)
§ 608.08 RESISTING ARREST. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 608.08 was repealed by Ordinance 99-47, passed 9-9-
1999.)
§ 608.09 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWFUL ORDER OF POLICE OFFICER; FLEEING. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 608.09 was repealed by Ordinance 99-47, passed 9-9-
1999.)
§ 608.10 HAVING AN UNLAWFUL INTEREST IN A PUBLIC CONTRACT. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 608.10 was repealed by Ordinance 99-47, passed 9-9-
1999.)
§ 608.11 SOLICITING OR RECEIVING IMPROPER COMPENSATION. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 608.11 was repealed by Ordinance 99-47, passed 9-9-
1999.)
§ 608.12 DERELICTION OF DUTY. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 608.12 was repealed by Ordinance 99-47, passed 9-9-
1999.)
§ 608.13 INTERFERING WITH CIVIL RIGHTS. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 608.13 was repealed by Ordinance 99-47, passed 9-9-
1999.)
§ 608.14 IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 608.14 was repealed by Ordinance 99-47, passed 9-9-
1999.)
§ 608.145 USING SHAM LEGAL PROCESS.
   (b)   No person shall, knowing the sham legal process to be a sham legal
process, do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly issue, display, deliver, distribute or otherwise use sham
legal process;
      (2)   Knowingly use sham legal process to arrest, detain, search or seize
any person or the property of another person;
      (3)   Knowingly commit or facilitate the commission of an offense using
sham legal process; or
      (4)   Knowingly commit a felony by using sham legal process.
   (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under subsection (b)(1) or
(2) of this section that the use of sham legal process was for a lawful
purpose.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using sham legal process. A
violation of subsection (b)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. A violation of subsection (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the purpose of a violation of
subsection (b)(3) of this section is to commit or facilitate the commission of
a felony, a violation of subsection (b)(3) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of subsection (b)(4) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2921.52(A) - (D))
§ 608.15 DISPLAY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY EMBLEM.
   (a)   No person who is not entitled to do so shall knowingly display on a
motor vehicle the emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law
enforcement officers.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of the unlawful display of the
emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law enforcement
officers, a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 2913.441)
§ 608.16 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED OR FORFEITED PROPERTY HELD BY POLICE
DIVISION.
   (a)   Safekeeping of property in custody.
      (1)   A.   Any property that has been lost, abandoned, stolen, seized
pursuant to a search warrant, or otherwise lawfully seized or forfeited and
that is in the custody of the Police Department shall be kept safely by the
Police Department, pending the time it no longer is needed as evidence or for
another lawful purpose, and shall be disposed of pursuant to this section or
Ohio R.C. 2981.12 and 2981.13.
         B.   This section does not apply to the custody and disposal of any of
the following:
            1.   Vehicles subject to forfeiture under Ohio R.C. Title 45,
except as provided in subsection (b)(1)F. of this section;
            2.   Abandoned junk motor vehicles or other property of negligible
value;
            3.   Property held by a department of rehabilitation and correction
institution that is unclaimed, that does not have an identified owner, that the
owner agrees to dispose of, or that is identified by the department as having
little value;
            4.   Animals taken, and devices used in unlawfully taking animals,
under Ohio R.C. 1531.20;
            5.   Controlled substances sold by a peace officer in the
performance of the officer’s official duties under Ohio R.C. 3719.141;
            6.   Property recovered by a township law enforcement agency under
Ohio R.C. 505.105 to 505.109;
            7.   Property held and disposed of under an ordinance of the
Municipality or under Ohio R.C. 737.29 to 737.33, except that if the
Municipality has received notice of a citizens’ reward program as provided in
subsection (b)(5) of this section and disposes of property under an ordinance
shall pay 25% of any moneys acquired from any sale or auction to the citizens’
reward program.
      (2)   A.   The Police Department shall adopt and comply with a written
internal control policy that does all of the following:
            1.   Provides for keeping detailed records as to the amount of
property acquired by the Police Department and the date property was acquired;
            2.   Provides for keeping detailed records of the disposition of
the property, which shall include, but not be limited to, both of the
following:
               a.   The manner in which it was disposed, the date of
disposition, detailed financial records concerning any property sold, and the
name of any person who received the property. The record shall not identify or
enable identification of the individual officer who seized any item of
property.
               b.   An itemized list of the specific expenditures made with
amounts that are gained from the sale of the property and that are retained by
the agency, including the specific amount expended on each expenditure, except
that the policy shall not provide for or permit the identification of any
specific expenditure that is made in an ongoing investigation.
            3.   Complies with ORC 2981.13 if the Police Division has a law
enforcement trust fund or similar fund created under that section.
         B.   The records kept under the internal control policy shall be open
to public inspection during the Police Division’s regular business hours. The
policy adopted under this section is a public record open for inspection under
ORC 149.43.
      (3)   The Police Division, with custody of property to be disposed of
under this section or ORC 2981.12 or 2981.13, shall make a reasonable effort to
locate persons entitled to possession of the property, to notify them of when
and where it may be claimed, and to return the property to them at the earliest
possible time. In the absence of evidence identifying persons entitled to
possession, it is sufficient notice to advertise in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county and to briefly describe the nature of the property in
custody and inviting persons to view and establish their right to it.
      (4)   (EDITOR’S NOTE: The definitions contained in this section are also
located in Chapter 604, § 604.01.) As used in this section:
         A.   CITIZENS’ REWARD PROGRAM has the same meaning as in ORC 9.92.
         B.   LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY includes correctional institutions.
         C.   TOWNSHIP LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY means an organized police
department of a township, a township police district, a joint police district,
or the office of a township constable.
(ORC 2981.11)
   (b)   Disposition of Unclaimed or Forfeited Property.
      (1)   Unclaimed or forfeited property in the custody of the Police
Department, other than property described in subsection (a)(1)B. of this
section, shall be disposed of by order of any court of record that has
territorial jurisdiction over the Municipality, as follows:
         A.   Drugs shall be disposed of pursuant to ORC  3719.11 or placed in
the custody of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States for disposal
or use for medical or scientific purposes under applicable federal law.
         B.   Firearms and dangerous ordnance suitable for police work may be
given to a law enforcement agency for that purpose. Firearms suitable for
sporting use or as museum pieces or collectors’ items may be sold at public
auction pursuant to subsection (b)(2) of this section. The Police Department
may sell other firearms and dangerous ordnance to a federally licensed firearms
dealer in a manner that the court considers proper. The Police Department shall
destroy any firearms or dangerous ordnance not given to a law enforcement
agency or sold or shall send them to the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation for destruction by the Bureau.
         C.   Obscene materials shall be destroyed.
         D.   Beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol seized from a person who
does not hold a permit issued under ORC Chapters 4301 and 4303 or otherwise
forfeited to the state for an offense under ORC 4301.45 or ORC 4301.53 shall be
sold by the Division of Liquor Control if the Division determines that it is
fit for sale or shall be placed in the custody of the Investigations Unit in
the Ohio Department of Public Safety and be used for training relating to law
enforcement activities. The Ohio Department of Public Safety, with the
assistance of the Division of Liquor Control, shall adopt rules in accordance
with ORC Chapter 119 to provide for the distribution to state or local law
enforcement agencies upon their request. If any tax imposed under ORC Title 43
has not been paid in relation to the beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol, any
moneys acquired from the sale shall first be used to pay the tax. All other
money collected under this subsection (b)(1)D. shall be paid into the State
Treasury. Any beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol that the Division
determines to be unfit for sale shall be destroyed.
         E.   Money received by an inmate of a correctional institution from an
unauthorized source or in an unauthorized manner shall be returned to the
sender, if known, or deposited in the inmates’ industrial and entertainment
fund of the institution if the sender is not known.
         F.   1.   Any mobile instrumentality forfeited under ORC Chapter 2981
may be given to the law enforcement agency that initially seized the mobile
instrumentality for use in performing its duties, if the agency wants the
mobile instrumentality. The agency shall take the mobile instrumentality
subject to any security interest or lien on the mobile instrumentality.
            2.   Vehicles and vehicle parts forfeited under ORC 4549.61 to
4549.63 may be given to a law enforcement agency for use in performing its
duties. Those parts may be incorporated into any other official vehicle. Parts
that do not bear vehicle identification numbers or derivatives of them may be
sold or disposed of as provided by rules of the Director of Public Safety.
Parts from which a vehicle identification number or derivative of it has been
removed, defaced, covered, altered, or destroyed and that are not suitable for
police work or incorporation into an official vehicle shall be destroyed and
sold as junk or scrap.
         G.   Computers, computer networks, computer systems, and computer
software suitable for police work may be given to a law enforcement agency for
that purpose or disposed of under subsection (b)(2) of this section.
         H.   Money seized in connection with a violation of ORC 2905.32,
2907.21, or 2907.22 shall be deposited in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund
created by ORC 5101.87.
      (2)   Unclaimed or forfeited property that is not described in subsection
(b)(1) of this section or subsection (a)(1)B. of this section, with court
approval, may be used by the law enforcement agency in possession of it. If it
is not used by the agency, it may be sold without appraisal at a public auction
to the highest bidder for cash or disposed of in another manner that the court
considers proper.
      (3)   Except as provided in subsections (b)(1) and (b)(5) of this section
and after compliance with subsection (b)(4) of this section when applicable,
any moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of pursuant to this
section shall be placed in the general revenue fund of the State, or the
general fund of the Municipality.
      (4)   If the property was in the possession of the Police Department in
relation to a delinquent child proceeding in a juvenile court, 10 percent of
any moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of under this section
shall be applied to one or more community addiction services providers, as
defined in R.C. § 5119.01. A juvenile court shall not specify a services
provider, except as provided in this division, unless the services provider is
in the same county as the court or in a contiguous county. If no certified
services provider is located in any of those counties, the juvenile court may
specify a certified services provider anywhere in Ohio. The remaining 90
percent of the proceeds or cash shall be applied as provided in subsection (b)
(3) of this section.
      (5)   A.   If the Board of County Commissioners recognizes a citizens’
reward program under Ohio R.C. 9.92, the Board shall notify the Police
Department of the recognition by filing a copy of its resolution conferring
that recognition with the Police Department. When the Board recognizes a
citizens’ reward program and the County includes a part, but not all, of the
territory of the Municipality, the Board shall so notify the Police Department
of the recognition of the citizens' reward program only if the County contains
the highest percentage of the Municipality’s population.
         B.   Upon being so notified, the Police Department shall pay 25% of
any forfeited proceeds or cash derived from each sale of property disposed of
pursuant to this section to the citizens’ reward program for use exclusively to
pay rewards. No part of the funds may be used to pay expenses associated with
the program. If a citizens’ reward program that operates in more than one
County or in another State in addition to this State receives funds under this
section, the funds shall be used to pay rewards only for tips and information
to law enforcement agencies concerning offenses committed in the County from
which the funds were received.
      (6)   Any property forfeited under Ohio R.C. Chapter 2981 not be used to
pay any fine imposed upon a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to an
underlying criminal offense or a different offense arising out of the same
facts and circumstances.
      (7)   Any moneys acquired from the sale of personal effects, tools, or
other property seized because the personal effects, tools, or other property
were used in the commission of a violation of Ohio R.C. 2905.32, 2907.21, or
2907.22 or derived from the proceeds of the commission of a violation of Ohio
R.C. 2905.32, 2907.21, or 2907.22 and disposed of pursuant to this subsection
(b) shall be placed in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund created by Ohio
R.C. 5101.87.
(ORC 2981.12)
   (c)   Disposition of Contraband, Proceeds, or Instrumentalities. Except as
otherwise provided in Ohio R.C. 2981.13, property ordered forfeited as
contraband, proceeds, or an instrumentality pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 2981
shall be disposed of, used, or sold pursuant to subsection (b) of this section
or Ohio R.C. 2981.12. If the property is to be sold under subsection (b) of
this section or Ohio R.C. 2981.12, the prosecutor shall cause notice of the
proposed sale to be given in accordance with law.
(ORC 2981.13(A))
Statutory reference:
   Forfeiture of property generally, see R.C. Chapter 2981
§ 608.17 DETENTION AND ARREST OF SHOPLIFTERS AND THOSE COMMITTING MOTION
PICTURE PIRACY; PROTECTION OF INSTITUTIONAL PROPERTY.
   (b)   A merchant, or an employee or agent of a merchant, who has probable
cause to believe that things offered for sale by a mercantile establishment
have been unlawfully taken by a person, may, for the purposes set forth in
subsection (d) below, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable
length of time within the mercantile establishment or its immediate vicinity.
   (c)   Any officer, employee, or agent of a library, museum, or archival
institution may, for the purposes set forth in subsection (d) below or for the
purpose of conducting a reasonable investigation of a belief that the person
has acted in a manner described in subsections (c)(1) and (2) below, detain a
person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of time within, or in the
immediate vicinity of, the library, museum, or archival institution, if the
officer, employee or agent has probable cause to believe that the person has:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly moved, defaced, damaged,
destroyed or otherwise improperly tampered with property owned by or in the
custody of the library, museum, or archival institution; or
      (2)   With purpose to deprive the library, museum, or archival
institution of property owned by it or in its custody, knowingly obtained or
exerted control over the property without the consent of the owner or person
authorized to give consent, beyond the scope of the express or implied consent
of the owner or person authorized to give consent, by deception, or by threat.
   (d)   An officer, agent, or employee of a library, museum, or archival
institution pursuant to subsection (c) above or a merchant or an employee or
agent of a merchant pursuant to subsection (b) above may detain another person
for any of the following purposes:
      (1)   To recover the property that is the subject of the unlawful taking,
criminal mischief, or theft;
      (2)   To cause an arrest to be made by a peace officer; or
      (3)   To obtain a warrant of arrest;
      (4)   To offer the person, if the person is suspected of the unlawful
taking, criminal mischief, or theft and notwithstanding any other provision of
this Code or the Ohio Revised Code, an opportunity to complete a pretrial
diversion program and to inform the person of the other legal remedies
available to the library, museum, archival institution, or merchant.
   (e)   The owner or lessee of a facility in which a motion picture is being
shown, or the owner’s or lessee’s employee or agent, who has probable cause to
believe that a person is or has been operating an audiovisual recording
function of a device in violation of Ohio R.C. 2917.07 may, for the purpose of
causing an arrest to be made by a peace officer or of obtaining an arrest
warrant, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of
time within the facility or its immediate vicinity.
   (f)   The officer, agent or employee of the library, museum, or archival
institution, the merchant or an employee or agent of a merchant, or the owner,
lessee, employee, or agent of the facility acting under subsections (b), (c) or
(e) above shall not search the person detained, search or seize any property
belonging to the person detained without the person’s consent, or use undue
restraint upon the person detained.
   (g)   Any peace officer may arrest without a warrant any person that the
officer has probable cause to believe has committed any act described in
subsections (c)(1) or (2) above, that the officer has probable cause to believe
has committed an unlawful taking in a mercantile establishment, or that the
officer has reasonable cause to believe has committed an act prohibited by Ohio
R.C. 2913.07. An arrest under this subsection shall be made within a reasonable
time after the commission of the act or unlawful taking.
(ORC 2935.041)
CHAPTER 612: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
612.01   (Reserved)
612.02   (Reserved)
612.03   (Reserved)
612.04   Consumption in Motor Vehicle
612.05   Permit Required
612.06   Posting Age and Firearm Warning Signs
612.07   Open Container Prohibited
612.08   Hours of Sale or Consumption
612.09   (Reserved)
612.10   Sales of Low-Alcohol Beverages to Underage Persons; Prohibitions and
Misrepresentations
612.11   Conduct on Premises of Permit Holder
   CROSS REFERENCES
   See sectional histories for similar State law
   Disorderly Conduct will Intoxicated – see GEN. OFF.
648.04
   Driving Under the Influence – see ORC 4511.19
   Effect of Voluntary Intoxication on Criminal Liability – see GEN. OFF.
606.07
   Liquor Control Law – see ORC Ch. 4301
   Liquor Permits – see ORC Ch. 4303
   Local Option – see ORC 4303.29
   Suspension of Alcohol Sales During Emergency – see ORC 4301.251
§ 612.01 (Reserved)
§ 612.02 (Reserved)
§ 612.03 (Reserved)
§ 612.04 CONSUMPTION IN MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (a)   No person shall consume any beer or intoxicating liquor in a motor
vehicle. This section does not apply to persons described in ORC 4301.62(D) or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(ORC 4301.64)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If an offender who violates this section was under the age of eighteen
(18) years at the time of the offense, the court, in addition to any other
penalties it imposes upon the offender, may suspend the offender's temporary
instruction permit, probationary driver's license or driver's license for a
period of not less than six (6) months and not more than one (1) year. In lieu
of suspending the offender's temporary instruction permit, probationary
driver's license, or driver's license, the court instead may require the
offender to perform community service for a number of hours determined by the
court. If the offender is fifteen (15) years and six (6) months of age or older
and has not been issued a temporary instruction permit or probationary driver's
license, the offender shall not be eligible to be issued such a license or
permit for a period of six (6) months. If the offender has not attained the age
of fifteen (15) years and six (6) months, the offender shall not be eligible to
be issued a temporary instruction permit until the offender attains the age of
sixteen (16) years.
(ORC 4301.99(B))
§ 612.05 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   No person personally or by the person's clerk, agent, or
employee, shall manufacture, manufacture for sale, offer, keep, or possess for
sale, furnish or sell, or solicit the purchase or sale of any beer or
intoxicating liquor in this State, or transport, import, or cause to be
transported or imported any beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol in or into
this municipality for delivery, use or sale, unless the person has fully
complied with ORC Chapters 4301 and 4303 or is the holder of a permit issued by
the Division of Liquor Control and in force at the time.
      (2)   No manufacturer, supplier, wholesale distributor, broker, or
retailer of beer or intoxicating liquor, or other person shall employ, retain,
or otherwise utilize any person in this state to act as an employee, agent,
solicitor, or salesperson, or act in any other representative capacity to sell,
solicit, take orders, or receive offers to purchase or expressions of interest
to purchase beer or intoxicating liquor from any person, at any location other
than a liquor permit premises, except as specifically authorized by ORC Chapter
4301 or 4303 or rules adopted thereunder. No function, event, or party shall
take place at any location other than a liquor permit premises where any person
acts in any manner to sell, solicit, take orders, or receive offers to purchase
or expressions of intent to purchase beer or intoxicating liquor to or from any
person, except as specifically authorized by ORC Chapter 4301 or 4303 or rules
adopted thereunder.
(ORC 4303.25)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
§ 612.06 POSTING AGE AND FIREARM WARNING SIGNS.
   (a)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in ORC 4301.691, every place in
this City where beer, intoxicating liquor or any low-alcohol beverage is sold
for beverage purposes shall display at all times, in a prominent place on the
premises thereof, a printed card, which shall be furnished by the Division of
Liquor Control and which shall read substantially as follows:
         WARNING TO PERSONS UNDERAGE
            If you are under the age of 21: Under the statutes of Ohio if you
order, pay for, share the cost of, or attempt to purchase, or possess or
consume beer or intoxicating liquor in any public place, or furnish false
information as to name, age, or other identification, you are subject to a fine
of up to $1,000, or imprisonment up to 6 months, or both.
            If you are under the age of 18: Under the statutes of Ohio if you
order, pay for, share the cost of, or attempt to purchase, or possess or
consume any type of beer or wine that contains either no alcohol or less than
one-half of one percent of alcohol by volume in any public place, or furnish
false information as to name, age, or other identification, you are subject to
a fine of up to $250 or to imprisonment up to 30 days, or both.
      (2)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Department or the Liquor Control Commission for failing
to display this card. No permit issued by the Department shall be suspended,
revoked or canceled because of the failure of the permit holder to display this
card.
   (b)   (1)   Every place in this City for which a D permit has been issued
under ORC Chapter 4303 shall be issued a printed card by the Division of Liquor
Control that shall read substantially as follows:
         WARNING
            If you are carrying a firearm: Under the statutes of Ohio if you
possess a firearm in any room in which liquor is being dispensed in premises
for which a D permit has been issued under ORC Chapter 4303, you may be guilty
of a felony and may be subjected to a prison term of up to 1 year.
      (2)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Division of Liquor Control or the Liquor Control
Commission for failing to display this card. No permit issued by the Department
shall be suspended, revoked, or canceled because of the failure of the permit
holder to display this card.
(ORC 4301.637)
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4301.70; 4301.99(A))
§ 612.07 OPEN CONTAINER PROHIBITED.
   (b)   No person shall have in the person's possession an opened container of
beer or intoxicating liquor in any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (c)(1)E. of this section, in a state
liquor store;
      (2)   Except as provided in division (c) of this section, on the premises
of the holder of any permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control;
      (3)   In any other public place;
      (4)   Except as provided in division (d) or (e) of this section, while
operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on any street, highway
or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking; or
      (5)   Except as provided in division (d) or (e) of this section, while
being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on any street, highway, or other
public or private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking.
   (c)   (1)   A person may have in the person's possession an opened container
of any of the following:
         A.   Beer or intoxicating liquor that has been lawfully purchased for
consumption on the premises where bought from the holder of an A-1-A, A-2, A-
2f, A-3a, D-1, D-2, D-3, D-3a, D-4, D-4a, D-5, D-5a, D-5b, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e, D-
5f, D-5g, D-5h, D-5i, D-5j, D-5k, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-7, D-8, E, F, F-2,
F-5, F-7, or F-8 permit;
         B.   Beer, wine, or mixed beverages served for consumption on the
premises by the holder of an F-3 permit, wine served as a tasting sample by an
A-2 permit holder or S permit holder for consumption on the premises of a
farmers market for which an F-10 permit has been issued, or wine served for
consumption on the premises by the holder of an F-4 or F-6 permit;
         C.   Beer or intoxicating liquor consumed on the premises of a
convention facility as provided in ORC 4303.201;
         D.   Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed during tastes and
samples approved by rule of the Liquor Control Commission; or
         E.   Spiritous liquor to be consumed for purpose of a tasting sample,
as defined in ORC 4301.171.
      (2)   A person may have in the person's possession on an F liquor permit
premises an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor that was not
purchased from the holder of the F permit if the premises for which the F
permit is issued is a music festival and the holder of the F permit grants
permission for that possession on the premises during the period for which the
F permit is issued. As used in this division (c)(2), "music festival" means a
series of outdoor live musical performances extending for a period of at least
three (3) consecutive days and located on an area of land of at least forty
(40) acres.
      (3)   A.   A person may have in the person's possession on a D-2 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of wine that was not purchased
from the holder of the D-2 permit if the premises for which the D-2 permit is
issued is an outdoor performing arts center, the person is attending an
orchestral performance, and the holder of the D-2 permit grants permission for
the possession and consumption of wine in certain predesignated areas of the
premises during the period for which the D-2 permit is issued.
         B.   As used in division (c)(3)A. of this section:
            i.   "Orchestral performance" means a concert comprised of a group
of not fewer than forty (40) musicians playing various musical instruments.
            ii.   "Outdoor performing arts center" means an outdoor performing
arts center that is located on not less than one hundred fifty (150) acres of
land and that is open for performances from the first day of April to the last
day of October of each year.
      (4)   A person may have in the person's possession an opened or unopened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location at which the
person is attending an orchestral performance as defined in division (c)(3)B.
of this section if the person with supervision and control over the performance
grants permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating
liquor in certain predesignated areas of that outdoor location.
      (5)   A.   A person may have in the person's possession on an F-9 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
that was not purchased from the holder of the F-9 permit if the person is
attending either of the following:
            i.   An orchestral performance and the F-9 permit holder grants
permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor in
certain predesignated areas of the premises during the period for which the F-
9 permit is issued;
            ii.   An outdoor performing arts event or orchestral performance
that is free of charge and the F-9 permit holder annually hosts not less than
twenty-five (25) other events or performances that are free of charge on the
permit premises.
         B.   As used in division (c)(5) of this section, "orchestral
performance" has the same meaning as in division (c)(3)B. of this section.
      (6)   A.   A person may have in the person's possession on the property
of an outdoor motorsports facility an opened or unopened container of beer or
intoxicating liquor that was not purchased from the owner of the facility if
both of the following apply:
            i.   The person is attending a racing event at the facility; and
            ii.   The owner of the facility grants permission for the
possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor on the property of
the facility.
         B.   As used in division (c)(6)A. of this section:
            i.   "Outdoor motorsports facility" means an outdoor racetrack to
which all of the following apply:
               1.   It is two and four tenths (2.4) miles or more in length;
               2.   It is located on two hundred (200) acres or more of land;
               3.   The primary business of the owner of the facility is the
hosting and promoting of race events.
               4.   The holder of a D-1, D-2, or D-3 permit is located on the
property of the facility.
            ii.   "Racing event" means a motor vehicle racing event sanctioned
by one or more motor racing sanctioning organizations.
      (7)   A.   A person may have in the person's possession an opened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location within an
outdoor refreshment area created under ORC 4301.82 if the opened container of
beer or intoxicating liquor was purchased from a qualified permit holder to
which both of the following apply:
            i.   The permit holder's premises is located within the outdoor
refreshment area.
            ii.   The permit held by the permit holder has an outdoor
refreshment area designation.
         B.   Division (c)(7) of this section does not authorize a person to do
either of the following:
            i.   Enter the premises of an establishment within an outdoor
refreshment area while possessing an opened container of beer or intoxicating
liquor acquired elsewhere;
            ii.   Possess an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
while being in or on a motor vehicle within an outdoor refreshment area, unless
the motor vehicle is stationary and is not being operated in a lane of
vehicular travel or unless the possession is otherwise authorized under
division (d) or (e) of this section.
      (8)   A.   A person may have in the person's possession on the property
of a market, within a defined F-8 permit premises, an opened container of beer
or intoxicating liquor that was purchased from a D permit premises that is
located immediately adjacent to the market if both of the following apply:
            i.   The market grants permission for the possession and
consumption of beer and intoxicating liquor within the defined F-8 permit
premises;
            ii.   The market is hosting an event pursuant to an F-8 permit and
the market has notified the division of liquor control about the event in
accordance with ORC 4303.208(A)(3).
         B.   As used in subsection (c)(8) of this section, "market" means a
market, for which an F-8 permit is held, that has been in operation since 1860.
   (d)   This section does not apply to a person who pays all or a portion of
the fee imposed for use of a chauffeured limousine pursuant to a prearranged
contract or the guest of the person, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person or guest is a passenger in the limousine;
      (2)   The person or guest is located in the limousine, but is not
occupying a seat in the front compartment of the limousine where the operator
of the limousine is located; and
      (3)   The limousine is located on any street, highway, or other public or
private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking.
(ORC 4301.62)
   (e)   An opened bottle of wine that was purchased from the holder of a
permit that authorizes the sale of wine for consumption on the premises where
sold is not an opened container for the purposes of this section if both of the
following apply:
      (1)   The opened bottle of wine is securely resealed by the permit holder
or an employee of the permit holder before the bottle is removed from the
premises. The bottle shall be secured in such a manner that it is visibly
apparent if the bottle has been subsequently opened or tampered with.
      (2)   The opened bottle of wine that is resealed in accordance with
division (e)(1) of this section is stored in the trunk of a motor vehicle or,
if the motor vehicle does not have a trunk, behind the last upright seat or in
an area not normally occupied by the driver or passengers and not easily
accessible by the driver.
   (f)   (1)   Except if an ordinance is enacted or adopted under division (f)
(2) of this section, this section does not apply to a person who, pursuant to a
prearranged contract, is a passenger riding on a commercial quadricycle when
all of the following apply:
         A.   The person is not occupying a seat in the front of the commercial
quadricycle where the operator is steering or braking.
         B.   The commercial quadricycle is being operated on a street,
highway, or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking.
         C.   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
an opened container of beer or wine.
         D.   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
not more than either thirty-six ounces (36 oz.) of beer or eighteen ounces (18
oz.) of wine.
      (2)   The City Council may enact an ordinance that prohibits a passenger
riding on a commercial quadricycle from possessing an opened container of beer
or wine.
      (3)   As used in this section, "commercial quadricycle" means a vehicle
that has fully operative pedals for propulsion entirely by human power and that
meets all of the following requirements:
         A.   It has four wheels and is operated in a manner similar to a
bicycle.
         B.   It has at least five (5) seats for passengers.
         C.   It is designed to be powered by the pedaling of the operator and
the passengers.
         D.   It is used for commercial purposes.
         E.   It is operated by the vehicle owner or an employee of the owner.
(ORC 4301.62)
   (g)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person's
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor on the premises
of a market if the beer or intoxicating liquor has been purchased from a D
liquor permit holder that is located in the market.
      (2)   As used in division (g) of this section, "market' means an
establishment that:
         A.   Leases space in the market to individual vendors, not less than
fifty percent (50%) of which are retail food establishments or food service
operations licensed under ORC Chapter 3717;
         B.   Has an indoor sales floor area of not less than twenty-two
thousand square feet (22,000 sq. ft.);
         C.   Hosts a farmer's market on each Saturday from April through
December.
(ORC 4301.62)
   (h)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC4301.99(A))
§ 612.08 HOURS OF SALE AND CONSUMPTION.
   (a)   This section shall apply to the retail sale of beer, wine, mixed
beverages, or spirituous liquor.
   (b)   No beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor shall be sold or
delivered by an A-1, A-1C, A-2, B-1, B-2, B-4, B-5, C-1, C-2, C-2X, D-1, D-2,
D-2X, D-3 when issued without a D-3A, D-3X, D-4, D-5H, D-5K, D-8, F, F-1, F-2,
F-3, F-4, F-5, F-6, F-7, F-8, F-9, G, or I permit holder:
      (1)   From Monday to Saturday between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:30
a.m.
      (2)   On Sunday between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and Sunday midnight,
unless statutorily authorized otherwise.
      (3)   Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above permit
holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages,
or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.
   (c)   No beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor shall be sold or
delivered by an A-1A, D-3 when issued with a D-3A, D-4A, D-5, D-5A, D-5B, D-5C,
D-5D, D-5E, D-5F, D-5G, D-5I, D-5J, D-5L, D- 5M, D-5N, D-5O, or D-7 permit
holder:
      (1)   From Monday to Saturday between the hours of 2:30 a.m. to 5:30 a.m.
      (2)   On Sunday between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and Sunday midnight,
unless statutorily authorized otherwise.
      (3)   Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above permit
holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages,
or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.
   (d)   Permit holders authorized to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages, or
spirituous liquor at retail who are not specifically identified in divisions
(b) or (c) above shall be subject to the provisions of division (b), unless
statutorily authorized otherwise.
   (e)   The hours on Sunday during which sales, delivery, or consumption of
alcoholic beverages may take place are established by statute, but in no event
shall they begin prior to 5:30 a.m.
(O.A.C. 4301:1-1-49)
   (f)   No association, corporation, local unit of an association or
corporation, or D permit holder who holds an F-2 permit shall sell beer or
intoxicating liquor beyond the hours of sale allowed by the permit. This
subsection imposes strict liability on the holder of such permit and on any
officer, agent or employee of such permit holder.
(ORC 4303.202(D)(2))
   (g)   No F-8 permit holder shall sell beer or intoxicating liquor beyond the
hours of sale allowed by the permit. This subsection imposes strict liability
on the holder of an F-8 permit and on any officer, agent or employee of that
permit holder.
(ORC 4303.208(C))
   (h)   Whoever violates division(f) or (g) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(ORC 4303.99(D))
§ 612.09 (Reserved)
§ 612.10 SALES OF LOW-ALCOHOL BEVERAGES TO UNDERAGE PERSONS; PROHIBITIONS AND
MISREPRESENTATIONS.
   (a)   As used in this section, "underage person" means a person under
eighteen (18) years of age.
   (b)   No underage person shall purchase any low-alcohol beverage.
   (c)   No underage person shall order, pay for, share the cost of, or attempt
to purchase any low-alcohol beverage.
   (d)   No person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the
name, age or other identification of any underage person for the purpose of
obtaining or with the intent to obtain any low-alcohol beverage for an underage
person, by purchase or as a gift.
   (e)   No underage person shall knowingly show or give false information
concerning his or her name, age, or other identification for the purpose of
purchasing or otherwise obtaining any low-alcohol beverage in any place in this
City.
   (f)   No person shall sell or furnish any low-alcohol beverage to, or buy
any low-alcohol beverage for, an underage person, unless given by a physician
in the regular line of his or her practice or given for established religious
purposes, or unless the underage person is accompanied by a parent, spouse who
is not an underage person or legal guardian.
   (g)   (1)   No person who is the owner or occupant of any public or private
place shall knowingly allow any underage person to remain in or on the place
while possessing or consuming any low-alcohol beverage, unless the low-alcohol
beverage is given to the person possessing or consuming it by that person's
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, and the
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian is present when
the person possesses or consumes the low-alcohol beverage.
      (2)   An owner of a public or private place is not liable for acts or
omissions in violation of division (g)(1) that are committed by a lessee of
that place, unless the owner authorizes or acquiesces in the lessee's acts or
omissions.
   (h)   No permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control shall be suspended,
revoked, or canceled because of a violation of either division (f) or (g).
   (i)   No underage person shall knowingly possess or consume any low-alcohol
beverage in any public or private place, unless he or she is accompanied by a
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, or unless the
low-alcohol beverage is given by a physician in the regular line of his or her
practice or given for established religious purposes.
   (j)   No parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian of
an underage person shall knowingly permit the underage person to violate this
section.
(ORC 4301.631)
   (k)   No low-alcohol beverage shall be sold to any person under eighteen
(18) years of age.
(ORC 4301.22)
   (l)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section shall be fined not less
than twenty-five dollars ($25) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100). The
court imposing a fine for a violation of division (b) of this section may order
that the fine be paid by the performance of public work at a reasonable hour
rate established by the court. The court shall designate the time within which
the public work shall be completed.
(ORC 4301.99(E))
   (m)   Whoever violates divisions (c) through (k) hereof is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(ORC 4301.99(B))
§ 612.11 CONDUCT ON PREMISES OF PERMIT HOLDER.
   (a)   No retail permit holder, manager, bartender or employee in charge of a
licensed liquor premises shall knowingly or willingly allow, upon or about the
licensed liquor premises, any fighting, brawling, loud noise, music,
entertainment or other activities which constitute an annoyance or nuisance to
persons outside the premises.
   (b)   The premises of a retail permit holder, after the legal hour of sale
provided in the Ohio Liquor Control Law, in regulations of the Ohio Division of
Liquor Control or in this Chapter, shall provide a clear and unobstructed view
of the interior from the front of the premises.
   (c)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 85-50, passed 8-22-1985)
CHAPTER 618: ANIMALS
Section
618.01   (Reserved)
618.02   Running at Large; Dangerous and Vicious Dogs
618.10   Animal Bites; Reports and Quarantine
618.11   Hunting Prohibited
618.12   Nuisance Conditions Prohibited
618.15   Wild, Untamed, Dangerous or Vicious Animals
618.16   Health Risk Animals
618.17   Marketing Wild or Exotic Animals
618.18   Livestock Prohibited
618.19   Owner Liable for Damages to Public Property
 
   CROSS REFERENCES
   See sectional histories for similar State law
   Disorderly Conduct will Intoxicated - see GEN. OFF.
648.04
   Driving Under the Influence - see ORC 4511.19
   Effect of Voluntary Intoxication on Criminal Liability - see GEN. OFF.
606.07
   Liquor Control Law - see ORC Ch. 4301
   Liquor Permits - see ORC Ch. 4303
   Local Option - see ORC 4303.29
   Suspension of Alcohol Sales During Emergency - see ORC 4301.251
§ 618.01 (Reserved)
§ 618.02 RUNNING AT LARGE; DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS DOGS.
   (a)   No person who is the owner or keeper of horses, mules, cattle, sheep,
goats, swine, dogs, geese or other fowl or animals shall permit them to run at
large upon any public or private property within the City.
   (b)   A person who is the owner or has charge of any animal shall not permit
it to run at large in the public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon
unenclosed land, or permit them to go upon any private yard, lot or enclosure
without the consent of the owner of the yard, lot or enclosure.
   (c)   No person shall cause animals to be herded, kept, or detained for the
purpose of grazing on premises other than those owned or occupied by the owner
or keeper thereof without the consent of the owner of the premises.
   (d)   The running at large of such animal in or upon any of the places
mentioned in divisions (a) through (c) above is prima facie evidence that it is
running at large in violation of this section.
   (e)   No owner of a vicious dog, as designated by a judge, shall keep, own,
possess, harbor, maintain, and have the care, custody, or control of such a dog
within the municipal limits of the City. No one who has owned or currently owns
a vicious dog shall be permitted to keep, own, possess, harbor, maintain, and
have the care, custody, or control of an American bulldog, Canary dog, or pit
bull terrier or any previously labeled dangerous or vicious dog in the City in
the future.
   (f)   Whoever violates divisions (a) through (e) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Ord. 91-19. Passed 04/25/91; Ord. 06-34. Passed 05/25/06. Ord. 11-70. Passed
11/22/11. Ord. 12-30. Passed 06/14/12; Ord. 2021-04. Adopted 02/11/21)
§ 618.10 ANIMAL BITES; REPORTS AND QUARANTINE.
   (a)   (1)   Whenever any person is bitten by a dog or other animal, report
of such bite shall be made to the Health Officer within twenty-four (24) hours.
The dog or other animal inflicting the bite shall immediately be examined by a
qualified veterinarian and the results of such examination shall be reported to
the Board of Health within twenty-four (24) hours. At the direction of the
Health Officer, the dog or other animal shall either be confined by its owner
or harborer to his or her premises, away from the public at large, or be placed
under the supervision of a veterinarian at the owner's or harborer's expense.
The isolation or observation period shall not be less than ten (10) days from
the date the person was bitten, at which time report of the condition of the
animal shall be made to the Health Officer.
      (2)   No person shall fail to comply with the requirements of this
section or with any order of the Health Officer made pursuant thereto, nor fail
to immediately report to the Health Officer any symptom or behavior suggestive
of rabies.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(1964 Code 505.10; Ord. 06-34. Passed 05/25/06)
§ 618.11 HUNTING PROHIBITED.
   (a)   Prohibition. Except as otherwise provided in division (b) of this
section, no person shall hunt, kill, or attempt to kill any animal, wild
quadruped, bird, or fowl by any means within the corporate limits of the City.
   (b)   Permit to Hunt. The Public Safety Director, or his designee, in his or
her sole discretion, is hereby authorized to issue permits to owners of real
property within the City to allow the property owner or the property owner's
designee to hunt nuisance bird or wild quadrupeds on the owner's property. Such
permitted hunting shall be by bow and arrow only, and such hunting shall be
conducted in compliance with Ohio's hunting and game laws and regulations,
including any season limitations or number limitations, and any conditions
imposed by the Public Safety Director. The City Manager is hereby authorized to
establish, by administrative directive, a fee for such hunting permit.
   (c)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
   (d)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:
      (1)   "Animal" means any living animal other than a human being.
      (2)   "Bird" means a warm-blooded egg-laying vertebrate distinguished by
the possession of feathers, wings, and a beak and typically being able to fly.
      (3)   "Fowl" means domesticated birds, including chicken, ducks, and
geese.
      (4)   "Nuisance birds" means any wild bird that is causing verifiable
damage to real property, farm crops, livestock, or fowl.
      (5)   "Nuisance wild quadruped" means any wild quadruped that is causing
verifiable damage to property, farm crops, livestock, or fowl.
      (6)   "Wild quadruped" includes cottontail rabbits, squirrels, chipmunks,
groundhogs or woodchucks, white-tailed deer, minks, weasels, raccoons, skunks,
opossums, muskrats, fox, beavers, badgers, otters, coyotes, bobcats, wild boar,
elk, and black bears.
(1964 Code 505.11; Ord. 06-34. Adopted 05/25/06; Ord. 11-70. Adopted 11/22/11;
Ord. 2019-22. Adopted 11/26/19; Ord. 2022-41. Adopted 10/27/22)
§ 618.12 NUISANCE CONDITIONS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall keep or harbor any animal, livestock, poultry, wild or
exotic animal in the City so as to create offensive odors or unsanitary
conditions.
   (b)   No person, owning, keeping or harboring any animal shall permit such
animal to dig, urinate, defecate or other damage any public property or private
property other than the parcel owned or occupied by such owner, keeper or
harborer of such animal. The person in charge of such animal shall immediately
remove all feces deposited by it and shall dispose of the same in a sanitary
manner.
   (c)   No person shall keep or harbor any animal, livestock, poultry, wild or
exotic animal within the City which, by frequent and habitual howling, yelping,
barking or other activity, creates unreasonably loud and disturbing noises of
such character, intensity and duration as to disturb the peace and quiet of the
community or as to annoy, disturb or endanger the comfort, repose or health of
persons occupying property in the neighborhood. The provisions of this division
(c) shall pertain to and be enforced in all areas incorporated within the City,
including all public parks; however, this division shall not apply to a guide
dog accompanying a blind person or to a service dog accompanying a disabled
person or to a dog when used in police or rescue activities.
   (d)   No person shall keep or harbor any animal, livestock, poultry, wild or
exotic animal in or about an animal shelter adjoining to or abutting upon any
lot upon which another person resides, or any street or highway, so as to
constitute a threat to the preservation of the health, safety or general
welfare of the public. All places maintained for the harboring or keeping of an
animal, livestock, poultry, wild or exotic animal shall be maintained in a
clean and sanitary condition free from rats, mice, filth, vermin, rubbish or
collection of feces.
   (e)   No person owning, keeping or harboring any animal, livestock, poultry,
wild or exotic animal shall take, lead or carry such animal, livestock,
poultry, wild or exotic animal into any store or place of business, or permit
or allow such animal, livestock, poultry, wild or exotic animal to enter any
store or place of business within the City except the office of a veterinarian
or pet shop or other place of business for the purpose of obtaining services
therein offered to such animal, livestock, poultry, wild or exotic animal,
provided, however, this section shall not apply to a blind person accompanied
by a "seeing eye" dog.
   (f)   No person owning, keeping or harboring any animal, livestock, poultry,
wild or exotic animal shall fail to exercise proper care and control of his or
her animal, livestock, poultry, wild or exotic animal to prevent them from
becoming a public nuisance. Chasing vehicles, molesting passerbys, habitually
attacking other domestic animals, trespassing upon school grounds, or
trespassing upon private property in such manner as to damage property, shall
be deemed a nuisance.
   (g) Nothing in division (a) shall prohibit the keeping of animals in public
parks or at the Greene County Fairgrounds.
   (h)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and
shall be subject to the penalty provided in Section 698.02 of this General
Offenses Code.
(1964 Code 505.08(b); Ord. 78-36. Passed 07/27/78; Ord. 06-34. Passed 05/25/06)
§ 618.15 WILD, UNTAMED, DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (a)     It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or have in his
or her possession or under his or her control within the City any poisonous
reptile or any other dangerous or carnivorous wild animal or reptile, any
vicious or dangerous domesticated animal or any other animal or reptile of
wild, vicious or dangerous propensities.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or have in his
or her possession or under his or her control within the City any of the
following animals:
      (1)   All poisonous animals including rear-fang snakes;
      (2)   Apes: Chimpanzees (Pan); gibbons (Hylobates); gorillas (Gorilla);
orangutans (Pongo); and siamangs (Symphalangus);
      (3)   Baboons (Papoi, Mandrillus);
      (4)   Bears (Ursidae);
      (5)   Bison (Bison);
      (6)   Cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus);
      (7)   Constrictor snakes, six feet in length or more;
      (8)   Coyotes (Canis latrans);
      (9)   Crocodilians (Crocodilia), 30 inches in length or more;
      (10)   Deer (Cervidae); includes all members of the deer family, for
example, white-tailed deer, elk, antelope and moose;
      (11)   Elephants (Elephas and Loxodonta);
      (12)   Game cocks and other fighting birds;
      (13)   Hippopotami (Hippopotamidae);
      (14)   Hyenas (Hyaenidae);
      (15)   Jaguars (Panthera onca);
      (16)   Leopards (Panthera pardus);
      (17)   Lions (Panthera leo);
      (18)   Lynxes (Lynx);
      (19)   Monkeys, old world (Cercopithecidae);
      (20)   Ostriches (Struthio);
      (21)   Piranha fish (Characidae);
      (22)   Pumas (Felis concolor); also known as cougars, mountain lions and
panthers;
      (23)   Rhinoceroses (Rhinocero tidae);
      (24)   Sharks (class Chondrichthyes);
      (25)   Snow leopards (Panthera uncia);
      (26)   Spiders (Arachnida);
      (27)   Swine (Suidae), except pot-bellied pigs;
      (28)   Tigers (Panthera tigris); and
      (29)   Wolves (Canis lupus).
   (c)   The provisions of divisions (a) and (b) shall not apply to zoological
gardens and circuses if:
      (1)   Their location conforms to the provisions of the City's Land
Development Code;
      (2)   All animals and animals' quarters are kept in a clean and sanitary
condition and so maintained as to eliminate objectionable odors;
      (3)   Animals are kept in quarters so constructed as to prevent their
escape; and
      (4)   No person lives or resides within one hundred feet (100') of the
quarters in which the animals are kept.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on the
first offense. Each subsequent offense is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Ord. 78-36. Passed 07/27/78; Ord. 06-34. Passed 05/25/06)
§ 618.16 HEALTH RISK ANIMALS.
   (a)   No person shall willfully own, keep, feed, or harbor any dangerous or
wild animal within City limits that could constitute a health risk to humans or
domesticated animals. These "health risk animals" include, but are not limited
to, rodents, raccoons, opossum, skunks, coyotes, wolves, bats, groundhogs, or
any other animal capable of passing harmful viruses, fungi, or bacteria such
as, but not limited to, rabies, tuberculosis, and encephalitis. Squirrels and
wild birds shall be an exception to this division.
   (b)   Squirrels and wild birds may be fed within City limits, provided
reasonable efforts are made to avoid access to the feed by other animals
covered by division (a) of this section.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 06-34. Passed 05/25/06)
§ 618.17 MARKETING WILD OR EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   (a)   No person shall market in any form wholesale or retail, wild or exotic
animals within the City. Exceptions to the above include pure domestic cats,
pure domestic dogs (not highbred), domestic rabbits, guinea pigs, chinchilla,
mice, hamsters, gerbils, parrot-like birds, non-poisonous fish, and non-lethal
reptiles.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. Each
day such section is violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 06-34. Passed 05/25/06)
§ 618.18 LIVESTOCK PROHIBITED.
   (a)   Livestock, or farm animals, shall be prohibited within the City except
in the A-1, Agricultural District.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor; each
subsequent offense is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Ord. 06-34. Passed 05/25/06; Ord. 12-48. Passed 10/25/12)
§ 618.19 OWNER LIABLE FOR DAMAGES TO PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   The owner, keeper or harborer of any animal, livestock, poultry, wild or
exotic animal which damages or destroys public property shall be held liable
for the full value of the property damaged or destroyed, in addition to any
penalty imposed for violation of this Chapter.
(Ord. 06-34. Passed 05/25/06)
CHAPTER 620: CIVIL RIGHTS
Section
620.01   Declaration of policy.
620.02   Definitions.
620.03   Employment.
620.04   Public accommodations.
620.05   Sale or rental of housing.
620.06   Financing of housing.
620.07   Brokerage services.
620.08   Aiding and abetting discrimination.
620.09   Exemptions.
620.10   Posting of Equal Housing Opportunity Notices.
620.11   Interpretation; conflicts of laws.
620.12   Amendments.
620.13   Separability.
 
620.99   Penalty; equitable remedies.
   CROSS REFERENCES
   Defrauding of Hotels - see GEN. OFF.
672.14
   Intimidation in Connection with Housing - see GEN. OFF.
636.23
   Nondiscrimination in Employment - see CHTR.
13.01(A)
   Ohio Civil Rights Commission - see ORC Ch. 4112
§ 620.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the City of Xenia to do all things
necessary and proper to secure, for all its citizens, the right to be free from
discriminatory practices based upon race, color, religion, sex, familial
status, national origin, disability, age, ancestry or HIV-positive status.
(Ord. 96-43, passed 5-23-1996)
§ 620.02 (Reserved)
§ 620.03 EMPLOYMENT.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter:
   (a)   For any employer, because of the race, color, religion, sex, familial
status, national origin, disability, age, ancestry or HIV-positive status of
any person, to discharge without just cause, to refuse to hire, or to otherwise
discriminate against, that person with respect to hire, tenure, terms,
conditions or privileges of employment, or any matter directly or indirectly
related to employment.
   (b)   For any labor organization to limit or classify its membership on the
basis of race, color, religion, sex, familial status, national origin,
disability, age, ancestry or HIV-positive status, or to discriminate against,
limit the employment opportunities of, or otherwise adversely affect, the
employment status, wages, hours or employment conditions of any person as an
employee because of race, color, religion, sex, familial status, national
origin, disability, age, ancestry or HIV-positive status.
   (c)   For any person seeking employment to publish or cause to be published
any advertisement which specifies or in any manner indicates that person’s
race, color, religion, sex, familial status, national origin, disability, age,
ancestry or HIV-positive status, or which expresses a limitation or preference
as to the race, color, religion, sex, familial status, national origin,
disability, age, ancestry or HIV-positive status of any prospective employer.
(Ord. 96-43, passed 5-23-1996)
§ 620.04 PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS.
   No proprietor, employee, keeper or manager of a place of public
accommodation shall deny to any person, except for reasons applicable alike to
all persons regardless of race, color, religion, sex, familial status, national
origin, disability, age, ancestry or HIV-positive status, the full enjoyment of
the accommodations, advantages, facilities or privileges of the place of public
accommodation.
(Ord. 96-43, passed 5-23-1996)
§ 620.05 SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter:
   (a)   To refuse to sell or rent, after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion,
sex, familial status, national origin, disability, age, ancestry or HIV-
positive status.
   (b)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of the sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services
or facilities in connection therewith, including the sale of fire, extended
coverage or home owners’ insurance, because of race, color, religion, sex,
familial status, national origin, disability, age, ancestry or HIV-positive
status.
   (c)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published,
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling, that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, familial status, national origin, disability, age,
ancestry or HIV-positive status, or any intention to make any such preference,
limitation or discrimination.
   (d)   To represent to any person, because of race, color, religion, sex,
familial status, national origin, disability, age, ancestry or HIV-positive
status, that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale or rental when
such dwelling is in fact so available.
   (e)   To induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent any dwelling
by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into the
neighborhood, or exclusion from the neighborhood, of a person of a particular
race, color, religion, sex, familial status, national origin, disability, age,
ancestry or HIV-positive status.
(Ord. 96-43, passed 5-23-1996)
§ 620.06 FINANCING OF HOUSING.
   (a)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any bank, building and
loan association, insurance company or other corporation, association, firm or
enterprise, whose business consists, in whole or in part, in the making of
commercial real estate loans, to deny a loan or other financial assistance to a
person applying therefor, for the purpose of purchasing, constructing,
improving, repairing or maintaining a dwelling, or to discriminate against any
person in the fixing of the amount, interest rate, duration or other terms or
conditions of such loan or other financial assistance, because of the racial
composition of the neighborhood in which the housing accommodations are located
or because of the race, color, religion, sex, familial status, national origin,
disability, age, ancestry or HIV-positive status of such person, or of any
person associated with that person in connection with such loan or other
financial assistance or the purposes of such loan or other financial
assistance, or of the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants or
occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such loan or other
financial assistance is to be made or given.
   (b)   Nothing contained in this section shall impair the scope or
effectiveness of the exemption contained in this chapter.
(Ord. 96-43, passed 5-23-1996)
§ 620.07 BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter to deny any person access to,
membership in, or participation in, any multiple-listing service, real estate
brokers’ organization or other service, organization or facility relating to
the business of selling or renting housing accommodations, or to discriminate
against any person in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or
participation on account of race, color, religion, sex, familial status,
national origin, disability, age, ancestry or HIV-positive status.
(Ord. 96-43, passed 5-23-1996)
§ 620.08 AIDING AND ABETTING DISCRIMINATION.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a person to assist, aid, abet,
induce, incite or coerce another person to commit an act or engage in any
practice that is prohibited by this chapter.
(Ord. 96-43, passed 5-23-1996)
§ 620.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (a)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, sex,
familial status, national origin, disability, age, ancestry or HIV-positive
status. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club that is not
in fact open to the public, which, incident to its primary purpose or purposes,
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (b)   Nothing in this chapter pertaining to discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall be construed to apply to housing accommodations provided
under any state or federal programs that have been determined, under the Fair
Housing Amendments Act of 1988, 102 Stat. 1623, 42 U.S.C.A. 3607, as amended,
to be specifically designed and operated to assist elderly persons, or intended
for and solely occupied by persons who are 62 years of age or older, or
intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person who is 55 years of
age or older per unit, as determined under the Fair Housing Amendments Act of
1988.
(Ord. 96-43, passed 5-23-1996)
§ 620.10 POSTING OF EQUAL HOUSING OPPORTUNITY NOTICES.
   Every real estate agent shall post, in a conspicuous location in that
portion of his or her place of business normally used for negotiating the terms
of a sale or lease of housing, and each person who operates a multi-unit
residential building containing more than two units shall post, at all times
when prospective tenants are being interviewed, in a conspicuous location in
that portion of his or her housing business normally used for negotiating the
rental of a housing unit therein, an Equal Housing Opportunity Notice.
(Ord. 96-43, passed 5-23-1996)
§ 620.11 INTERPRETATION; CONFLICTS OF LAWS.
   (a)   The provisions of this chapter shall be construed liberally for the
accomplishment of the purposes thereof.
   (b)   Nothing contained in this chapter is intended to conflict with any
general law of the State of Ohio or of the United States, and particularly with
the statutes providing for the administration of the law by the Ohio Civil
Rights Commission under Ohio R.C. 4112.01 through 4112.99.
(Ord. 96-43, passed 5-23-1996)
§ 620.12 AMENDMENTS.
   In the event the Community Relations Commission proposes to change any
provision of this chapter or Chapter 276 of the Administration Code, the
Community Relations Commission is required to hold a public hearing on the
proposed changes prior to presenting the proposed changes to the City Council.
The Community Relations Commission shall be subject to the requirements set
forth in
Chapter 206 of the Administration Code.
(Ord. 96-43, passed 5-23-1996)
§ 620.13 SEPARABILITY.
   If any of the provisions of this chapter, or any portion thereof, or the
application of such provisions or portions to any person or circumstance, shall
be held invalid, the remainder of this chapter and its application to persons
or circumstances other than those to which it is held invalid shall not be
affected thereby.
(Ord. 96-43, passed 5-23-1996)
§ 620.99 PENALTY; EQUITABLE REMEDIES.
   (a)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (b)   In any proceeding where the court determines that there has been a
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, the court shall award
compensatory damages and, where appropriate, punitive damages of not more than
two thousand dollars ($2,000.00), along with attorney’s fees and court costs.
The court may also order such other relief as it may deem necessary or
appropriate, which relief may include, but is not limited to, the issuance of
any permanent or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order or other
order.
   (c)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall prevent any person from
exercising any right or seeking any remedy to which that person might be
entitled or from filing any complaint with any other agency or court of law or
equity.
(Ord. 96-43, passed 5-23-1996)
CHAPTER 622: CLEAN INDOOR AIR
Section
622.01   Findings; purpose.
622.02   (Reserved)
622.03   Prohibited smoking places.
622.04   Permitted smoking places.
622.05   Voluntary designation of no-smoking areas in permitted smoking places.
622.06   Smoking regulations in office workplaces.
622.07   Posting of signs.
622.08   Enforcement.
622.09   Declaration of nuisance; injunction.
622.10   Separate offenses.
   CROSS REFERENCES
   No Smoking Areas - see ORC 3791.031
   Smoke Detectors - see ORC 3781.104
   Smoking in Daycare Centers or Homes - see ORC 5104.015
   Smoking Prohibited in Self-Service Filling Stations - see ORC 3741.14
§ 622.01 FINDINGS; PURPOSE.
   The rights and needs of those who wish smoke-free air are hereby recognized,
and the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the city require the
regulation of smoking in enclosed places of public assembly and certain places
of employment. It is the purpose of this chapter to incorporate herein
regulations governing smoking in places of public assembly, as set forth in
Ohio R.C. 3791.031.
(Ord. 85-75, passed 10-24-1985)
§ 622.02 (Reserved)
§ 622.03 PROHIBITED SMOKING PLACES.
   (a)   No person shall smoke in any of the following places within the city:
      (1)   Enclosed theaters, except lobbies;
      (2)   Auditoriums;
      (3)   Classrooms;
      (4)   Elevators;
      (5)   Areas within gasoline service stations, as defined in Ohio R.C.
3741.14 and the Ohio Fire Code;
      (6)   The City Council room;
      (7)   All buildings and other enclosed structures owned and occupied by
the city, except in designated smoking areas;
      (8)   Restaurants, dining rooms, cafes and cafeterias of 50 or more
seats, except in designated smoking areas;
      (9)   Serving lines of cafeterias;
      (10)   Hospitals and nursing homes, except rooms or spaces specifically
set aside for smoking;
      (11)   County offices and places of public assembly, as defined in Ohio
R.C. 3791.031(A)(2), except in designated smoking areas; and
      (12)   Places where smoking is otherwise prohibited by law.
    (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 85-75, passed 10-24-1985)
§ 622.04 PERMITTED SMOKING PLACES.
   (a)   Smoking is permitted in the following places within the city:
      (1)   Unenclosed areas;
      (2)   Hotels and motels, except in no smoking areas;
      (3)   Retail stores;
      (4)   Business establishments not named in §
622.03, except in certain office workplaces;
      (5)   Office waiting rooms, except in designated no smoking areas;
      (6)   Restaurants with seating capacities of less than 50;
      (7)   Lobbies of financial institutions;
      (8)   Bowling alleys;
      (9)   Places licensed by the State Department of Liquor Control to sell
intoxicating beverages for consumption on the premises;
      (10)   Private homes which serve as office workplaces;
      (11)   Property owned or leased by federal government entities;
      (12)   Private, enclosed office workplaces occupied exclusively by
smokers, even though such office workplaces may be visited by nonsmokers; and
      (13)   Other places and areas not set forth in §§
622.03 and
622.06.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 85-75, passed 10-24-1985)
§ 622.05 VOLUNTARY DESIGNATION OF NO-SMOKING AREAS IN PERMITTED SMOKING PLACES.
   The owner, manager or operator of any place in which smoking is permitted,
pursuant to §
622.04, may voluntarily provide and designate no smoking areas to accommodate
those persons annoyed or distressed by smoke. A violation of voluntarily
designated no smoking areas is not subject to the penalty provisions of §
622.99.
(Ord. 85-75, passed 10-24-1985)
§ 622.06 SMOKING REGULATIONS IN OFFICE WORKPLACES.
   (a)   Each employer who operates an office in the city shall, within three
months of the adoption of this chapter (Ordinance 85-75, passed 10-24-1985),
adopt, implement and maintain a written smoking policy which shall contain, at
a minimum, the following provisions and requirements:
      (1)   Any nonsmoking employee may object, in writing, to his or her
employer about smoke in the workplace. Using already available means of
ventilation or separation or partition of office space, the employer shall
attempt to arrange an environment in which there is a location where the
nonsmoker works which is smoke-free. The employer, however, is not required to
make any expenditures for structural changes to accommodate the preferences of
nonsmoking or smoking employees.
      (2)   If an arrangement complying with subsection (a)(1) of this section
cannot be reached in any given office workplace, the employer shall prohibit
smoking in such office workplace. Where the employer prohibits smoking in an
office workplace, the area in which smoking is prohibited shall be clearly
marked with signs.
   (b)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 85-75, passed 10-24-1985)
§ 622.07 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   (a)   “Smoking Permitted” or “No Smoking” signs shall be conspicuously
posted in every room, building or other place where smoking is controlled by
this chapter, by the owner, operator, manager or other person having control of
such room, building or other place.
    (b)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 85-75, passed 10-24-1985)
§ 622.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (a)   It is the right of any owner, manager or operator and his or her
employees to inform persons violating this chapter of the appropriate
provisions hereof.
    (b)   Any person who wishes to file a complaint hereunder may do so with
the Police Division. The Chief of Police, through a person designated by him or
her, shall implement the enforcement by first issuing a letter pointing out the
requirements of this chapter.
    (c)   If the letter fails to bring about compliance with this chapter, then
a formal complaint may be filed in the Xenia Municipal Court.
(Ord. 85-75, passed 10-24-1985)
§ 622.09 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE; INJUNCTION.
   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is hereby declared to
be a nuisance. In addition to other relief provided by this chapter, the Law
Director may apply to the Court of Common Pleas for an injunction to prohibit
the continuation of any violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 85-75, passed 10-24-1985)
§ 622.10 SEPARATE OFFENSES.
   A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation of or noncompliance with any of the provisions of this chapter occurs
or continues.
(Ord. 85-75, passed 10-24-1985)
CHAPTER 624: DRUGS
Section
624.01   (Reserved)
624.02   Trafficking in marihuana. (Repealed)
624.025   Cultivation of marihuana. (Repealed)
624.03   Drug abuse. (Repealed)
624.04   Possession of drug abuse instruments. (Repealed)
624.05   Permitting drug abuse. (Repealed)
624.06   Use or possession of paraphernalia. (Repealed)
624.07   Abusing harmful intoxicants. (Repealed)
624.073   Improperly dispensing or distributing nitrous oxide.
624.076   Possessing nitrous oxide in motor vehicles.
624.08   Illegal dispensing of drug samples.
624.09   Counterfeit controlled substances. (Repealed)
624.10   Controlled substance or prescription labels.
624.11   Possession, sale and disposal of hypodermics.
624.12   Evidence.
624.13   Double jeopardy.
624.14   Controlled substance schedules.
   CROSS REFERENCES
   See section histories for similar state law
§ 624.01 (Reserved)
§ 624.02 TRAFFICKING IN MARIHUANA. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 624.02 was repealed by Ordinance 99-47, passed 9-9-
1999.)
§ 624.025 CULTIVATION OF MARIHUANA. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 624.025 was repealed by Ordinance 99-47, passed 9-9-
1999.)
§ 624.03 DRUG ABUSE. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 624.03 was repealed by Ordinance 99-47, passed 9-9-
1999.)
§ 624.04 POSSESSION OF DRUG ABUSE INSTRUMENTS. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 624.04 was repealed by Ordinance 99-47, passed 9-9-
1999.)
§ 624.05 PERMITTING DRUG ABUSE. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 624.05 was repealed by Ordinance 99-47, passed 9-9-
1999.)
§ 624.06 USE OR POSSESSION OF PARAPHERNALIA. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 624.06 was repealed by Ordinance 99-47, passed 9-9-
1999.)
§ 624.07 ABUSING HARMFUL INTOXICANTS. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 624.07 was repealed by Ordinance 99-47, passed 9-9-
1999.)
§ 624.073 IMPROPERLY DISPENSING OR DISTRIBUTING NITROUS OXIDE.
   (a)   No person who dispenses or distributes nitrous oxide in cartridges
shall fail to comply with either of the following:
      (1)   The record-keeping requirements established under subsection (c) of
this section; or
      (2)   The labeling and transaction identification requirements
established under subsection (d) of this section.
   (b)   Whoever violates subsection (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section is guilty
of improperly dispensing or distributing nitrous oxide, a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (c)   Beginning 7-1-2001, a person who dispenses or distributes nitrous
oxide shall record each transaction involving the dispensing or distribution of
the nitrous oxide on a separate card. The person shall require the purchaser to
sign the card and provide a complete residence address. The person dispensing
or distributing the nitrous oxide shall sign and date the card. The person
shall retain the card recording a transaction for one year from the date of the
transaction. The person shall maintain the cards at the person’s business
address and make them available during normal business hours for inspection and
copying by officers or employees of the State Board of Pharmacy or of other law
enforcement agencies that are authorized to investigate violations of this
code, Ohio R.C. Chapters 2925, 3719, or 4729, or federal drug abuse control
laws. The cards used to record each transaction shall inform the purchaser of
the following:
      (1)   That nitrous oxide cartridges are to be used only for purposes of
preparing food;
      (2)   That inhalation of nitrous oxide can have dangerous health effects;
and
      (3)   That it is a violation of state law to distribute or dispense
cartridges of nitrous oxide to any person under age 21, punishable as a felony
of the fifth degree.
   (d)   (1)   Each cartridge of nitrous oxide dispensed or distributed in this
municipality shall bear the following printed warning: “Nitrous oxide
cartridges are to be used only for purposes of preparing food. Nitrous oxide
cartridges may not be sold to persons under age 21. Do not inhale contents.
Misuse can be dangerous to your health.”
      (2)   Each time a person dispenses or distributes one or more cartridges
of nitrous oxide, the person shall mark the packaging containing the cartridges
with a label or other device that identifies the person who dispensed or
distributed the nitrous oxide and the person’s business address.
(ORC 2925.32(B)(4), (D)(2), (F), (G))
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking in harmful intoxicants, felony offenses, see Ohio R.C. 2925.32
§ 624.076 POSSESSING NITROUS OXIDE IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (a)   (EDITOR’S NOTE: The definitions contained in this section are also
located in Chapter 604, § 604.01.) As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE,
STREET and HIGHWAY have the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4511.01.
   (b)   Unless authorized by these Codified Ordinances or by state law, no
person shall possess an open cartridge of nitrous oxide in either of the
following circumstances:
      (1)   While operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on a
street, highway or other public or private property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking.
      (2)   While being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on a street,
highway or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular traffic or parking.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing nitrous oxide in
a motor vehicle, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (d)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for
possessing nitrous oxide in a motor vehicle, the court may suspend for not more
than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit.
(ORC 2925.33)
§ 624.08 ILLEGAL DISPENSING OF DRUG SAMPLES.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly furnish a sample drug to another person.
   (b)   Subsection (a) of this section does not apply to manufacturers,
wholesalers, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, licensed health professionals
authorized to prescribe drugs, and other persons whose conduct is in accordance
with ORC Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4725, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal dispensing of
drug samples.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the offense is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or II of ORC 3719.41 with the
exception of marihuana, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the offense is a dangerous drug or a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, IV or V
of ORC 3719.41, or is marihuana, the penalty for the offense shall be
determined as follows.
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in the following subsection, illegal
dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         B.   If the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
   (d)   (1)   In addition to any prison term authorized or required by
subsection (c) of this section and ORC 2929.13 and 2929.14 and in addition to
any other sanction imposed for the offense under this section or ORC 2929.11 to
2929.18, the court that sentences an offender who is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a violation of subsection (a) of this section may suspend for not
more than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit. However, if the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a
violation of ORC 4511.19 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance or the
law of another state or the United States arising out of the same set of
circumstances as the violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the
offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction
imposed for a violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply
with ORC 2925.38.
      (2)   A.   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of ORC 4511.19 or a substantially
similar municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States that
arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         B.   Upon the filing of a motion under subsection (d)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
   (e)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of ORC 3719.21, the Clerk of
Court shall pay a fine imposed for a violation of this section pursuant to ORC
2929.18(A) in accordance with and subject to the requirements of ORC 2925.03
(F). The agency that receives the fine shall use the fine as specified in ORC
2925.03(F).
(ORC 2925.36)
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see ORC 2925.36(C)(2)
§ 624.09 COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 624.09 was repealed by Ordinance 99-47, passed 9-9-
1999.)
§ 624.10 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE OR PRESCRIPTION LABELS.
   (a)   Whenever a manufacturer sells a controlled substance, and whenever a
wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility sells a controlled substance in
a package the wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility has prepared, the
manufacturer or the wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility, as the
case may be, shall securely affix to each package in which the controlled
substance is contained a label showing in legible English the name and address
of the vendor and the quantity, kind, and form of controlled substance
contained therein. No person, except a pharmacist for the purpose of dispensing
a controlled substance upon a prescription shall alter, deface, or remove any
label so affixed. As used in this division, “repackager” and “outsourcing
facility” have the same meanings as in ORC 4729.01.
   (b)   No person shall alter, deface or remove any label affixed pursuant to
ORC 3719.08 as long as any of the original contents remain.
(ORC 3719.08(A), (E))
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, or ORC 3719.07 or 3719.08, or a drug abuse offense, a violation of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
violation involves the sale, offer to sell, or possession of a Schedule I or II
controlled substance, with the exception of marihuana, and if the offender, as
a result of the violation, is a major drug offender, then ORC 3719.99(D)
applies.
(ORC 3719.99(C))
§ 624.11 POSSESSION, SALE AND DISPOSAL OF HYPODERMICS.
   (a)   Possession of a hypodermic is authorized for the following:
      (1)   A manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in hypodermics, or
medication packaged in hypodermics, and any authorized agent of employee of
that manufacturer, distributor or dealer, in the regular course of business;
      (2)   A terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, in the regular course of
business;
      (3)   A person authorized to administer injections, in the regular course
of the person’s profession or employment;
      (4)   A person, when the hypodermic in his or her possession was lawfully
obtained and is kept and used for the purpose of self-administration of insulin
or other drug prescribed for the treatment of disease by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs;
      (5)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for legal research, clinical,
educational or medicinal purposes;
      (6)   A farmer, for the lawful administration of a drug to an animal; or
      (7)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for lawful professional,
mechanical, trade or craft purposes.
   (b)   (1)   No manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in, hypodermics or
medication packaged in hypodermics, or their authorized agents or employees,
and no terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, shall display any hypodermic
for sale.
      (2)   No person authorized to possess a hypodermic pursuant to subsection
(a) of this section shall negligently fail to take reasonable precautions to
prevent any hypodermic in the person’s possession from theft or acquisition by
any unauthorized person.
(ORC 3719.172(A), (B))
   (c)   Whoever violates subsection (b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of subsection (b) of this section, Ohio R.C. 3719.05, 3719.06,
3719.13, 3719.172(B), or 3719.31, or a drug abuse offense, a violation of
subsection (b) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 3719.99(E))
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see Ohio R.C. 3719.172(C), (D)
§ 624.12 EVIDENCE.
   (a)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of this chapter or
Ohio R.C. Chapters 2925 or 3719, a laboratory report from the Bureau of
Criminal Identification and Investigation or a laboratory operated by another
law enforcement agency, or a laboratory established by or under the authority
of an institution of higher education that has its main campus in this state
and that is accredited by the Association of American Universities or the North
Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, primarily for the
purpose of providing scientific service to law enforcement agencies, and signed
by the person performing the analysis, stating that the substance that is the
basis of the alleged offense has been weighed and analyzed and stating the
findings as to the content, weight, and identity of the substance and that it
contains any amount of a controlled substance and the number and description of
unit dosages, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity, and weight or
the existence and number of unit dosages of the substance. In any criminal
prosecution for a violation of Ohio R.C. 2925.041 or a violation of this
chapter, Ohio R.C. Chapter 2925 or Ohio R.C. Chapter 3719 that is based on the
possession of chemicals sufficient to produce a compound, mixture, preparation,
or substance included in Schedule I, II, III, IV, or V, a laboratory report
from the Bureau or from any laboratory that is operated or established as
described in this subsection that is signed by the person performing the
analysis, stating that the substances that are the basis of the alleged offense
have been weighed and analyzed and stating the findings as to the content,
weight, and identity of each of the substances, is prima facie evidence of the
content, identity, and weight of the substances.
      (2)   Attached to that report shall be a copy of a notarized statement by
the signer of the report giving the name of the signer and stating that the
signer is an employee of the laboratory issuing the report and that performing
the analysis is a part of the signer’s regular duties, and giving an outline of
the signer’s education, training, and experience for performing an analysis of
materials included under this section. The signer shall attest that
scientifically accepted tests were performed with due caution, and that the
evidence was handled in accordance with established and accepted procedures
while in the custody of the laboratory.
   (b)   The prosecuting attorney shall serve a copy of the report on the
attorney of record for the accused, or on the accused if the accused has no
attorney, prior to any proceeding in which the report is to be used against the
accused other than at a preliminary hearing or grand jury proceeding where the
report may be used without having been previously served upon the accused.
   (c)   The report shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents,
identity, and weight or the existence and number of unit dosages of the
substance if the accused or the accused’s attorney demands the testimony of the
person signing the report, by serving the demand upon the prosecuting attorney,
within seven days from the accused or the accused’s attorney’s receipt of the
report. The time may be extended by a trial judge in the interests of justice.
   (d)   Any report issued for use under this section shall contain notice of
the right of the accused to demand, and the manner in which the accused shall
demand, the testimony of the person signing the report.
   (e)   Any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or Ohio R.C.
Chapters 2925 or 3719 is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a portion of the substance that is, or of each of the
substances that are, the basis of the alleged violation preserved for the
benefit of independent analysis performed by a laboratory analyst employed by
the accused person, or, if the accused is indigent, by a qualified laboratory
analyst appointed by the court. Such portion shall be a representative sample
of the entire substance that is, or of each of the substances that are, the
basis of the alleged violation and shall be of sufficient size, in the opinion
of the court, to permit the accused’s analyst to make a thorough scientific
analysis concerning the identity of the substance or substances. The
prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused’s analyst with the sample
portion at least 14 days prior to trial, unless the trial is to be held in a
court not of record or unless the accused person is charged with a minor
misdemeanor, in which case the prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused’s
analyst with the sample portion at least three days prior to trial. If the
prosecuting attorney determines that such a sample portion cannot be preserved
and given to the accused’s analyst, the prosecuting attorney shall so inform
the accused person, or the accused’s attorney. In such a circumstance, the
accused person is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have the accused’s privately employed or court appointed analyst
present at an analysis of the substance that is, or the substances that are,
the basis of the alleged violation, and, upon further written request, to
receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the analysis
and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at conclusions, findings, or
opinions concerning the identity of the substance or substances subject to the
analysis.
   (f)   (1)   In addition to the rights provided under subsection (e) of this
section, any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or Ohio R.C.
Chapters 2925 or 3719 that involves a bulk amount of a controlled substance, or
any multiple thereof, or who is accused of a violation of Ohio R.C. 2925.11 or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, other than a minor misdemeanor
violation, that involves marihuana, is entitled, upon written request made to
the prosecuting attorney, to have a laboratory analyst of the accused’s choice,
or, if the accused is indigent, a qualified laboratory analyst appointed by the
court, present at a measurement or weighing of the substance that is the basis
of the alleged violation.
      (2)   Also, the accused person is entitled, upon further written request,
to receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the
measurement or weighing and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at
conclusions, findings, or opinions concerning the weight, volume or number of
unit doses of the substance subject to the measurement or weighing.
(ORC 2925.51)
   (g)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required under
Ohio R.C. 2929.18 and 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required
under any provision of law, the court imposing sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a drug abuse offense may order the offender to
pay to the state, municipal, or county law enforcement agencies that handled
the investigation and prosecution all of the costs that the state, municipal
corporation, or county reasonably incurred in having tests performed under this
section or Ohio R.C. 2925.51 or in any other manner on any substance that was
the basis of, or involved in, the offense to determine whether the substance
contained any amount of a controlled substance if the results of the tests
indicate that the substance tested contained any controlled substance. No court
shall order an offender under this section to pay the costs of tests performed
on a substance if the results of the tests do not indicate that the substance
tested contained any controlled substance. The court shall hold a hearing to
determine the amount of costs to be imposed under this section. The court may
hold the hearing as part of the sentencing hearing for the offender.
(ORC 2925.511)
§ 624.13 DOUBLE JEOPARDY.
   No person shall be prosecuted for a violation of this chapter if the person
has been acquitted or convicted under the federal drug abuse control laws of
the same act or omission which, it is alleged, constitutes a violation of this
chapter.
(ORC 2925.50, 3719.19)
§ 624.14 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE SCHEDULES.
   Controlled Substance Schedules I, II, III, IV, and V, as established in Ohio
R.C. 3719.41 and amended by Ohio R.C. 3719.43 and 3719.44, are hereby adopted
by reference, and shall be treated as if set forth in full herein.
Statutory reference:
   For comprehensive lists of drugs identified under each of the following
Schedules, see Ohio R.C. 3719.41, as amended by Ohio R.C. 3719.43 and 3719.44:
Schedule I
(a) Narcotics - opiates
(b) Narcotics - opium derivatives
(c) Hallucinogens
(d) Depressants
(e) Stimulants
Schedule II
(a) Narcotics - opium and opium derivatives
(b) Narcotics - opiates
(c) Stimulants
(d) Depressants
(e) Hallucinogenic substances
(f) Immediate precursors
Schedule III
(a) Stimulants
(b) Depressants
(c) Narcotic antidotes
(d) Narcotics - narcotic preparations
(e) Anabolic steroids
(f) Hallucinogenic substances
Schedule IV
(a) Narcotic drugs
(b) Depressants
(c) Fenfluramine
(d) Stimulants
(e) Other substances
Schedule V
(a) Narcotic drugs
(b) Narcotics - narcotic preparations
(c) Stimulants
 
CHAPTER 630: GAMBLING
Section
630.01   (Reserved)
630.02   Gambling in general.
630.03   Operating a gambling house.
630.04   Public gaming.
630.05   Cheating.
630.06   Responsibility of charitable organization conducting bingo game.
630.07   Maintenance of records by charitable organizations.
630.08   Qualifications of bingo game operator.
630.09   Exemption for bingo games conducted for amusement.
630.10   Prohibitions where instant bingo game is conducted.
630.11   Raffle drawings.
630.12   Instant bingo other than at bingo sessions.
630.13   Restrictions on owner or lessor of location at instant bingo.
630.14   Skill-based amusement machine prohibited conduct.
   CROSS REFERENCES
   See section histories for similar state law
§ 630.01 (Reserved)
§ 630.02 GAMBLING IN GENERAL.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Engage in bookmaking, or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates bookmaking;
      (2)   Establish, promote or operate or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance;
      (3)   Knowingly procure, transmit, exchange or engage in conduct that
facilitates the procurement, transmission, or exchange of information for use
in establishing odds or determining winners in connection with bookmaking or
with any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance;
      (4)   Engage in betting or in playing any scheme or game of chance as a
substantial source of income or livelihood; or
      (5)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
and either:
         A.   Give to another person any item described in Ohio R.C. 2915.01
(VV)(1), (VV)(2), (VV)(3), or (VV)(4) as a prize for playing or participating
in a sweepstakes; or
         B.   Give to another person any merchandise prize, or a redeemable
voucher for a merchandise prize, the wholesale value of which is in excess of
ten dollars ($10.00) and which is awarded as a single entry for playing or
participating in a sweepstakes. Redeemable vouchers shall not be redeemable for
a merchandise prize that has a wholesale value of more than ten dollars
($10.00).
      (6)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
without first obtaining a current annual “certificate of registration” from the
Attorney General as required by Ohio R.C. 2915.02(F).
      (7)   With purpose to violate subsection (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4),
(a)(5), or (a)(6) of this section, acquire, possess, control or operate any
gambling device.
   (b)   For purposes of subsection (a)(1) of this section, a person
facilitates bookmaking if the person in any way knowingly aids an illegal
bookmaking operation, including, without limitation, placing a bet with a
person engaged in or facilitating illegal bookmaking. For purposes of
subsection (a)(2) of this section, a person facilitates a game of chance
conducted for profit or a scheme of chance if the person in any way knowingly
aids in the conduct or operation of any such game or scheme, including, without
limitation, playing any such game or scheme.
   (c)   This section does not prohibit conduct in connection with gambling
expressly permitted by law.
   (d)   This section does not apply to any of the following.
      (1)   Games of chance, if all of the following apply:
         A.   The games of chance are not craps for money or roulette for
money;
         B.   The games of chance are conducted by a charitable organization
that is and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a determination
letter that is currently in effect, stating that the organization is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3);
         C.   The games of chance are conducted at festivals of the charitable
organization that are conducted not more than a total of five days a calendar
year, and are conducted on premises owned by the charitable organization for a
period of no less than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the
games of chance, on premises leased from a governmental unit, or on premises
that are leased from a veteran’s or fraternal organization and that have been
owned by the lessor veteran’s or fraternal organization for a period of no less
than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the games of chance. A
charitable organization shall not lease premises from a veteran’s or fraternal
organization to conduct a festival described in this subsection, if the
veteran’s or fraternal organization already has leased the premises 12 times
during the preceding year to charitable organizations for that purpose. If a
charitable organization leases premises from a veteran’s or fraternal
organization to conduct a festival described in this subsection, the charitable
organization shall not pay a rental rate for the premises per day of the
festival that exceeds the rental rate per bingo session that a charitable
organization may pay under Ohio R.C. 2915.09(B)(1) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance when it leases premises from another charitable
organization to conduct bingo games;
         D.   All of the money or assets received from the games of chance
after deduction only of prizes paid out during the conduct of the games of
chance are used by, given, donated or otherwise transferred to any organization
that is described in IRC 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that is tax exempt under IRC 501(a) and
described in IRC 501(c)(3); or
         E.   The games of chance are not conducted during or within ten hours
of a bingo game conducted for amusement purposes only pursuant to Ohio R.C.
2915.12 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance. No person shall
receive any commission, wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other
form of compensation, directly or indirectly, for operating or assisting in the
operation of any game of chance.
      (2)   Any tag fishing tournament, as defined in Ohio R.C. 1531.01,
operated under a permit issued under Ohio R.C. 1533.92.
      (3)   Bingo conducted by a charitable organization that holds a license
issued under Ohio R.C. 2915.08.
   (e)   Subsection (d) of this section shall not be construed to authorize the
sale, lease, or other temporary or permanent transfer of the right to conduct
games of chance, as granted by that subsection, by any charitable organization
that is granted that right.
   (f)   Any person desiring to conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a
sweepstakes with the use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes
terminal device facility shall first register with the Office of the Attorney
General and obtain an annual certificate of registration by providing a filing
fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) and all information as required by rule
adopted under Ohio R.C. 2915.02(H). Not later than the tenth day of each month,
each sweepstakes terminal device operator shall file a sweepstakes terminal
device monthly report with the Attorney General and provide a filing fee of
fifty dollars ($50.00) and all information required by rule adopted under Ohio
R.C. 2915.02(H). All information provided to the Attorney General under this
division shall be available to law enforcement upon request.
   (g)   (1)   A person may apply to the Attorney General, on a form prescribed
by the Attorney General, for a certificate of compliance that the person is not
operating a sweepstakes terminal device facility. The form shall require the
person to include the address of the business location where sweepstakes
terminal devices will be used and to make the following certifications:
         A.   That the person will not use more than two sweepstakes terminal
devices at the business location;
         B.   That the retail value of sweepstakes prizes to be awarded at the
business location using sweepstakes terminal devices during a reporting period
will be less than three percent of the gross revenue received at the business
location during the reporting period;
         C.   That no other form of gaming except lottery ticket sales as
authorized under Ohio R.C. Chapter 3770 will be conducted at the business
location or in an adjoining area of the business location;
         D.   That any sweepstakes terminal device at the business location
will not allow any deposit of any money, coin, or token, or the use of any
credit card, debit card, prepaid card, or any other method of similar payment
to be used, directly or indirectly, to participate in a sweepstakes;
         E.   That notification of any prize will not take place on the same
day as a participant’s sweepstakes entry; and
         F.   That the person consents to provide any other information to the
Attorney General as required by rule adopted under Ohio R.C. 2915.02(H).
      (2)   The filing fee for a certificate of compliance is two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00). The Attorney General may charge up to an additional two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for reasonable expenses resulting from any
investigation related to an application for a certificate of compliance.
      (3)   A certificate of compliance is effective for one year. The
certificate holder may reapply for a certificate of compliance. A person issued
a certificate of compliance shall file semiannual reports with the Attorney
General stating the number of sweepstakes terminal devices at the business
location and that the retail value of prizes awarded at the business location
using sweepstakes terminal devices is less than three percent of the gross
revenue received at the business location.
   (h)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of gambling, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense, gambling is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2915.02)
§ 630.03 OPERATING A GAMBLING HOUSE.
   (a)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control or
supervision of premises, shall:
      (1)   Use or occupy the premises for gambling in violation of Ohio R.C.
2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance; or
      (2)   Recklessly permit the premises to be used or occupied for gambling
in violation of Ohio R.C. 2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (b)   Whoever violates subsection (a) of this section is guilty of operating
a gambling house, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a gambling offense, operating a gambling house is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (c)   Premises used or occupied in violation of this section constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement under Ohio R.C. Chapter 3767.
(ORC 2915.03)
§ 630.04 PUBLIC GAMING.
   (a)   No person, while at a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall or
other place of public accommodation, business, amusement or resort shall make a
bet or play any game of chance or scheme of chance.
   (b)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control or
supervision of a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall or other place
of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall recklessly permit
those premises to be used or occupied in violation of subsection (a) of this
section.
   (c)   Subsections (a) and (b) of this section do not prohibit conduct in
connection with gambling expressly permitted by law.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public gaming. Except as
otherwise provided in this subsection, public gaming is a minor misdemeanor. If
the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling offense, public
gaming is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (e)   Premises used or occupied in violation of subsection (b) of this
section constitute a nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(ORC 2915.04)
§ 630.05 CHEATING.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome
of any of the following:
      (1)   The subject of a bet;
      (2)   A contest of knowledge, skill or endurance that is not an athletic
or sporting event;
      (3)   A scheme or game of chance; or
      (4)   Bingo.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Offer, give, solicit or accept anything of value to corrupt the
outcome of an athletic or sporting event; or
      (2)   Engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome of an athletic or
sporting event.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates subsection (a) of this section is guilty of
cheating. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, cheating is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the potential gain from the cheating is one
thousand dollars ($1,000) or more or if the offender previously has been
convicted of any gambling offense or of any theft offense as defined in Ohio
R.C. 2913.01, cheating is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (2)   Whoever violates subsection (b) of this section is guilty of
corrupting sports. Corrupting sports is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(ORC 2915.05)
§ 630.06 RESPONSIBILITY OF CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION CONDUCTING BINGO GAME.
   (a)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo shall fail to do any of
the following:
      (1)   Own all of the equipment used to conduct bingo or lease that
equipment from a charitable organization that is licensed to conduct bingo, or
from the landlord of a premises where bingo is conducted, for a rental rate
that is not more than is customary and reasonable for that equipment;
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (a)(3) of this section,
use all of the gross receipts from bingo for paying prizes, for reimbursement
of expenses for or for renting premises in which to conduct bingo, for
purchasing or leasing bingo supplies used in conducting bingo, for
reimbursement of expenses for or for hiring security personnel, for
reimbursement of expenses for or for advertising bingo, or for reimbursement of
other expenses or for other expenses listed in the definition for “expenses” in
Ohio R.C. 2915.01, provided that the amount of the receipts so spent is not
more than is customary and reasonable for a similar purchase, lease, hiring,
advertising, or expense. If the building in which bingo is conducted is owned
by the charitable organization conducting bingo and the bingo conducted
includes a form of bingo described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo”
in Ohio R.C. 2915.01, the charitable organization may deduct from the total
amount of the gross receipts from each session a sum equal to the lesser of six
hundred dollars ($600.00) or 45 percent of the gross receipts from the bingo
described in that division as consideration for the use of the premises; or
      (3)   Use, or give, donate, or otherwise transfer, all of the net profit
derived from bingo, other than instant bingo, for a charitable purpose listed
in its license application and described in the definition for “charitable
purpose” in Ohio R.C. 2915.01, or distribute all of the net profit from the
proceeds of the sale of instant bingo as stated in its license application and
in accordance with Ohio R.C. 2915.101.
   (b)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in Ohio R.C. 2915.01 shall fail to do
any of the following:
      (1)   Conduct the bingo game on premises that are owned by the charitable
organization, on premises that are owned by another charitable organization and
leased from that charitable organization for a rental rate not in excess of the
lesser of six hundred fifty dollars ($650.00) per bingo session or 45 percent
of the gross receipts of the bingo session, on premises that are leased from a
person other than a charitable organization for a rental rate that is not more
than is customary and reasonable for premises that are similar in location,
size, and quality but not in excess of four hundred fifty dollars ($450.00) per
bingo session, or on premises that are owned by a person other than a
charitable organization, that are leased from that person by another charitable
organization, and that are subleased from that other charitable organization by
the charitable organization for a rental rate not in excess of four hundred
fifty dollars ($450.00) per bingo session. No charitable organization is
required to pay property taxes or assessments on premises that the charitable
organization leases from another person to conduct bingo sessions. If the
charitable organization leases from a person other than a charitable
organization the premises on which it conducts bingo sessions, the lessor of
the premises shall provide only the premises to the organization and shall not
provide the organization with bingo game operators, security personnel,
concessions or concession operators, bingo supplies, or any other type of
service. A charitable organization shall not lease or sublease premises that it
owns or leases to more than three other charitable organizations per calendar
week for the purpose of conducting bingo sessions on the premises. A person
that is not a charitable organization shall not lease premises that it owns,
leases, or otherwise is empowered to lease to more than three charitable
organizations per calendar week for conducting bingo sessions on the premises.
In no case shall more than nine bingo sessions be conducted on any premises in
any calendar week;
      (2)   Display its license conspicuously at the premises where the bingo
session is conducted; or
      (3)   Conduct the bingo session in accordance with division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in Ohio R.C. 2915.01.
   (c)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in Ohio R.C. 2915.01 shall not do any
of the following:
      (1)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for operating a bingo
session that is conducted by the charitable organization or for preparing,
selling, or serving food or beverages at the site of the bingo session, permit
any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to pay
compensation to any bingo game operator who prepares, sells or serves food or
beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable organization, or
permit any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to prepare,
sell or serve food or beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable
organization, if the auxiliary unit or society pays any compensation to the
bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or serve the food or beverages;
      (2)   Pay consulting fees to any person for any services performed in
relation to the bingo session;
      (3)   Pay concession fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in the bingo session;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (c)(4) of this section,
conduct more than three bingo sessions in any seven-day period. A volunteer
firefighter’s organization or a volunteer rescue service organization that
conducts not more than five bingo sessions in a calendar year may conduct more
than three bingo sessions in a seven-day period after notifying the Attorney
General when it will conduct the sessions;
      (5)   Pay out more than six thousand dollars ($6,000) in prizes for bingo
games described in Ohio R.C. 2915.01(S)(1) during any bingo session that is
conducted by the charitable organization. “Prizes” does not include awards from
the conduct of instant bingo;
      (6)   Conduct a bingo session at any time during the eight-hour period
between 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m., at any time during, or within ten hours of, a
bingo game conducted for amusement only pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2915.12 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, at any premises not specified on
its license, or on any day of the week or during any time period not specified
on its license. This subsection does not prohibit the sale of instant bingo
tickets beginning at 9:00 a.m. for a bingo session that begins at 10:00 a.m. If
circumstances make it impractical for the charitable organization to conduct a
bingo session at the premises, or on the day of the week or at the time
specified on its license or if a charitable organization wants to conduct bingo
sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than the day or time specified
on its license, the charitable organization may apply in writing to the
Attorney General for an amended license pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2915.08(F). A
charitable organization may apply twice in each calendar year for an amended
license to conduct bingo sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than
the day or time specified on its license. If the amended license is granted,
the organization may conduct bingo sessions at the premises, on the day of the
week, and at the time specified on its amended license;
      (7)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, is under the age of 18 to work as a bingo game operator;
      (8)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any
jurisdiction to be a bingo game operator;
      (9)   Permit the lessor of the premises on which the bingo session is
conducted, if the lessor is not a charitable organization, to provide the
charitable organization with bingo game operators, security personnel,
concessions, bingo supplies, or any other type of service;
      (10)   Purchase or lease bingo supplies from any person except a
distributor issued a license under Ohio R.C. 2915.081;
      (11)   A.   Use or permit the use of electronic bingo aids except under
the following circumstances:
            1.   For any single participant, not more than 90 bingo faces can
be played using an electronic bingo aid or aids;
            2.   The charitable organization shall provide a participant using
an electronic bingo aid with corresponding paper bingo cards or sheets;
            3.   The total price of bingo faces played with an electronic bingo
aid shall be equal to the total price of the same number of bingo faces played
with a paper bingo card or sheet sold at the same bingo session but without an
electronic bingo aid;
            4.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be part of an electronic
network other than a network that includes only bingo aids and devices that are
located on the premises at which the bingo is being conducted or be interactive
with any device not located on the premises at which the bingo is being
conducted;
            5.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to participate in bingo
that is conducted at a location other than the location at which the bingo
session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used; or
            6.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to provide for the
input of numbers and letters announced by a bingo caller other than the bingo
caller who physically calls the numbers and letters at the location at which
the bingo session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used;
         B.   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with Ohio R.C.
Chapter 119 that govern the use of electronic bingo aids. The rules may include
a requirement that an electronic bingo aid be capable of being audited by the
Attorney General to verify the number of bingo cards or sheets played during
each bingo session; or
      (12)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, to be under 18 years of age to play bingo described in division (1)
of the definition of “bingo” in Ohio R.C. 2915.01.
   (d)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (d)(3) of this
section, no charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator, and
no bingo game operator shall receive or accept, any commission, wage, salary,
reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation, directly or
indirectly, regardless of the source, for conducting bingo or providing other
work or labor at the site of bingo during a bingo session.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (d)(3) of this section,
no charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator any
commission, wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of
compensation, directly or indirectly regardless of the source, for conducting
instant bingo other than at a bingo session at the site of instant bingo other
than at a bingo session.
      (3)   Nothing in this subsection (d) of this section prohibits an
employee of a fraternal organization, veteran’s organization, or sporting
organization from selling instant bingo tickets or cards to the organization’s
members or invited guests, as long as no portion of the employee’s compensation
is paid from any receipts of bingo.
   (e)   Notwithstanding subsection (b)(1) of this section, a charitable
organization that, prior to 12-6-1977, has entered into written agreements for
the lease of premises it owns to another charitable organization or other
charitable organizations for the conducting of bingo sessions so that more than
two bingo sessions are conducted per calendar week on the premises, and a
person that is not a charitable organization and that, prior to 12-6-1977, has
entered into written agreements for the lease of premises it owns to charitable
organizations for the conducting of more than two bingo sessions per calendar
week on the premises, may continue to lease the premises to those charitable
organizations, provided that no more than four sessions are conducted per
calendar week, that the lessor organization or person has notified the Attorney
General in writing of the organizations that will conduct the sessions and the
days of the week and the times of the day on which the sessions will be
conducted, that the initial lease entered into with each organization that will
conduct the sessions was filed with the Attorney General prior to 12-6-1977,
and that each organization that will conduct the sessions was issued a license
to conduct bingo games by the Attorney General prior to 12-6-1977.
   (f)   This section does not prohibit a bingo licensed charitable
organization or a game operator from giving any person an instant bingo ticket
as a prize.
   (g)   Whoever violates subsection (a)(2) of this section is guilty of
illegally conducting a bingo game, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates
subsection (a)(1), (a)(3), (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), (c)(1) to (c)(11), or (d) of
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of subsection (a)(1), (a)(3), (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)
(3), (c)(1) to (c)(11), or (d) of this section, a violation of subsection (a)
(1), (a)(3), (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), (c)(1) to (c)(11), or (d) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Whoever violates subsection (c)(12) of
this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of subsection (c)(12) of this
section, a violation of subsection (c)(12) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2915.09)
§ 630.07 MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS BY CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS.
   (a)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo or a game of chance
pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2915.02(D), or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall fail to maintain the following records for at least three
years from the date on which the bingo or game of chance is conducted:
      (1)   An itemized list of the gross receipts of each bingo session, each
game of instant bingo by serial number, each raffle, each punch board game, and
each game of chance, and an itemized list of the gross profits of each game of
instant bingo by serial number;
      (2)   An itemized list of all expenses, other than prizes, that are
incurred in conducting bingo or instant bingo, the name of each person to whom
the expenses are paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses;
      (3)   A list of all prizes awarded during each bingo session, each
raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance conducted by the
charitable organization, the total prizes awarded from each game of instant
bingo by serial number, and the name, address, and social security number of
all persons who are winners of prizes of six hundred dollars ($600.00) or more
in value;
      (4)   An itemized list of the recipients of the net profit of bingo or
game of chance, including the name and address of each recipient to whom the
money is distributed, and if the organization uses the net profit of bingo, or
the money or assets received from a game of chance, for any charitable or other
purpose set forth in Ohio R.C. 2915.01(V), Ohio R.C. 2915.02(D), or Ohio R.C.
2915.101, a list of each purpose and an itemized list of each expenditure for
each purpose;
      (5)   The number of persons who participate in any bingo session or game
of chance that is conducted by the charitable organization;
      (6)   A list of receipts from the sale of food and beverages by the
charitable organization or one of its auxiliary units or societies, if the
receipts were excluded from “gross receipts” under Ohio R.C. 2915.01(T); and
      (7)   An itemized list of all expenses incurred at each bingo session,
each raffle, each punch board game, or each game of instant bingo conducted by
the charitable organization in the sale of food and beverages by the charitable
organization or by an auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization,
the name of each person to whom the expenses are paid, and a receipt for all of
the expenses.
   (b)   A charitable organization shall keep the records that it is required
to maintain pursuant to subsection (a) of this section at its principal place
of business in this state or at its headquarters in this state and shall notify
the Attorney General of the location at which those records are kept.
   (c)   The gross profit from each bingo session or game described in
subsection (1) or (2) of the definition of “bingo” in Ohio R.C. 2915.01 shall
be deposited into a checking account devoted exclusively to the bingo session
or game. Payments for allowable expenses incurred in conducting the bingo
session or game and payments to recipients of some or all of the net profit of
the bingo session or game shall be made only by checks or electronic fund
transfers drawn on the bingo session or game account.
   (d)   Each charitable organization shall conduct and record an inventory of
all of its bingo supplies as of the first day of November of each year.
   (e)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with Ohio R.C.
Chapter 119 that establish standards of accounting, record keeping and
reporting to ensure that gross receipts from bingo or games of chance are
properly accounted for.
   (f)   A distributor shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing to another person bingo supplies for use in this state.
The record shall include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name of the manufacturer from which the distributor purchased
the bingo supplies and the date of the purchase;
      (2)   The name and address of the charitable organization or other
distributor to which the bingo supplies were sold or otherwise provided;
      (3)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies; and
      (4)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each charitable organization.
   (g)   A manufacturer shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing bingo supplies for use in this state. The record shall
include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name and address of the distributor to whom the bingo supplies
were sold or otherwise provided;
      (2)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies, including
serial numbers; and
      (3)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each distributor.
   (h)   (1)   The Attorney General or any law enforcement agency may do all of
the following:
         A.   Investigate any charitable organization or any officer, agent,
trustee, member or employee of the organization;
         B.   Examine the accounts and records of the organization;
         C.   Conduct inspections, audits and observations of bingo or games of
chance;
         D.   Conduct inspections of the premises where bingo or games of
chance are conducted; and
         E.   Take any other necessary and reasonable action to determine if a
violation of any provision of this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915 has
occurred and to determine whether Ohio R.C. 2915.11, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, has been complied with.
      (2)   If any law enforcement agency has reasonable grounds to believe
that a charitable organization or an officer, agent, trustee, member or
employee of the organization has violated any provision of this chapter or Ohio
R.C. Chapter 2915, the law enforcement agency may proceed by action in the
proper court to enforce this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915, provided that
the law enforcement agency shall give written notice to the Attorney General
when commencing an action as described in this subsection.
   (i)   No person shall destroy, alter, conceal, withhold or deny access to
any accounts or records of a charitable organization that have been requested
for examination, or obstruct, impede, or interfere with any inspection, audit,
or observation of bingo or a game of chance or premises where bingo or a game
of chance is conducted, or refuse to comply with any reasonable request of, or
obstruct, impede, or interfere with any other reasonable action undertaken by,
the Attorney General or a law enforcement agency pursuant to subsection (h) of
this section.
   (j)   Whoever violates subsection (a) or (i) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 2915.10)
§ 630.08 QUALIFICATIONS OF BINGO GAME OPERATOR.
   (a)   No person shall be a bingo game operator unless the person is 18 years
of age or older.
   (b)   No person who has been convicted of a felony or a gambling offense in
any jurisdiction shall be a bingo game operator.
   (c)   Whoever violates subsection (a) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. Whoever violates subsection (b) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 2915.11)
§ 630.09 EXEMPTION FOR BINGO GAMES CONDUCTED FOR AMUSEMENT.
   (a)   Sections 630.06 to 630.13 do not apply to bingo games that are
conducted for the purpose of amusement only. A bingo game is conducted for the
purpose of amusement only if it complies with all of the requirements specified
in either subsection (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section.
      (1)   A.   The participants do not pay any money or any other thing of
value, including an admission fee or any fee, for bingo cards or sheets,
objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo, for the
privilege of participating in the bingo game, or to defray any costs of the
game, or pay tips or make donations during or immediately before or after the
bingo game.
         B.   All prizes awarded during the course of the game are non-
monetary, and in the form of merchandise, goods, or entitlement to goods or
services only, and the total value of all prizes awarded during the game is
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
         C.   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity or
other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         D.   The bingo game is not conducted either during or within ten hours
of any of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2915.07 through 2915.11 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance; or
            2.   A scheme or game of chance, or bingo described in Ohio R.C.
2915.01(O)(2).
         E.   The number of players participating in the bingo game does not
exceed 50.
      (2)   A.   The participants do not pay money or any other thing of value
as an admission fee, and no participant is charged more than twenty-five cents
($0.25) to purchase a bingo card or sheet, objects to cover the spaces, or
other devices used in playing bingo.
         B.   The total amount of money paid by all of the participants for
bingo cards or sheets, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo does not exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00).
         C.   All of the money paid for bingo cards or sheets, objects to cover
spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo is used only to pay winners
monetary and nonmonetary prizes and to provide refreshments.
         D.   The total value of all prizes awarded during the game does not
exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00).
         E.   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity or
other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         F.   The bingo game is not conducted during or within ten hours of
either of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2915.07 through 2915.11 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance; or
            2.   A scheme of chance or a game of chance, or bingo described in
Ohio R.C. 2915.01(O)(2).
         G.   All of the participants reside at the premises where the bingo
game is conducted.
         H.   The bingo games are conducted on different days of the week and
not more than twice in a calendar week.
   (b)   The Attorney General or any local law enforcement agency may
investigate the conduct of a bingo game that purportedly is conducted for
purposes of amusement only if there is reason to believe that the purported
amusement bingo game does not comply with the requirements of either subsection
(a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section. A local law enforcement agency may proceed by
action in the proper court to enforce this section if the local law enforcement
agency gives written notice to the Attorney General when commencing the action.
(ORC 2915.12)
§ 630.10 PROHIBITIONS WHERE INSTANT BINGO GAME IS CONDUCTED.
   (a)   No charitable organization that conducts instant bingo shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with the requirements of Ohio R.C. 2915.09(A)(1),
(A)(2), and (A)(3), or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   Conduct instant bingo unless either of the following applies:
         A.   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a), is
described in IRC 501(c)(3), is a charitable organization as defined in Ohio
R.C. 2915.01, is in good standing in the State pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2915.08,
and is in compliance with Ohio R.C. Chapter 1716; or
         B.   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a), is
described in IRC 501(c)(7), (c)(8), (c)(10), or (c)(19) or is a veteran’s
organization described in IRC 501(c)(4), and conducts instant bingo under Ohio
R.C. 2915.13.
      (3)   Conduct instant bingo on any day, at any time, or at any premises
not specified on the organization’s license issued pursuant to Ohio R.C.
2915.08;
      (4)   Permit any person whom the organization knows or should have known
has been convicted of a
felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction to be a bingo game operator in
the conduct of instant bingo;
      (5)   Purchase or lease supplies used to conduct instant bingo or punch
board games from any person except a distributor licensed under Ohio R.C.
2915.081;
      (6)   Sell or provide any instant bingo ticket or card for a price
different from the price printed on it by the manufacturer on either the
instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare;
      (7)   Sell an instant bingo ticket or card to a person under 18 years of
age;
      (8)   Fail to keep unsold instant bingo tickets or cards for less than
three years;
      (9)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting
instant bingo that is conducted by the organization or for preparing, selling,
or serving food or beverages at the site of the instant bingo game, permit any
auxiliary unit or society of the organization to pay compensation to any bingo
game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or beverages at an instant
bingo game conducted by the organization, or permit any auxiliary unit or
society of the organization to prepare, sell, or serve food or beverages at an
instant bingo game conducted by the organization, if the auxiliary unit or
society pays any compensation to the bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or
serve the food or beverages;
      (10)   Pay fees to any person for any services performed in relation to
an instant bingo game, except as provided in R.C. § 2915.093(D);
      (11)   Pay fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in an instant bingo game;
      (12)   A.   Allow instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold to bingo game
operators at a premises at which the organization sells instant bingo tickets
or cards or to be sold to employees of a D permit holder who are working at a
premises at which instant bingo tickets or cards are sold;
         B.   Subsection (a)(12)A. of this section does not prohibit a licensed
charitable organization or a bingo game operator from giving any person an
instant bingo ticket as a prize in place of a cash prize won by a participant
in an instant bingo game. In no case shall an instant bingo ticket or card be
sold or provided for a price different from the price printed on it by the
manufacturer on either the instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare;
      (13)   Fail to display its bingo license, and the serial numbers of the
deal of instant bingo tickets or
cards to be sold, conspicuously at each premises at which it sells instant
bingo tickets or cards;
      (14)   Possess a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards that was not
purchased from a distributor licensed under Ohio R.C. 2915.081 as reflected on
an invoice issued by the distributor that contains all of the information
required by Ohio R.C. 2915.10(E);
      (15)   Fail, once it opens a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards, to
continue to sell the tickets or cards in that deal until the tickets or cards
with the top two highest tiers of prizes in that deal are sold;
      (16)   Possess bingo supplies that were not obtained in accordance with
Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (b)   A charitable organization may purchase, lease, or use instant bingo
ticket dispensers to sell instant bingo tickets or cards.
   (c)   Pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2915.091(C), the Attorney General may adopt
rules in accordance with Ohio R.C. Chapter 119 that govern the conduct of
instant bingo by charitable organizations.
   (d)   Whoever violates subsection (a) of this section or a rule adopted
under subsection (c) of this section is guilty of illegal instant bingo
conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, illegal instant bingo
conduct is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of subsection (a) of this section or of such a
rule adopted under subsection (c) of this section, illegal instant bingo
conduct is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2915.091)
§ 630.11 RAFFLE DRAWINGS.
   (a)   (1)   Subject to subsection (a)(2) of this section, a charitable
organization, a public school, a chartered nonpublic school, a community school
or a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization or sporting organization
that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and is described
in IRC 501(c)(3), 501(c)(4), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or 501(c)(19)
may conduct a raffle to raise money for the organization or school and does not
need a license to conduct bingo in order to conduct a raffle drawing that is
not for profit.
      (2)   If a charitable organization that is described in subs4ection (a)
(1) of this section, but that is not also described in IRC 501(c)(3), conducts
a raffle, the charitable organization shall distribute at least 50 percent of
the net profit from the raffle to a charitable purpose described in Ohio R.C.
2915.01(V) or to a department or agency of the federal government, the state,
or any political subdivision.
   (b)   A chamber of commerce may conduct not more than one raffle per year to
raise money for the chamber of commerce.
   (c)   Except as provided in subsection (a) or (b) of this section, no person
shall conduct a raffle drawing that is for profit or a raffle drawing that is
not for profit.
   (d)   Whoever violates subsection (c) of this section is guilty of illegal
conduct of a raffle. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, illegal
conduct of a raffle is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of subsection (c) of this section,
illegal conduct of a raffle is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(ORC 2915.092)
§ 630.12 INSTANT BINGO OTHER THAN AT BINGO SESSIONS.
   (a)   (EDITOR’S NOTE: The definition contained in this subsection is also
located in Chapter 604, § 604.01.) As used in this section, RETAIL INCOME FROM
ALL COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY means the income that a person receives from the
provision of goods, services or activities that are provided at the location
where instant bingo other than at a bingo session is conducted, including the
sale of instant bingo tickets. A religious organization that is exempt from
federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3), at not
more than one location at which it conducts its charitable programs, may
include donations from its members and guests as retail income.
   (b)   (1)   If a charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant
bingo other than at a bingo session, the charitable instant bingo organization
shall enter into a written contract with the owner or lessor of the location at
which the instant bingo is conducted to allow the owner or lessor to assist in
the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo session, identify each
location where the instant bingo other than at a bingo session is being
conducted and identify the owner or lessor of each location.
      (2)   A charitable instant bingo organization that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session is not required to enter into a written contract
with the owner or lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is
conducted provided that the owner or lessor is not assisting in the conduct of
the instant bingo other than at a bingo session and provided that the conduct
of the instant bingo other than at a bingo session at that location is not more
than five days per calendar year and not more than ten hours per day.
   (c)   Except as provided in subsection (f) of this section, no charitable
instant bingo organization shall conduct instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at a location where the primary source of retail income from all
commercial activity at that location is the sale of instant bingo tickets.
   (d)   (1)   (EDITOR’S NOTE: The definitions contained in this subsection are
also located in Chapter 604, § 604.01.) The owner or lessor of a location that
enters into a contract pursuant to subsection (b) of this section shall pay the
full gross profit to the charitable instant bingo organization, in return for
the deal of instant bingo tickets. The owner or lessor may retain the money
that the owner or lessor receives for selling the instant bingo tickets,
provided, however, that after the deal has been sold, the owner or lessor shall
pay to the charitable instant bingo organization the value of any unredeemed
instant bingo prizes remaining in the deal of instant bingo tickets. As used in
this subsection, FULL GROSS PROFIT means the amount by which the total receipts
of all instant bingo tickets, if the deal has been sold in full, exceeds the
amount that would be paid out if all prizes were redeemed.
      (2)   The charitable instant bingo organization shall pay six percent of
the total gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets for the purpose
of reimbursing the owner or lessor for expenses described in this division.
      (3)   As used in this subsection, EXPENSES means those items provided for
in R.C. § 2915.01(GG)(4), (GG)(5), (GG)(6), (GG)(7), (GG)(8), (GG)(12), and
(GG)(13) and that percentage of the owner’s or lessor’s rent for the location
where instant bingo is conducted. EXPENSES , in the aggregate, shall not exceed
six percent of the total gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets.
   (e)   A charitable instant bingo organization shall provide the Attorney
General with all of the following information:
      (1)   The charitable instant bingo organization has terminated a contract
entered into pursuant to subsection (b) of this section with an owner or lessor
of a location;
      (2)   The charitable instant bingo organization has entered into a
written contract pursuant to subsection (b) of this section with a new owner or
lessor of a location; and
      (3)   The charitable instant bingo organization is aware of conduct by
the owner or lessor of a location at which instant bingo is conducted that is
in violation of Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915.
(ORC 2915.093)
   (f)   Subsection (c) of this section does not apply to a volunteer
firefighter’s organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under
IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(C)(3), that conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session on the premises where the organization conducts
firefighter training, that has conducted instant bingo continuously for at
least five years prior to 7-1-2003, and that, during each of those five years,
had gross receipts of at least one million five hundred thousand dollars
($1,500,000.00).
(ORC 2915.093)
   (g)   (1)   A veteran’s organization, a fraternal organization or a sporting
organization authorized to conduct a bingo session pursuant to Ohio R.C.
Chapter 2915 may conduct instant bingo other than at a bingo session if all of
the following apply.
         A.   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo to 12 hours during any day,
provided that the sale does not begin earlier than 10:00 a.m. and ends not
later than 2:00 a.m.
         B.   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo to its own premises and to its
own members and invited guests.
         C.   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization is raising money for an organization that is described in IRC 509
(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization
that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3),
and that is in good standing in this state and executes a written contract with
that organization as required in subsection (g)(2) of this section.
      (2)   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization authorized to conduct instant bingo pursuant to subsection (g)(1)
of this section is raising money for another organization that is described in
IRC 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an
organization that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that
is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC
501(c), and that is in good standing in this state, the veteran’s organization,
fraternal organization, or sporting organization shall execute a written
contract with the organization that is described in IRC 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or
(a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization that maintains its
principal place of business in this state, that is exempt from federal income
taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c), and that is in good
standing in this state in order to conduct instant bingo. That contract shall
include a statement of the percentage of the net proceeds that the veteran’s,
fraternal, or sporting organization will be distributing to the charitable
organization that is described in IRC 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is
either a governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal
place of business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c), and that is in good standing in
this state.
      (3)   A.   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or
sporting organization authorized to conduct instant bingo pursuant to
subsection (g)(1) of this section has been issued a liquor permit under Ohio
R.C. Chapter 4303, that permit may be subject to suspension, revocation, or
cancellation if the veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization violates a provision of this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915.
         B.   No veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that enters into a written contract pursuant to subsection (g)(2)
of this section shall violate any provision of this chapter or Ohio R.C.
Chapter 2915, or permit, aid, or abet any other person in violating any
provision of this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915.
      (4)   A veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall give all required proceeds earned from the conduct of
instant bingo to the organization with which the veteran’s organization,
fraternal organization, or sporting organization has entered into a written
contract.
      (5)   Whoever violates subsection (g) of this section is guilty of
illegal instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection,
illegal instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of a violation of subsection (g) of this
section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(ORC 2915.13)
§ 630.13 RESTRICTIONS ON OWNER OR LESSOR OF LOCATION AT INSTANT BINGO.
   (a)   No owner or lessor of a location shall assist a charitable instant
bingo organization in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at that location unless the owner or lessor has entered into a written
contract, as described in Ohio R.C. 2915.093, with the charitable instant bingo
organization to assist in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session.
   (b)   The location of the lessor or owner shall be designated as a location
where the charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session.
   (c)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in subsection (a) of this section shall violate any provision of
this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915, or permit, aid, or abet any other
person in violating any provision of this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (d)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in subsection (a) of this section shall violate the terms of the
contract.
   (e)   (1)   Whoever violates subsection (c) or (d) of this section is guilty
of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this
subsection, illegal instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of subsection (c)
or (d) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If an owner or lessor of a location knowingly, intentionally, or
recklessly violates subsection (c) or (d) of this section, any license that the
owner or lessor holds for the retail sale of any goods on the owner’s or
lessor’s premises that is issued by the state or a political subdivision is
subject to suspension, revocation, or payment of a monetary penalty at the
request of the Attorney General.
(ORC 2915.094)
§ 630.14 SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINE PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (a)   No person shall give to another person any item described in §
630.01 Merchandise Prize, in exchange for a noncash prize, toy, or novelty
received as a reward for playing or operating a skill-based amusement machine
or for a free or reduced-price game won on a skill-based amusement machine.
   (b)   Whoever violates subsection (a) of this section is guilty of skill-
based amusement machine prohibited conduct. A violation of subsection (a) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree for each redemption of a
prize that is involved in the violation. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of subsection (a) of this section, a violation of that
division is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law for each
redemption of a prize that is involved in the violation. The maximum fine
authorized to be imposed for a felony of the fifth degree shall be imposed upon
the offender.
(Ord. 09-29, passed 4-23-09)
CHAPTER 636: OFFENSES RELATING TO PERSONS
Section
636.19   Safety of Crowds Attending Live Entertainment Performances
636.21   Illegal Distribution of Cigarettes, Other Tobacco Products or
Alternative Nicotine Products; Transaction Scans
636.23   Intimidation in Connection with Housing
636.24   Failing to Provide for a Functionally Impaired Person
636.25   Failure to Perform Viability Testing
   CROSS REFERENCES
   See sectional histories for similar State law
§ 636.19 SAFETY OF CROWDS ATTENDING LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCES.
      (b)   (1)   No person shall sell, offer to sell or offer in return for a
donation, any ticket that is not numbered and that does not correspond to a
specific seat for admission to either of the following:
         A.   A live entertainment performance that is not exempted under
division (d) of this section, that is held in a restricted entertainment area,
and for which more than eight thousand (8,000) tickets are offered to the
public;
         B.   A concert that is not exempted under division (d) of this section
and for which more than three thousand (3,000) tickets are offered to the
public.
      (2)   No person shall advertise any live entertainment performance as
described in division (b)(1)A. of this section or any concert as described in
division (b)(1)B. of this section, unless the advertisement contains the words
"Reserved Seats Only."
   (c)   Unless exempted by division (d)(1) of this section, no person who owns
or operates any restricted entertainment area shall fail to open, maintain and
properly staff at least the number of entrances designated under division (e)
of this section for a minimum of ninety (90) minutes prior to the scheduled
start of any live entertainment performance that is held in the restricted
entertainment area and for which more than three thousand (3,)000 tickets are
sold, offered for sale or offered in return for a donation.
   (d)   (1)   A live entertainment performance, other than a concert, is
exempted from the provisions of divisions (b) and (c) of this section if both
of the following apply:
         A.   The restricted entertainment area in which the performance is
held has at least eight (8) entrances or, if both entrances and separate
admission turnstiles or similar devices are used, has at least eight (8)
turnstiles or similar devices; and
         B.   The eight (8) entrances or, if applicable, the eight (8)
turnstiles or similar devices, are opened, maintained and properly staffed at
least one (1) hour prior to the scheduled start of the performance.
      (2)   A.   The officer responsible for public safety in the municipality
may, upon application of the sponsor of a concert covered by division (b) of
this section, exempt the concert from the provisions of that division if such
officer finds that the health, safety and welfare of the participants and
spectators would not be substantially affected by failure to comply with the
provisions of that division. In determining whether to grant an exemption, the
officer shall consider the following factors:
            i.   The size and design of the facility in which the concert is
scheduled;
            ii.   The size, age and anticipated conduct of the crowd expected
to attend the concert; and
            iii.   The ability of the sponsor to manage and control the
expected crow. If the sponsor of any concert desires to obtain an exemption
under this division, the sponsor shall apply to the appropriate official on a
form prescribed by that official. The official shall issue an order that grants
or denies the exemption within five (5) days after receipt of the application.
The sponsor may appeal any order that denies an exemption to the Court of
Common Pleas.
         B.   If an official grants an exemption under division (d)(2)A. of
this section, the official shall designate an on-duty law enforcement officer
to be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue
orders to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety
and welfare of the participants and spectators.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (d)(2) of this section, in the case of a
concert held in a facility located on the campus of an educational institution
covered by ORC 3345.04, a state university law enforcement officer appointed
pursuant to ORC 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall do both of the following:
         A.   Exercise the authority to grant exemptions provided by division
(d)(2)A. of this section in lieu of an official designated in that division;
and
         B.   If the officer grants an exemption under division (d)(3)A. of
this section, designate an on-duty state university law enforcement officer to
be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue orders
to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the participants and spectators.
   (e)   (1)   Unless a live entertainment performance is exempted by division
(d)(1) of this section, the officer responsible for public safety within the
City shall designate, for purposes of division (c) of this section, the minimum
number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed at each live
entertainment performance so as to permit crowd control and reduce congestion
at the entrances. The designation shall be based on such factors as the size
and nature of the crowd expected to attend the live entertainment performance,
the length of time prior to the live entertainment performance that crowds are
expected to congregate at the entrances and the amount of security provided at
the restricted entertainment area.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (e)(1) of this section, a state university
law enforcement officer appointed pursuant to ORC 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall
designate the number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed
in the case of a live entertainment performance that is held at a restricted
entertainment area located on the campus of an educational institution covered
by ORC 3345.04.
   (f)   No person shall enter into any contract for a live entertainment
performance that does not permit or require compliance with this section.
   (g)   (1)   This section does not apply to a live entertainment performance
held in a restricted entertainment area if one admission ticket entitles the
holder to view or participate in three (3) or more different games, rides,
activities or live entertainment performances occurring simultaneously at
different sites within the restricted entertainment area and if the initial
admittance entrance to the restricted entertainment area, for which the ticket
is required, is separate from the entrance to any specific live entertainment
performance and an additional ticket is not required for admission to the
particular live entertainment performance.
      (2)   This section does not apply to a symphony orchestra performance, a
ballet performance, horse races, dances, or fairs.
   (h)   This section does not prohibit the City Council from imposing
additional requirements not in conflict with the section for the promotion or
holding of live entertainment performances.
   (i)   Whoever violates division (b), (c) or (f) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If any individual suffers physical harm to
his or her person as a result of a violation of this section, the sentencing
court shall consider this factor in favor of imposing a term of imprisonment
upon the offender.
(ORC 2917.40)
§ 636.21 ILLEGAL DISTRIBUTION OF CIGARETTES, OTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS, OR
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS; TRANSACTION SCANS.
   (a)   Illegal Distribution of Cigarettes, Other Tobacco Products, or
Alternative Nicotine Products.
      (2)   No manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes, no agent, employee, or representative of a
manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes, and no other person shall do any of the following:
         A.   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to
any child;
         B.   Give away, sell, or distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes in
any place that does not have posted in a conspicuous place a sign stating that
giving, selling, or otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to a person
under eighteen (18) years of age is prohibited by law;
         C.   Knowingly furnish any false information regarding the name, age,
or other identification of any child with purpose to obtain cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes for that child;
         D.   Manufacture, sell, or distribute in this state any pack or other
container of cigarettes containing fewer than twenty (20) cigarettes or any
package of roll-your-own tobacco containing less than six-tenths of one ounce
(0.60 oz.) of tobacco;
         E.   Sell cigarettes or alternative nicotine products in a smaller
quantity than that placed in the pack or other container by the manufacturer;
         F.   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute alternative nicotine
products, papers used to roll cigarettes, or tobacco products other than
cigarettes over the internet or through another remote method without age
verification.
      (3)   No person shall sell or offer to sell cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products by or from a vending machine, except
in the following locations:
         A.   An area within a factory, business, office, or other place not
open to the general public;
         B.   An area to which children are not generally permitted access;
         C.   Any other place not identified in division (a)(3)A. or (a)(3)B.
of this section, upon all of the following conditions:
            i.   The vending machine is located within the immediate vicinity,
plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place, or an
employee of that person, so that all cigarettes, other tobacco product, and
alternative nicotine product purchases from the vending machine will be readily
observed by the person who owns or operates the place or an employee of that
person. For the purpose of this section, a vending machine located in any
unmonitored area, including an unmonitored coatroom, restroom, hallway, or
outer waiting area, shall not be considered located within the immediate
vicinity, plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place,
or an employee of that person.
            ii.   The vending machine is inaccessible to the public when the
place is closed.
      (4)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under division
(a)(2)A. of this section:
         A.   The child was accompanied by a parent, spouse who is eighteen
(18) years of age or older, or legal guardian of the child.
         B.   The person who gave, sold, or distributed cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to a child under division (a)(2)A. of this section is a parent,
spouse who is eighteen (18) years of age or older, or legal guardian of the
child.
      (5)   It is not a violation of division (a)(2)A. or (a)(2)B. of this
section for a person to give or otherwise distribute to a child cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes while the child is participating in a research protocol if all of
the following apply:
         A.   The parent, guardian, or legal custodian of the child has
consented in writing to the child participating in the research protocol.
         B.   An institutional human subjects protection review board, or an
equivalent entity, has approved the research protocol.
         C.   The child is participating in the research protocol at the
facility or location specified in the research protocol.
      (6)   A.   Whoever violates division (a)(2)A., (a)(2)B., (a)(2)D., (a)
(2)E., or (a)(2)F. or (a)(3) of this section is guilty of illegal distribution
of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, illegal distribution of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of division (a)(2)A., (a)(2)B., (a)(2)D., (a)(2)E., or (a)(2)F. or (a)(3) of
this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         B.   Whoever violates division (a)(2)C. of this section is guilty of
permitting children to use cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products. Except as otherwise provided in this division, permitting
children to use cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of division (a)(2)C. of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, permitting children
to use cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is
a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (7)   Any cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes that are given, sold, or otherwise
distributed to a child in violation of this section and that are used,
possessed, purchased, or received by a child in violation of ORC 2151.87 are
subject to seizure and forfeiture as contraband under ORC Chapter 2981.
(ORC 2927.02)
   (b)   Transaction Scan.
      (2)   A.   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver's or commercial driver's license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away, or otherwise distributing
to the card holder cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products.
         B.   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (b)(2)A. of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver's or commercial driver's license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away, or otherwise distribute any cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products to the card holder.
         C.   Division (b)(2)A. of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver's or commercial driver's license
or identification card, if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device, as a condition for selling, giving away, or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products to the person presenting the document.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under ORC 4301.61
(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposed of this division
(b) and division (c) of this section.
      (4)   A.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except for the following:
            i.   The name and date of birth of the person listed on the
driver's or commercial driver's license or identification card presented by the
card holder; or
            ii.   The expiration date and identification number of the driver's
or commercial driver's license or identification card presented by the card
holder.
         B.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (b)(4)A. of this section, except for
purposes of division (c) of this section.
         C.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (c)(2)A. of this section.
         D.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (c) of this section
or another section of these Codified Ordinances or the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (b) or division (c) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable local, state or federal laws or rules
governing the sale, giving away, or other distribution of cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (b)(2)B. or (b)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal tobacco product or alternative nicotine
product transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil
penalty of up to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each violation. The Clerk
of the Court shall pay each collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for
deposit into the County Treasury.
(ORC 2927.021)
   (c)   Affirmative Defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (a) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of cigarettes, other tobacco products,
or alternative nicotine products is an element of the alleged violation, if the
seller, agent or employee raises and proves as an affirmative defense that all
of the following occurred:
         A.   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products presented a driver's or
commercial driver's license or an identification card.
         B.   A transaction scan of the driver's or commercial driver's license
or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that the
license or card was valid; and
         C.   The cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products were sold, given away or otherwise distributed to the card holder in
reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and the completed
transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (c)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (a) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (a) of this
section. For purposes of division (c)(1)C. of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         A.   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away or otherwise distributes cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products is eighteen (18) years of age or
older;
         B.   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver's or
commercial driver's license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (c)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
deputy registrar who issued an identification card under Ohio R.C. 4507.50 to
4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of that
issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with the
Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(ORC 2927.022)
   (d)   Shipment of Tobacco Products.
      (2)   The purpose of this division (d) is to prevent the sale of
cigarettes to minors and to ensure compliance with the Master Settlement
Agreement, as defined in ORC 1346.01.
      (3)   A.   No person shall cause to be shipped any cigarettes to any
person in this City other than an authorized recipient of tobacco products.
         B.   No motor carrier or other person shall knowingly transport
cigarettes to any person in this municipality that the carrier or other person
reasonably believes is not an authorized recipient of tobacco products. If
cigarettes are transported to a home or residence, it shall be presumed that
the motor carrier or other person knew that the person to whom the cigarettes
were delivered was not an authorized recipient of tobacco products.
      (4)   No person engaged in the business of selling cigarettes who ships
or causes to be shipped cigarettes to any person in this municipality in any
container or wrapping other than the original container or wrapping of the
cigarettes shall fail to plainly and visibly mark the exterior of the container
or wrapping in which the cigarettes are shipped with the words "cigarettes."
      (5)   A court shall impose a fine of up to one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each violation of division (d)(3)A., (d)(3)B. or (d)(4) of this
section.
(ORC 2927.023)
§ 636.23 INTIMIDATION IN CONNECTION WITH HOUSING.
   (a)   No person, whether or not acting under color of law, shall by force or
threat of force willfully injure, intimidate or interfere with, or attempt to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with any of the following:
      (1)   Any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial status,
as defined in ORC 4112.01, national origin, military status as defined in that
section, disability as defined in that section, or ancestry and because that
person is or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying,
contracting, or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or
occupation of any housing accommodations, or applying for or participating in
any service, organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting housing accommodations;
      (2)   Any person because that person is or has been doing, or in order to
intimidate that person or any other person or any class of persons from doing
either of the following:
         A.   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status, as defined in ORC 4112.01, national origin,
military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in that
section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations or
facilities described in division (a)(1) of this section; or
         B.   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
      (3)   Any person because that person is or has been, or in order to
discourage that person or any other person from, lawfully aiding or encouraging
other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status as defined in ORC 4112.01, national origin,
military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in that
section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations, or
facilities described in division (a)(1) of this section, or participating
lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity
to so participate.   
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 2927.03)
§ 636.24 FAILING TO PROVIDE FOR A FUNCTIONALLY IMPAIRED PERSON.
   (a)   No caretaker shall knowingly fail to provide a functionally impaired
person under his or her care with any treatment, care, goods or service that is
necessary to maintain the health of safety of the functionally impaired person
when this failure results in physical harm or serious physical harm to the
functionally impaired person.
   (b)   No caretaker shall recklessly fail to provide a functionally impaired
person under his or her care with any treatment, care, goods or service that is
necessary to maintain the health of safety of the functionally impaired person
when this failure results in serious physical harm to the functionally impaired
person.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
knowingly failing to provide for a functionally impaired person, a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the functionally impaired person under the offender's
care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the violation of this
section, a violation of division (a) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of
recklessly failing to provide for a functionally impaired person, a misdemeanor
of the second degree. If the functionally impaired person under the offender's
care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the violation of this
section, a violation of division (b) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2903.16)
§ 636.25 FAILURE TO PERFORM VIABILITY TESTING.
   (a)   Except in a medical emergency that prevents compliance with this
division, no physician shall perform or induce or attempt to perform or induce
an abortion on a pregnant woman after the beginning of the twentieth week of
gestation unless, prior to the performance or inducement of the abortion or the
attempt to perform or induce the abortion, the physician determines, in the
physician's good faith medical judgment, that the unborn child is not viable,
and the physician makes that determination after performing a medical
examination of the pregnant woman and after performing or causing to be
performed those tests for assessing gestational age, weight, lung maturity, or
other tests that the physician, in that physician's good faith medical
judgment, believes are necessary to determine whether an unborn child is
viable.
   (b)   Except in a medical emergency that prevents compliance with this
division, no physician shall perform or induce or attempt to perform or induce
an abortion on a pregnant woman after the beginning of the twentieth week of
gestation without first entering the determination made in division (a) of this
section and the associated findings of the medical examination and tests in the
medical record of the pregnant woman.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to perform
viability testing, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (d)   The State Medical Board shall suspend a physician's license to
practice medicine in this state for a period of not less than six (6) months if
the physician violates this section.
(ORC 2919.18)
CHAPTER 642: PROPERTY OFFENSES
Section
642.01   Determining Property Value in Arson
642.02   Arson
642.03   Criminal Damaging or Endangering
642.04   Criminal Mischief
642.05   Criminal Trespass
642.06   Aggravated Trespass
642.07   Unlawful Entry onto Place of Public Amusement
642.08   Destruction of Shrubs, Trees or Crops
642.09   Improper Removal of Improvements from Mortgaged Property
642.10   Vehicular Vandalism; Railroad Vandalism
642.11   Unauthorized Use of Property
642.12   Endangering Aircraft
642.13   Littering and Deposit of Garbage, Rubbish or Junk
642.14   Diminishing or Interfering with Forfeitable Property
642.15   Definitions
642.99   Penalties
   CROSS REFERENCES
   See sectional histories for similar State law
   Parent's Liability for Children's Acts - see ORC 3109.09
   Physical Harm to Property Defined - see GEN. OFF. 604.01
   Vandalism - see ORC 2909.05
§ 642.01 DETERMINING PROPERTY VALUE IN ARSON.
   (a)   Determination by Judge or Jury. When a person is charged with a
violation of division (a) or (b) of Section
642.02 of this Chapter involving property value or an amount of physical harm
of one thousand dollars ($1,000) or more, the jury or court trying the accused
shall determine the value of the property or amount of physical harm and, if a
guilty verdict is returned, shall return the finding as part of the verdict. In
any such case, it is unnecessary to find or return the exact value or amount of
physical harm, ORC 2945.75 applies and, if the finding and return relate to a
violation of division (a) or (b) of Section 
642.02 of this Chapter and are that the value or amount of the physical harm
was one thousand dollars ($1,000) or more, the finding and return shall include
a statement that the value or amount was one thousand dollars ($1,000) or more,
relative to finding and return of the value or amount of physical harm.
   (b)   Property Value. The following criteria shall be used in determining
the value of property or amount of physical harm involved in a violation of
Section
642.02 of this Chapter:
      (1)   If the property is an heirloom, memento, collector's item, antique,
museum piece, manuscript, document, record, or other thing that is either
irreplaceable or is replaceable only on the expenditure of substantial time,
effort or money, the value of the property or the amount of physical harm
involved is the amount that would compensate the owner for its loss.
      (2)   If the property is not covered under division (b)(1) of this
section and the physical harm is such that the property can be restored
substantially to its former condition, the amount of physical harm involved is
the reasonable cost of restoring the property.
      (3)   If the property is not covered under division (b)(1) of this
section and the physical harm is such that the property cannot be restored
substantially to its former condition, the value of the property, in the case
of personal property, is the cost of replacing the property with new property
of like kind and quality, and in the case of real property or real property
fixtures, is the difference in the fair market value of the property
immediately before and immediately after the offense.
   (c)   Fair Market Value. As used in this section, "fair market value" has
the same meaning as in Section 604.01 of the General Offenses Code.
   (d)   Prima Facie Evidence. Prima-facie evidence of the value of property,
as provided in ORC 2913.61(D), may be used to establish the value of the
property pursuant to this section.
(ORC 2909.11)
§ 642.02 ARSON.
   (a)   Prohibitions Concerning Land. No person, by means of fire or
explosion, shall knowingly cause or create a substantial risk of physical harm
to any property of another without the other person's consent.
   (b)   Prohibitions Concerning Structures. No person, by means of fire or
explosion, shall knowingly cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical
harm to any structure of another that is not an occupied structure.
   (c)   Affirmative Defense. It is an affirmative defense to a charge under
division (b) of this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the
other person.
   (d)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of arson.
      (2)   A violation of division (a) or (b) of this section is one of the
following:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (d)(2)B. of this
section, a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         B.   If the value of the property or the amount of physical harm
involved is one thousand dollars ($1,000) or more, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate State law.
(ORC 2909.03)
§ 642.03 CRIMINAL DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING.   
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall cause or create a substantial risk of
physical harm to any property of another without the other person's consent:
      (1)   Knowingly, by any means;
      (2)   Recklessly, by means of fire, explosion, flood, poison gas, poison,
radioactive material, caustic or corrosive material, or other inherently
dangerous agency or substance.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal
damaging or endangering, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If violation of
this section creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging
or endangering is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the property involved
in a violation of this section is an aircraft, an aircraft engine, propeller,
appliance, spare part or any other equipment or implement used or intended to
be used in the operation of an aircraft, and if the violation creates a risk of
physical harm to any person, criminal damaging or endangering is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate State law. If the property involved in a violation
of this section is an aircraft, an aircraft engine, propeller, appliance, spare
part or any other equipment or implement used or intended to be used in the
operation of an aircraft, and if the violation creates a risk of physical harm
to any person or if the property involved in a violation of this section is an
occupied aircraft, criminal damaging or endangering is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate State law.
(ORC 2909.06)
§ 642.04 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy
or otherwise improperly tamper with either of the following:
         A.   The property of another;
         B.   One's own residential real property with the purpose to decrease
the value of or enjoyment of the residential real property, if both of the
following apply:
            (i)   The residential real property is subject to a mortgage.
            (ii)   The person has been served with a summons and complaint in a
pending residential mortgage loan foreclosure action relating to that real
property. As used in this division, "pending" including the time between
judgment entry and confirmation of sale.
      (2)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of property of
another, employ a tear gas device, stink bomb, smoke generator or other device
releasing a substance which is harmful or offensive to persons exposed or that
tends to cause public alarm;
      (3)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy
or otherwise improperly tamper with a bench mark, triangulation station,
boundary marker or other survey station, monument or marker;
      (4)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy
or otherwise improperly tamper with any safety device, the property of another,
or the property of the offender when required or placed for the safety of
others, so as to destroy or diminish its effectiveness or availability for its
intended purpose;
      (5)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of the property
of another, set a fire on the land of another or place personal property that
has been set on fire on the land of another, which fire or personal property is
outside and apart from any building, other structure or personal property that
is on that land;
      (6)   Without privilege to do so, and with intent to impair the
functioning of any computer, computer system, computer network, computer
software or computer program, knowingly do any of the following:
         A.   In any manner or by any means including, but not limited to,
computer hacking, alter, damage, destroy or modify a computer, computer system,
computer network, computer software or computer program or data contained in a
computer, computer system, computer network, computer software or computer
program;
         B.   Introduce a computer contaminant into a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software or computer program.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal
mischief, and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4) or (a)(5) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, if the violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4)
or (a)(5) of this section creates a risk of physical harm to any person,
criminal mischief committed in violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3),
(a)(4) or (a)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
property involved in the violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4)
or (a)(5) of this section is an aircraft, an aircraft engine, propeller,
appliance, spare part, fuel, lubricant, hydraulic fluid, any other equipment,
implement or material used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft, or any cargo carried or intended to be carried in an aircraft and if
the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or if the
aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief committed in
violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4) or (a)(5) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (a)(6) of this section is misdemeanor of the
first degree. Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the value of
the computer, computer system, computer network, computer software, computer
program or data involved in the violation of division (a)(6) of this section or
the loss to the victim resulting from the violation is one thousand dollars
($1,000) or more and less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000), or if the
computer, computer system, computer network, computer software, computer
program or data involved in the violation of division (a)(6) is used or
intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and the violation creates
any risk of physical harm to any person, criminal mischief committed in
violation of division (a)(6) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate State law. If the value of the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (a)(6) of this section or the loss to the victim resulting from the
violation is ten thousand dollars ($10,000) or more, or if the computer,
computer system, computer network, computer software, computer program, or data
involved in the violation of division (a)(6) of this section is used or
intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and the violation creates a
substantial risk of physical harm to any person or the aircraft in question is
an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)
(a) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate State
law.   
   (c)   Definitions. As used in this section, "safety device" means any fire
extinguisher, fire hose or fire axe, or any fire escape, emergency exit or
emergency escape equipment, or any life line, life-saving ring, life preserver,
or life boat or raft, or any alarm, light, flare, signal, sign or notice
intended to warn of danger or emergency or intended for other safety purposes,
or any guard railing or safety barricade, or any traffic sign or signal, or any
railroad grade crossing sign, signal or gate, or any first-aid or survival
equipment, or any other device, apparatus or equipment intended for the
protecting or preserving the safety of persons or property.
(ORC 2909.07)
§ 642.05 CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person, without privilege to do so, so shall do any
of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another;
      (2)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, the
use of which is lawfully restricted to certain persons, purposes, modes or
hours, when the offender knows the offender is in violation of any such
restriction or is reckless in that regard;
      (3)   Recklessly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, as
to which notice against unauthorized access or presence is given by actual
communication to the offender, or in a manner prescribed by law, or by posting
in a manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential
intruders, or by fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to restrict
access;
      (4)   Being on the land or premises of another, negligently fail or
refuse to leave upon being notified by signage posted in conspicuous place or
otherwise being notified to do so by the owner or occupant, or the agent or
servant of either.
   (b)   Defenses.
      (1)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the land or
premises involved was owned, controlled or in custody of a public agency.
      (2)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the offender
was authorized to enter or remain on the land or premises involved when such
authorization was secured by deception.
   (c)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal trespass, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding ORC 2929.28, if the person, in committing the
violation of this section, used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle, the court shall impose a fine of two times (2x) the usual
amount imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to
two (2) or more violations of this section, ORC 2911.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and the offender, in committing each violation,
used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, the court, in
addition to or independent of all other penalties imposed for the violation,
may impound the certificate of registration of that snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle or the certificate of registration and license plate of that all-
purpose vehicle for not less than sixty (60) days. In such a case, ORC 4519.47
applies.
   (d)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "All-Purpose Vehicle," "Off-Highway Motorcycle" and "Snowmobile"
have the same meanings as ORC 4519.01.
      (2)   "Land or Premises" includes any land, building, structure or place
belonging to, controlled by or in custody of another, and any separate
enclosure or room, or portion thereof.
(ORC 2911.21)
§ 642.06 AGGRAVATED TRESPASS.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall enter or remain on the land or premises
of another with purpose to commit on that land or those premises a misdemeanor,
the elements of which involve causing physical harm to another person or
causing another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
him or her.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of aggravated
trespass, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 2911.211)
§ 642.07 UNLAWFUL ENTRY ONTO PLACE OF PUBLIC AMUSEMENT.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly
enter or remain on any restricted portion of a place of public amusement and,
as a result of that conduct, interrupt or cause the delay of the live
performance, sporting event, or other activity taking place at the place of
public amusement after a printed written notice has been given as provided in
division (c)(1) of this section that the general public is restricted from
access to that restricted portion of the place of public amusement. A
restricted portion of a place of public amusement may include, but is not
limited to, a playing field, an athletic surface, or a stage located at the
place of public amusement.
   (b)   Rights of Owner or Lessee. An owner or lessee of a place of public
amusement, an agent of the owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a
place of public amusement may use reasonable force to restrain and remove a
person from a restricted portion of the place of public amusement if the person
enters or remains on the restricted portion of the place of public amusement
and, as a result of that conduct, interrupts or causes the delay of the live
performance, sporting event, or other activity taking place at the place of
public amusement. This division does not provide immunity from criminal
liability for any use of force beyond reasonable force by an owner or lessee of
a place of public amusement, an agent of either the owner or lessee, or a
performer or participant at a place of public amusement.
   (c)   Notice.
      (1)   Notice has been given that the general public is restricted from
access to a portion of a place of public amusement if a printed written notice
of the restricted access has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at the
entrance to that portion of the place of public amusement. If a printed written
notice is posted or exhibited as described in this division regarding a portion
of a place of public amusement, in addition to that posting or exhibition,
notice that the general public is restricted from access to that portion of the
place of public amusement also may be given, but is not required to be given,
by either of the following means:
         A.   By notifying the person personally, either orally or in writing,
that access to that portion of the place of public amusement is restricted;
         B.   By broadcasting over the public address system of the place of
public amusement an oral warning that access to that portion of the place of
public amusement is restricted.
      (2)   If notice that the general public is restricted from access to a
portion of a place of public amusement is provided by the posting or exhibition
of a printed written notice as described in division (c)(1) of this section,
the City, in a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (a) of this
section, is not required to prove that the defendant received actual notice
that the general public is restricted from access to a portion of a place of
public amusement.
   (d)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of criminal
trespass on a place of public amusement, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   In addition to any jail term, fine, or other sentence, penalty, or
sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to division (d)(1) of this
section, a court may require an offender who violates this section to perform
not less than thirty (30) and not more than one hundred and twenty (120) hours
of supervised community service work.
   (e)   Definitions. As used in this section, "place of public amusement"
means a stadium, theater, or other facility, whether licensed or not, at which
a live performance, sporting event, or other activity takes place for
entertainment of the public and to which access is made available to the
public, regardless of whether admission is charged.
(ORC 2911.23)
§ 642.08 DESTRUCTION OF SHRUBS, TREES OR CROPS.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly
cut down, destroy, girdle or otherwise injure a vine, bush, shrub, sapling,
tree or crop standing or growing on the land of another or upon public land.
(ORC 901.51)
   (b)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(ORC 901.99)
      (2)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (b)(1) of this
section, whoever violates this section is liable in treble damages for the
injury caused.
(ORC 901.51)
§ 642.09 IMPROPER REMOVAL OF IMPROVEMENTS FROM MORTGAGED PROPERTY.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person having an interest in real property, buyer,
lessee, tenant or occupant of real property, knowing that such real property is
mortgaged or the subject of a land contract, shall remove, or cause or permit
the removal of, any improvement or fixture from such real property without the
consent of the mortgagee, vendor under the land contract or other person
authorized to give such consent.
(ORC 5301.61)
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
(ORC 5301.99)
§ 642.10 VEHICULAR VANDALISM; RAILROAD VANDALISM.
   (a)   Vehicular Vandalism.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any
object at, onto, or in the path of any of the following:
         A.   Any vehicle on a highway;
         B.   Any boat or vessel on any of the waters in this State.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (a)(1) this section is guilty of
vehicular vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division (a)(2),
vehicular vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of
division (a)(1) of this section creates a substantial risk of physical harm or
causes physical harm or serious physical harm to any person or if the violation
of division (a)(1) of this section causes serious physical harm to property,
vehicular vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
      (3)   As used in this division:
         A.   "Alley," "Street," and "Vehicle" have the same meanings as in ORC
4511.01.
         B.   "Highway" means any highway as defined in ORC 4511.01 or any
lane, road, street, alley, bridge or overpass.
         C.   "Vessel" and "Waters of this State" have the same meanings as in
ORC 1546.01.
(ORC 2909.09)
   (b)   Railroad Vandalism.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any
object at, onto or in the path of any railroad rail, railroad track,
locomotive, engine, railroad car or other vehicle of a railroad company while
such vehicle is on a railroad track.
      (2)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall climb upon or into any
locomotive, engine, railroad car or other vehicle of a railroad company when it
is on a railroad track.
      (3)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall disrupt, delay or
prevent the operation of any train or other vehicle of a railroad company while
such vehicle is on a railroad track.
      (4)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly enter or
remain on the land or premises of a railroad company.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (b)(1) of this section is guilty of
railroad vandalism. Whoever violates division (b)(2) of this section is guilty
of criminal trespass on a locomotive, engine railroad car or other railroad
vehicle. Whoever violates division (b)(3) of this section is guilty of
interference with the operation of a train.
      (6)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (b)(6), railroad
vandalism; criminal trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car or other
railroad vehicle; and interference with the operation of a train each is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Except as otherwise provided in this division
(b)(6), if the violation of division (b)(1), (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section
causes serious physical harm to property or creates a substantial risk of
physical harm to any person, the violation is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate State law.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (b)(4) of this section is guilty of
criminal trespass on the land or premises of a railroad company, a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree.
(ORC 2909.10)
   (c)   Railroad Grade Crossing Device Vandalism.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly deface, damage, obstruct, remove or
otherwise impair the operation of any railroad grade crossing warning signal or
other protective device, including any gate, bell, light, crossbuck, stop sign,
yield sign, advance warning sign or other advance pavement marking.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (c)(1) this section is guilty of railroad
grade crossing device vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
Except as otherwise provided in this division (c)(2), if the violation of this
section causes serious physical harm to property or creates substantial risk of
physical harm to any person, the violation is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate State law.
(ORC 2909.101)
§ 642.11 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PROPERTY.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall knowingly use or operate the property of
another without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (b)   Affirmative Defenses. The affirmative defenses contained in ORC
2913.03(C) are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section.
   (c)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of unauthorized use
of property.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(2) or (3) of this
section, unauthorized use of property is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(3) of this section, if
unauthorized use of property is committed for the purpose of devising or
executing a scheme to defraud or to obtain property or services, unauthorized
use of property is whichever of the following is applicable:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(2)B. of this
section, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         B.   If the value of the property or services or the loss to the
victim is one thousand dollars ($1,000) or more, unauthorized use of property
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, unauthorized use of property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate State law.
(ORC 2913.04)
§ 642.12 ENDANGERING AIRCRAFT.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly throw an object at, or drop an object upon, any moving
aircraft;
      (2)   Knowingly shoot with a bow and arrow, or knowingly discharge a
firearm, air gun or spring-operated gun, at or toward any aircraft.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
endangering aircraft, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person or if the aircraft that is the
subject of the violation is occupied, endangering aircraft is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate State law.
   (c)   Definitions.
      (1)   "Air Gun" means a hand pistol or rifle that propels its projectile
by means of releasing compressed air, carbon dioxide or other gas.
      (2)   "Firearm" has the same meaning as in ORC Section 2923.11.
      (3)   "Spring-Operated Gun" means a hand pistol or rifle that propels a
projectile not less than four or more than five millimeters (4 mm - 5 mm) in
diameter by means of a spring.
(ORC 2909.08)
§ 642.13 LITTERING AND DEPOSIT OF GARBAGE, RUBBISH OR JUNK.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall, regardless of intent, throw, drop,
discard, place, or deposit litter, garbage, rubbish, junk or unsolicited
flyers, mailers, circulars or other printed material, or cause litter, garbage,
rubbish, junk or unsolicited flyers, mailers, circulars or other printed
material to be thrown, dropped, discarded, placed, or deposited on any public
property or on the private property of another person or in or on any waters of
the State, the City, or waters of another person, except in receptacles
provided therefor unless the person has:
      (1)   Been directed to do so by a public official as part of a litter
collection program;
      (2)   Discarded the material in accordance with a permit or license
issued pursuant to ORC Chapter 3734. or Chapter 6111.; or
      (3)   Deposited the material in a transfer station designated by the City
in accordance with City ordinance and any rules promulgated thereunder.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on the first offense. If the offender has previously been convicted
of or pled guilty to two (2) violations of this section, the offender is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender has previously been
convicted of or pled guilty to three (3) or more violations of this section,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (c)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "Garbage," "Junk," "Litter" and "Rubbish" shall be defined as
provided in Section
642.15.
      (2)   "Person" includes both individuals and corporations.
(Ord. 2018-12. Passed 04/26/18)
642.14   DIMINISHING OR INTERFERING WITH FORFEITABLE PROPERTY.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall destroy, damage, remove or transfer
property that is subject to forfeiture, or otherwise take any action in regard
to property that is subject to forfeiture, with purpose to do any of the
following:
      (1)   Prevent or impair the State's or City's lawful authority to take
the property into its custody or control under ORC Chapter 2981. or to continue
holding the property under its lawful custody or control;
      (2)   Impair or defeat the court's continuing jurisdiction over the
person and property;
      (3)   Devalue property that the person knows, or has reasonable cause to
believe, is subject to forfeiture proceeding under ORC Chapter 2981.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference
with or diminishing forfeitable property. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, interference with or diminishing forfeitable property is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property is five hundred
dollars ($500) or more, interference with or diminishing forfeitable property
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2981.07)
642.15 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this Chapter:
   (a)   "Computer," "Computer Hacking," "Computer Network," "Computer
Program," "Computer Software," "Computer System," "Data" and
"Telecommunications Device" have the same meanings as in ORC 2913.01.
(ORC 2909.01)
   (b)   Computer Contaminant. A computer program that is designed to modify,
damage, destroy, disable, deny or degrade access to, allow unauthorized access
to, functionally impair, record or transmit information within a computer,
computer system or computer network without the express or implied consent of
the owner or other person authorized to give consent and that is of a type or
kind described in divisions (b)(1) to (b)(4) of this section or of a type or
kind similar to a type or kind described in divisions (b)(1) to (b)(4) of this
section:
      (1)   A group of computer programs commonly known as "viruses" and
"worms" that are self- replicating or self-propagating and that are designed to
contaminate other computer programs, compromise computer security, consume
computer resources, modify, destroy, record, or transmit data, or disrupt the
normal operation of the computer, computer system, or computer network;
      (2)   A group of computer programs commonly known as "Trojans" or "Trojan
horses" that are not self-replicating or self-propagating and that are designed
to compromise computer security, consume computer resources, modify, destroy,
record, or transmit data, or disrupt the normal operation of the computer,
computer system, or computer network;
      (3)   A group of computer programs commonly known as "zombies" that are
designed to use a computer without the knowledge and consent of the owner, or
other person authorized to give consent, and that are designed to send large
quantities of data to a targeted computer network for the purpose of degrading
the targeted computer's or network's performance, or denying access through the
network to the targeted computer or network, resulting in what is commonly
known as "Denial of Service" or "Distributed Denial of Service" attacks;
      (4)   A group of computer programs commonly known as "trap doors," "back
doors," or "root kits" that are designed to bypass standard authentication
software and that are designed to allow access to or use of a computer without
the knowledge or consent of the owner, or other person authorized to give
consent.
(ORC 2909.01)
   (c)   To "create a substantial risk of serious physical harm to any person"
includes the creation of a substantial risk of serious physical harm to any
emergency personnel, as defined in ORC 2909.01(B).
(ORC 2909.01)
   (d)   Garbage. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food. It shall be taken to mean and
include all table and kitchen refuse of every kind and description; also
decaying vegetables and meats, or anything that will, or may, decompose and
become offensive or dangerous to health.
(Ord. 2018-12. Passed 04/26/18)
   (e)   Internet. "Internet" has the same meaning as in ORC 341.42.
(ORC 2909.01)
   (f)   Junk. Scrapped materials such as glass, rags, paper, metal, or other
scrap or waste material of whatsoever kind or nature, that is collected or
accumulated for resale, salvage; disposal or storage; scrapped or worn-out
vehicle parts, appliances, equipment or parts thereof, whether serviceable or
not; or anything worn-out or fit to be discarded.
(Ord. 2018-12. Passed 04/26/18)
   (g)   Litter. Includes any garbage, waste, peelings of vegetables or fruits,
rubbish, ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes, parts of
automobiles, wagons, furniture, glass, oil of an unsightly or unsanitary
nature, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature, or any material
that, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, would tend to create a
nuisance or a danger to public health, safety or welfare.
(Ord. 2018-12. Passed 04/26/18)
   (h)   Occupied Structure. Any house, building, outbuilding, watercraft,
aircraft, railroad car, truck, trailer, tent or other structure, vehicle or
shelter, or any portion thereof, to which any of the following applies:
      (1)   It is maintained as a permanent or temporary dwelling, even though
it is temporarily unoccupied and whether or not any person is actually present.
      (2)   At the time, it is occupied as the permanent or temporary
habitation of any person, whether or not the person is actually present.
      (3)   At the time, it is specially adapted for the overnight
accommodation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present.
      (4)   At the time, any person is present or likely to be present in it.
(ORC 2909.01)
   (i)   Physical Harm to Persons. Any injury, illness or other physiological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
(ORC 2901.01)
   (j)   Physical Harm to Property. Any tangible or intangible damage to
property that, in any degree, results in loss to its value or interferes with
its use or enjoyment. "Physical harm to property" does not include wear and
tear occasioned by normal use.
(ORC 2901.01)
   (k)   Privilege. An immunity, license or right conferred by law, bestowed by
express or implied grant, arising out of status, position, office or
relationship, or growing out of necessity.
(ORC 2901.01)
   (l)   Property.
      (1)   "Property" means any property, real or personal, tangible or
intangible, and any interest or license in that property. "Property" includes,
but is not limited to, cable television service, other telecommunications
service, telecommunications devices, information service, computers, data,
computer software, financial instruments associated with computers, other
documents associated with computers, or copies of the documents, whether in
machine or human readable form, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents,
and property protected by a trademark, copyright, or patent. "Financial
instruments associated with computers" include, but are not limited to, checks,
drafts, warrants, money orders, notes of indebtedness, certificates of deposit,
letters of credit, bills of credit or debit cards, financial transaction
authorization mechanisms, marketable securities, or any computer system
representations of any of them.
      (2)   As used in division (l)(1) of this section, "trade secret" has the
same meaning as in ORC 1333.61, and "telecommunications service" and
"information service" have the same meanings as in ORC 2913.01.
      (3)   As used in divisions (l)(1) of this section, "cable television
service," "computer," "computer software," "computer system," "computer
network," "data," and "telecommunications device" have the same meanings as in
ORC 2913.01.
(ORC 2909.01)
   (m)   Risk. A significant possibility, as contrasted with a remote
possibility, that a certain result may occur or that certain circumstances may
exist.
(ORC 2901.01)
   (n)   Rubbish. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except
garbage; the term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal,
coke and other combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood,
excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metal,
mineral matter, glass, crockery and dust and other similar materials.
(Ord. 2018-12. Passed 04/26/18)
   (o)   "Serious Physical Harm to Persons" and "Serious Physical Harm to
Property" have the same meaning as in ORC 2901.01.
   (p)   Substantial Risk. A strong possibility, as contrasted with a remote or
significant possibility, that a certain result may occur or that certain
circumstances may exist.
(ORC 2909.01)
642.99    PENALTIES.
   Any violation of this Chapter for which no other penalty is provided shall
be a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2018-12. Passed 04/26/18)
CHAPTER 648: PEACE DISTURBANCES
Section
648.02   Failure to Disperse
648.03   Justifiable Use of Force to Suppress Riot
648.04   Disorderly Conduct
648.05   Disturbing Lawful Meeting
648.06   Misconduct at an Emergency
648.10   Minors’ Curfew
648.11   Street Gangs
648.12   Panhandling
648.13   Nuisance Party Regulations
   CROSS REFERENCES
   See sectional histories for similar State law
   Barking or Howling Dogs - see GEN. OFF. 618.07
   Cordoning off Riot Areas - see ORC 3761.16
   Detention of Disorderly Persons - see GEN. OFF.
608.17
   Discharge of Firearms - see GEN. OFF.
678.01
   Disorderly Conduct at Liquor Permit Establishments - see GEN. OFF.
612.11
   Fireworks - see GEN. OFF.
678.03
   Noisy Mufflers - see TRAF.
438.21
   Peeling Tires; Cracking Exhaust Noises - see TRAF.
432.34
   Power to Regulate Peace Disturbances - see ORC 715.49
   Riot Assistance by State Highway Patrol - see ORC 5503.02
   Sirens, Whistles and Bells on Motor Vehicles - see TRAF.
438.20
   Suspension of Alcohol Sales during Emergency - see ORC 4301.251
§ 648.02 FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   (a)   Where five (5) or more persons are participating in a course of
disorderly conduct in violation of ORC 2917.11, Section 648.04 of this General
Offenses Code or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and there are
other persons in the vicinity whose presence creates the likelihood of physical
harm to persons or property or of serious public inconvenience, annoyance, or
alarm, a law enforcement officer or other public official may order the
participants and the other persons to disperse. No person shall knowingly fail
to obey the order.
   (b) Nothing in this section requires persons to disperse who are peaceably
assembled for a lawful purpose.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to disperse.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(3) of this section,
failure to disperse is a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Failure to disperse is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the
failure to obey the order described in division (a) of this section creates the
likelihood of physical harm to persons or is committed at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot or emergency of any kind.
(ORC 2917.04)
§ 648.03 JUSTIFIABLE USE OF FORCE TO SUPPRESS RIOT.
   A law enforcement officer or firefighter engaged in suppressing a riot or in
protecting persons or property during a riot:
   (a)   Is justified in using force, other than deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters; and
   (b)   Is justified in using force, including deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters whose conduct is creating a substantial risk of
serious physical harm to persons.
(ORC 2917.05)
§ 648.04 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (a)   No person shall recklessly cause inconvenience, annoyance or alarm to
another by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting, in threatening harm to persons or property or
in violent or turbulent behavior;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise or an offensively coarse utterance,
gesture, or display, or communicating unwarranted and grossly abusive language
to any person;
      (3)   Insulting, taunting or challenging another, under circumstances in
which that conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
      (4)   Hindering or preventing the movement of persons on a public street,
road, highway or right-of-way, or to, from, within, or upon public or private
property, so as to interfere with the rights of others, and by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender; or
      (5)   Creating a condition that is physically offensive to persons or
that presents a risk of physical harm to persons or property, by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender.
   (b)   No person while voluntarily intoxicated shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   In a public place or in the presence of two (2) or more persons,
engage in conduct likely to be offensive or to cause inconvenience, annoyance,
or alarm to persons of ordinary sensibilities, which conduct the offender, if
he or she were not intoxicated, should know is likely to have such effect on
others; or
      (2)   Engage in conduct or create a condition that presents a risk of
physical harm to himself, herself or another, or to the property of another.
   (c)   Violation of any statute or ordinance of which an element is operating
a motor vehicle, locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse is not a violation of division
(b) of this section.
   (d)   If a person appears to an ordinary observer to be intoxicated, it is
probable cause to believe that the person is voluntarily intoxicated for
purposes of division (b) of this section.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disorderly conduct.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (e)(2) of this section,
disorderly conduct is a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Disorderly conduct is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if any of
the following applies:
         A.   The offender persists in disorderly conduct after reasonable
warning or request to desist;
         B.   The offense is committed in the vicinity of a school or in a
school safety zone;
         C.   The offense is committed in the presence of any law enforcement
officer, firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services
person or other authorized person who is engaged in the person's duties at the
scene of a fire, accident, disaster, riot or emergency of any kind; or
         D.   The offense is committed in the presence of any emergency
facility person who is engaged in the person's duties in an emergency facility.
(ORC 2917.11)
§ 648.05 DISTURBING A LAWFUL MEETING.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to prevent or disrupt a lawful meeting,
procession or gathering, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Do any act that obstructs or interferes with the due conduct of the
meeting, procession or gathering; or
      (2)   Make any utterance, gesture or display that outrages the
sensibilities of the group.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disturbing a lawful
meeting, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(ORC 2917.12)
§ 648.06 MISCONDUCT AT AN EMERGENCY.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Hamper the lawful operations of any law enforcement officer,
firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services person, or
other authorized person engaged in the person's duties at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot or emergency of any kind;
      (2)   Hamper the lawful activities of any emergency facility person who
is engaged in the person's duties in an emergency facility; or
      (3)   Fail to obey the lawful order of any law enforcement officer
engaged in the law enforcement officer's duties at the scene of or in
connection with a fire, accident, disaster, riot or emergency of any kind.
   (b)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit access or deny
information to any news media representative in the lawful exercise of the news
media representative's duties.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misconduct at an emergency.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If violation of this section creates a risk
of physical harm to persons or property, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 2917.13)
§ 648.10 MINORS CURFEW.
   (b)   Unlawful Conduct of Minors; Hours; Exceptions.
      (1)   No minor shall loiter in or upon any public place or business
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day, except that
on Fridays and Saturdays the hours shall be from 12:00 midnight to 6:00 a.m.
      (2)   No minor shall drive or ride aimlessly in a motor vehicle,
motorcycle or bicycle between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. the
following day, except that on Fridays and Saturdays the hours shall be from 12:
00 midnight to 6:00 a.m.
      (3)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a minor who is:
         A.   Accompanied by a parent, guardian, or custodian;
         B.   Accompanied by an adult specified by a parent, guardian, or
custodian;
         C.   Carrying out an errand or other lawful activity as directed by a
parent, guardian, or custodian; or
         D.   Occupying the sidewalk of the place where the minor resides, or
the sidewalk of a place where the minor has permission from his or her parent
or guardian to be, or the sidewalk of a next-door neighbor not communicating an
objection to a police officer.
         E.   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
            i.   Lawful employment;
            ii.   A lawful athletic, education, entertainment, religious, or
social event; or
            iii.   Interstate travel.
   (c)   Unlawful Conduct of Parents. No parent shall knowingly permit any
minor in his or her charge to loiter in or upon any public place or business or
to drive or ride aimlessly between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the
following day, except that on Fridays and Saturdays the hours shall be from 12:
00 midnight to 6:00 a.m.
   (d)   Unlawful Conduct of Owners and Operators of Businesses. No operator of
a business, or any agent or employee thereof, shall knowingly permit any minor
to loiter upon the premises of the business between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and
6:00 a.m. of the following day, except that on Fridays and Saturdays the hours
shall be from 12:00 midnight to 6:00 a.m.
   (e)   Enforcement. Any police officer who finds a minor in violation of
division (b) of this section shall obtain from the minor his or her name,
address and age and the names of his or her parents. The minor shall thereupon
be instructed to proceed to his or her home forthwith. A written notice shall
then be mailed by the Chief of Police to the parents of the minor advising them
of the violation of division (b) of this section.
   (f)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever, being an adult, violates any of the provisions of this
section, is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Minors violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
dealt with in accordance with Juvenile Court law and procedure.
(Ord. 65-18. Passed 06/24/65. Ord. 06-70. Passed 11/09/06. Ord. 19-22. Passed
11/26/19)
§ 648.11 STREET GANGS.
   (b)   Gang Membership and Activities Prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly participate in or be a member of a
criminal street gang or willfully commit, or aid and abet the commission of, a
criminal act committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in
association with, any criminal street gang.
      (2)   In the prosecution of any person for participating in any criminal
gang activity, it is an affirmative defense that, prior to the commission of or
attempt to commit an offense, the actor thwarted the success of the criminal
street gang and terminated his or her involvement in such criminal street gang
under circumstances manifesting a complete and voluntary renunciation of his or
her membership in such criminal street gang.
   (c)   Gang Communications.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly make, by gesture or other expression, any
communication depicting criminal street gang communications or criminal street
gang symbols.
      (2)   No person shall negligently display or permit the display of, or
fail to remove any form of, graffiti, drawings, communications or words
depicting criminal street gang communications or criminal street gang symbols
on any real or personal property owned, leased or controlled by that person
within thirty (30) days of being notified thereof by any competent authority.
   (d)   Declaration of Nuisance. The existence of criminal street gang
graffiti, communications, signs or symbols on any building, structure or other
surface in the City, in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance, the continuance of which threatens the
safety and welfare of the residents of the City, and such nuisance must be
razed or eradicated immediately to prevent injury or the possibility thereof to
the life or property of the residents of the City. The nuisance may be abated
as such action is described in the Building and Housing Code.
   (e)   Forfeiture of Property.
      (1)   Whenever any property, whether real, personal or otherwise, has
been knowingly used in the commission of a violation of any of the provisions
of this section, or any provision of the Ohio Revised Code prohibiting criminal
street gang activity, the property shall be subject to the forfeiture
provisions of ORC 2933.41 et. seq.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a forfeiture under this section
that the owner of the property exercised due diligence to prevent the property
from being used in the commission of a criminal act and that, within thirty
(30) days subsequent to notification of the commission of any offense involving
property under his or her ownership or control, the owner of such property
exercised due diligence in attempting to remove or abate the prohibited street
gang communication, sign or symbol.
   (f)   Penalty.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, whoever violates any
of the provisions of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree. If such violation creates a risk of physical harm to any person, the
offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender has no
prior violations of this or any other similar prohibition, then, in addition to
any other penalty imposed, the offender may be ordered to participate in an
educational awareness program which presents the dangers of participation in
gang activity.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (d) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 96-41. Passed 05/09/96. Ord. 19-22. Passed 11/26/19)
§ 648.12 PANHANDLING.
   (b)   Panhandling Restrictions and Prohibitions. No person shall solicit for
panhandling in any of the following manners:
      (1)   In any type of aggressive manner;
      (2)   On any private property on which there is any type of written
notice prohibiting solicitation and/or panhandling;
      (3)   On any other private property, unless the person panhandling has
obtained prior permission from the owner or occupant;
      (4)   From any operator or occupant of a motor vehicle or from any person
entering or exiting a motor vehicle;
      (5)   Within twenty feet (20') of any pedestrians waiting in line for
service or waiting in line for an event;
      (6)   Within twenty feet (20') of any pedestrians waiting in line to
obtain access to a building;
      (7)   Within twenty feet (20') of any entrance or exit of the building
for any check cashing business, bank, credit union, or savings and loan during
the hours of operation of any of these businesses;
      (8)   Within twenty feet (20') of any automated teller machine during its
hours of operation;
      (9)   At any bus stops or bus shelters;
      (10)   In any vehicle within the right-of-way;
      (11)   In any public transportation vehicle or any public transportation
facility;
      (12)   Within twenty feet (20') of the area of the sidewalk;
      (13)   Within twenty feet (20') of the entrance or exit of any public
facility;
      (14)   On public property within twenty feet (20') of an entrance to a
building;
      (15)   On public property within twenty feet (20') of an entrance to a
parking lot;
      (16)   On a public street, by intentionally or recklessly blocking the
safe or free passage of a person or vehicle;
      (17)   In any manner which involves the use of false or misleading
representations.
   (c)   Panhandling by Minors. No parent, guardian, or other custodian of a
minor child shall allow or cause, or direct a minor to engage in panhandling.
Further, no other adult shall cause a minor to panhandle.
   (d)   Penalty. Whoever violates this section is guilty of panhandling, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates this section three times or
more within one year is guilty of a third degree misdemeanor.
(Ord. 13-31. Passed 06/13/13; Ord. 19-22. Passed 11/26/19)
§ 648.13 NUISANCE PARTY REGULATIONS.
   (b)   Duty to Control Premises. Any person who is an owner, occupant,
tenant, or otherwise has rightful possession or possessory control,
individually or jointly with others, of any premises, who either sponsors,
conducts, hosts, invites, or permits a social gathering or party on said
premises which is or becomes a nuisance party and which nuisance is either the
intentional result of, or within the reasonable expectations of, the person or
persons having such possessory control is deemed to be in violation of this
section.
   (c)   Order to Cease and Disperse. A party or social gathering that is or
becomes a nuisance party shall cease upon the order of the Police Chief, or the
Police Chief's designee, and all persons not residing therein at the site of
such social gathering or party shall leave the premises immediately. Any person
who fails or refuses to obey and abide by such an order shall be guilty of a
violation of this section.
   (d)   Penalty. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a fourth degree
misdemeanor. If a violation of this section creates a risk of physical harm to
persons or property, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender has
been previously charged within the past twelve (12) months for a violation of
this section, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(Ord. 13-37. Passed 06/27/13; Ord. 2019-22. Passed 11/26/19)
CHAPTER 660: SAFETY, SANITATION AND HEALTH
Section
660.01   Venting of heaters and burners.
660.02   Spreading contagion.
660.03   Littering and deposit of garbage, rubbish, junk, and the like.
660.031   Junk vehicles. (Repealed)
660.04   Noxious odors; filthy accumulations; polluting and diverting
watercourses.
660.05   Duty to keep sidewalks clear of snow and ice.
660.06   Abandoned refrigerators and airtight containers.
660.07   Storage of merchandise and material in fire lanes.
660.08   Open burning.
660.09   Barricades and warning lights.
660.10   Sidewalk obstructions; damage or injury.
660.11   Notice to fill lots, remove putrid substances.
660.12   Fences.
660.13   Health nuisances.
660.14   Debris at outdoor eating establishments.
660.15   Enforcement.
   CROSS REFERENCES
   See section histories for similar state law
   Excavation liability - see Ohio R.C. 723.49 et seq.
   Nuisances - see Ohio R.C. Ch. 3767
   Placing injurious material or obstruction in street - see TRAF.
412.01
   Littering from motor vehicles - see TRAF.
432.39
   Safety and equipment for motor vehicles - see TRAF. Ch.
438
   Loads dropping or leaking; tracking mud; removal required - see TRAF.
440.06
   Willfully leaving vehicles on private or public property - see TRAF.
452.05
   Rabies quarantine - see GEN. OFF.
618.11
   Animal nuisances - see GEN. OFF. 618.13
   Weapons and explosives - see GEN. OFF. Ch.
678
§ 660.01 VENTING OF HEATERS AND BURNERS.
   (a)   The use of a brazier, salamander, space heater, room heater, furnace,
water heater or other burner or heater using wood, coal, coke, fuel oil,
kerosene, gasoline, natural gas, liquid petroleum gas or similar fuel, and
tending to give off carbon monoxide or other harmful gases must comply with the
following provisions.
      (1)   When used in living quarters, or in any enclosed building or space
in which persons are usually present, shall be used with a flue or vent so
designed, installed, and maintained as to vent the products of combustion
outdoors; except in storage, factory, or industrial buildings which are
provided with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide
poisoning.
      (2)   When used as a portable or temporary burner or heater at a
construction site, or in a warehouse, shed, or structure in which persons are
temporarily present, shall be vented as provided in subsection (a)(1) or used
with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide poisoning.
   (b)   This section does not apply to domestic ranges, laundry stoves, gas
logs installed in a fireplace with an adequate flue, or hot plates, unless the
same are used as space or room heaters.
   (c)   No person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in
charge, or occupant of premises, negligently permit the use of a burner or
heater in violation of the standards for venting and ventilation provided in
this section.
   (d)   Subsection (a) above does not apply to any kerosene-fired space or
room heater that is equipped with an automatic extinguishing tip-over device,
or to any natural gas-fired or liquid petroleum gas-fired space or room heater
that is equipped with an oxygen depletion safety shut-off system, and that has
its fuel piped from a source outside the building in which it is located, that
are approved by an authoritative source recognized by the State Fire Marshal in
the State Fire Code adopted by him or her under Ohio R.C. 3737.82.
   (e)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules to ensure the safe use of
unvented kerosene, natural gas or liquid petroleum gas heaters exempted from
subsection (a) above when used in assembly buildings, business buildings, high
hazard buildings, institutional buildings, mercantile buildings, and type R-
1 and R-2 residential buildings, as these groups of buildings are defined in
rules adopted by the Board of Building Standards under Ohio R.C. 3781.10. No
person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in charge or occupant
of premises, negligently permit the use of a heater in violation of any rules
adopted under this subsection.
   (f)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules prescribing standards for
written instructions containing ventilation requirements and warning of any
potential fire hazards that may occur in using a kerosene, natural gas or
liquid petroleum gas heater. No person shall sell or offer for sale any
kerosene, natural gas or liquid petroleum gas heater unless the manufacturer
provides with the heater written instructions that comply with any rules
adopted under this subsection.
   (g)   No product labeled as a fuel additive for kerosene heaters and having
a flash point below 100°F or 37.8°C shall be sold, offered for sale, or used in
any kerosene space heater.
   (h)   No device that prohibits any safety feature on a kerosene, natural
gas, or liquid petroleum gas space heater from operating shall be sold, offered
for sale, or used in connection with any kerosene, natural gas, or liquid
petroleum gas space heater.
   (i)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any kerosene-fired, natural
gas, or liquid petroleum gas-fired heater that is not exempt from subsection
(a) above, unless it is marked conspicuously by the manufacturer on the
container with the phrase “Not Approved For Home Use.”
   (j)   No person shall use a cabinet-type, liquid petroleum gas-fired heater
having a fuel source within the heater, inside any building, except as
permitted by the State Fire Marshal in the State Fire Code adopted by him or
her under Ohio R.C. 3737.82.
(ORC 3701.82)
   (k)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC 3701.99(B))
§ 660.02 SPREADING CONTAGION.
   (a)   No person, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that he or
she is suffering from a dangerous, contagious disease, shall knowingly fail to
take reasonable measures to prevent exposing himself or herself to other
persons, except when seeking medical aid.
   (b)   No person, having charge or care of a person whom he or she knows or
has reasonable cause to believe is suffering from a dangerous, contagious
disease, shall recklessly fail to take reasonable measures to protect others
from exposure to the contagion, and to inform health authorities of the
existence of the contagion.
   (c)   No person, having charge of a public conveyance or place of public
accommodation, amusement, resort, or trade, and knowing or having reasonable
cause to believe that persons using such conveyance or place have been or are
being exposed to a dangerous, contagious disease, shall negligently fail to
take reasonable measures to protect the public from exposure to the contagion,
and to inform health authorities of the existence of the contagion.
(ORC 3701.81)
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second
degree.
(ORC 3701.99(C))
§ 660.03 LITTERING AND DEPOSIT OF GARBAGE, RUBBISH, JUNK AND THE LIKE.
   (b)   Litter on Public Property. No person, regardless of intent, shall
throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, tree lawn, sidewalk or other
public property, except in public receptacles or in authorized receptacles for
collection.
   (c)   Deposit of Litter in Receptacles so as to Prevent Scattering. Persons
depositing litter in public or private receptacles shall do so in such a manner
as to prevent it from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any
street, tree lawn, sidewalk or other public or private property. If a
receptacle is filled to capacity, such litter shall be properly disposed of
elsewhere.
   (d)   Upsetting Public or Private Receptacles. No person shall upset a
public or private receptacle designed or used for the deposit of litter or
cause or permit its contents to be deposited or strewn on public or private
property.
   (e)   Illegal Use of Litter Receptacles.
      (1)   No person shall dispose of household trash, business trash,
building material, industrial waste or yard trash, accumulated in residences or
places of business, in litter receptacles located on premises not owned or
controlled by such person or without the permission of the person owning or
controlling such premises.
      (2)   No person, without authority, shall upset, damage, tamper with or
destroy a public or private receptacle designed or used for the deposit of
litter or cause or permit its contents to be deposited or strewn in or upon any
premises.
   (f)   Litter in Parks. No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park
within the City, except in public receptacles and in such a manner as to
prevent it from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the
park or upon any street or other public place. Where public receptacles are not
provided, all such litter shall be carried away from the park by the person
responsible for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere as provided
herein.
   (g)   Litter in Streams and Fountains. No person shall throw or deposit
litter in any fountain, pond, lagoon, lake, stream, bay or other body of water
in a park or elsewhere within the City.
   (h)   Sidewalks and Alleys to be Kept Free of Litter. Persons owning,
occupying or in control of any public place or private premises shall keep the
sidewalks and alleys adjacent thereto free of litter and shall maintain such
receptacles as may be required by this section.
   (i)   Dumping Prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall dump any garbage or solid waste on any public or
private property or on any place not licensed or designated as an authorized
dumping site by the City Manager.
      (2)   The City Manager or his or her designee is hereby authorized to
send written notice to violators to remove debris illegally dumped. If the
violator fails to comply with this order within five (5) days, the City may
remove the debris. The violator shall be liable for a civil penalty equal to
three (3) times the cost of such removal services.
   (j)   Litter on Occupied Private Property. No person shall throw or deposit
litter on any occupied private property within the City, whether owned by such
person or not, except that the owner or person in control of private property
may maintain authorized private receptacles for collection in such a manner
that litter will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements
upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or upon any private property.
   (l)   Litter on Vacant Lots. No person shall throw or deposit litter on any
open or vacant private property within the City, whether owned by such person
or not.
   (n)   Litter on Construction Sites.
      (1)   Each contractor shall be responsible for the job site in such a
manner that litter will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the
elements upon any public place or private premises.
      (2)   Litter or other debris, including dirt and mud, deposited as the
result of a normal construction process upon any public or private premises,
shall be removed.
   (o)   Penalty. Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 85-22. Passed 06/13/85; Ord. 87-27. Passed 05/14/87; Ord. 14-10. Passed
02/13/14; Ord. 2019-22. Passed 11/26/19)
§ 660.031 JUNK VEHICLES.  (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 660.031 was repealed in its entirety by Ordinance
14-10, passed February 13, 2014.)
§ 660.04 NOXIOUS ODORS; FILTHY ACCUMULATIONS; POLLUTING AND DIVERTING
WATERCOURSES.
   (a)   No person shall erect, continue to use or maintain a building,
structure or place for the exercise of a trade, employment or business or for
keeping or feeding an animal which, by occasioning noxious exhalations or
noisome or offensive smells, becomes injurious to the health, comfort, or
property of individuals or of the public.
   (b)   No person shall cause or allow offal, filth or noisome substances to
be collected or remain in any place to the damage or prejudice of others or of
the public.
   (c)   No person shall unlawfully obstruct or impede the passage of a
navigable river, harbor or collection of water, or corrupt or render
unwholesome or impure a watercourse, stream of water, or unlawfully divert such
watercourse from its natural course or state to the injury or prejudice of
others.
   (d)   Persons who are engaged in agriculture-related activities, as
“agriculture” is defined in Ohio R.C. 519.01, and who are conducting those
activities outside the municipality, in accordance with generally accepted
agricultural practices, and in such a manner so as not to have a substantial,
adverse effect on the public health, safety, or welfare, are exempt from
subsections (a) and (b) above and from any ordinances, resolutions, rules, or
other enactments of the municipality that prohibit excessive noise.
(ORC 3767.13)
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(ORC 3767.99(C))
§ 660.05 DUTY TO KEEP SIDEWALKS CLEAR OF SNOW AND ICE.
   (a)   Duty of Owner or Occupant.
      (1)   No owner or occupant of lots or lands abutting any sidewalk, curb
or gutter shall fail to keep the sidewalks, curbs and gutters free from snow,
ice or other nuisance and to remove from such sidewalks, curbs or gutters all
snow and ice accumulated thereon within a reasonable time, which will
ordinarily not exceed twelve (12) hours after any storm during which the snow
and ice has accumulated.
      (2)   Every owner or occupant of any lot or land upon which a public
sidewalk is located shall clear the whole sidewalk of snow and ice.
      (3)   If, from any cause, it shall be impossible to remove all the snow
and ice which may adhere to such sidewalk, then every such owner or occupant
shall cover such snow or ice that remains with a coating of salt, sand, or
other substance as may be necessary to render travel safe and convenient for
pedestrians.
   (b)   Piling of Snow on Sidewalk or Street Prohibited. No owner or occupant
of any lot or land fronting on any street of the City shall pile snow on any
public sidewalk or street or public way, except that snow accumulating on a
sidewalk may be piled on the park strip between the outer edge of the sidewalk
and the curb. In areas where there is no such park strip, snow which has
accumulated on the sidewalk may be piled along the curb of the street so long
as such pile does not infringe upon the street or other public way or create
any hazard, including visibility issues, for the motoring public.
   (c)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of
an unclassified misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than one hundred fifty
dollars ($150). A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
which or on which a violation occurs or continues.
      (2)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be liable to
the City for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the City by reason of
such violation, in addition to the penalty provided in division (c)(1) hereof.
(Statutory Reference: ORC 723.011)
(1964 Code § 543.03; Ord. 65-4. Adopted 02/25/65; Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/
23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 660.06 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS AND AIRTIGHT CONTAINERS.
   (a)   No person shall abandon, discard, or knowingly permit to remain on
premises under the person's control, in a place accessible to children, any
abandoned or discarded icebox, refrigerator or other airtight or semi-airtight
container which has a capacity of one and one half cubic feet or more and an
opening of 50 square inches or more and which has a door or lid equipped with a
hinge, latch, or other fastening device capable of securing such door or lid,
without rendering the equipment harmless to human life by removing such hinges,
latches or other hardware which may cause a person to be confined therein. This
section shall not apply to an icebox, refrigerator or other airtight or semi-
airtight container located in that part of a building occupied by a dealer,
warehouse or repairer.
(ORC 3767.29)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(ORC 3767.99(B))
§ 660.07 STORAGE OF MERCHANDISE AND MATERIAL IN FIRE LANES.
   (a)   No person shall store or cause to be stored merchandise or material in
a designated fire lane, either on public or private property, within the city.
(Ord. 84-22, passed 5-24-1984)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 92-23, passed 3-26-1992 )
§ 660.08 OPEN BURNING.
   (a)   (1)   Incorporation by reference. This section includes references to
certain matter or materials. The text of the incorporated materials is not
included in the regulations contained in this section. The materials are hereby
made a part of the regulations in this section. For materials subject to
change, only the specific version specified in the regulation are incorporated.
Material is incorporated as it exists on the effective date of this section.
Except for subsequent annual publication of existing (unmodified) Code of
Federal Regulation compilations, any amendment or revision to a referenced
document is not incorporated unless and until this rule has been amended to
specify the new dates.
         A.   Availability. The materials incorporated by reference are
available as follows: National Fire Protection Association – Information on the
National Fire Protection Association codes may be obtained by contacting
association at 1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, Massachusetts 02169-7471, 617-770-
3000 or 1-800-344-3555. Codes may be ordered online at: www.nfpa.org/catalog.
Copies of the code are available at most public libraries and at the State
Library of Ohio.
         B.   Incorporated materials. The following material is incorporated:
NFPA publication 1403, Standard on Live Fire Training Evolutions, Chapter 4,
Acquired Structures, November 2001 Edition.
(Am. Ord. 10-21, passed 7-10-2010)
   (b)   Relation to other laws.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any provision in OAC Chapter 3745-19, no open
burning shall be conducted in an area where an air alert, warning or emergency
under OAC Chapter 3745-25 is in effect.
      (2)   No provisions of OAC Chapter 3745-19 permitting open burning, and
no permission to open burn granted by the Ohio EPA, shall exempt any person
from compliance with any section of the Ohio Revised Code, or any regulation of
any state department, or any local ordinance or regulation dealing with open
burning.
(OAC 3745-19-02)
   (c)   Open burning in restricted areas.
      (1)   No person or property owner shall cause or allow open burning in a
restricted area except as provided in subsections (c)(2) to (c)(4) of this
section or in Ohio R.C. 3704.11.
      (2)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes without
notification to or permission from the Ohio EPA:
         A.   Heating tar, welding, acetylene torches, highway safety flares,
heating for warmth of outdoor workers and strikers, smudge pots and similar
occupational needs.
         B.   Bonfires, campfires and outdoor fireplace equipment, whether for
cooking food for human consumption, pleasure, religious, ceremonial, warmth,
recreational, or similar purposes, if the following conditions are met:
            1.   They are fueled with clean seasoned firewood, natural gas or
equivalent, or any clean burning fuel with emissions that are equivalent to or
lower than those created from the burning of seasoned firewood;
            2.   They are not used for waste disposal purposes; and
            3.   They shall have a total fuel area of three feet or less in
diameter and two feet or less in height.
         C.   Disposal of hazardous explosive materials, military munitions or
explosive devices that require immediate action to prevent endangerment of
human health, public safety, property or the environment and that are excluded
from the requirement to obtain a hazardous waste permit pursuant to O.A.C.
3745-50-45(D)(1)(d).
         D.   Recognized training in the use of fire extinguishers for
commercial or industrial fire prevention.
         E.   Fires set at the direction of federal, state, and local law
enforcement officials for the purpose of destruction of cannabis sativa
(marijuana) plant vegetation, processed marijuana material and/or other drugs
seized by federal, state, or local law enforcement officials.
         F.   Fires allowed by subsections (c)(2)A., (c)(2)B., and (c)(2)D. of
this section shall not be used for waste disposal purposes and shall be of
minimum size sufficient for their intended purpose; the fuel shall be chosen to
minimize the generation and emission of air contaminants.
      (3)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes with prior
notification to the Ohio EPA in accordance with subsection (d)(2) of this
section:
         A.   Prevention or control of disease or pests, with written or verbal
verification to the Ohio EPA from the Ohio Department of Health or local health
department, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, cooperative
extension service, Ohio Department of Agriculture, or U.S. Department of
Agriculture, that open burning is the only appropriate disposal method.
         B.   Bonfires or campfires used for ceremonial purposes that do not
meet the requirements of subsection (c)(2)B. of this section, provided the
following conditions are met:
            1.   They have a total fuel area no greater than five feet in
diameter by five feet in height and burn no longer than three hours;
            2.   They are not used for waste disposal purposes; and
            3.   They are fueled with clean seasoned firewood, natural gas or
equivalent, or any clean burning fuel with emissions that are equivalent to or
lower than those created from the burning of seasoned firewood.
         C.   Disposal of agricultural waste generated on the premises if the
following conditions are observed:
            1.   The fire is set only when atmospheric conditions will readily
dissipate contaminants;
            2.   The fire does not create a visibility hazard on the roadways,
railroad tracks, or air fields;
            3.   The fire is located at a point on the premises no less than
1,000 feet from any inhabited building not located on said premises;
            4.   The wastes are stacked and dried to provide the best
practicable condition for efficient burning; and
            5.   No materials are burned which contain rubber, grease, asphalt,
liquid petroleum products, plastics or building materials.
      (4)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes upon
receipt of written permission from the Ohio EPA, in accordance with subsection
(d)(1) of this section, provided that any conditions specified in the
permission are followed:
         A.   Disposal of ignitable or explosive materials where the Ohio EPA
determines that there is no practical alternate method of disposal, excluding
those materials identified in subsection (c)(2)C. of this section;
         B.   Instruction in methods of fire fighting or for research in the
control of fires as recognized by the State Fire Marshal Division of the Ohio
Department of Commerce and the guidelines set forth in the National Fire
Protection Association’s (NFPA) publication 1403, Standard on Live Fire
Training Evolutions, Chapter 4, Acquired Structures, provided that the
application required in subsection (d)(1)A. of this section is submitted by the
commercial or public entity responsible for the instruction;
         C.   In emergency or other extraordinary circumstances for any purpose
determined to be necessary by the Director and performed as identified in the
appendix to O.A.C. 3745-19-03. If deemed necessary, the open burning may be
authorized with prior oral approval by the Director followed by the issuance of
a written permission to open burn within seven working days of the oral
approval;
         D.   Recognized horticultural, silvicultural (forestry), range, or
wildlife management practices; and
         E.   Fires and/or pyrotechnic effects, for purposes other than waste
disposal, set as part of commercial film-making or video production activities
for motion pictures and television.
(OAC 3745-19-03)
   (d)   Permission to individuals and notification to the Ohio EPA.
      (1)   Permission.
         A.   An application for permission to open burn shall be submitted in
writing to Ohio EPA. The applicant shall allow Ohio EPA at least ten working
days to review the permit. Applicant may proceed with burn upon receipt of
written permission from Ohio EPA. Saturday, Sunday, and legal holidays shall
not be considered working days. The application shall be in such form and
contain such information as required by the Ohio EPA.
         B.   Except as provided in subsections (d)(1)F. and (d)(1)G. of this
section, such applications shall contain, as a minimum, information regarding:
            1.   The purpose of the proposed burning;
            2.   The quantity or acreage and the nature of the materials to be
burned;
            3.   The date or dates when such burning will take place;
            4.   The location of the burning site, including a map showing
distances to residences, populated areas, roadways, air fields, and other
pertinent landmarks; and
            5.   The methods or actions which will be taken to reduce the
emissions of air contaminants.
         C.   Permission to open burn shall not be granted unless the applicant
demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Ohio EPA that open burning is necessary
to the public interest; will be conducted in a time, place, and manner as to
minimize the emission of air contaminants, when atmospheric conditions are
appropriate; and will have no serious detrimental effect upon adjacent
properties or the occupants thereof. The Ohio EPA may impose such conditions as
may be necessary to accomplish the purpose of O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19.
         D.   Except as provided in subsection (d)(1)F. of this section,
permission to open burn must be obtained for each specific project. In
emergencies where public health or environmental quality will be seriously
threatened by delay while written permission is sought, the fire may be set
with oral permission of the Ohio EPA.
         E.   Violations of any of the conditions set forth by the Ohio EPA in
granting permission to open burn shall be grounds for revocation of such
permission and refusal to grant future permission, as well as for the
imposition of other sanctions provided by law.
         F.   The Ohio Department of Commerce, Division of State Fire Marshal,
may request permission to open burn on an annual basis for the purpose of
training firefighters on pre-flashover conditions using the Ohio Fire Academy’s
mobile training laboratory at either the academy or at other training sites in
Ohio. The annual application required pursuant to subsection (d)(1)A. of this
section shall contain information as required in subsection (d)(1)B. of this
section, except the information required in subsections (d)(1)B.3. and (d)
(1)B.4. of this section need not be provided unless it is available at the time
of submittal of the application. The Academy shall contact the appropriate Ohio
EPA District Office or local air agency at least five working days before each
training session of the date or dates when the training session will take place
and its location. Saturday, Sunday, and legal holidays shall not be considered
a working day.
         G.   For open burning defined under subsection (c)(4)B. of this
section and O.A.C. 3745-19-04(C)(2), permission to open burn shall not be
granted unless the applicant provides proof of written notice of intent to
demolish received by the appropriate Ohio EPA field office in accordance with
O.A.C. 3745-20-03.
      (2)   Notification.
         A.   Notification shall be submitted in writing at least ten working
days before the fire is to be set. Saturday, Sunday, and legal holidays shall
not be considered a working day. It shall be in such form and contain such
information as shall be required by the Ohio EPA.
         B.   Such notification shall inform the Ohio EPA regarding:
            1.   The purpose of the proposed burning;
            2.   The nature and quantities of materials to be burned;
            3.   The date or dates when such burning will take place; and
            4.   The location of the burning site.
         C.   The Ohio EPA, after receiving notification, may determine that
the open burning is not allowed under O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19 and the Ohio EPA
shall notify the applicant to this effect.
(OAC 3745-19-05)
   (e)   Penalty. Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. In addition, the
offender shall be required to pay the cost of proper disposal of the materials
burned. The cost of proper disposal of the materials burned shall be the amount
it would have cost to dispose of the materials in a manner that is consistent
with the air, water and solid waste laws, ordinances and regulations of the
municipality and the state.
§ 660.09 BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS.
   (a)   No person shall abandon or knowingly permit to remain on public or
private property, any excavation, well, cesspool or structure which is in the
process of construction, reconstruction, repair or alteration unless the same
is adequately protected by suitable barricades and guarded by warning devices
or lights at night so that the condition will not reasonably prove dangerous to
life or limb.
   (b)   No person shall destroy, remove, damage or extinguish any barricade or
warning light that is placed for the protection of the public so as to prevent
injury to life or limb.
   (c)   Any owner or agent in control of a premises upon which a basement,
cellar, well or cistern has been abandoned due to demolition, failure to build
or any other reason shall cause the same to be filled to the ground surface
with rock, gravel, earth or other suitable material.
   (d)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
§ 660.10 SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTIONS; DAMAGE OR INJURY.
   (a)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a sidewalk or
playground any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails or other articles which may
damage property of another or injure any person or animal traveling along or
upon such sidewalk or playground.
   (b)   No person shall walk on, or allow any animal upon, or injure or deface
in any way, any soft or newly laid sidewalk pavement.
   (c)   No person shall place, deposit or maintain any merchandise, goods,
material or equipment upon any sidewalk so as to obstruct pedestrian traffic
thereon except for such reasonable time as may be actually necessary for the
delivery or pickup of such articles. In no case shall the obstruction remain on
such sidewalk for more than one hour.
   (d)   No person shall unload upon, or transport any heavy merchandise,
goods, material or equipment over or across any sidewalk or curb without first
placing some sufficient protection over the pavement to protect against damage
or injury.
   (e)   No person shall allow any cellar or trap door, coal chute or elevator
or lift opening in any sidewalk to remain open without providing suitable
safeguards to protect and warn pedestrian traffic of the dangerous conditions.
   (f)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
§ 660.11 NOTICE TO FILL LOTS, REMOVE PUTRID SUBSTANCES.
   (a)   No person shall fail to comply with the following requirements within
the lawful time after service or publication of the notice or resolution is
made as required by law: to fill or drain any lot or land or remove all putrid
substances therefrom, or remove all obstructions from culverts, covered drains
or natural watercourses as provided in Ohio R.C. 715.47.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
§ 660.12 FENCES.
   (a)   No person shall erect or maintain any fence charged with electrical
current.
   (b)   No person shall erect or maintain a barbed wire fence which abuts or
is adjacent to any public street or sidewalk. This subsection (b) does not
prevent the placement and use of not more than two strands of barbed wire on
top of a fence other than a barbed wire fence, provided such strands are not
less than 48 inches from the ground.
   (c)   Barbed wire partition fences may be erected and maintained as provided
in Ohio R.C. 971.03.
   (d)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
§ 660.13 HEALTH NUISANCES.
   (a)   No person shall place, deposit, permit or have upon any premises
controlled, leased or owned by such person, any one or more of the following
unsanitary, fly-producing, disease or fire-causing conditions:
      (1)   Animal manure which is not securely protected from flies;
      (2)   Filthy or littered cellars, house yards, barn yards, factory
grounds, vacant areas in the rear of stores or other buildings, and vacant
lots;
      (3)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, pits or like places, which are not
securely protected from flies and rats, or which are foul and malodorous.
(1964 Code § 521.03)
   (b)   It shall be the duty of the Health Officer or Board of Health, upon
learning of the existence of one or more of the prohibited conditions set forth
in subsection (a) of this section, to notify the offender, in writing, to
remove or abate such prohibited condition, stating in the written notice the
time within which such removal or abatement shall be made. In the event of the
refusal or neglect of the offender to obey such order within the time
prescribed by the notice, the Health Officer or Board of Health may have the
prohibited condition abated or removed. The expense of such abatement or
removal shall be paid from the City Treasury upon the order of the Board of
Health, which expense shall be a lien upon the property where the prohibited
conditions existed or was maintained and shall be certified by the Finance
Director to the County Auditor to be collected as taxes are collected by law.
The remedy provided for herein shall be in addition to the penalty provided in
subsection (c) of this section.
(1964 Code § 521.04)
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Am. Ord. 14-10, passed 2-13-2014)
§ 660.14 DEBRIS AT OUTDOOR EATING ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (a)   No proprietor, manager or employee of a restaurant or eating
establishment serving food to be eaten in parked automobiles or out-of-doors on
the premises of the business shall cause or allow trash, debris, refuse,
garbage or waste materials to be placed or to remain on the premises outside of
containers. The proprietors or managers of such eating establishments shall
maintain on the premises, in areas where food is consumed out-of-doors, refuse
and waste containers which are easily accessible to customers and employees.
(Ord. 56-34, passed 12-27-1956)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 92-23, passed 3-26-1992)
§ 660.15 ENFORCEMENT.
   The City Manager shall assign to the appropriate city administrative
official the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. Upon learning of
the existence of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, other
than a provision of § 660.03, the administrative official shall notify the
offender, in writing, to remove or abate the condition creating the violation
within three days of the service of the written notice. In the event of the
refusal or neglect of the offender to obey such order within the time
prescribed by the notice, the administrative official may have the prohibited
condition removed or abated at city expense, which expense shall forthwith be
certified to the Director of Finance. The Director of Finance shall cause a
lien to be placed upon the property where the prohibited condition existed by
certification to the County Auditor of such expenses of removal or abatement,
to be collected as an assessment according to law. The remedy provided for
herein shall be in addition to penalties otherwise provided for violations of
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 87-27, passed 5-14-1987)
CHAPTER 666: SEX RELATED OFFENSES
Section
666.01   (Reserved)
666.04   Public Indecency
666.06   Polygraph Examinations for Victims; Restrictions on Use
666.07   Procuring
666.08   Soliciting
666.085   Loitering to Engage in Solicitation
666.09   Prostitution
666.10   Rules of Evidence
666.11   Disseminating Matter Harmful to Juveniles
666.12   Displaying Matter Harmful to Juveniles
666.13   Indecent Exposure in Restaurants, Nightclubs, and the Like
666.14   Deception to Obtain Matter Harmful to Juveniles
666.15   Presumptions; Notice
666.16   Declaratory Judgment
666.17   Injunction; Abatement of Nuisance
 
666.99   Sentencing for Sexually Oriented Offenses; Sexual Predators;
Registration
   CROSS REFERENCES
   See sectional histories for similar State law
   Assistance to Victims of Sexual Assault - see ORC 2907.28-.30
   Child Victim, Disposition of - see ORC 2945.481
   Examination for Venereal Disease - see ORC 2907.07
   Registration of Sex Offenders - see ORC 2950.01 et seq.
§ 666.01    (Reserved)
§ 666.04 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (a)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following, under
circumstances in which the person's conduct is likely to be viewed by and
affront others who are in the person's physical proximity and who are not
members of the person's household:
      (1)   Expose the person's private parts.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to the ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following, under circumstances
in which the person's conduct is likely to be viewed by and affront another
person who is a minor, who is not the spouse of the offender, and who resides
in the person's household:
      (1)   Engage in masturbation.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (4)   Expose the person's private parts with the purpose of personal
sexual arousal or gratification or to lure the minor into sexual activity.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public indecency and
shall be punished as provided in divisions (c)(2), (c)(3), (c)(4), and (c)(5)
of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (c)(2), a violation
of division (a)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If
the offender previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to one violation
of this section or a substantially equivalent State law or municipal ordinance,
a violation of division (a)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third
degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by the
offender's conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations
of this section or a substantially equivalent State law municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (a)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by the
offender's conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more
violations of this section or a substantially equivalent State law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (a)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender's conduct was a minor, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
State law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (c)(3), a violation
of division (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent State law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the second degree or, if any person who was likely to view
and be affronted by the offender's conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or a substantially equivalent
State law municipal ordinance, a violation of division (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if any person who was likely
to view and be affronted by the offender's conduct was a minor, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate State law.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (c)(4), a violation
of division (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent State law
or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent State law municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of this section is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (c)(5), a violation
of division (b)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of
this section or a substantially equivalent State law municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (b)(4) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate State law.
         (ORC 2907.09)
   (d)   A mother is entitled to breastfeed her baby in any location of a place
of public accommodation, as defined in ORC 4112.01, wherein the mother is
otherwise permitted.
(ORC 3781.55)
§ 666.06 POLYGRAPH EXAMINATIONS FOR VICTIMS: RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   (a)   (1)   A peace officer, prosecutor, or other public official shall not
ask or require a victim of an alleged sex offense to submit to a polygraph
examination as a condition for proceeding with the investigation of the alleged
sex offense.
      (2)   The refusal of the victim of an alleged sex offense to submit to a
polygraph examination shall not prevent the investigation of the alleged sex
offense, the filing of criminal charges with respect to the alleged sex
offense, or the prosecution of the alleged perpetrator of the alleged sex
offense.
(ORC 2907.10)
§ 666.07 PROCURING.
   (a)   No person, knowingly and for gain, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Entice or solicit another to patronize a prostitute or brothel; or
      (2)   Procure a prostitute for another to patronize, or take or direct
another at the other’s request to any place for the purpose of patronizing a
prostitute.
   (b)   No person, having authority or responsibility over the use of
premises, shall knowingly permit the premises to be used for the purpose of
engaging in sexual activity for hire.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of procuring. Except as
otherwise provided in this subsection, procuring is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the prostitute who is procured, patronized, or otherwise involved in
a violation of subsection (a)(2) of this section is under 18 years of age at
the time of the violation, regardless of whether the offender who violates
subsection (a)(2) of this section knows the prostitute’s age, or if a
prostitute who engages in sexual activity for hire in premises used in
violation of subsection (b) of this section is under 18 years of age at the
time of the violation, regardless of whether the offender who violates
subsection (b) of this section knows the prostitute’s age, procuring is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2907.23)
§ 666.08 SOLICITING.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall solicit another who is eighteen (18) years of
age or older to engage with the other person in sexual activity for hire.
      (2)   No person shall solicit another to engage with such other person in
sexual activity for hire if the other person is sixteen (16) or seventeen (17)
years of age and the offender knows that the other person is sixteen (16) or
seventeen (17) years of age or is reckless in that regard.
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
soliciting. A violation of division (a)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the third degree. A violation of division (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (a) of this section or an attempt to commit a violation of division
(a) of this section and if the person, in committing or attempting to commit
the violation, was in, was on, or used a motor vehicle, the court, in addition
to or independent of all other penalties imposed for the violation, may impose
upon the offender a class six suspension of the person's driver's license,
commercial driver's license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in ORC 4510.02(A)
(6). In lieu of imposing upon the offender the class six suspension, the court
instead may require the offender to perform community service for a number of
hours determined by the court.
§ 666.085 LOITERING TO ENGAGE IN SOLICITATION.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to solicit another to engage in sexual
activity for hire and while in or near a public place, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Beckon to, stop or attempt to stop another;
      (2)   Engage or attempt to engage another in conversation;
      (3)   Stop or attempt to stop the operator of a vehicle or approach a
stationary vehicle;
      (4)   If the offender is the operator of or a passenger in a vehicle,
stop, attempt to stop, beckon to, attempt to beckon to or entice another to
approach or enter the vehicle of which the offender is the operator or in which
the offender is the passenger; or
      (5)   Interfere with the free passage of another.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of loitering to engage in
solicitation, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 2907.241)
§ 666.09 PROSTITUTION.
   (a)   No person shall engage in sexual activity for hire.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of prostitution, a misdemeanor
of the third degree.
(ORC 2907.25)
§ 666.10 RULES OF EVIDENCE.
   (a)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a place is a
brothel, evidence as to the reputation of such place and as to the reputation
of the persons who inhabit or frequent it is admissible on the question of
whether such place is or is not a brothel.
   (b)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a person is a
prostitute, evidence as to the reputation of such person is admissible on the
question of whether such person is or is not a prostitute.
   (c)   In any prosecution for a violation of Sections
666.07 to
666.09, proof of a prior conviction of the accused of any such offense or
substantially equivalent offense is admissible in support of the charge.
   (d)   The prohibition contained in ORC 2317.02(D) against testimony by a
husband or wife concerning communications between them does not apply, and the
accused's spouse may testify concerning any such communication in any of the
following cases:
      (1)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of Section
666.07 and the spouse testifying was the prostitute involved in the offense or
the person who used the offender's premises to engage in sexual activity for
hire; and
      (2)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of Section
666.08 or 666.09.
(ORC 2907.26)
§ 666.11 DISSEMINATING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (a)   No person, with knowledge of its character or content, shall
recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit,
rent or present to a juvenile any material or performance that is obscene or
harmful to juveniles;
      (2)   Offer or agree to sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide,
exhibit, rent, or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law
enforcement officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement
officers posing as juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or
harmful to juveniles; or
      (3)   While in the physical proximity of the juvenile or law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, allow any juvenile or law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile to review or peruse any material or view any live
performance that is harmful to juveniles.
   (b)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section
that involves material or a performance that is harmful to juveniles but not
obscene:
      (1)   The defendant is the parent, guardian or spouse of the juvenile
involved;
      (2)   The juvenile involved, at the time of the conduct in question, was
accompanied by his or her parent or guardian who, with knowledge of its
character, consented to the material or performance being furnished or
presented to the juvenile; or
      (3)   The juvenile exhibited to the defendant or his or her agent or
employee a draft card, driver's license, birth record, marriage license, or
other official or apparently official document purporting to show that the
juvenile was eighteen (18) years of age or over or married, and the person to
whom the document was exhibited did not otherwise have reasonable cause to
believe that the juvenile was under the age of eighteen (18) and unmarried.
   (c)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section,
involving material or a performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles,
that the material or performance was furnished or presented for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, governmental, judicial, or other proper
purpose, by a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher,
librarian, clergy, prosecutor, judge or other proper person.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (b)(3) of this section, mistake of
age is not a defense to a charge under this section.
   (d)   (1)   A person directly sells, delivers, furnishes, disseminates,
provides, exhibits, rents, or presents or directly offers or agrees to sell,
deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present material or a
performance to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section by means of an electronic method of
remotely transmitting information if the person knows or has reason to believe
that the person receiving the information is a juvenile or the group of persons
receiving the information are juveniles.
      (2)   A person remotely transmitting information by means of a method of
mass distribution does not directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present or directly offer or agree to sell, deliver,
furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present the material or
performance in question to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section if either of the following applies:
         A.   The person has inadequate information to know or have reason to
believe that a particular recipient of the information or offer is a juvenile;
or
         B.   The method of mass distribution does not provide the person the
ability to prevent a particular recipient from receiving the information.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disseminating matter
harmful to juveniles. If the material or performance involved is harmful to
juveniles except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the material or performance
involved is obscene, violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2907.31)
§ 666.12 DISPLAYING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (a)   No person who has custody, control, or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character or content of the material
involved, shall display at the establishment any material that is harmful to
juveniles and that is open to view by juveniles as part of the invited general
public.
   (b)   It is not a violation of division (a) of this section if the material
in question is displayed by placing it behind "blinder racks" or similar
devices that cover at least the lower two-thirds of the material, if the
material in question is wrapped or placed behind the counter, or if the
material in question otherwise is covered or located so that the portion that
is harmful to juveniles is not open to the view of juveniles.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of displaying matter harmful
to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day during which the
offender is in violation of this section constitutes a separate offense.
(ORC 2907.311)
§ 666.13 INDECENT EXPOSURE IN RESTAURANTS, NIGHTCLUBS, AND THE LIKE.
   (a)   Exposure by Patrons, Customers, Waiters, Waitresses, Independent
Contractors, Owners, Employees, Entertainers and Performers. No patron or
customer, and no person while acting as a waiter, waitress, independent
contractor, owner, employee, entertainer or performer not performing, in an
establishment which serves food, beverages or food and beverages, including,
but not limited to, alcoholic beverages, for consumption on the premises of the
establishment, shall:
      (1)   Expose his or her genitals, pubic area, buttocks, perineum or anal
region;
      (2)   Expose any device, costume or covering that gives the appearance of
or simulates the genitals, pubic area, buttocks, perineum or anal region; or
      (3)   Expose any portion of the female breast below the top of the areola
thereof.
   (b)   Counseling or Assisting in Unlawful Exposure. No person shall cause,
permit, procure, counsel or assist any person to expose or simulate exposure as
prohibited in division (a) of this section.
   (c)   Employment or Payment not Necessary for Offense. A person shall be
deemed to be a waiter, waitress, performer or entertainer if such person acts
in that capacity, without regard to whether or not such person is paid any
compensation by the management of the establishment in which the activity is
performed.
   (d)   Exposure of Performers or Entertainers in Public. No person shall,
while participating in any live act, demonstration, performance or exhibition
in any public place, place open to the public or place open to public view:
      (1)   Expose his or her genitals, pubic area, buttocks, perineum or anal
region;
      (2)   Expose any device, costume or covering that gives the appearance of
or simulates the genitals, pubic area, buttocks, perineum or anal region; or
      (3)   Expose any portion of the female breast below the top of the areola
thereof.
   (e)   Counseling or Assisting Unlawful Public Exposure. No person shall
cause, permit, procure, counsel or assist any person to expose or simulate
exposure as prohibited in division (d) of this section.
   (f)   Exemption of Theatrical Establishments. The provisions of division (d)
of this section shall not be interpreted to prevent live performances with
serious literary, artistic or political value in a legitimate theater setting
for high culture as that concept is used in Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501
U.S. 560 (1991).
   (g)   Regulations for Establishments Offering Live Dancing Performances. Any
establishment offering live dancing performances shall conform to the following
regulations:
      (1)   The dancing performance shall be confined to a clearly defined
stage or platform area that is elevated at least two feet (2') above the normal
floor elevation of the establishment;
      (2)   There shall be a clearly defined and delineated three-foot (3')
buffer area or space between the aforesaid stage or platform and any area of
the establishment in which customers are customarily seated and/or served;
      (3)   The buffer zone shall be clearly and permanently delineated by a
rail, rope, enclosure or other similar means;
      (4)   All dancing or entertainment shall be confined to the stage or
platform area as described herein;
      (5)   At no time during the performance shall the patrons or the
entertainer be permitted to encroach on the aforesaid buffer zone; and
      (6)   Patrons are prohibited from co-mingling with or touching the
entertainers on the stage or platform.
   (h)   Use of Premises Declared to be a Nuisance. Any premises used in
violation of division (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) or (f) of this section shall be
deemed to be a nuisance and such nuisance may be abated as provided for by law.
Such remedy shall be in addition to the penalty provided in division (i) of
this section.
   (i)   Penalty. Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(Ord. 96-71. Passed 08/22/96)
§ 666.14 DECEPTION TO OBTAIN MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (a)   No person, for the purpose of enabling a juvenile to obtain any
material or gain admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles,
shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is the parent, guardian or spouse
of the juvenile; or
      (2)   Furnish the juvenile with any identification or document purporting
to show that the juvenile is eighteen (18) years of age or over or married.
   (b)   No juvenile, for the purpose of obtaining any material or gaining
admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles, shall do either of
the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is eighteen (18) years of age or
over or married; or
      (2)   Exhibit any identification or document purporting to show that he
or she is eighteen (18) years of age or over or married.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of deception to obtain matter
harmful to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the second degree. A juvenile who
violates division (b) of this section shall be adjudged an unruly child, with
the disposition of the case as may be appropriate under ORC Chapter 2151.
(ORC 2907.33)
§ 666.15 PRESUMPTIONS; NOTICE.
   (a)   An owner or manager, or agent or employee of an owner or manager, of a
bookstore, newsstand, theater, or other commercial establishment engaged in
selling material or exhibiting performances, who, in the course of business
does any of the acts prohibited by Section
666.11 is presumed to have knowledge of the character of the material or
performance involved if the owner, manager, or agent or employee of the owner
or manager has actual notice of the nature of such material or performance,
whether or not the owner, manager, or agent or employee of the owner or manager
has precise knowledge of its contents.
   (b)   Without limitation on the manner in which such notice may be given,
actual notice of the character of material or a performance may be given in
writing by the chief legal officer of the City. Such notice, regardless of the
manner in which it is given, shall identify the sender, identify the material
or performance involved, state whether it is obscene or harmful to juveniles,
and bear the date of such notice.
   (c)   Section
666.11 does not apply to a motion picture operator or projectionist acting
within the scope of employment as an employee of the owner or manager of the
theater or other place for the showing of motion pictures to the general
public, and having no managerial responsibility or financial interest in the
operator's or projectionist's place of employment, other than wages.
   (d)   (1)   The provisions of Sections
666.11,
666.12 and
666.14(a) do not apply to a person solely because the person provided access or
connection to or from an electronic method of remotely transferring information
not under that person's control, including having provided capabilities that
are incidental to providing access or connection to or from the electronic
method of remotely transferring the information, and that do not include the
creation of the content of the material that is the subject of the access or
connection.
      (2)   Division (d)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with an entity actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of Sections
666.11,
666.12 and
666.14 or who knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
      (3)   Division (d)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
provides access or connection to an electronic method of remotely transferring
information that is engaged in the violation of Sections
666.11,
666.12 and
666.14 and that contain content that person has selected and introduced into
the electronic method of remotely transferring information or content over
which that person exercises editorial control.
   (e)   An employer is not guilty of a violation of Sections
666.11,
666.12 and
666.14 based on the actions of an employee or agent of the employer unless the
employee's or agent's conduct is within the scope of the employee's or agent's
employment or agency, and the employer does either of the following:
      (1)   With knowledge of the employee's or agent's conduct, the employer
authorizes or ratifies the conduct; or
      (2)   The employer recklessly disregards the employee's or agent's
conduct.
   (f)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under Sections
666.11 or
666.12 as the section applies to an image transmitted through the internet that
the person charged with violating the section has taken, in good faith,
reasonable, effective, and appropriate actions under the circumstances to
restrict or prevent access by juveniles to material that is harmful to
juveniles, including any method that is feasible under available technology.
(ORC 2907.35)
§ 666.16 DECLARATORY JUDGMENT.
   (a)   Without limitation on the persons otherwise entitled to bring an
action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to ORC Chapter 2721, involving the
same issue, the following persons have standing to bring a declaratory judgment
action to determine whether particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles:
      (1)   The chief legal officer of the City if and when there is reasonable
cause to believe that ORC 2907.31 or 2907.32, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be violated; and
      (2)   Any person who, pursuant to ORC 2907.35(B) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, has received notice in writing from the chief
legal officer stating that particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles.
   (b)   Any party to an action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to division
(a) of this section is entitled, upon the party's request, to trial on the
merits within five (5) days after joinder of the issues, and the court shall
render judgment within five (5) days after trial is concluded.
   (c)   An action for a declaratory judgement pursuant to division (a) of this
section shall not be brought during the pendency of any civil action or
criminal prosecution when the character of the particular materials or
performances involved is at issue in the pending case, and either of the
following applies:
      (1)   Either of the parties to the action for a declaratory judgment is a
party to the pending case; or
      (2)   A judgment in the pending case will necessarily constitute res
judicata as to the character of the materials or performances involved.
   (d)   A civil action or criminal prosecution in which the character of
particular materials or performances is at issue, brought during the pendency
of an action for a declaratory judgment involving the same issue, shall be
stayed during the pendency of the action for a declaratory judgment.
   (e)   The fact that a violation of ORC 2907.31 or 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, occurs prior to a judicial
determination of the character of the material or performance involved in the
violation does not relieve the offender of criminal liability for the
violation, even though prosecution may be stayed pending the judicial
determination.
(ORC 2907.36)
§ 666.17 INJUNCTION; ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (a)   Where it appears that ORC. 2907.31 or 2907.32, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be violated, the chief
legal officer of the City may bring an action to enjoin the violation. The
defendant, upon his or her request, is entitled to trial on the merits within
five (5) days after the joinder of the issues, and the court shall render
judgment within five (5) days after the trial is concluded.
   (b)   Premises used or occupied for repeated violations of ORC 2907.31 or
ORC 2907.32, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 3767.
(ORC 2907.37)
§ 666.99 SENTENCING FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED OFFENSES; SEXUAL PREDATORS;
REGISTRATION.
   (a)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, and the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim
offender relative to the offense or the offense is any offense listed in ORC
2901.07(D)(1) to (D)(3), the judge shall include in the offender's sentence a
statement that the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim offender,
shall comply with the requirements of ORC 2950.03, and shall require the
offender to submit to a DNA specimen collection procedure pursuant to ORC
2901.07.
   (b)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or a
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, the judge shall include in the sentence a summary of the
offender's duties imposed under ORC 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and 2950.06,
and the duration of the duties. The judge shall inform the offender, at the
time of sentencing, of those duties and of their duration. If required under
ORC 2950.03(A)(2), the judge shall perform the duties specified in that section
or, if required under ORC 2950.03(A)(6), the judge shall perform the duties
specified in that division.
(ORC 2929.23)
CHAPTER 672: THEFT AND FRAUD
Section
672.01   Theft. (Repealed)
672.02   Receiving stolen property. (Repealed)
672.03   Determining property value in theft offense.
672.04   Degree of offense when certain property involved.
672.045   Evidence of theft of rented property.
672.05   Tampering with coin machines. (Repealed)
672.06   Prosecutions for theft of utilities.
672.07   Misconduct involving a public transportation system.
672.08   Unauthorized use of a vehicle; vehicle trespass. (Repealed)
672.09   Passing bad checks. (Repealed)
672.10   Misuse of credit cards. (Repealed)
672.11   Recording credit card, telephone or Social Security numbers.
672.12   Forging or selling forged identification cards. (Repealed)
672.125   Criminal simulation. (Repealed)
672.13   Making or using slugs.
672.14   Prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud.
672.15   Tampering with records.
672.16   Securing writings by deception.
672.17   Personating an officer. (Repealed)
672.18   Defrauding creditors. (Repealed)
672.19   Medicaid fraud. (Repealed)
672.20   Insurance fraud. (Repealed)
672.21   Workers’ compensation fraud. (Repealed)
672.22   Motion picture piracy.
   CROSS REFERENCES
   Fraud in dealings with city - see CHTR. Sec.
13.01(A)(2)
   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property held by Police Division - see
GEN. OFF.
608.16
   Detention of shoplifters and thieves - see GEN. OFF.
608.17
   Definitions relating to theft and fraud - see GEN. OFF.
642.01
   Possession of municipal property - see GEN. OFF.
642.02
   Unauthorized use of property - see GEN. OFF.
642.03
§ 672.01 THEFT. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 672.01 was repealed by Ordinance 99-47, passed 9-9-
1999.)
§ 672.02 RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 672.02 was repealed by Ordinance 99-47, passed 9-9-
1999.)
§ 672.03 DETERMINING PROPERTY VALUE IN THEFT OFFENSE.
   (a)   If more than one item of property or services is involved in a theft
offense or in a violation of Ohio R.C. 1716.14(A) involving a victim who is an
elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, the value of the property or services involved for the purpose of
determining the value as required by Ohio R.C. 2913.61(A) is the aggregate
value of all property or services involved in the offense.
   (b)   (1)   When a series of offenses under Ohio R.C. 2913.02, or a series
of violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate,
or complicity in violations of Ohio R.C. 1716.14(A), Ohio R.C. 2913.02,
2913.03, or 2913.04, Ohio R.C. 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or Ohio R.C. 2913.31 or
2913.43 involving a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is
committed by the offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity, or
relationship to another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single
offense. When a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or
complicity in violations of R.C. § 2913.02 or 2913.43 involving a victim who is
an active duty service member or spouse of an active duty service member, or
any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is
committed by the offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity, or
relationship to another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single
offense. The value of the property or services involved in the series of
offenses for the purpose of determining the value as required by Ohio R.C.
2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property and services involved in all
offenses in the series.
      (2)   If an offender commits a series of offenses under Ohio R.C. 2913.02
that involves a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims, all of
the offenses may be tried as a single offense. If an offender is being tried
for the commission of a series of violations of, attempts to commit a violation
of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations of Ohio R.C. 1716.14
(A), Ohio R.C. 2913.02, 2913.03, or 2913.04, Ohio R.C. 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2),
or Ohio R.C. 2913.31 or 2913.43, whether committed against one victim or more
than one victim, involving a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses,
pursuant to a scheme or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried
as a single offense. If an offender is being tried for the commission of a
series of violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to
violate, or complicity in violations of R.C. § 2913.02 or 2913.43, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, whether
committed against one victim or more than one victim, involving a victim who is
an active duty service member or spouse of an active duty service member
pursuant to a scheme or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried
as a single offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the value
of the property or services involved for the purpose of determining the value
as required by Ohio R.C. 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property and
services involved in all of the offenses in the course of conduct.
      (3)   When a series of two or more offenses under Ohio R.C. 2913.40,
2913.48, or 2921.41 is committed by the offender in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another, all of those offenses may be
tried as a single offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the
value of the property or services involved for the purpose of determining the
value as required by Ohio R.C. 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all
property and services involved in all of the offenses in the series of two or
more offenses.
      (4)   In prosecuting a single offense under subsection (b)(1), (b)(2) or
(b)(3) of this section, it is not necessary to separately allege and prove each
offense in the series. Rather, it is sufficient to allege and prove that the
offender, within a given span of time, committed one or more theft offenses or
violations of Ohio R.C. 2913.40, 2913.48, or 2921.41 in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another as described in subsection (b)
(1) or (b)(3) of this section, or committed one or more theft offenses that
involve a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims or a scheme or
course of conduct as described in subsection (b)(2) of this section. While it
is not necessary to separately allege and prove each offense in the series in
order to prosecute a single offense under subsection (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3)
of this section, it remains necessary in prosecuting them as a single offense
to prove the aggregate value of the property or services in order to meet the
requisite statutory offense level sought by the prosecution.
   (c)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   The value of an heirloom, memento, collector’s item, antique,
museum piece, manuscript, document, record or other thing that has intrinsic
worth to its owner and that either is irreplaceable or is replaceable only on
the expenditure of substantial time, effort, or money, is the amount which
would compensate the owner for its loss.
      (2)   The value of personal effects and household goods, and of
materials, supplies, equipment, and fixtures used in the profession, business,
trade, occupation, or avocation of its owner, which property is not covered
under subsection (c)(1) of this section, and which retains substantial utility
for its purpose regardless of its age or condition, is the cost of replacing
such property with new property of like kind and quality.
      (3)   (EDITOR’S NOTE: The definition contained in this section is also
located in Chapter 604, § 604.01.) The value of any real or personal property
that is not covered under subsection (c)(1) or (2) of this section, and the
value of services, is the fair market value of the property or services. As
used in this section, FAIR MARKET VALUE is the money consideration which a
buyer would give and a seller would accept for property or services, assuming
that the buyer is willing to buy and the seller is willing to sell, that both
are fully informed as to all facts material to the transaction, and that
neither is under any compulsion to act.
   (d)   Without limitation on the evidence which may be used to establish the
value of property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   When the property involved is personal property held for sale at
wholesale or retail, the price at which the property was held for sale is prima
facie evidence of its value;
      (2)   When the property involved is a security or commodity traded on an
exchange, the closing price or, if there is no closing price, the asked price,
given in the latest marked quotation prior to the offense, is prima facie
evidence of the value of the security or commodity;
      (3)   When the property involved is livestock, poultry or raw
agricultural products for which a local market price is available, the latest
local market price prior to the offense is prima facie evidence of the value of
the livestock, poultry or products;
      (4)   When the property involved is a negotiable instrument, the face
value is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument;
      (5)   When the property involved is a warehouse receipt, bill of lading,
pawn ticket, claim check or other instrument entitling the holder or bearer to
receive property, the face value or, if there is no face value, the value of
the property covered by the instrument less any payment necessary to receive
the property, is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument;
      (6)   When the property involved is a ticket of admission, ticket for
transportation, coupon, token or other instrument entitling the holder or
bearer to receive property or services, the face value or, if there is no face
value, the value of the property or services which may be received by the
instrument is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument;
      (7)   When the services involved are gas, electricity, water, telephone,
transportation, shipping or other services for which the rate is established by
law, the duly established rate is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services; and
      (8)   When the services involved are services for which the rate is not
established by law, and the offender has been notified prior to the offense of
the rate for the services, either in writing, or orally, or by posting in a
manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential offenders,
the rate contained in the notice is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
(ORC 2913.61(B) - (E))
§ 672.04 DEGREE OF OFFENSE WHEN CERTAIN PROPERTY INVOLVED.
   Regardless of the value of the property involved, and regardless of whether
the offender previously has been convicted of a theft offense, a violation of
Ohio R.C. 2913.02 or 2913.51 is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law if the property involved is any of the following:
   (a)   A credit card;
   (b)   A printed form for a check or other negotiable instrument, that on its
face identifies the drawer or maker for whose use it is designed or identifies
the account on which it is to be drawn, and that has not been executed by the
drawer or maker or on which the amount is blank;
   (c)   A motor vehicle identification license plate as prescribed by Ohio
R.C. 4503.22, a temporary license placard or windshield sticker as prescribed
by Ohio R.C. 4503.182, or any comparable license plate, placard or sticker as
prescribed by the applicable law of another state or the United States;
   (d)   A blank form for a certificate of title or a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate to a motor vehicle, as prescribed by Ohio R.C. 4505.07;
or
   (e)   A blank form for any license listed in Ohio R.C. 4507.01.
(ORC 2913.71)
§ 672.045 EVIDENCE OF THEFT OF RENTED PROPERTY.
   (a)   (EDITOR’S NOTE: The definitions contained in this section are also
located in
Chapter 200, §
200.01.)
      For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      RENTEE. A person who pays consideration to a renter for the use of rented
property.
      RENTER. A person who owns rented property.
   (b)   Each of the following shall be considered evidence of intent to commit
theft of rented property or rental services:
      (1)   At the time of entering into the rental contract, the rentee
presented the renter with identification that was materially false, fictitious
or not current with respect to name, address, place of employment or other
relevant information.
      (2)   After receiving a notice demanding the return of the rented
property as provided in subsection (c) of this section, the rentee neither
returned the rented property nor made arrangements acceptable with the renter
to return the rented property.
   (c)   To establish that a rentee has an intent to commit theft of rented or
rental services under subsection (b)(2) above, a renter may issue a notice to a
rentee demanding the return of the rented property. The renter shall mail the
notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the rentee at the
address the rentee gave when the rental contract was executed, or to the rentee
at the last address the rentee or the rentee’s agent furnished in writing to
the renter.
   (d)   A demand for the return of the rented property is not a prerequisite
for the prosecution of a rentee for theft of rented property or rental
services. The evidence specified in subsection (b) above does not constitute
the only evidence that may be considered as evidence of intent to commit theft
of rented property or rental services.
(ORC 2913.72)
§ 672.05 TAMPERING WITH COIN MACHINES. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 672.05 was repealed by Ordinance 99-47, passed 9-9-
1999.)
§ 672.06 PROSECUTIONS FOR THEFT OF UTILITIES.
   (a)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in Ohio R.C. 2913.01,
that involves alleged tampering with a gas, electric, steam or water meter,
conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the utility,
proof that a meter, conduit or attachment of a utility has been tampered with
is prima facie evidence that the person who is obligated to pay for the service
rendered through the meter, conduit or attachment, and who is in possession or
control of the meter, conduit or attachment at the time the tampering occurred
has caused the tampering with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (b)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in Ohio R.C. 2913.01,
that involves the alleged reconnection of a gas, electric, steam or water
meter, conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the
utility, proof that a meter, conduit or attachment disconnected by a utility
has been reconnected without the consent of the utility is prima facie evidence
that the person in possession or control of the meter, conduit or attachment at
the time of the reconnection has reconnected the meter, conduit or attachment
with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (c)   (EDITOR’S NOTE: The definitions contained in this section are also
located in Chapter 604, § 604.01.)
      For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      TAMPER. To interfere with, damage or bypass a utility meter, conduit or
attachment with the intent to impede the correct registration of a meter or the
proper functions of a conduit or attachment so as to reduce the amount of
utility service that is registered on the meter.
(ORC 4933.18)
      UTILITY. Any electric light company, gas company, natural gas company,
pipe-line company, water-works company or heating or cooling company, as
defined in Ohio R.C. 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), its lessees,
trustees or receivers, or any similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision.
   (d)   Each electric light company, gas company, natural gas company,
pipeline company, waterworks company or heating or cooling company, as defined
by Ohio R.C. 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), or its lessees, trustees
or receivers, and each similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision, shall notify its customers, on an annual basis, that tampering
with or bypassing a meter constitutes a theft offense that could result in the
imposition of criminal sanctions.
(ORC 4933.19)
§ 672.07 MISCONDUCT INVOLVING A PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM.
   (a)   (EDITOR’S NOTE: The definition contained in this section is also
located in Chapter 604, § 604.01.) As used in this section, PUBLIC
TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM means a county transit system operated in accordance with
Ohio R.C. 306.01 to 306.13, a regional transit authority operated in accordance
with Ohio R.C. 306.30 to 306.71, or a regional transit commission operated in
accordance with Ohio R.C. 306.80 to 306.90.
   (b)   No person shall evade the payment of the known fares of a public
transportation system.
   (c)   No person shall alter any transfer, pass, ticket or token of a public
transportation system with the purpose of evading the payment of fares or of
defrauding the system.
   (d)   No person shall do any of the following while in any facility or on
any vehicle of a public transportation system:
      (1)   Play sound equipment without the proper use of a private earphone;
      (2)   Smoke, eat or drink in any area where the activity is clearly
marked as being prohibited; or
      (3)   Expectorate upon a person, facility or vehicle.
   (e)   No person shall write, deface, draw or otherwise mark on any facility
or vehicle of a public transportation system.
   (f)   No person shall fail to comply with a lawful order of a public
transportation system police officer, and no person shall resist, obstruct or
abuse a public transportation police officer in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
   (g)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of
misconduct involving a public transportation system.
      (1)   A violation of subsection (b), (c), or (f) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   A violation of subsection (d) of this section is a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense. If a person previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to a violation of any subsection of this section or of a
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any subsection of this
section, a violation of subsection (d) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
      (3)   A violation of subsection (e) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
   (h)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 75 percent of each fine
paid to satisfy a sentence imposed for a violation of any of the provisions of
this section shall be deposited into the treasury of the county and 25 percent
shall be deposited with the county transit board, regional transit authority or
regional transit commission that operates the public transportation system
involved in the violation, unless the Board of County Commissioners operates
the public transportation system, in which case 100 percent of each fine shall
be deposited into the treasury of the county.
(ORC 2917.41)
§ 672.08 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF A VEHICLE; VEHICLE TRESPASS. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 672.08 was repealed by Ordinance 99-47, passed 9-9-
1999.)
§ 672.09 PASSING BAD CHECKS. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 672.09 was repealed by Ordinance 99-47, passed 9-9-
1999.)
§ 672.10 MISUSE OF CREDIT CARDS. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 672.10 was repealed by Ordinance 99-47, passed 9-9-
1999.)
§ 672.11 RECORDING CREDIT CARD, TELEPHONE OR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS.
   (a)   No person shall record or cause to be recorded either of the
following:
      (1)   A credit card account number of the other party to a transaction,
when a check, bill of exchange or other draft is presented for payment; or
      (2)   The telephone number or Social Security account number of the other
party to a transaction, when payment is made by credit card charge agreement,
check, bill of exchange or other draft.
   (b)   Subsection (a) of this section does not apply to a transaction, if all
of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number is recorded for a legitimate business purpose, including
collection purposes;
      (2)   The other party to the transaction consents to the recording of the
credit card account number, Social Security account number or telephone number;
and
      (3)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number that is recorded during the course of the transaction is not
disclosed to any third party for any purposes other than collection purposes
and is not used to market goods or services unrelated to the goods or services
purchased in the transaction.
   (c)   Nothing in this section prohibits the recording of the number of a
credit card account when given in lieu of a deposit to secure payment in the
event of default, loss, damage or other occurrence, or requires a person to
accept a check presented for payment, if the other party to the transaction
refuses to consent to the recording of the number of the party’s Social
Security account or license to operate a motor vehicle.
(ORC 1349.17)
   (d)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 1349.99)
§ 672.12 FORGING OR SELLING FORGED IDENTIFICATION CARDS. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 672.12 was repealed by Ordinance 99-47, passed 9-9-
1999.)
§ 672.125 CRIMINAL SIMULATION. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 672.125 was repealed by Ordinance 99-47, passed 9-9-
1999.)
§ 672.13 MAKING OR USING SLUGS.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Insert or deposit a slug in a coin machine, with purpose to
defraud; or
      (2)   Make, possess, or dispose of a slug, with purpose of enabling
another to defraud by inserting or depositing it in a coin machine.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or using slugs, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(ORC 2913.33)
§ 672.14 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF PURPOSE TO DEFRAUD.
   In a prosecution of a person for a theft offense that alleges that the
person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she was facilitating a
fraud, hired or rented an aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, kept
or operated any of the same that has been hired or rented, or engaged
accommodations at a hotel, motel, inn, campground, or other hostelry, it is
prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud if the person did any of the
following:
   (a)   Used deception to induce the rental agency to furnish the person with
the aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat, sailboat, camper, trailer,
horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, or used deception to induce the
hostelry to furnish the person with accommodations;
   (b)   Hired or rented any aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, or
engaged accommodations, knowing that he or she is without sufficient means to
pay the hire or rental;
   (c)   Absconded without paying the hire or rental;
   (d)   Knowingly failed to pay the hire or rental as required by the contract
of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure; or
   (e)   Knowingly failed to return hired or rented property as required by the
contract of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure.
(ORC 2913.41)
§ 672.15 TAMPERING WITH RECORDS.
   (a)   No person, knowing that he or she has no privilege to do so, and with
purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is facilitating a fraud, shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Falsify, destroy, remove, conceal, alter, deface, or mutilate any
writing, computer software, data, or record; or
      (2)   Utter any writing or record, knowing it to have been tampered with
as provided in subsection (a)(1) of this section.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with records.
      (1)   Except as provided in subsection (b)(3) of this section, if the
offense does not involve data or computer software, tampering with records is
whichever of the following is applicable:
         A.   If subsection (b)(1)B. of this section does not apply, it is a
misdemeanor of the first degree; or
         B.   If the writing or record is a will unrevoked at the time of the
offense, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as provided in subsection (b)(3) of this section, if the
offense involves a violation of subsection (a) of this section involving data
or computer software, tampering with records is whichever of the following is
applicable:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (b)(2)B. of this
section, it is a misdemeanor of the first degree; or
         B.   If the value of the data or computer software involved in the
offense or the loss to the victim is one thousand dollars ($1,000) or more or
if the offense is committed for the purpose of devising or executing a scheme
to defraud or to obtain property or services and the value of the property or
services or the loss to the victim is seven thousand five hundred dollars
($7,500) or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the writing, data, computer software, or record is kept by or
belongs to a local, state, or federal governmental entity, it is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2913.42)
§ 672.16 SECURING WRITINGS BY DECEPTION.
   (a)   No person, by deception, shall cause another to execute any writing
that disposes of or encumbers property, or by which a pecuniary obligation is
incurred.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of securing writings by
deception. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, securing writings
by deception is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property
or the obligation involved is one thousand dollars ($1,000) or more, securing
writings by deception is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate to state
law. If the victim of the offense is an elderly person, disabled adult, active
duty service member, or spouse of an active duty service member, securing
writings by deception is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2913.43)
§ 672.17 PERSONATING AN OFFICER. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 672.17 was repealed by Ordinance 99-47, passed 9-9-
1999.)
§ 672.18 DEFRAUDING CREDITORS. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 672.18 was repealed by Ordinance 99-47, passed 9-9-
1999.)
§ 672.19 MEDICAID FRAUD. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 672.19 was repealed by Ordinance 99-47, passed 9-9-
1999.)
§ 672.20 INSURANCE FRAUD. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 672.20 was repealed by Ordinance 99-47, passed 9-9-
1999.)
§ 672.21 WORKERS’ COMPENSATION FRAUD. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 672.21 was repealed by Ordinance 99-47, passed 9-9-
1999.)
§ 672.22 MOTION PICTURE PIRACY.
   (a)   (EDITOR’S NOTE: The definitions contained in this section are also
located in Chapter 604, § 604.01.)
      For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION. The capability of a device to record or
transmit a motion picture or any part of a motion picture by means of any
technology existing on, or developed after, 3-9-2004.
      FACILITY. A movie theater.
   (b)   No person, without the written consent of the owner or lessee of the
facility and of the licensor of the motion picture, shall knowingly operate an
audiovisual recording function of a device in a facility in which the motion
picture is being shown.
   (c)   Whoever violates subsection (b) of this section is guilty of motion
picture piracy, a misdemeanor of the first degree on the first offense and a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
   (d)   This section does not prohibit or restrict a lawfully authorized
investigative, law enforcement, protective, or intelligence gathering employee
or agent of the government of this state or a political subdivision of this
state, or of the federal government, when acting in an official capacity, from
operating an audiovisual recording function of a device in any facility in
which a motion picture is being shown.
   (e)   Subsection (b) of this section does not limit or affect the
application of any other prohibition in this code or the Ohio Revised Code. Any
act that is a violation of both subsection (b) of this section and another
provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this
section, under the other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, or
under both this section and the other provision of this code or the Ohio
Revised Code.
(ORC 2913.07)
CHAPTER 676: VEGETATION (REPEALED)
   EDITOR’S NOTE: Chapter 676 was repealed in its entirety by Ordinance 14-10,
passed February 13, 2014.
CHAPTER 678: WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES
Section
678.01   Discharging Weapons
678.02   Throwing Objects at Persons, Vehicle or Animals
678.03   Fireworks
   CROSS REFERENCES
   See sectional histories for similar State law
   Hunting Prohibited - see GEN. OFF.
618.11
   Vehicles Transporting Explosives - see TRAF.
440.04
§ 678.01 DISCHARGING WEAPONS.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall fire or discharge any weapon; dangerous
ordnance; deadly weapon; firearm, regardless of its length; handgun; semi-
automatic firearm; any military weapon, regardless of its actual age, that
employs percussion cap or other obsolete ignition system or that is designed
and safe for use only with black power; any pistol, rifle or shotgun designed
or suitable for sporting purposes, including a military weapon as issued or
modified; any cannon or other artillery piece within the City, except as
follows:
      (1)   The firing or discharge was in self-defense, defense of another or
defense of that person's residence;
      (2)   The firing or discharge was by a law enforcement officer or
investigator acting within the scope of the officer's or investigator's duties;
      (3)   The firing or discharge was done as part of a military salute,
parade, re-enactment or other such situation that was pre-approved by the
Director of Public Safety; or
      (4)   As otherwise permitted by the Director of Public Safety under
Section
618.11 of this General Offenses Code.
   (b)   Definitions. As used in this section, the following words and/or
phrases shall be as defined as follows: in ORC 2923.11: "automatic firearm,"
"dangerous ordnance," "deadly weapon," "explosive," "explosive device,"
"firearm," "handgun," "incendiary device," "license to carry a concealed
handgun," "misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one
year," "sawed-off firearm," "semi-automatic firearm," except as otherwise
provided herein.
   (c)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
(1964 Code §549.12; Ord. 2019-22. Passed 11/26/19)
§ 678.02 THROWING OBJECTS AT PERSONS, VEHICLES AND ANIMALS.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall recklessly or maliciously throw, propel,
shoot, cast or sling, by hand or by means of a slingshot, bow, or any other
device, a stone, or other hard object, or any arrow, missile or pellet, at or
towards any of the following:
      (1)    Any other person for the purpose of injuring that other person;
      (2)   At any motor vehicle, whether that vehicle is parked or in motion,
for any purpose; or
      (3)   At any animal or bird for the purposes of killing or injuring that
animal or bird.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
(1964 Code 549.13; Ord. 2019-22. Passed 11/26/19)
§ 678.03 FIREWORKS.
   (a)   Exhibitions.
      (1)   A licensed exhibitor of fireworks who wishes to conduct a public
fireworks exhibition shall apply for approval to conduct the exhibition to the
Fire Chief and to the Police Chief.
      (2)   The approval required by division (a)(1) of this section shall be
evidenced by the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief,
or the designee of the Police Chief, signing a permit for the exhibition, on
the exhibition permit form issued by the State Fire Marshal. Any exhibitor of
fireworks who wishes to conduct a public fireworks exhibition may obtain a copy
of the form from the State Fire Marshal or, if available, from the Fire Chief,
a fire prevention officer, the Police Chief or a designee of the Police Chief.
      (3)   Before a permit is signed and issued to a licensed exhibitor of
fireworks, the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in consultation with the
Police Chief, or the designee of the Police Chief, shall inspect the premises
on which the exhibition will take place and shall determine that, in fact, the
applicant for the permit is a licensed exhibitor of fireworks. Each applicant
shall show his or her license as an exhibitor of fireworks to the Fire Chief or
fire prevention officer.
      (4)   The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and the Police Chief, or
the designee of the Police Chief, shall give approval to conduct a public
fireworks exhibition only if satisfied, based on the inspection, that the
premises on which the exhibition will be conducted allow the exhibitor to
comply with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to ORC 3743.53
(B) and (E) and that the applicant is, in fact, a licensed exhibitor of
fireworks. The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in consultation with the
Police Chief or with the designee of the Police Chief may inspect the premises
immediately prior to the exhibition to determine if the exhibitor has complied
with the rules, and may revoke a permit for noncompliance with the rules.
      (5)   If the City has prescribed a fee for the issuance of a permit for a
public fireworks exhibition, the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and
Police Chief, or his or her designee, shall not issue a permit until the
exhibitor pays the requisite fee.
      (6)   Each exhibitor shall provide an indemnity bond in the amount of at
least one million dollars ($1,000,000) with surety satisfactory to the Fire
Chief or fire prevention officer and to the Police Chief, or the designee of
the Police Chief, conditioned for the payment of all final judgments that may
be rendered against the exhibitor on account of injury, death, or loss to
person or property emanating from the fireworks exhibitor, or proof of
insurance coverage of at least one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for
liability arising from injury, death, or loss of persons or property emanating
from the fireworks exhibition. The City may require the exhibitor to provide an
indemnity bond or proof of insurance coverage in amounts greater than those
required by this division. The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and Police
Chief, or his or her designee, shall not issue a permit until the exhibitor
provides the bond or proof of the insurance coverage required.
      (7)   Each permit for a fireworks exhibition issued by the Fire Chief or
fire prevention officer, and by the Police Chief, or the designee of the Police
Chief, shall contain a distinct number, designate the City, and identify the
certified fire safety inspector, Fire Chief, or fire prevention officer who
will be present before, during and after the exhibition, where appropriate. A
copy of each permit issued shall be forwarded by the Fire Chief or fire
prevention officer, and by the Police Chief, or designee of the Police Chief,
issuing it to the State Fire Marshal. A permit is not transferable or
assignable.
      (8)   The Fire Chief, fire prevention officer, Police Chief and designee
of the Police Chief shall keep a record of issued permits for fireworks
exhibitions. In this list, the Fire Chief, fire prevention officer, Police
Chief, and designee of the Police Chief shall list the name of the exhibitor,
the exhibitor's license number, the premises on which the exhibition will be
conducted, the date and time of the exhibition, and the number and political
subdivision designation of the permit issued to the exhibitor for the
exhibition.
      (9)   A certified fire safety inspector, the Fire Chief, or fire
prevention officer shall be present before, during and after the exhibition,
and shall inspect the premises where the exhibition is to take place and
determine whether the exhibition is in compliance with this section and ORC
Chapter 3743.
(ORC 3743.54)
   (b)   Exhibitor Prohibitions.
      (1)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall fail to comply with the
applicable requirements of the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant
to ORC 3743.53(B) and (E) or to comply with divisions (C) and (D) of that ORC
section.
      (2)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall conduct a fireworks
exhibition unless a permit has been secured for the exhibition pursuant to
division (a) of this Section or ORC 3743., or if a permit so secured is revoked
by the a Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in consultation with the Police
Chief, or with a designee of the a Police Chief, pursuant to those sections.
      (3)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall acquire fireworks for use
at a fireworks exhibition other than in accordance with ORC 3743.54 and
3743.55.
      (4)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks or other person associated with
the conduct of a fireworks exhibition shall have possession or control of, or
be under the influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer or controlled
substance while on the premises on which the exhibition is being conducted.
      (5)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall permit an employee to
assist the licensed exhibitor in conducting fireworks exhibitions unless the
employee is registered with the State Fire Marshal under Ohio R.C. 3743.56.
(ORC 3743.64)
   (c)   Unauthorized Possession, Sale or Discharge of Fireworks.
      (1)   No person shall possess fireworks in this City or shall possess for
sale or sell fireworks in this City, except a licensed manufacturer of
fireworks as authorized by ORC 3743.02 through 3743.08, a licensed wholesaler
of fireworks as authorized by ORC 3743.15 through 3743.21, a shipping permit
holder as authorized by ORC 3743.40, an out-of-state resident as authorized by
ORC 3743.44, a resident of this state as authorized by ORC 3743.45, or a
licensed exhibitor of fireworks as authorized by ORC 3743.50 through 3743.55,
and except as provided in ORC 3743.80.
      (2)   Except as provided in ORC 3743.80, and except for licensed
exhibitors of fireworks authorized to conduct a fireworks exhibition pursuant
to division (a) of this section and ORC 3743.50 through 3743.55, no person
shall discharge, ignite, or explode any fireworks in this City.
      (3)   No person shall use in a theater or public hall, what is
technically known as fireworks showers, or a mixture containing potassium
chlorate and sulfur.
      (4)   No person shall sell fireworks of any kind to a person under
eighteen (18) years of age. No person under eighteen (18) years of age shall
enter a fireworks sales showroom in this City unless that person is accompanied
by a parent, legal guardian, or other responsible adult. No person under
eighteen (18) years of age shall touch or possess fireworks on a licensed
premises without the consent of the licensee. A licensee may eject any person
from a licensed premises that is in any way disruptive to the safe operation of
the premises.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in ORC 3743.44, no person, other than
a licensed manufacturer, licensed wholesaler, licensed exhibitor, or shipping
permit holder shall possess 1.3G fireworks in this City.
(ORC 3743.65(A) - (E))
   (d)   Unauthorized Transporting or Shipping of Fireworks.
      (1)   No person shall transport fireworks in this City except in
accordance with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to ORC
3743.58.
      (2)   As used in this division, "fireworks" includes only 1.3G and 1.4G
fireworks. No person shall ship fireworks into this City by mail, parcel post
or common carrier unless the person possesses a valid shipping permit issued
under ORC 3743.40, and the fireworks are shipped directly to the holder of a
license issued under ORC 3743.03, 3743.16 or 3743.51.
      (3)   No person shall ship fireworks within this City by mail, parcel
post, or common carrier unless the fireworks are shipped directly to the holder
of a license issued under ORC 3743.01, 3743.16 or 3743.51.
(ORC 3743.66)
   (e)   Arrest of Violator; Seizure and Forfeiture of Fireworks.
      (1)   The fire marshal, an assistant fire marshal, or a certified fire
safety inspector may arrest, or may cause the arrest of, any person the fire
marshal, an assistant fire marshal, or certified fire safety inspector finds in
the act of violating, or who the fire marshal, assistant fire marshal, or
certified fire safety inspector has reasonable cause to believe has violated,
any of the provisions of this section. Any arrest shall be made in accordance
with statutory and constitutional provisions governing arrests by law
enforcement officers.
      (2)   If the fire marshal, an assistant fire marshal, or certified fire
safety inspector has probable cause to believe that fireworks are being
manufactured, sold, possessed, transported, or used in violation of any of the
provisions of this section or of ORC Chapter 3743., the fire marshal, assistant
fire marshal, or certified fire safety inspector may seize the fireworks. Any
seizure of fireworks shall be made in accordance with statutory and
constitutional provisions governing searches and seizures by law enforcement
officers. The fire marshal's or certified fire safety inspector's office shall
impound at the site or safely keep seized fireworks pending the time they are
no longer needed as evidence. A sample of the seized fireworks is sufficient
for evidentiary purposes. The remainder of the seized fireworks may be disposed
of pursuant to an order from a court of competent jurisdiction after notice and
hearing.
      (3)   Fireworks manufactured, sold, possessed, transported or used in
violation of this section or ORC Chapter 3743. shall be forfeited by the
violator. The fire marshal's or certified fire safety inspector's office shall
dispose of seized fireworks pursuant to the procedures specified in ORC 2981.11
to 2981.13 for the disposal of forfeited property by law enforcement agencies,
and the Fire Marshal or that office is not liable for claims for the loss of or
damages to the seized fireworks.
      (4)   This section does not affect the authority of a peace officer, as
defined in ORC 2935.01, to make arrests for violations of this section or ORC
Chapter 3743. or to seize fireworks manufactured, sold, possessed, transported,
or used in violation of this section or ORC Chapter 3743.
(ORC 3743.68)
   (f)   Definitions. As used in this section, words and phrases shall have the
same meaning as defined in ORC 3743.01.
   (g)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 3743.99)
      (2)   Any fines imposed for a violation of this section relating to the
sale, purchase, possession, or discharge of fireworks shall be distributed to
the City if the City either filed or enforced the complaint regarding the
violation.
(ORC 3743.68(D))
CHAPTER 698: PENALTIES AND SENTENCING
Section
698.01   (Reserved)
698.02   Penalties for misdemeanor.
698.03   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor.
698.04   Organizational penalties.
698.05   Multiple sentences.
698.06   Modification of sentence. (Repealed)
698.07   Suspension of driver’s license.
   CROSS REFERENCES
   See sectional histories for similar State law
   Administration and Enforcement - see GEN. OFF.
Ch. 608
   Burden and Degree of Proof - see ORC 2901.05
   Classification of Offenses - see GEN. OFF.
606.02
   Criminal Law Jurisdiction - see GEN. OFF.
606.05
   Criteria and Conditions for Probation - see ORC 2951.02
   Culpable Mental States - see GEN. OFF.
606.08
   Definition of Imprisoned - see ORC 1.05
   Degree of Offense; Prior Convictions - see ORC 2945.75
   Limitation on Prosecutions - see GEN. OFF.
606.06
   Offenses Defined - see GEN. OFF.
606.03
   Organizational Criminal Liability - see GEN. OFF.
606.09
   Personal Accountability for Organizational Conduct - see GEN. OFF.
606.10
   Requirements for Criminal Liability - see GEN. OFF.
606.07
   Rules of Construction - see GEN. OFF.
606.04
   Satisfaction of Fine; Credit for Time Served - see ORC 2947.14
   Sentencing for Sexually Oriented Offenses - see GEN. OFF.
666.99
   Treatment in Lieu of Conviction - see ORC 2951.041
   Venue - see ORC 2901.12; 2931.29 et seq.
§ 698.01 (Reserved)
§ 698.02 PENALTIES FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   (a)   Considerations in misdemeanor sentencing.
      (1)   A court that sentences an offender for a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, or of any
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, shall be guided
by the overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing. The overriding purposes
of misdemeanor sentencing are to protect the public from future crime by the
offender and others and to punish the offender. To achieve those purposes, the
sentencing court shall consider the impact of the offense upon the victim and
the need for changing the offender’s behavior, rehabilitating the defender, and
making restitution to the victim of the offense, the public, or the victim and
the public.
      (2)   A sentence imposed for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation
of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a violation of a municipal ordinance
that is subject to subsection (b)(1) of this section shall be reasonably
calculated to achieve the two overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing set
forth in subsection (a)(1) of this section, commensurate with and not demeaning
to the seriousness of the offender’s conduct and its impact upon the victim,
and consistent with sentences imposed for similar offenses committed by similar
offenders.
      (3)   A court that imposes a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor
or minor misdemeanor violation of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a
violation of a municipal ordinance that is subject to subsection (b)(1) of this
section shall not base the sentence upon the race, ethnic background, gender,
or religion of the offender.
      (4)   Subsections (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section shall not apply to
any offense that is disposed of by a traffic violations bureau of any court
pursuant to Traffic Rule 13 and shall not apply to any violation of any
provision of the Ohio Revised Code that is a minor misdemeanor and that is
disposed of without a court appearance. Subsections (b)(1) to (b)(3) of this
section do not affect any penalties established by the municipality for a
violation of its ordinances that are not substantially equivalent to a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised
Code.
(ORC 2929.21)
   (b)   Misdemeanor jail terms.
      (1)   Except as provided in §§
666.99 or
698.03 of this Code or Ohio R.C. 2929.22 or 2929.23 or subsection (b)(5) or (b)
(6) of this section and unless another term is required or authorized pursuant
to law, if the sentencing court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a
misdemeanor elects or is required to impose a jail term on the offender
pursuant to this chapter, the court shall impose a definite jail term that
shall be one of the following:
         A.   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than 180 days;
         B.   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than 90 days;
         C.   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than 60 days; or
         D.   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than 30 days.
      (2)   A.   A court that sentences an offender to a jail term under
subsection (b) of this section may permit the offender to serve the sentence in
intermittent confinement or may authorize a limited release of the offender as
provided in subsection (d)(2) of this section. The court retains jurisdiction
over every offender sentenced to jail to modify the jail sentence imposed at
any time, but the court shall not reduce any mandatory jail term.
         B.   1.   If a prosecutor, as defined in Ohio R.C. 2935.01, has filed
a notice with the court that the prosecutor wants to be notified about a
particular case and if the court is considering modifying the jail sentence of
the offender in that case, the court shall notify the prosecutor that the court
is considering modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case. The
prosecutor may request a hearing regarding the court’s consideration of
modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, and, if the
prosecutor requests a hearing, the court shall notify the eligible offender of
the hearing.
            2.   If the prosecutor requests a hearing regarding the court’s
consideration of modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, the
court shall hold the hearing before considering whether or not to release the
offender from the offender’s jail sentence.
      (3)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under subsection
(b) of this section and the court assigns the offender to a County Jail that
has established a County Jail Industry Program pursuant to Ohio R.C. 5147.30,
the court shall specify, as part of the sentence, whether the offender may be
considered for participation in the program. During the offender’s term in the
County Jail, the court retains jurisdiction to modify its specification
regarding the offender’s participation in the County Jail Industry Program.
      (4)   If a person sentenced to a jail term pursuant to subsection (b) of
this section, the court may impose as part of the sentence pursuant to Ohio
R.C. 2929.28 a reimbursement sanction, and, if the local detention facility in
which the term is to be served is covered by a policy adopted pursuant to Ohio
R.C. 307.93, 341.14, 341.19, 341.21, 341.23, 753.02, 753.04, 753.16, 2301.56,
or 2947.19 and Ohio R.C. 2929.37, both of the following apply:
         A.   The court shall specify both of the following as part of the
sentence:
            1.   If the person is presented with an itemized bill pursuant to
Ohio R.C. 2929.37 for payment of the costs of confinement, the person is
required to pay the bill in accordance with that section;
            2.   If the person does not dispute the bill described in
subsection (b)(4)A.1. of this section and does not pay the bill by the times
specified in Ohio R.C. 2929.37, the Clerk of the Court may issue a certificate
of judgment against the person as described in that section; and
         B.   The sentence automatically includes any certificate of judgment
issued as described in subsection (b)(4)A.2. of this section.
      (5)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation
of Ohio R.C. 4511.19(B), or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
also is convicted of or also pleads guilty to a specification of the type
described in Ohio R.C. 2941.1414 and if the court imposes a jail term on the
offender for the underlying offense, the court shall impose upon the offender
an additional definite jail term of not more than six months. The additional
jail term shall not be reduced pursuant to any provision of the Ohio Revised
Code. The offender shall serve the additional jail term consecutively to and
prior to the jail term imposed for the underlying offense and consecutively to
any other mandatory term imposed in relation to the offense.
      (6)   A.   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
misdemeanor violation of Ohio R.C. 2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or
any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and to a specification of the
type described in Ohio R.C. 2941.1421 and if the court imposes a jail term on
the offender for the misdemeanor violation, the court may impose upon the
offender an additional definite jail term as follows:
            1.   Subject to subsection (b)(6)A.2. of this section, an
additional definite jail term of not more than 60 days;
            2.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one or more misdemeanor or felony violations of Ohio R.C. 2907.22,
2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and also was convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
specification of the type described in Ohio R.C. 2941.1421 regarding one or
more of those violations, an additional definite jail term of not more than 120
days.
         B.   In lieu of imposing an additional definite jail term under
subsection (b)(6)A. of this section, the court may directly impose on the
offender a sanction that requires the offender to wear a real-time processing,
continual tracking electronic monitoring device during the period of time
specified by the court. The period of time specified by the court shall equal
the duration of an additional jail term that the court could have imposed upon
the offender under subsection (b)(6)A. of this section. A sanction imposed
under this subsection shall commence on the date specified by the court,
provided that the sanction shall not commence until after the offender has
served the jail term imposed for the misdemeanor violation of Ohio R.C.
2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and any residential sanction imposed for the violation
under subsection (d) of this section or Ohio R.C. 2929.26. A sanction imposed
under this subsection shall be considered to be a community control sanction
for purposes of subsection (c) or this section or Ohio R.C. 2929.25, and all
provisions of this Code and the Ohio Revised Code that pertain to community
control sanctions shall apply to a sanction imposed under this subsection,
except to the extent that they would by their nature be clearly inapplicable.
The offender shall pay all costs associated with a sanction imposed under this
subsection, including the cost of the use of the monitoring device.
      (7)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor
violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.13 and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in Ohio R.C. 2941.1423 that charges that
the victim of the violation was a woman whom the offender knew was pregnant at
the time of the violation, the court shall impose on the offender a mandatory
jail term that is a definite term of at least 30 days.
      (8)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under this
subsection (b), the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender and
the jail term. Upon motion of either party or upon the court’s own motion, the
court, in the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may
substitute one or more community control sanctions under subsection (d) or (e)
of this section for any jail days that are not mandatory jail days.
(ORC 2929.24)
   (c)   Misdemeanor community control sanctions.
      (1)   A.   Except as provided in §§
666.99 and
698.03 of this Code or Ohio R.C. 2929.22 and 2929.23 or when a jail term is
required by law, in sentencing an offender for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, the sentencing court may do either of the following:
            1.   Directly impose a sentence that consists of one or more
community control sanctions authorized by subsections (d), (e), or (f) of this
section. The court may impose any other conditions of release under a community
control sanction that the court considers appropriate. If the court imposes a
jail term upon the offender, the court may impose any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions in addition to the jail
term; or
            2.   Impose a jail term under subsection (b) of this section from
the range of jail terms authorized under that subsection for the offense,
suspend all or a portion of the jail term imposed, and place the offender under
a community control sanction or combination of community control sanctions
authorized under subsections (d), (e), or (f) of this section.
         B.   The duration of all community control sanctions imposed upon an
offender and in effect for an offender at any time shall not exceed five years.
         C.   At sentencing, if a court directly imposes a community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to subsection
(c)(1)A.1. of this section, the court shall state the duration of the community
control sanctions imposed and shall notify the offender that if any of the
conditions of the community control sanctions are violated the court may do any
of the following:
            1.   Impose a longer time under the same community control sanction
if the total time under all of the offender’s community control sanctions does
not exceed the five-year limit specified in subsection (c)(1)B. of this
section;
            2.   Impose a more restrictive community control sanction under
subsection (d), (e), or (f) of this section, but the court is not required to
impose any particular sanction or sanctions; or
            3.   Impose a definite jail term from the range of jail terms
authorized for the offense under subsection (b) of this section.
      (2)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control sanction
or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to subsection (c)(1)A.1.
of this section, the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender
and the period of community control for the duration of the period of community
control. Upon the motion of either party or on the court’s own motion, the
court, in the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may
modify the community control sanctions or conditions of release previously
imposed, substitute a community control sanction or condition of release for
another community control sanction or condition of release previously imposed,
or impose an additional community control sanction or condition of release.
      (3)   A.   If a court sentences an offender to any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
subsection (d), (e), or (f) of this section, the court shall place the offender
under the general control and supervision of the court or of a department of
probation in the jurisdiction that serves the court for purposes of reporting
to the court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. If
the offender resides in another jurisdiction and a department of probation has
been established to serve the Municipal Court or County Court in that
jurisdiction, the sentencing court may request the Municipal Court or the
County Court to receive the offender into the general control and supervision
of that department of probation for purposes of reporting to the sentencing
court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. The
sentencing court retains jurisdiction over any offender whom it sentences for
the duration of the sanction or sanctions imposed.
         B.   The sentencing court shall require as a condition of any
community control sanction that the offender abide by the law and not leave the
state without the permission of the court or the offender’s probation officer.
In the interests of doing justice, rehabilitating the offender, and ensuring
the offender’s good behavior, the court may impose additional requirements on
the offender. The offender’s compliance with the additional requirements also
shall be a condition of the community control sanction imposed upon the
offender.
      (4)   A.   If the court imposing sentence upon an offender sentences the
offender to any community control sanction or combination of community control
sanctions authorized under subsection (d), (e), or (f) of this section, and the
offender violates any of the conditions of the sanctions, the public or private
person or entity that supervises or administers the program or activity that
comprises the sanction shall report the violation directly to the sentencing
court or to the department of probation or probation officer with general
control and supervision over the offender. If the public or private person or
entity reports the violation to the department of probation or probation
officer, the department or officer shall report the violation to the sentencing
court.
         B.   If an offender violates any condition of a community control
sanction, the sentencing court may impose upon the violator one or more of the
following penalties:
            1.   A longer time under the same community control sanction if the
total time under all of the community control sanctions imposed on the violator
does not exceed the five-year limit specified in subsection (c)(1)B. of this
section;
            2.   A more restrictive community control sanction;
            3.   A combination of community control sanctions, including a jail
term.
         C.   If an offender was acting pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2925.11(B)(2)(b),
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and in so doing violated
the conditions of a community control sanction based on a minor drug possession
offense, as defined in Ohio R.C. 2925.11, the sentencing court may consider the
offender’s conduct in seeking or obtaining medical assistance for another in
good faith or for self or may consider the offender being the subject of
another person seeking or obtaining medical assistance in accordance with that
division as a mitigating factor before imposing any of the penalties described
in subsection (c)(4)B. of this section.
         D.   If the court imposes a jail term upon a violator pursuant to
subsection (c)(4)B. of this section, the total time spent in jail for the
misdemeanor offense and the violation of a condition of the community control
sanction shall not exceed the maximum jail term available for the offense for
which the sanction that was violated was imposed. The court may reduce the
longer period of time that the violator is required to spend under the longer
sanction or the more restrictive sanction imposed under subsection (c)(4)B. of
this section by all or part of the time the violator successfully spent under
the sanction that was initially imposed.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, if an offender,
for a significant period of time, fulfills the conditions of a community
control sanction imposed pursuant to subsection (d), (e), or (f) of this
section in an exemplary manner, the court may reduce the period of time under
the community control sanction or impose a less restrictive community control
sanction. Fulfilling the conditions of a community control sanction does not
relieve the offender of a duty to make restitution under subsection (f) of this
section.
(ORC 2929.25)
   (d)   Community residential sanction.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any community residential sanction or combination of
community residential sanctions under this subsection (d). Community
residential sanctions include, but are not limited to, the following:
         A.   A term of up to 180 days in a halfway house or a term in a
halfway house not to exceed the longest jail term available for the offense,
whichever is shorter, if the political subdivision that would have
responsibility for paying the costs of confining the offender in a jail has
entered into a contract with the halfway house for use of the facility for
misdemeanor offenders;
         B.   If the offender is an eligible offender, as defined in Ohio R.C.
307.932, a term in a community alternative sentencing center or district
community alternative sentencing center established and operated in accordance
with that section, in the circumstances specified in that section, with one of
the conditions of the sanction being that the offender successfully complete
the portion of the sentence to be served in the center.
      (2)   A sentence to a community residential sanction under subsection (d)
(1)B. of this section shall be in accordance with Ohio R.C. 307.932. In all
other cases, the court that sentences an offender to a community residential
sanction under this subsection (d) may do either or both of the following:
         A.   Permit the offender to serve the offender’s sentence in
intermittent confinement, overnight, on weekends or at any other time or times
that will allow the offender to continue at the offender’s occupation or care
for the offender’s family; and/or
         B.   Authorize the offender to be released so that the offender may
seek or maintain employment, receive education or training, receive treatment,
perform community service, or otherwise fulfill an obligation imposed by law or
by the court. A release pursuant to this subsection shall be only for the
duration of time that is needed to fulfill the purpose of the release and for
travel that reasonably is necessary to fulfill the purposes of release.
      (3)   The court may order that a reasonable portion of the income earned
by the offender upon a release pursuant to subsection (d)(2) of this section be
applied to any financial sanction imposed under subsection (f) of this section.
      (4)   No court shall sentence any person to a prison term for a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor, or to a jail term for a minor misdemeanor.
      (5)   If a court sentences a person who has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a misdemeanor to a community residential sanction as described in
subsection (d)(1) of this section, at the time of reception and at other times
the person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place at which the offender will serve the residential
sanction determines to be appropriate, the person in charge of the operation of
the halfway house, community alternative sentencing center, district community
alternative sentencing center, or other place may cause the convicted offender
to be examined and tested for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis,
including, but not limited to, hepatitis A, B, and C, and other contagious
diseases. The person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place at which the offender will serve the residential
sanction may cause a convicted offender in the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place who refuses to be tested or treated for tuberculosis,
HIV infection, hepatitis, including, but not limited to, hepatitis A, B, and C,
or another contagious disease to be tested and treated involuntarily.
      (6)   The municipality may enter into a contract with a halfway house for
use of the halfway house to house misdemeanor offenders under a sanction
imposed under subsection (d)(1)A. of this section.
(ORC 2929.26)
   (e)   Nonresidential sanction where jail term is not mandatory.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any nonresidential sanction or combination of
nonresidential sanctions authorized under this subsection. Nonresidential
sanctions include, but are not limited to, the following:
         A.   A term of day reporting;
         B.   A term of house arrest with electronic monitoring or continuous
alcohol monitoring or both electronic monitoring and continuous alcohol
monitoring, a term of electronic monitoring or continuous alcohol monitoring
without house arrest, or a term of house arrest without electronic monitoring
or continuous alcohol monitoring;
         C.   A term of community service of up to 500 hours for misdemeanor of
the first degree or 200 hours for a misdemeanor of the second, third, or fourth
degree;
         D.   A term in a drug treatment program with a level of security for
the offender as determined necessary by the court;
         E.   A term of intensive probation supervision;
         F.   A term of basic probation supervision;
         G.   A term of monitored time;
         H.   A term of drug and alcohol use monitoring, including random drug
testing;
         I.   A curfew term;
         J.   A requirement that the offender obtain employment;
         K.   A requirement that the offender obtain education or training;
         L.   Provided the court obtains the prior approval of the victim, a
requirement that the offender participate in victim-offender mediation;
         M.   If authorized by law, suspension of the offender’s privilege to
operate a motor vehicle, immobilization or forfeiture of the offender’s motor
vehicle, a requirement that the offender obtain a valid motor vehicle
operator’s license, or any other related sanction; and
         N.   A requirement that the offender obtain counseling if the offense
is a violation of Ohio R.C. 2919.25 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance or a violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.13 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance involving a person who was a family or household member at
the time of the violation, if the offender committed the offense in the
vicinity of one or more children who are not victims of the offense, and if the
offender or the victim of the offense is a parent, guardian, custodian, or
person in loco parentis of one or more of those children. This subsection does
not limit the court in requiring that the offender obtain counseling for any
offense or in any circumstance not specified in this subsection.
      (2)   If the court imposes a term of community service pursuant to
subsection (e)(1)C. of this section, the offender may request that the court
modify the sentence to authorize the offender to make a reasonable
contribution, as determined by the court, to the general fund of the county,
municipality, or other local entity that provides funding to the court. The
court may grant the request if the offender demonstrates a change in
circumstances from the date the court imposes the sentence or that the
modification would otherwise be in the interests of justice. If the court
grants the request, the offender shall make a reasonable contribution to the
court, and the clerk of the court shall deposit that contribution into the
general fund of the county, municipality, or other local entity that provides
funding to the court. If more than one entity provides funding to the court,
the clerk shall deposit a percentage of the reasonable contribution equal to
the percentage of funding the entity provides to the court in that entity’s
general fund.
      (3)   In addition to the sanctions authorized under subsection (e)(1) of
this section, the court imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, upon an offender who is not required to serve a mandatory
jail term may impose any other sanction that is intended to discourage the
offender or other persons from committing a similar offense if the sanction is
reasonably related to the overriding purposes and principles of misdemeanor
sentencing.
      (4)   The court imposing a sentence for a minor misdemeanor may impose a
term of community service in lieu of all or part of a fine. The term of
community service imposed for a minor misdemeanor shall not exceed 30 hours.
After imposing a term of community service, the court may modify the sentence
to authorize a reasonable contribution, as determined by the court, to the
appropriate general fund as provided in subsection (e)(2) of this section.
(ORC 2929.27)
   (f)   Financial sanctions.
      (1)   In addition to imposing court costs pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2947.23,
the court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor, including a
minor misdemeanor, may sentence the offender to any financial sanction or
combination of financial sanctions authorized under this subsection (f). If the
court in its discretion imposes one or more financial sanctions, the financial
sanctions that may be imposed pursuant to this section include, but are not
limited to, the following:
         A.   Restitution.
            1.   Unless the misdemeanor offense is a minor misdemeanor or could
be disposed of by the Traffic Violations Bureau serving the court under Traffic
Rule 13, restitution by the offender to the victim of the offender’s crime or
any survivor of the victim, in an amount based upon the victim’s economic loss.
The court may not imposed restitution as a sanction pursuant to this subsection
if the offense is a minor misdemeanor or could be disposed of by the Traffic
Violations Bureau serving the court under Traffic Rule 13. If the court
requires restitution, the court shall order that the restitution be made to the
victim in open court or to the adult probation department that serves the
jurisdiction or the Clerk of the Court on behalf of the victim.
            2.   If the court imposes restitution, the court shall determine
the amount of restitution to be paid by the offender. The court may base the
amount of restitution it orders on an amount recommended by the victim, the
offender, a presentence investigation report, estimates or receipts indicating
the cost of repairing or replacing property, and other information, provided
that the amount the court orders as restitution shall not exceed the amount of
economic loss suffered by the victim as a direct and proximate result of the
commission of the offense. If the court decides to impose restitution, the
court shall hold an evidentiary hearing on restitution if the offender, victim,
or survivor disputes the amount of restitution. If the court holds an
evidentiary hearing, at the hearing the victim or survivor has the burden to
provide by a preponderance of the evidence the amount of restitution sought
from the offender.
            3.   All restitution payments shall be credited against any
recovery of economic loss in a civil action brought by the victim or any
survivor of the victim against the offender. No person may introduce evidence
of an award of restitution under this section in a civil action for purposes of
imposing liability against an insurer under Ohio R.C. 3937.18.
            4.   If the court imposes restitution, the court may order that the
offender pay a surcharge, of not more than five percent of the amount of the
restitution otherwise ordered, to the entity responsible for collecting and
processing restitution payments.
            5.   The victim or survivor of the victim may request that the
prosecutor in the case file a motion, or the offender may file a motion, for
modification of the payment terms of any restitution ordered. If the court
grants the motion, it may modify the payment terms as it determines
appropriate.
         B.   Fines. A fine of the type described in subsections (f)(1)B.1. and
2. of this section payable to the appropriate entity as required by law:
            1.   A fine in the following amount:
               a.   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00);
               b.   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00);
               c.   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00);
               d.   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00); or
               e.   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00).
            2.   A state fine or cost as defined in Ohio R.C. 2949.111.
         C.   Reimbursement.
            1.   Reimbursement by the offender of any or all of the costs of
sanctions incurred by the government, including, but not limited to, the
following:
               a.   All or part of the costs of implementing any community
control sanction, including a supervision fee under Ohio R.C. 2951.021; or
               b.   All or part of the costs of confinement in a jail or other
residential facility, including, but not limited to, a per diem fee for room
and board, the costs of medical and dental treatment, and the costs of
repairing property damaged by the offender while confined.
            2.   The amount of reimbursement under subsection (f)(1)C.1. of
this section shall not exceed the total amount of reimbursement the offender is
able to pay and shall not exceed the actual cost of the sanctions. The court
may collect any amount of reimbursement the offender is required to pay under
that subsection. If the court does not order reimbursement under that
subsection, confinement costs may be assessed pursuant to a repayment policy
adopted under Ohio R.C. 2929.37. In addition, the offender may be required to
pay the fees specified in Ohio R.C. 2929.38 in accordance with that section.
      (2)   A.   If the court determines a hearing is necessary, the court may
hold a hearing to determine whether the offender is able to pay the financial
sanction imposed pursuant to this subsection (f) or court costs or is likely in
the future to be able to pay the sanction or costs.
         B.   If the court determines that the offender is indigent and unable
to pay the financial sanction or court costs, the court shall consider imposing
and may impose a term of community service under subsection (e)(1) of this
section in lieu of imposing a financial sanction or court costs. If the court
does not determine that the offender is indigent, the court may impose a term
of community service under subsection (e)(1) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this subsection (f) and in
addition to imposing court costs. The court may order community service for a
minor misdemeanor pursuant to subsection (e)(4) of this section in lieu of or
in addition to imposing a financial sanction under this section and in addition
to imposing court costs. If a person fails to pay a financial sanction or court
costs, the court may order community service in lieu of the financial sanction
or court costs.
      (3)   A.   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the
offender pursuant to subsection (f)(1)C. of this section to pay the costs
incurred by a county pursuant to any sanction imposed under subsection (d),
(e), or (f) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine
offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under subsection (d) of this section
to the County Treasurer. The County Treasurer shall deposit the reimbursements
in the County’s General Fund. The county shall use the amounts deposited in the
fund to pay the costs incurred by the County pursuant to any sanction imposed
under subsection (d), (e), or (f) of this section or in operating a facility
used to confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under subsection (d)
of this section.
         B.   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the offender
pursuant to subsection (f)(1)C. of this section to pay the costs incurred by a
municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under subsection (d),
(e), or (f) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine
offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under subsection (d) of this section
to the Treasurer of the municipal corporation. The Treasurer shall deposit the
reimbursements in the municipal corporation’s General Fund. The municipal
corporation shall use the amounts deposited in the fund to pay the costs
incurred by the municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under
subsection (d), (e), or (f) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under subsection (d) of this
section.
         C.   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed pursuant to
subsection (f)(1)C. of this section for the costs incurred by a private
provider pursuant to a sanction imposed under subsection (d), (e), or (f) of
this section to the provider.
      (4)   In addition to any other fine that is or may be imposed under this
subsection (f), the court imposing sentence upon an offender for misdemeanor
domestic violence or menacing by stalking may impose a fine of not less than
seventy dollars ($70.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), which
shall be transmitted to the Treasurer of Ohio to be credited to the address
confidentiality program fund created by R.C. § 111.48.
      (5)   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection (f)(5), a
financial sanction imposed under subsection (f)(1) of this section is a
judgment in favor of the state or the political subdivision that operates the
court that imposed the financial sanction, and the offender subject to the
financial sanction is the judgment debtor. A financial sanction of
reimbursement imposed pursuant to subsection (f)(1)C.1.a. of this section upon
an offender is a judgment in favor of the entity administering the community
control sanction. A financial sanction of reimbursement imposed pursuant to
subsection (f)(1)C.1.b. of this section upon an offender confined in a jail or
other residential facility is a judgment in favor of the entity operating the
jail or other residential facility. A financial sanction of restitution imposed
pursuant to subsection (f)(1)A. of this section is and order in favor of the
victim of the offender’s criminal act that can be collected through a
certificate of judgment as described in subsection (f)(5)B.1. of this section,
through execution as described in subsection (f)(5)B.2. of ths section or
through an order as described in subsection (f)(5)B.3. of this section and the
offender shall be considered for purposes of the collection as a judgment
debtor.
         B.   Once a financial sanction is imposed as a judgment or order under
this subsection, the victim, private provider, state or political subdivision
may do any of the following:
            1.   Obtain from the Clerk of the court in which the judgment was
entered a certificate of judgment that shall be in the same manner and form as
a certificate of judgment issued in a civil action;
            2.   Obtain execution of the judgment or order through any
available procedure, including any of the procedures identified in Ohio R.C.
2929.18(D)(1) and (D)(2) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance; or
            3.   Obtain an order for the assignment of wages of the judgment
debtor under Ohio R.C. 1321.33 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
      (6)   The civil remedies authorized under subsection (f)(5) of this
section for the collection of the financial sanction supplement, but do not
preclude, enforcement of the criminal sentence.
      (7)   Each court imposing a financial sanction upon an offender under
this subsection (f) may designate the Clerk of the Court or another person to
collect the financial sanction. The Clerk, or another person authorized by law
or the court to collect the financial sanction may do the following:
         A.   Enter into contracts with one or more public agencies or private
vendors for the collection of amounts due under the sanction. Before entering
into a contract for the collection of amounts due from an offender pursuant to
any financial sanction imposed pursuant to this subsection (f), a court shall
comply with Ohio R.C. 307.86 to 307.92;
         B.   Permit payment of all or any portion of the sanction in
installments, by financial transaction device if the court is a County Court or
a Municipal Court operated by a county, or by any other reasonable method, in
any time, and on any terms that the court considers just, except that the
maximum time permitted for payment shall not exceed five years. If the court is
a County Court or a Municipal Court operated by a county, the acceptance of
payments by any financial transaction device shall be governed by the policy
adopted by the Board of County Commissioners of the county pursuant to Ohio
R.C. 301.28. If the court is a Municipal Court not operated by a county, the
Clerk may pay any fee associated with processing an electronic transfer out of
public money or may charge the fee to the offender; or
         C.   To defray administrative costs, charge a reasonable fee to an
offender who elects a payment plan rather than a lump sum payment of any
financial sanction.
      (8)   No financial sanction imposed under this subsection (f) shall
preclude a victim from bringing a civil action against the offender.
(ORC 2929.28)
§ 698.03 IMPOSING SENTENCE FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   (a)   (1)   Unless a mandatory jail term is required to be imposed by Ohio
R.C. 1547.99(G), 4510.14(B), or 4511.19(G), or any other provision of the
Revised Code, or any municipal ordinance, a court that imposes a sentence under
this chapter upon an offender for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor has
discretion to determine the most effective way to achieve the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in §
698.02.
      (2)   Unless a specific sanction is required to be imposed or is
precluded from being imposed by the section setting forth an offense or the
penalty for an offense or by any provision of §§
666.99 or
698.02 of this code or Ohio R.C. 2929.23 to 2929.28, a court that imposes a
sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor may impose on the offender any
sanction or combination of sanctions under Section
698.02(b) to (f). The court shall not impose a sentence that imposes an
unnecessary burden on local government resources.
   (b)   (1)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, the
court shall consider all of the following factors:
         A.   The nature and circumstances of the offense or offenses;
         B.   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender has a history of persistent criminal
activity and that the offender’
         C.   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender’s history, character, and condition
reveal a substantial risk that the offender will be a danger to others and that
the offender’s conduct has been characterized by a pattern of repetitive,
compulsive or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences;
         D.   Whether the victim’s youth, age, disability, or other factor made
the victim particularly vulnerable to the offense or made the impact of the
offense more serious; and
         E.   Whether the offender is likely to commit future crimes in
general, in addition to the circumstances described in subsection (b)(1)B. and
C. of this section.
         F.   Whether the offender has an emotional, mental, or physical
condition that is traceable to the offender’s service in the armed forces of
the United States and that was a contributing factor in the offender’s
commission of the offense or offenses;
         G.   The offender’s military service record.
      (2)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, in
addition to complying with subsections (b)(1) and (2) of this section, the
court may consider any other factors that are relevant to achieving the
purposes and principles of sentencing set forth in §
698.02(a).
   (c)   Before imposing a jail term as a sentence for a misdemeanor, a court
shall consider the appropriateness of imposing a community control sanction or
a combination of community control sanctions under §
698.02(c), (d), (e), and (f). A court may impose the longest jail term
authorized under §
698.02(b) only upon offenders who commit the worst forms of the offense or upon
offenders whose conduct and response to prior sanctions for prior offenses
demonstrate that the imposition of the longest jail term is necessary to deter
the offender from committing a future crime.
   (d)   (1)   A sentencing court shall consider any relevant oral or written
statement made by the victim, the defendant, the defense attorney, or the
prosecuting authority regarding sentencing for a misdemeanor. This subsection
does not create any rights to notice other than those rights authorized by Ohio
R.C. Chapter 2930.
      (2)   At the time of sentencing for a misdemeanor or as soon as possible
after sentencing, the court shall notify the victim of the offense of the
victim’s right to file an application for an award of reparations pursuant to
Ohio R.C. 2743.51 to 2743.72.
(ORC 2929.22)
§ 698.04 ORGANIZATIONAL PENALTIES.
   (a)   Regardless of the other penalties provided in §
698.02, or in any other section of these Codified Ordinances, an organization
convicted of an offense pursuant to §
606.09 shall be fined by the court as follows:
      (1)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00);
      (2)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than four thousand
dollars ($4,000.00);
      (3)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than three thousand
dollars ($3,000.00);
      (4)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than two thousand
dollars ($2,000.00);
      (5)   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00);
      (6)   For a misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more than two
thousand dollars ($2,000.00); and
      (7)   For a minor misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more than
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   (b)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the section defining the offense or penalty plainly indicates a
purpose to impose the penalty provided for violation upon organizations, then
such penalty shall be imposed in lieu of the penalty provided in this section.
   (c)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the penalty provided includes a higher fine than that provided
in this section, then the penalty imposed shall be pursuant to the penalty
provided for violation of the section defining the offense.
   (d)   This section does not prevent the imposition of available civil
sanctions against an organization convicted of an offense pursuant to Section
606.09, either in addition to or in lieu of a fine imposed pursuant to this
section.
(ORC 2929.31)
§ 698.05 MULTIPLE SENTENCES.
   (a)   Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, Ohio R.C.
2929.14(C), or Ohio R.C. 2971.03(D) or (E), a prison term, jail term, or
sentence of imprisonment shall be served concurrently with any other prison
term, jail term, or sentence of imprisonment imposed by a court of this
municipality, the state, another state, or the United States. Except as
provided in subsection (b)(2) of this section, a jail term or sentence of
imprisonment for misdemeanor shall be served concurrently with a prison term or
sentence of imprisonment for felony served in a state or federal correctional
institution.
   (b)   (1)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment for a misdemeanor shall
be served consecutively to any other prison term, jail term, or sentence of
imprisonment when the trial court specifies that it is to be served
consecutively or when it is imposed for a misdemeanor violation of Ohio R.C.
2907.322, 2921.34 or 2923.131. When consecutive sentences are imposed for
misdemeanors under this subsection, the term to be served is the aggregate of
the consecutive terms imposed, except that the aggregate term to be served
shall not exceed 18 months.
      (2)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment imposed for a misdemeanor
violation of Ohio R.C. 4510.14, 4510.16, 4510.21, or 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be served consecutively to
a prison term that is imposed for a felony violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.06,
2903.07, 2903.08 or 4511.19 or a felony violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.04
involving the operation of a motor vehicle by the offender and that is served
in a state correctional institution when the trial court specifies that it is
to be served consecutively. When consecutive jail terms or sentences of
imprisonment and prison terms are imposed for one or more misdemeanors and one
or more felonies under this subsection, the term to be served is the aggregate
of the consecutive terms imposed, and the offender shall serve all terms
imposed for a felony before serving any term imposed for a misdemeanor.
(ORC 2929.41)
§ 698.06 MODIFICATION OF SENTENCE. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Section 698.06 was repealed as part of the 2003 updating and
revision of this Municipal Code because substantially equivalent state law
(Ohio R.C. 2929.51) was repealed by the Ohio General Assembly.)
§ 698.07 SUSPENSION OF DRIVER’S LICENSE.
   Except as otherwise provided in Ohio R.C. 4510.07 or in any other provision
of the Revised Code, whenever an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of any provision of this Code of Ordinances that is substantially
equivalent to a provision of the Revised Code, and a court is permitted or
required to suspend a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit for a violation of that provision, a court, in addition to any other
penalties authorized by law, may suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privileges for the period
of time the court determines appropriate, but the period of suspension imposed
for the violation of the provision of this Code of Ordinances shall not exceed
the period of suspension that is permitted or required to be imposed for the
violation of the provision of the Revised Code to which the provision of this
Code of Ordinances is substantially equivalent.
(ORC 4510.05)
PART EIGHT - BUSINESS REGULATION AND TAXATION CODE
         TITLE TWO - Business Regulation
            
Chap. 802. Definitions.
            
Chap. 804. Advertising and Handbills.
            
Chap. 810. Carnivals, Circuses and Other Exhibitions.
            
Chap. 840. Massage Establishments and Practitioners.
            
Chap. 850. Peddlers and Solicitors.
            
Chap. 858. Sexually Oriented Businesses and Employees.
            
Chap. 860. Pet Shops and Kennels.
            
Chap. 862. Taxicabs.
            
Chap. 866. Competitive Video Service Authorizations.
            
Chap. 870. Sweepstakes/Internet Cafés
            
Chap. 872. Medical Marijuana and Adult Use Cannabis Operators.
         TITLE FOUR - Taxation
            
Chap. 878. Definitions — in Effect for Tax Years 2015 and Prior.
            
Chap. 880. Income Tax — in Effect for Tax Years 2015 and Prior.
            
Chap. 881. Municipal Income Tax — (For Tax Years Beginning January 1, 2016).
            
Chap. 882. Hotel-Motel Tax.
            
Chap. 884. Motor Vehicle License Tax.
            
Chap. 886. Community Reinvestment Areas Program.
TITLE TWO: BUSINESS REGULATION
CHAPTER 802: DEFINITIONS
Section
802.01   Definitions.
§ 802.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of these Codified Ordinances, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   ACCESS CHANNEL. Any channel on a cable system set aside without charge by
the franchisee for public, educational and/or local governmental use.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically, or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other image-
producing devices are regularly maintained to show images to five or fewer
persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on exhibiting or displaying
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant bottle club or
similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are
served, which regularly features any of the following:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity;
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities; or
      (3)    Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant bottle club or
similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are
served, which regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear semi-nude;
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by any “specified sexual
activities;” or
      (3)    Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on exhibiting or displaying “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas.”
   ADULT MOTEL. A motel, hotel or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers public accommodations, for any form of consideration, which
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas” and which advertises the
availability of this sexually oriented type of material by means of a sign
visible from the public right-of-way, or by means of any off-premises
advertising, including but not limited to, newspapers, magazines, pamphlets or
leaflets, radio or television;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time less than 12
hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant to sub-rent the sleeping room for a
time period of less than 12 hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic reproductions which
are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on exhibiting or displaying
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” are regularly
shown for any form of consideration.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which, for any form of consideration, regularly features persons
who appear in a state of semi-nudity or live performances which are
characterized by any “specified sexual activities.”
   ADVERTISING REVENUE. The net revenue received by the video service provider
for advertising on its subscription-based video service within the city.
   AFFILIATE. Any person who directly or indirectly owns or controls the
grantee or franchisee, any person whom a grantee directly or indirectly owns or
controls, or any person under common ownership or control with a grantee or
franchisee.
   AGENT. A person engaged in telephone canvassing or solicitation or in house-
to-house canvassing, demonstrating or taking orders for any goods, wares or
merchandise, or taking orders from samples where goods are to be delivered
later.
   APPLICANT. A person who applies for a massage practitioner license or a
massage establishment license. If the applicant for a massage establishment is
other than an individual, each individual who has a 20 percent or greater
interest in the business and the person who will manage the business conducted
in this city shall be deemed to be an applicant and upon issuance of a massage
establishment license, a licensee; any person submitting an application within
the meaning of this chapter.
   CABLE ACT. The Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et
seq., and as may be amended, including, without limitation, the Cable
Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, Pub. L. No. 102-
385, 106 Stat. 1460, and the Telecommunications Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-
104, Sec. 3, 110 Stat. 56 (1996).
   CABLE SERVICE. The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming
or other programming services. It also means subscriber interaction, if any,
which is required for the selection of such video programming or other
programming services.
   CABLE SYSTEM, CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM or SYSTEM.
      (1)   Any facility, operating by means of coaxial cable, optical fiber or
any other transmission lines or forms of transmission and associated signal
generation, reception, distribution and control equipment that is designed to
provide cable service, which includes video programming and which is provided
to multiple subscribers within the city.
      (2)   Such term does not include:
         A.   A facility that serves only to retransmit the television signals
of one or more television broadcast stations;
         B.   A facility that serves only subscribers in one or more multiple
unit dwellings under common ownership, control or management, unless such
facility uses or crosses any street;
         C.   A facility of a common carrier that is subject, in whole or in
part, to the provisions of Title II of the Communications Act of 1934, 47
U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq., except that to the full extent permitted by law, such
facility will be considered a cable system to the extent it is used in the
transmission of video programming, whether on a common carrier or non-common
carrier basis, directly to subscribers; or
         D.   Any facilities of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility systems.
      (3)   The foregoing definition of CABLE SYSTEM shall not be deemed to
circumscribe or limit the valid authority of the city to regulate or franchise
the activities of any other communications system or provider of communications
services to the full extent permitted by law.
   CANVASSER AND SOLICITOR. Any individual, whether or not a resident of the
City of Xenia, Ohio, soliciting by telephone or traveling, either by foot,
wagon, automobile, motor vehicle or other type of conveyance, from place to
place or from house to house, taking or attempting to take orders for the sale
of goods, wares or merchandise, personal property of any nature whatsoever for
future delivery, or services to be furnished or performed at certain times, or
in the future, whether or not the individual has, carries or exposes for sale a
sample of the subject for sale, or whether the individual is collecting advance
payments on sales previously made. This definition shall not include any person
who, for himself or herself or for another person, hires, leases, uses or
occupies any building, structure, tent, hotel room, lodging house, apartment or
other place within the city, for the sole purpose of exhibiting samples and
taking orders for future delivery.
   CITY. The City of Xenia, a municipal corporation of the State of Ohio, in
its present incorporated form or in any later reorganized, consolidated,
enlarged or reincorporated form.
   CITY COUNCIL or COUNCIL. The legislative body of the city.
   CITY MANAGER or MANAGER. The City Manager of the City of Xenia or such
people as may be designated by the City Manager pursuant to §
858.10.
   COMPUTERIZED SWEEPSTAKES DEVICE. See SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE.
   CONSIDERATION. Money or money’s worth.
   CONTROL OF A FRANCHISEE, GRANTEE OR APPLICANT. The legal or practical
ability to exert control over the affairs of a franchisee, grantee or
applicant, either directly or indirectly, whether by contractual agreement,
majority ownership interest or any other manner.
   CRUISING. The driving of a taxicab on the streets, alleys or public places
of the city in search of, or soliciting, prospective passengers for hire.
   DESIGNATED ACCESS ORGANIZATION or DAO. Any non-profit entity established or
designated by the city pursuant to § 808.17 for the purpose of developing,
managing, administering or using any access channel or access channels.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. The permission granted by the state to a person to drive
or operate a taxicab upon the streets of the city.
   EFFECTIVE DATE. Either:
      (1)   If relating to a newly-issued franchise, the date on which a
Council resolution or ordinance approves the award of the franchise; or
      (2)   In the case of a renewed franchise, either the day on which the
franchise renewal begins, which day shall be the day after that certain date on
which the franchisee’s current franchise expires, or the day on which the
Council provides final administrative approval of the franchisee’s renewal
agreement, whichever day is later.
   EMPLOY, EMPLOYEE, AND EMPLOYMENT. Describing and pertaining to any person
who performs any service on the premises of a sexually oriented business, on a
full time, part time or contract basis, whether or not the person is
denominated an employee, independent contractor, agent, or otherwise. EMPLOYEE
does not include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance
of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
   ENTER or ENTRY. The act or process by which a person becomes eligible to
receive any prize offered in a sweepstakes.
   EQUITABLE PRICE. Fair market value adjusted downward for the harm to the
city or subscribers, if any, resulting from a franchisee’s breach of its
franchise agreement or violation of this chapter.
   ESCORT. Any person who for monetary consideration in the form of a fee,
commission or salary, is held out to the public as available for hire to
consort with or to accompany another or others to social affairs, places of
amusement or entertainment within any place of public resort, or within any
private quarters.
   ESCORT SERVICE. Any person who for a fee, commission, profit, payment or
other monetary consideration, furnishes, refers, or offers to furnish or refer
escorts, or provides, or offers to introduce, patrons to escorts.
   ESCORT SERVICE RUNNER. Any person, not an escort, who for a salary, fee,
hire, reward, or profit, as the agent for either an escort service, or a
patron, contacts or meets with escort patrons or an escort service at any
location other than the established open office, as defined hereunder, whether
that person is employed by the escort service, or any business, or is self-
employed.
   ESTABLISHED or ESTABLISHMENT. Any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
      (3)   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   FAIR MARKET VALUE. The price that a willing buyer would pay to a willing
seller for a going concern based on the system valuation prevailing in the
industry at the time, but with no value allocated to the franchise itself.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission or any successor governmental
entity thereto.
   FRANCHISE. The right granted by the city to a franchisee to construct,
upgrade, maintain and operate a cable system under, on and over streets, roads
and all other public ways and easements within all or specified areas of the
city. The term does not include any license or permit which is generally
required of all persons by this chapter or other laws, ordinances or
regulations of the city for the privilege of transacting and carrying on a
business within the city or for disturbing or carrying out any work upon any
street.
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. A contract entered into in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter between the city and a franchisee that sets forth
the terms and conditions under which the franchise will be exercised.
   FRANCHISE DOCUMENTS. Those documents which when taken together define the
respective rights and obligations of the parties and specifically include this
chapter and the franchise agreement executed pursuant to this chapter as those
documents exist and may from time to time be amended.
   FRANCHISEE. Any person granted a franchise pursuant to this chapter who has
entered into a franchise agreement with the city.
   GOODS, WARES AND MERCHANDISE. Includes, but is not limited to, a photograph
and coupons to tickets good in whole or in part for a photograph, magazine
article or other merchandise.
   GROSS REVENUES.
      (1)   All revenues of the franchisee and any affiliate arising from,
attributable to, or in any way derived from, providing cable services over the
cable system within the city. GROSS REVENUES includes, but is not limited to,
fees charged subscribers for basic service; fees charged subscribers for any
optional, premium, per-channel or per-program service; fees charged subscribers
for any tier of service other than basic service; installation, disconnection,
reconnection and change-in-service fees; leased channel fees; fees or payments
derived from programmers for carriage of programming on the system; converter
rentals or sales; advertising revenues; revenues from home shopping channels;
and revenues derived from the provision of any other cable service. GROSS
REVENUES shall be the basis for computing the franchise fee imposed pursuant to
§ 808.18. GROSS REVENUES shall not include any taxes on services furnished by
the franchisee which are imposed upon any subscriber or user by the state,
county, city or other governmental unit and collected by the franchisee on
behalf of the governmental unit, or, to the extent consistent with generally
accepted accounting principles, actual bad debt write-offs, provided, however,
that all or any part of any such actual bad debt that is written off but
subsequently collected shall be included in GROSS REVENUES in the period
collected.
      (2)   The franchise fee imposed pursuant to § 808.18 is a fee paid by a
franchisee for the right to use the streets and is not a tax imposed on any
subscriber or user and may be deducted or excluded from gross revenues unless a
final judgment in Cities of Dallas and Laredo, Texas vs FCC, including all
subsequent remands and appeals, holds to the contrary.
   INCUMBENT CABLE PROVIDER. Any person who on the effective date of §
866.01 is the holder of a cable franchise agreement with the city as granted
pursuant to requirements of 47 U.S.C. 541.
   INSTITUTIONAL NETWORK. A voice, data and/or video communications system,
capable of carrying voice, data and/or video signals, which is constructed and/
or maintained by the franchisee for the city, the transmissions on which are
generally available only to, and intended to be sent and received by, persons
other than cable subscribers generally.
   LAW. All duly enacted and applicable federal, state, county and city laws,
ordinances, codes, rules, regulations and orders.
   LEASED ACCESS CHANNEL. A channel designated in accordance with § 612 of the
Cable Act, 47 U.S.C. § 532, for commercial use by persons unaffiliated with the
franchisee.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual or individuals listed as an
applicant on the application for a sexually oriented business license; a person
who is the holder of a valid license under this chapter, a licensee includes an
agent, servant, employee or other person while acting on behalf of that
licensee whenever such licensees are or would be prohibited from doing or
performing an act or acts under this chapter. The person or persons who sign an
application for a license related to sweepstakes terminal devices or
sweepstakes/internet cafés and to whom such license is issued.
   MARIJUANA. Marihuana as defined in ORC 3719.01.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA. Marijuana that is cultivated, processed, or dispensed,
tested, possessed or used for a medical purpose.
   MASSAGE or TOUCHING TECHNIQUES. Any of the following named subjects and
methods of treatment: oil rubs; alcohol rubs; salt glows; hot or cold packs;
tub, shower, or cabinet baths; colon irrigation; and touching procedures upon
the external parts of the body by hand or by any electrical, mechanical or
vibratory apparatus, including stroking, friction, kneading, rolling,
vibrating, cupping, petrissage, rubbing, effleurage and tapotement.
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business or establishment wherein any of
the subjects or methods of treatment listed in the definition of massage or
touching techniques are administered, practiced or used, or from which is
dispatched a person for the purpose of administering, practicing or using any
of the subjects or methods of treatment listed therein.
   MASSAGE PRACTITIONER. A person who practices or administers any massage or
touching techniques listed in the definition for massage or touching techniques
for a fee, income or compensation of any kind within the City of Xenia.
   MORAL TURPITUDE. An act of baseness, vileness, or depravity in the private
and social duties which a person owes to his or her fellow men, or to society
in general.
   NONPOROUS. Excludes any wood, plywood, composition board or other porous
material.
   NON-REPEAT AND LOCALLY PRODUCED. The first three playbacks of programming
produced or provided by any local resident, or any local public or private
agency that provides services to residents of Xenia, or any transmission of a
meeting or proceeding of any local, state, or federal governmental entity.
   NUDITY, NUDE or A STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft, or cleavage with less than a
fully opaque covering; or the showing of the female breasts with less than a
fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple.
   OFFER TO PROVIDE ACTS OR SEXUAL CONDUCT. To offer, propose or solicit to
provide sexual conduct to a patron. Such definitions include all conversations,
advertisement and acts, which would lead a reasonably prudent person to
conclude that such acts were to be provided.
   OPEN OFFICE. An office at the licensed escort service address from which
escort business is transacted; to qualify as an open office it is required
that:
      (1)   Business hours be established and posted and that the office is
open to the public and patrons or prospective patrons during such business
hours and that the office is accessible to business invitees, business license
officials and law enforcement officers during hours that escorts are working;
      (2)   The office be managed by the owner or a management employee of the
owner having authority to bind the escort service to escort and patron
contracts and to adjust patron and consumer complaints;
      (3)   All telephone lines and numbers listed to the escort service, or
advertised as escort service numbers, terminate at the open office and at no
other location;
      (4)   An index of all employees and escorts is kept in the open office;
and
      (5)   All business records be kept in the open office including records
of escort calls and referrals, stating the name and address, including hotel or
motel room, of the patron, the date and time of referral, name of the escort
sent and whether the referral resulted in an escort service and the total fee
received from the patron, if any.
   OPERATE or CAUSE TO BE OPERATED. To cause to function or to put or keep in
operation.
   OPERATOR. Any persons on the premises of a sexually oriented business who is
authorized to exercise overall operational control of the business or who
causes to function or who puts or keeps in operation the business. A person may
be found to be operating or causing to be operated a sexually oriented business
regardless of whether that person is an owner, part owner or licensee of the
business. Any person or persons having authority to control the premises of an
arcade and/or sweepstakes/internet café.
   OVERBUILD. A cable system constructed to serve subscribers in an area of the
city served by an existing cable system.
   OWNER. Any person who possesses a pecuniary interest, either directly or
indirectly, of 25% or more in a sweepstakes/internet café.
   PEDDLER. A person who solicits by telephone or who brings goods, wares and
merchandise from outside the city or state, or where the goods, wares and
merchandise are manufactured in the city for sale at retail and are in this
state at the time that all negotiations prior to and at the time of sale
thereof are had, and the goods, wares and merchandise are not sold in the
original packages in interstate commerce, but at retail and in small quantities
by means of telephone, house to house or place to place solicitation. Goods
ordered or in transit, which were so ordered without reference to particular
sales, shall be deemed to be in this state.
   PEG. The activities or actions performed for the benefit of public,
educational and government video programming by the City.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, association, joint stock company,
trust, corporation, governmental entity or legal entity of any kind, and any
lawful trustee, successor, assignee, transferee or personal representative
thereof.
   PERSON FINANCIALLY INTERESTED. For a corporation, any person who is an
officer or a director or any shareholder holding more than five percent of the
shares thereof, for a non-corporate business, any person who shares in any
financial gain attributable to the business as a proprietor or owner or on the
basis of a percentage in excess of five percent of gross or ten percent of net
revenue.
   PREMISES. The building or structure, or any portions thereof or locations
therein used for conducting one or more components of the operations of a
sweepstakes/internet café of where any function related thereto is located.
   PRIZE. Any gift, award, gratuity, good, service, credit, reward, or any
other thing of value, which may be transferred to a person, whether possession
of the prize is actually transferred, or placed on an account or other record
as evidence of the intent to transfer the prize.
   PUBLIC EDUCATIONAL OR GOVERNMENTAL ACCESS FACILITIES or PEG ACCESS
FACILITIES. The total of the following in accordance with the provisions of 42
U.S.C. §§ 531 et seq.:
      (1)   Channel capacity designated for public, educational or governmental
use; and
      (2)   Facilities and equipment for the use of such channel capacity.
   REGULARLY FEATURES or REGULARLY SHOWN. With respect to an adult theater or
adult cabaret, that the films or performances shown constitute any portion of
the films or performances offered as part of the business of the adult theater
or adult cabaret.
   SEMI-NUDE or STATE OF SEMINUDITY. A state of dress in which opaque clothing
covers not more than the genitals, pubic region, and nipple of the female
breast, as well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or
devices.
   SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person, who regularly appears in a
state of semi-nudity is provided for money or any form of consideration to be
observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly
depicted by other persons. It is a defense to prosecution for any violation of
this chapter that a person appearing in a state of nudity or semi-nudity did so
in a modeling class operated:
      (1)   By a college, junior college or university supported entirely or
partly by taxation;
      (2)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      (3)   In a structure:
         A.   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a semi-nude person is available for
viewing;
         B.   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
at least three days in advance of the class; and
         C.   Where no more than one semi-nude model is on the premises at any
one time.
   SERVICE AREA or FRANCHISE AREA. The entire geographic area within the city
as it is now constituted or may in the future be constituted.
   SERVICE ORIENTED ESCORT. An escort who:
      (1)   Operates from an open office;
      (2)   Does not employ or use an escort service runner;
      (3)   Does not advertise that sexual conduct will be provided or work for
an escort service which so advertises; and
      (4)   Does not offer, solicit, agree to provide, or provide sexual
conduct.
   SERVICE ORIENTED ESCORT SERVICE. An escort bureau which:
      (1)   Maintains an open office at an established place of business;
      (2)   Does not use an escort bureau runner;
      (3)   Does not advertise, offer, solicit, agree to or provide sexual
conduct to a patron; and
      (4)   Employs or provides only escorts who possess escort identification
cards.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Engaging in or the commission of an act of sexual
intercourse, oral-genital contact or the touching of the sexual organs, pubic
region, buttock or female breast of a person for the purpose of amusing or
gratifying sexual desire of another person.
   SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP. A business or commercial enterprise that regularly
features sexual devices, but not including any pharmacy, drug store, medical
clinic, or establishment primarily dedicated to providing medical or healthcare
products or services, and not including any commercial establishment that does
not restrict access to its premises by reason of age.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT. A business or commercial establishment, that
as one of its principal business purposes, offers for any form of
consideration, a place where two or more persons may congregate, associate, or
consort for the purpose of engaging in or viewing live “specified sexual
activities” or when one or more of the persons is semi-nude or in a state of
nudity. The definition of SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT shall not include an
establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist, psychiatrist, or
similar professional person licensed by the state engages in medically approved
and recognized sexual therapy.
   SEXUAL GRATIFICATION. Sexual conduct as defined herein.
   SEXUAL STIMULATION. To excite or arouse the prurient interest or to offer or
solicit acts of sexual conduct as defined under “offer to provide acts or
sexual conduct.”
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED ACTS. Sexual conduct as defined herein.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel or adult entertainment
out-call service in the form of semi-nude dancing or exhibition, adult motion
picture theater, adult theater, semi-nude model studio, sexual device shop, or
sexual encounter establishment, but does not include a business solely by
reason if it is showing, selling, or renting materials that may depict sex. The
definition of SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS shall not include an establishment
where a medical practitioner, psychologist, psychiatrist, or similar
professional person licensed by the state engages in medically approved and
recognized sexual therapy.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED ESCORT. An escort who:
      (1)   Employs an escort service runner as an employee, agent or
independent contractor;
      (2)   Works for, as an agent, employee or independent contractor, or is
referred to a patron by a sexually oriented escort service;
      (3)   Advertised that sexual conduct will be provided or works for as an
agent, employee or independent contractor or is referred to a patron by an
escort service which so advertised;
      (4)   Solicits, offers, agrees to provide or does provide acts or sexual
conduct to an escort patron; or
      (5)   Accepts an offer or solicitation to provide acts of sexual conduct
for a fee in addition to the fee charged by the escort service.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED ESCORT SERVICE. An escort service which:
      (1)   Engages in advertising to make the prospective patron believe that
acts of sexual conduct or sexual stimulation will be provided;
      (2)   Uses as escorts persons known to have violated the law regarding
prostitution;
      (3)   Does not maintain an open office;
      (4)   Employs as an employee, agent or independent contractor or uses an
escort service runner;
      (5)   Advertises that sexual conduct will be provided or that escorts
which provide such sexual conduct will be provided, referred, or introduced to
a patron;
      (6)   Solicits, offers or agrees to provide or does provide acts or
sexual conduct to a patron;
      (7)   Employs, contracts with, or provides or refers escorts who do not
possess escort identification cards as required herein;
      (8)   Does not deliver contracts to every patron or customer; or
      (9)   Employs, contracts with, or refers or provides to a patron, a
sexually oriented escort.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Human genitals, pubic region, and buttocks and
the human female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Has the same meaning as SEXUAL ACTIVITY, as
defined in Ohio R.C. 2907.01(C).
   STREET or STREETS. The surface, the air space above the surface and the area
below the surface of any public street, highway, road, freeway, thoroughfare,
parkway, sidewalk, bridge, court, lane, path, alley, way, drive, circle,
easement or any other public right-of-way or public place, including public
utility easements, and any property in which the city holds any kind of
property interest and any temporary or permanent fixtures or improvements
located thereon.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person or commercial establishment located within the
franchise area who or which elects to subscribe, for any purpose, to a cable
service provided by the franchisee by means of or in connection with the cable
system and who or which pays the charges therefor.
   SWEEPSTAKES. Any game, contest, advertising scheme or plan, or other
promotion, but does not include bingo, whether or not consideration is required
for a person to enter to win or become eligible to receive any prize, the
determination of which is based upon chance.
   SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE. Any computer, machine, or apparatus which is
capable of connection to the internet, regardless of whether such connection is
utilized, through a wireless router, telephone line, digital subscriber line,
satellite, cellular telephone, cable connection or any method, which is engaged
or accessed upon the insertion of a coin, token, or similar object, or the
sliding of a magnetic card or entry of a code, or similar process, or upon
payment of anything of value, either directly or indirectly, and which may be
operated by the public generally for use as entertainment, amusement or a
contest of skill, whether or not registering a score, and which when so
utilized produces, announces, reveals or discloses the eligibility, award or
payment of a cash prize redeemable on or at the internet sweepstakes café,
whether or not said prize was in fact announced, revealed or disclosed through
the usage of the computerized sweepstakes device. Computerized sweepstakes
device does not include machines designated for use by the State Lottery
Commission.
   SWEEPSTAKES/INTERNET CAFÉ. Any premises upon which any computerized
sweepstakes device is located for the use or entertainment of the public,
whether or not such premises have other business purposes of any nature
whatsoever.
   TAXICAB. A motor vehicle regularly engaged in the business of carrying
passengers for hire, having a seating capacity of less than seven persons and
not operated on a fixed route.
   TAXIMETER. A metered instrument or device attached to a taxicab which
measures mechanically the distance driven and the waiting time upon which the
fare is based.
   TRANSFER OF A FRANCHISE. Any action in which an ownership or other interest
in a franchisee or its cable system is transferred from one person or group of
persons to another person or group of persons so that control of the franchisee
is transferred, or in which the rights and/or obligations held by the
franchisee under a franchise agreement are transferred or assigned to another
person or group of persons. A transfer is pro forma when the transaction
qualifies as a transfer pursuant to either definition in the preceding
sentence, but the transfer is to an affiliate under common ownership or control
with the franchisee.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any of the
following:
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
   TWO-WAY CAPABILITY. The incorporation into a cable system of all appropriate
design and engineering characteristics and features so that two-way
transmission, including addressability, can be implemented and activated.
   VIDEO CHANNEL or CHANNEL. A portion of the electromagnetic frequency
spectrum which is used in a cable system and which is capable of delivering a
television channel, including the associated audio signal.
   VIDEO SERVICE. The provision of video programming over wires or cables
located at least in part in public rights-of-way, regardless of the technology
used to deliver that programming, including internet protocol technology or any
other technology. The term includes cable service, but excludes video
programming provided to persons in their capacity as subscribers to commercial
mobile service; video programming provided solely as part of and via a service
that enables users to access content, information, electronic mail, or other
services offered over the public internet. See Ohio R.C. 1332.21(J).
   VIDEO SERVICE AUTHORIZATION or VSA. The authorization granted to a video
service provider in accordance with the requirements of Ohio R.C. 1332.21 to
1332.34 et seq.
   VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER or VSP. A person, firm, or corporation granted a
video service authorization under Ohio R.C. 1332.21 to 1332.34 et seq.
   VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE or VSP FEE. The fee paid by a VSP in accordance
with the requirements of Ohio R.C. 1332.32.
   VIEWING ROOM. The room, booth or area where a patron of a sexually oriented
business would ordinarily be positioned while watching a film, video cassette
or other video reproduction.
   WAITING TIME. The time during which a taxicab is not in motion, from the
time of acceptance of a passenger or passengers to the time of discharge, but
does not include any time that the taxicab is not in motion if due to any cause
other than a request on the part of a passenger or passengers.
(1997 Code, §§ 808.02, 820.01, 840.01, 850.01, 858.01, 862.01) (Ord. 93-38,
passed 7-8-1993; Ord. 93-43, passed 8-12-1993; Ord. 97-2, passed 1-9-1997; Ord.
05-18, passed 5-12-2005; Ord. 05-19, passed 5-12-2005; Ord. 05-20, passed 5-12-
2005; Ord. 07-64, passed 12-27-2007; Ord. 09-22, passed 4-9-2009; Ord. 11-69,
passed 11-22-2011; Ord. 17-14, passed 4-13-2017)
CHAPTER 804: ADVERTISING AND HANDBILLS
Section
804.01   License required.
804.02   License fee.
804.03   Distribution of advertising matter.
804.04   Exceptions.
 
804.99   Penalty.
   CROSS REFERENCES
   Power to regulate - see Ohio R.C. 715.65
   Advertising on traffic control devices - see TRAF.
414.07
   Littering from motor vehicles - see TRAF.
432.39
   Littering generally - see GEN. OFF.
660.03
   Littering in parks - see S.U. & P.S. 1062.02
   Signs generally - see B. & H. Ch. 1444
§ 804.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall post bills, distribute handbills containing advertising
matter, or tack cards containing advertising matter, within the city, relating
to any article, compound or thing which has not been manufactured or compounded
within the city, without first having obtained a license therefor from the City
Manager.
(1964 Code § 701.01)
§ 804.02 LICENSE FEE.
   The City Manager is hereby authorized to grant and issue a license to any
person for the distribution and posting of advertising matter upon payment of a
license fee as set forth in the fee schedule in Part Two - Title Twelve,
Chapter 298 of these Codified Ordinances for each day such person is so
engaged. Any part of any calendar day shall be deemed a full day for the
purposes hereof, and a license shall be required for each person so engaged in
the actual distribution and posting of advertising matter.
(1964 Code § 701.02) (Am. Ord. 05-08, passed 3-24-2005; Am. Ord. 06-62, passed
9-28-2006)
§ 804.03 DISTRIBUTION OF ADVERTISING MATTER. 
    Each person obtaining a license and engaged in distributing advertising
matter under this chapter shall distribute the same in such a manner that it
will not be thrown, cast or deposited in or upon any yard, doorstep, porch,
street, alley, lane or public place within the city.
(1964 Code § 701.03)
§ 804.04 EXCEPTIONS. 
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to require a license fee from
persons having a regularly established place of business within the city.
(1964 Code § 701.04)
§ 804.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 810: CARNIVALS, CIRCUSES AND OTHER EXHIBITIONS
Section
810.01   License required.
810.02   License application.
810.03   Insurance; bond; license fee.
810.04   License issuance.
810.05   License revocation.
810.06   Promotional events.
 
810.99   Penalty.
   CROSS REFERENCES
   Power to regulate - see Ohio R.C. 715.48, 715.63, 3765.02
   Contests or games at county fairs - see Ohio R.C. 1711.09, 1711.11
   Park and Recreation Department - see ADM. Ch. 248
   Board for Recreation, Arts and Cultural Activities - see ADM. Ch. 278
   Bingo - see GEN. OFF.
630.06 et seq.
   Safety of crowds at live entertainment performances - see GEN. OFF.
636.19
   Pornography - see GEN. OFF.
666.11 et seq.
   Displaying matter harmful to juveniles - see GEN. OFF.
666.12
§ 810.01 LICENSE REQUIRED. 
   No person shall erect or cause to be erected any temporary structure or
tent, or place on any lot or land a trailer, truck or similar vehicle, or any
material or structure, within the city, to be used in connection with
carnivals, circuses or other public exhibitions for which admission fees are
charged to the public, without having first obtained a license therefor from
the City Manager in accordance with the conditions and limitations set forth in
this chapter.
(Ord. 66-40, passed 11-22-1966)
§ 810.02 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   The applicant for a license shall file an application in writing with the
City Manager showing the location and type of structures proposed to be used.
The application shall contain the following:
   (a)   The name of the applicant;
   (b)   The location of the principal place of business of the applicant;
   (c)   The names and addresses of the officers if the applicant is a
corporation;
   (d)   The effective period of the license applied for;
   (e)   The proposed connections to the municipal water system and sanitary
sewerage system, including provisions for public and private toilet and
sanitary facilities;
   (f)   The type of construction and equipment;
   (g)   The location of electrical service; and
   (h)   The location of exits.
(Ord. 66-40, passed 11-22-1966)
§ 810.03 INSURANCE; BOND; LICENSE FEE.
   (a)   The applicant shall furnish evidence that a public liability insurance
policy, in amounts of not less than three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000.00) for one person and one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for any
one accident, shall be in force and effect at the time the property or
structures are to be occupied for a place of assembly by the public.
   (b)   The applicant shall deposit with the Director of Finance a cash bond
as set forth in the fee schedule in Part Two - Title Twelve, Chapter 298 of
these Codified Ordinances. to guarantee payment of all charges for water and
sewer connections, conditioned upon saving the city harmless from any and all
damages, causes of action or losses which may arise by virtue of the granting
of a license to the applicant and conditioned further upon no damage being done
to the streets, sewers, trees or adjoining property and no dirt, paper, litter
or other debris caused by the licensee, directly or indirectly, being permitted
to remain upon the streets or any property. The cash bond shall be returned to
the applicant upon certification by the City Manager that all conditions of
this chapter have been complied with.
   (c)   The applicant shall pay to the Director of Finance a license fee in
the sum as set forth in the fee schedule in Part Two - Title Twelve, Chapter
298 of these Codified Ordinances.
(Am. Ord. 06-62, passed 9-28-2006)
   (d)   Payment of the license fee may be waived by the City Manager where the
applicant is a bona fide church, religious or charitable organization and all
the net proceeds of the carnival, circus or exhibition are to be used for
religious or charitable purposes. No such waiver shall be permitted where the
church, religious or charitable organization is simply a sponsor of a traveling
carnival, circus or exhibition.
§ 810.04 LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   (a)   The City Manager may issue a license upon certification by the Fire
Chief that all laws, ordinances, regulations and proper practices governing
fire and safety have been or will be complied with, and upon certification by
the Director of Public Service and the Greene County Combined Health District
that water connections and sewer connections are adequate for the number of
people working and assembling on the premises and that all laws, ordinances and
sanitary and health regulations have been or will be complied with.
   (b)   No residential trailer shall be permitted on the premises and no
person shall be permitted to sleep or reside on the premises. Night watchmen
must be provided at the expense of the licensee, who shall be subject to
approval by the City Manager.
(Ord. 66-40, passed 11-22-1966)
§ 810.05 LICENSE REVOCATION. 
   The City Manager may, after the issuance of a license, revoke the same if he
or she finds that the conditions under which it was issued have not been
carried out.
(Ord. 66-40, passed 11-22-1966)
§ 810.06 PROMOTIONAL EVENTS.
   (a)   Any civic organization desiring to sponsor a promotional event or
program in the downtown business area of the city shall give 15 days written
notice to the City Manager of such desire.
   (b)   Upon the receipt of the notice by the City Manager, he or she may, in
his or her discretion, cause the suspension of the enforcement of the operation
of such ordinances as are necessary to carry out the promotional project on the
sidewalks and streets of the city.
   (c)   The suspension of enforcement of ordinances shall in no way affect the
operation or legal effect of any other ordinances of the city.
   (d)   Fifteen days from a written request from a civic organization, the
City Manager may, during the Christmas holiday season (normally the period
between Thanksgiving and New Year’s Day), “Old Fashioned Days,” “July Sidewalk
Sales” and other such promotional events, suspend the requirement of coin
deposits in certain designated parking meters within the city as required by §
454.03 of these Codified Ordinances. Such waiver of coin deposits is not,
however, a waiver of the parking time limits prescribed on the parking meters.
All other provisions of § 454.03, except for the requirement of the coin
deposit, shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 88-78, passed 7-28-1988)
§ 810.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree and shall be fined not more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned not more than 60 days, or both, for each
offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 66-40, passed 11-22-1966)
CHAPTER 840: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS AND PRACTITIONERS
Section
840.01   Definitions.
840.02   City Manager; duties.
840.03   Licensing of massage practitioners and massage establishments
required.
840.04   New license application; procedures and fee.
840.05   License application investigation.
840.06   Massage establishment license; special requirements.
840.07   Display of license.
840.08   Change of location.
840.09   Renewal.
840.10   Sale, transfer or expansion.
840.11   Other unlawful activities; general penalty.
840.12   Revocation, suspension or denial of license, appeal; grounds.
840.13   Denial or termination of license; appeal.
840.14   Applicability of regulations to existing business.
840.15   Exemptions.
840.16   Severability.
 
840.99   Penalty.
   CROSS REFERENCES
   Pornography - see GEN. OFF.
666.11 et seq.
   Displaying matter harmful to juveniles - see GEN. OFF.
666.12
§ 840.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and/or phrases used in this section are defined in
Chapter 802, §
802.01.
   APPLICANT
   MASSAGE or TOUCHING TECHNIQUES
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT
   MASSAGE PRACTITIONER
   MORAL TURPITUDE
(Ord. 05-19, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 840.02 CITY MANAGER; DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the City Manager for the City of
Xenia or such persons as may be designated by the City Manager to administer
the provisions of this chapter. Pursuant to this duty the City Manager or such
designee shall issue, renew, deny, suspend or revoke massage practitioner and
massage establishment licenses as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 05-19, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 840.03 LICENSING OF MASSAGE PRACTITIONERS AND MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
REQUIRED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to practice or administer or to
offer or agree to practice or administer any subject or method of treatment
listed in §
840.01, the definition of massage or touching techniques in the City of Xenia,
whether for a fee, income or consideration of any kind, without first obtaining
and maintaining in effect a massage practitioner license as required by this
chapter.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person, association, firm, or corporation
to conduct or operate a massage establishment or to perform such services in
the City of Xenia without first obtaining and maintaining in effect a massage
establishment license as required by this chapter.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person, association, firm or corporation
to employ as a massage practitioner in the City of Xenia any person who does
not hold a current unrevoked and unsuspended massage practitioner license as
required by this chapter.
   (d)   It shall be unlawful for any person, association, firm, or corporation
licensed as provided in this chapter to operate under any name or conduct
business in the City of Xenia under any designation not specified in such
license.
   (e)   It shall be unlawful for any massage establishment licensed as
provided in this section to remain open for business or provide services any
time between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(Ord. 05-19, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 840.04 NEW LICENSE APPLICATION; PROCEDURES AND FEE.
   (a)   Any person, association, firm, or corporation desiring to obtain a
massage practitioner or massage establishment license shall make application to
the City Manager who shall refer each application for appropriate
investigation. The applicant shall sign all authorities to release information
for the purpose of investigation and shall be responsible for all costs of
investigation. A person desiring licenses authorizing him or her to perform the
activities of a massage practitioner and, in addition, to conduct or operate a
massage establishment shall submit two separate applications.
   (b)   The application shall be accompanied by a non-refundable fee. This fee
is as set forth in the fee schedule in Part Two - Title Twelve, Chapter 298 of
these Codified Ordinances.
   (c)   The application shall be signed under oath by the applicant and
notarized. The application shall contain the information called for in
subsection (c)(1) through (10) below:
      (1)   The full legal name and current residence address of the applicant;
      (2)   Any other names by which the applicant has been known;
      (3)   The address at which applicant desires to do business;
      (4)   The two residence addresses immediately prior to the present
residence address of applicant, and the dates of residence at each;
      (5)   Written proof that the applicant is over the age of 21 years if
applying for a massage establishment license, or over the age of 18 years if
applying for a massage practitioner license, such as current operator’s license
or certified copy of birth certificate;
      (6)   Two portrait photographs, approximately two inches by two inches in
size, taken within the previous six months;
      (7)   The business license history of the applicant, whether the
applicant, in previously operating in this or another city or state under
license, has had such licenses revoked or suspended, the reason therefor, and
the business activity or occupation subsequent to such suspension or
revocation;
      (8)   All felony and misdemeanor convictions, excluding those for traffic
offenses, and the grounds of such convictions;
      (9)   The applicant’s complete fingerprints, recorded by the Police
Division, the cost to be paid by the applicant; and
      (10)   The applicant’s education, training and experience in the
administration, practice or use of the subjects and methods listed in the
definition of massage or touching techniques, including diplomas or credentials
from schools or institutions of learning. The educational requirements for
massage practitioner license applicants shall include certification of
satisfactory completion of a minimum of 160 hours of course instructions in
anatomy, physiology and massage or touching techniques from a school of massage
approved by the State Medical Board of Ohio or an equivalent board from outside
this state, or accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the United
States Department of Education or the Council on Post Secondary Accreditation.
(Ord. 05-19, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 840.05 LICENSE APPLICATION INVESTIGATION.
    Any applicant for a license pursuant to these provisions shall personally
appear at the office of the City Manager and shall present the application
containing the information required by this chapter.
(Ord. 05-19, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 840.06 MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE; SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   No massage establishment license shall be issued if the applicant has
been convicted within the last ten years of any felony, or any misdemeanor
offense involving moral turpitude and having a reasonable relationship to the
functions of a massage establishment licensee, or if the application was
deliberately falsified.
   (b)   No massage establishment license shall be issued if the applicant has
been convicted within the last ten years of any offense committed outside this
state or city which if committed in this state or city would constitute a
felony, or any misdemeanor offense involving moral turpitude and having a
reasonable relationship to the functions of a massage establishment licensee.
   (c)   An applicant for a massage establishment license or a licensee shall
permit representatives of the Police Department, and any other federal, state,
county or city agency in the performance of any function connected with the
enforcement of any code, statute or regulation relating to human health, safety
or welfare or structural safety, normally and regularly conducted by such
agencies, to inspect the premises of a massage establishment for the purpose of
ensuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or open for
business.
   (d)   No massage establishment license shall be issued unless inspection by
a city agency or, where appropriate, a county agency, indicates the site of the
establishment complies with each of the following minimum requirements:
      (1)   A current certificate of occupancy shall be issued in the name of
the massage establishment;
      (2)   A readable sign shall be posted at the main entrance identifying
the establishment as a massage establishment;
      (3)   Minimum lighting shall be provided in accordance with the Building
Code of the City of Xenia and in addition, at least one artificial light of not
less than 40 watts shall be provided in each room or enclosure where services
are performed on patrons, which shall be in operation when such services are
performed;
      (4)   Minimum ventilation shall be provided in accordance with the
Building Code of the City of Xenia;
      (5)   Adequate equipment shall be provided for disinfecting and
sterilizing instruments used in administering or practicing any of the subjects
or methods of treatment listed in the definition of massage or touching
techniques;
      (6)   Hot and cold running water, tempered by means of a mixing valve
faucet, shall be provided at all times;
      (7)   Closed cabinets shall be provided, and used, for the storage of
clean linens;
      (8)   Adequate dressing and toilet facilities shall be provided for
patrons. One dressing room, which may be the same as the massage treatment
room. One toilet and one wash basin shall be provided by every massage
establishment for every three treatment rooms. A minimum of one shower or tub
shall be provided for any establishment offering colon therapy, colonics or any
hydrotherapy services, including whirlpool baths, saunas, steam baths and
herbal wraps. Each dressing room or treatment room shall contain a locker for
each patron to be served, which locker shall be capable of being locked;
      (9)   Any pool or spa shall be issued a permit and inspected;
      (10)   All walls, ceilings, floors, showers, bathtubs, steam rooms, and
all other physical facilities within the establishment must be in good repair
and maintained in a clean and sanitary condition. Wet and dry heat rooms, steam
or vapor rooms or cabinets, toilets and wash basins shall be thoroughly cleaned
each day business is in operation. Shower compartments and bathtubs, where
provided, shall be thoroughly cleaned after each use;
      (11)   Clean and sanitary sheets and towels shall be provided for each
patron of the establishment. The headrest of each table shall be provided with
a clean and sanitary covering for each patron; and
      (12)   All wash basins within an establishment shall have hot and cold
running water, tempered by means of a mixing valve faucet; provide sanitary
towels placed in permanent installed dispensers or upon a permanently attached
rod dispenser, and provide soap in a soap dispenser that is placed on or near
the wash basin. A hand wash basin shall be provided in each treatment room
providing colon therapy, colonics, or hydrotherapy services, including
whirlpool bath saunas, steam baths and herbal wraps.
(Ord. 05-19, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 840.07 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every person, association, firm or corporation to whom a license shall have
been granted shall display the license in a conspicuous place upon the business
premises. If the license has been granted to a person, a recent photograph of
the licensee shall be attached to the license.
(Ord. 05-19, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 840.08 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   A change of location of a massage establishment may be approved by the City
Manager or such person as may be designated by the City Manager, provided that
all ordinances and regulations of the city are followed and the change of
location fee is paid.
(Ord. 05-19, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 840.09 RENEWAL.
   (a)   Annually on or before January 1 of each year, every licensed massage
establishment shall pay a renewal fee.
   (b)   Annually, on or before January 1 of each year, every licensed massage
practitioner shall pay a renewal fee.
   (c)   The holder of an expired massage practitioner license may, within 30
days from the date of expiration, have the license renewed upon payment of the
required renewal fee.
(Ord. 05-19, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 840.10 SALE, TRANSFER OR EXPANSION.
   Upon the sale or transfer of any interest in a massage establishment, the
license therefor shall be null and void. A new application shall be made by any
person, association, firm or corporation desiring to own or operate the
establishment. The provisions of §§
840.05 and
840.06 shall apply to any person, association, firm or corporation applying for
a massage establishment permit for premises previously used as such
establishment.
(Ord. 05-19, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 840.11 OTHER UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES; GENERAL PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful:
   (a)   For any person, association, firm or a corporation to conduct or
operate a massage establishment on the same premises whereon is also conducted
the business of a liquor establishment, photography studio, model studio, art
studio, telephone answering service, motion picture theater or bookstore;
   (b)    For any person to practice or administer any subject or method of
treatment listed in the definition of massage or touching techniques, whether
for fee, gratuity or compensation of any kind;
      (1)   In a manner or under circumstances intended to arouse, appeal to or
gratify sexual desires;
      (2)   To any other person whose private parts are not covered by opaque
material; or
      (3)   In any way touch the genitals of the individual receiving the
treatment.
(Ord. 05-19, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 840.12 REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OR DENIAL OF LICENSE, APPEAL; GROUNDS.
   (a)   The license of a massage practitioner or of a massage establishment
may be revoked, suspended or denied renewal upon any one or more of the
following grounds:
      (1)   The licensee is guilty of fraud in conducting the business of
massage practitioner or massage establishment or of fraud or deceit in
obtaining a license to conduct such business;
      (2)   The licensee has been convicted within the last 10 years in a court
of competent jurisdiction of a felony, or any misdemeanor offense involving
moral turpitude and having a reasonable relationship to the functions of a
massage establishment licensee or a massage practitioner, whichever is
applicable;
      (3)   The licensee is guilty of untrue, fraudulent, misleading or
deceptive advertising;
      (4)   The licensee is engaged in the business of massage practitioner or
massage establishment under a false or assumed name, or is impersonating
another practitioner of a like or different name; and
      (5)   The licensee has violated any of the provisions of
Chapter 840.
   (b)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) above of this
section, the license of a massage practitioner or a massage establishment shall
be revoked or denied renewal if the licensee has been convicted of any offense
committed outside this state or city which if committed in this state or city
would constitute a felony, or any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude and
having a reasonable relationship to the functions of a massage practitioner or
a massage establishment licensee.
   (c)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) above of this
section, the license of a massage establishment shall be revoked or denied
renewal if within a 12 month period, a licensee or agent, employee or
independent contractor of the massage establishment while on the premises of
such establishment commits any felony offense, or any misdemeanor offense
involving moral turpitude and having a reasonable relationship to the functions
of a massage practitioner or a massage establishment licensee.
   (d)   If the City Manager determines that probable grounds exist for denial,
suspension, or revocation of a license under §
840.12(a) through
840.12(c), the Manager shall notify the applicant or licensee (respondent) in
writing of the intent to deny, suspend or revoke the license, including the
grounds therefor, by personal service, or by certified mail. The notification
shall be directed to the most current business address on file with the City
Manager. Within ten working days of receipt of such notice, the respondent may
provide to the City Manager in writing a response which shall include a
statement of reasons why the license or permit should not be denied, suspended,
or revoked. If a response is not received by the City Manager in the time
stated or, if after review the City Manager finds that grounds exist for
denial, suspension, or revocation, then such action shall become final and
notice of such final action sent to the applicant or licensee. If the City
Manager finds that no grounds exist for denial, suspension, or revocation of a
license then the City Manager shall withdraw the intent to deny, suspend, or
revoke the license and shall so notify the respondent in writing by delivery,
or by certified mail of such action.
   (e)   When a decision to deny, suspend or revoke a license becomes final,
the applicant or licensee whose application for a license has been denied or
whose license has been suspended or revoked shall have the right to appeal such
action within 14 working days to the City Council who shall have the authority
to sustain, amend, or reverse the decision of the City Manager.
(Ord. 05-19, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 840.13 DENIAL OR TERMINATION OF LICENSE; APPEAL.
   (a)   The denial, revocation or non-renewal of a massage practitioner
license or a massage establishment license shall continue for one year and, the
applicant or licensee shall not be issued a massage practitioner license or
massage establishment license for one year from the date denial, revocation or
non-renewal becomes effective; provided, however, that if the license was
denied or revoked under §
840.12(c), an applicant shall not be granted another license at any time, and
if the license was denied or revoked under §§
840.06(a) or (b),
840.07 or
840.12(a)(2) or (b), an applicant shall not be granted another license until
ten years have elapsed from the date of conviction.
   (b)   The suspension of a massage practitioner license or a massage
establishment license shall continue for a specified period not to exceed one
year.
   (c)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed or a judgment of guilt is
subsequently set aside shall have no effect on the denial, suspension,
revocation or non-renewal of a license under this section.
(Ord. 05-19, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 840.14 APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS TO EXISTING BUSINESS.
   The provisions of Chapter 840 shall apply to all activities regulated by
this chapter of such persons and businesses described herein, whether such
activities were commenced before, on or after the effective date of this
chapter; provided however, that any person licensed as a massage practitioner
prior to the effective date of this chapter, by this city or any other
licensing authority and having certification of satisfactory completion of
course instruction in anatomy, physiology, or massage and touching techniques
from a school or institution approved by the State Medical Board of Ohio or an
equivalent board from outside this state, or accredited by an accrediting
agency recognized by the United States Department of Education or the council
on post secondary accreditation shall be eligible for a license under this
section, provided they file an application within two years of the effective
date of this chapter and is otherwise qualified and complies with all other
provisions set forth herein.
(Ord. 05-19, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 840.15 EXEMPTIONS.
   (a)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Persons authorized by the laws of this state to practice medicine,
osteopathy, chiropractic, podiatry or naturopathy;
      (2)   Registered nurses, licensed practical nurses or technicians, when
acting under the supervision of a licensed physician or osteopath;
      (3)   Persons employed or acting as trainees for any bona fide amateur,
semiprofessional or professional athlete or athletic team;
      (4)   Persons authorized by the laws of this state as barbers or
cosmetologists, provided their activity is limited to the head, face or neck;
      (5)   Persons wholly employed in the sale of clothing, cosmetics, jewelry
or sporting equipment insofar as these individuals must incidentally touch a
customer to properly fit or sell the product, at its standard market price; or
      (6)   Persons wholly engaged in specialized weight reduction techniques
where touching of the body is incidental to the procedure.
   (b)   Any exemption granted herein is effective only insofar as and to the
extent that the bona fide practice of the business or profession of the person
exempted overlaps into the field comprehended by
Chapter 840, and exemptions granted herein are solely for those activities
which are performed in the course of the bona fide practice of the business or
profession of the person exempted.
(Ord. 05-19, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 840.16 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are severable, and the invalidity of any
phrase, clause or part of this chapter shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remainder of the chapter.
(Ord. 05-19, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 840.99 PENALTY.
   Whenever in this chapter any act is prohibited or declared to be unlawful,
and wherever in this chapter the doing of any act is required or the failure to
do any act(s) declared to be unlawful, the violation of any such provision of
this chapter is a misdemeanor of the first degree. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed upon each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues. Revocation or suspension of a license shall not be a defense against
prosecution.
(Ord. 05-19, passed 5-12-2005)
CHAPTER 850: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
850.01   Definitions.
850.02   Compliance required; exceptions.
850.03   Hours of solicitation.
850.04   Notice prohibiting solicitation.
850.05   Registration of credentials for commercial solicitors.
850.06   Revocation of license.
850.07   Records of licenses.
 
850.99   Penalty.
   CROSS REFERENCES
   Power to inspect food products - see Ohio R.C. 715.46
   Power to regulate - see Ohio R.C. 715.61 et seq.
   Home solicitation sales - see Ohio R.C. 1345.21 et seq.
   Sales of goods and services within right of way of Interstate and other
state highways - see Ohio R.C. 5515.07
   Sales of animals - see GEN. OFF. 618.06
   Sales of cigarettes to minors - see GEN. OFF.
636.21
   Disturbing the peace - see GEN. OFF. Ch.
648
§ 850.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and/or phrases used in this section are defined in
Chapter 802, §
802.01.
   AGENT
   CANVASSER AND SOLICITOR
   GOODS, WARES, AND MERCHANDISE
   PEDDLER
(Ord. 93-38, passed 7-8-1993)
§ 850.02 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS.
   (a)   No canvasser, solicitor, peddler or agent thereof shall engage in
business within the city without complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   (b)   The license required of this chapter shall not apply to the owner of
any product of his or her own raising, or the manufacturer if any article
manufactured by him or her, producers of agricultural products or to solicitors
or canvassers for, or distributors of, perishable food or newspapers. Further,
peddlers, solicitors and canvassers for religious, charitable, educational or
nonprofit community service groups and organizations shall not be subject to
the provisions of this chapter. Also, the provisions of this chapter shall not
be applied so as to violate the provisions of Ohio R.C. 715.63 or any other
comparable state or federal law.
   (c)   The license required of this chapter shall not apply to any person
acting to disseminate ideas, thoughts, or messages regarding any cause, issue,
religion, or political candidate as long as such canvassing does not include
the violation of any local, state, or federal law.
(Ord. 93-38, passed 7-8-1993; Am. Ord. 06-71, passed 11-9-2006; Am. Ord. 15-43,
passed 9-24-2015)
§ 850.03 HOURS OF SOLICITATION.
   No persons regulated by this chapter shall solicit in any way or for any
purpose within the City of Xenia, Ohio, except between the hours of 9:00 a.m.
and 8:00 p.m., during daylight hours, and only then provided that the person
has complied with all of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 93-38, passed 7-8-1993; Am. Ord. 15-43, passed 9-24-2015)
§ 850.04 NOTICE PROHIBITING SOLICITATION.
   No person regulated by this chapter shall enter in or upon any house,
building or other structure upon any land or property without the prior consent
of the owner or occupant thereof, where there is placed or posted in or upon
the premises, in a conspicuous position and location, at or near the usual mean
of ingress, a sign or other form of notice stating or indicating that the owner
or occupant thereof forbids or otherwise does not desire persons engaged in
solicitation or any similar type of activity to enter upon the premises.
(Ord. 93-38, passed 7-8-1993; Am. Ord. 15-43, passed 9-24-2015)
§ 850.05 REGISTRATION OF CREDENTIALS FOR COMMERCIAL SOLICITORS.
   (a)   Any person regulated by this chapter shall apply to the city and swear
before a notary public that all information provided on the application form is
correct. The applicant shall state what manner he intends to travel and trade
or to conduct business, his address, and, if employed, the name and address of
his employer, the applicant's physical description, and a statement as to the
previous convictions for violations of the law. The City Manager shall
determine standards for issuance or denial of a permit.
   (b)   Concurrently with the filing of the application, the applicant shall
pay as set forth in the fee schedule in Part Two - Title Twelve, Chapter 298 of
these Codified Ordinances.
   (c)   Upon compliance of the foregoing provisions of this section, the City
shall forthwith stamp the original of the application and deliver the same to
the applicant for identification hereinafter provided. Such application shall
also be stamped with the date of expiration of the registration which in each
case shall be 12 months after issuance.
   (d)   Every holder of a license, when engaged in soliciting orders for or
selling goods, wares, merchandise, or services upon any lot or land of any
residence or business in the City shall, upon the request of any owner,
occupant, or municipal official exhibit for examination his or her credentials
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   (e)   Issuance of a license to solicit goods, wares, merchandise, or
services by and within the City of Xenia shall not be construed as an
endorsement by the City.
(Ord. 93-38, passed 7-8-1993; Am. Ord. 15-43, passed 9-24-2015)
§ 850.06 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (a)   The City Manager shall have the power to suspend or revoke any license
issued hereunder for violation of a city ordinance or any condition or
regulation under which a license was granted, or for unfair or deceptive acts
or practices as defined in Ohio R.C. 1345.02. Such suspension or revocation may
be accomplished summarily by the City Manager setting forth grounds for such
action.
   (b)   If an application for a license is not approved or if any license
issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter is revoked or suspended,
written notice shall be given to the applicant or licensee. The applicant or
licensee shall have the right to appeal such denial or revocation to the
Economic Development Advisory Board. The Board shall have the power to affirm,
modify, or reverse the decision of the City Manager. Any such decision made by
the Board shall be final.
   (c)   No person whose license has been revoked shall receive another license
for a period of one year thereafter. In the event of a revocation, the license
fee shall not be refunded.
(Ord. 93-38, passed 7-8-1993; Am. Ord. 15-43, passed 9-24-2015)
§ 850.07 RECORDS OF LICENSES.
   A full, complete record of each license issued hereunder, including
renewals, suspensions, or revocations thereof, and serious complaints and
charges against the licensee, shall be kept on file by the City, and shall be
accessible to the public upon request.
(Ord. 93-38, passed 7-8-1993; Am. Ord. 15-43, passed 9-24-2015)
§ 850.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
fourth degree misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) and imprisoned not more than 30 days or both. Each additional
violation within 12 months shall constitute a third degree misdemeanor subject
to a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) and imprisoned not more
than 60 days, or both. Each day's continued violation shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 93-38, passed 7-8-1993; Am. Ord. 15-43, passed 9-24-2015)
CHAPTER 858: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES AND EMPLOYEES
Section
858.01   Definitions.
858.02   Classification.
858.03   License required.
858.04   Issuance of license.
858.05   Fees.
858.06   Inspection.
858.07   Expiration of license.
858.08   Suspension.
858.09   Revocation.
858.10   Hearing, revocation, license denial, suspension; appeal.
858.11   Transfer of license.
858.12   Live nudity at sexually oriented business prohibited.
858.13   Additional regulations for adult motels.
858.14   Additional regulations for sexually oriented businesses.
858.15   Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit films or
videos.
858.16   Sexual encounter establishments prohibited.
858.17   Loitering and exterior lighting and monitoring requirements.
858.18   Regulations pertaining to sexually oriented businesses featuring
performances.
858.19   Prohibition against presence of persons under the age of 18.
858.20   Severability.
 
858.99   Penalty.
   CROSS REFERENCES
   Pornography - see GEN. OFF.
666.11 et seq.
   Displaying matter harmful to juveniles - see GEN. OFF.
666.12
§ 858.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and/or phrases used in this section are defined in
Chapter 802, §
802.01.
   ADULT ARCADE
   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE
   ADULT CABARET
   ADULT MOTEL
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER
   ADULT THEATER
   CITY MANAGER or MANAGER
   EMPLOY, EMPLOYEE, and EMPLOYMENT
   ESTABLISHED or ESTABLISHMENT
   LICENSEE
   NONPOROUS
   NUDITY or A STATE OF NUDITY
   OPERATE or CAUSE TO BE OPERATED
   OPERATOR
   PERSON
   REGULARLY FEATURES or REGULARLY SHOWN
   SEMI-NUDE
   SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIO
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS
   VIEWING ROOM
(Ord. 05-20, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 858.02 CLASSIFICATION.
   Sexually oriented business shall be classified as follows:
   (a)   Adult arcades;
   (b)   Adult bookstores, adult novelty stores, adult video stores;
   (c)   Adult cabarets;
   (d)   Adult motels;
   (e)   Adult entertainment out-call service in the form of semi-nude dancing
or exhibition;
   (f)   Adult motion picture theaters;
   (g)   Adult theaters;
   (h)   Semi-nude model studios; or
   (i)   Any combination of classifications set forth in (a) through (h).
(Ord. 05-20, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 858.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a sexually oriented
business or to conduct such services in the City of Xenia without a valid
sexually oriented business license, issued by the city for the particular type
of business, or to employ an employee as defined in §
858.01 who is not licensed as a sexually oriented business employee as provided
by subsection (b) below of this section or who is not authorized to work or
perform services pursuant to subsection (c) below of this section.
   (b)   Except as provided in subsection (c) of this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person to be an employee of a sexually oriented business in
the City of Xenia without a valid license.
   (c)   An applicant, upon receipt by the City Manager of his or her
application for a sexually oriented business employee license, may work or
perform services without an employee license until such time as the license is
granted or the decision to deny the license becomes final pursuant to §
858.10. Upon receipt of the applicant’s completed application for an employee’s
license, the City Manager shall issue the applicant a temporary work permit.
The applicant shall keep the temporary work permit on his or her person or on
the premises where the applicant is then working or performing services, and
produce such permit for inspection upon request by a law enforcement officer or
other authorized city official.
   (d)   An applicant for a sexually oriented business license or a sexually
oriented business employee license shall file in person at the office of the
City Manager an application made on a form prescribed and provided by the City
Manager. The applicant shall be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter. The application shall be signed under oath by the applicant and
notarized. The application shall contain the information called for in
subsection (d)(1) through (11) below, accompanied by (e) and (g), and an
authority to release information for a background check as in (f) as follows.
All applications shall be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee. An
application will be deemed completed when it contains the information required
in this subsection.
      (1)   The full legal name and any other names used in the preceding ten
years;
      (2)   Present residence and business addresses and telephone numbers, as
applicable;
      (3)   Each residence and business addresses for the ten year period
immediately preceding the date of filing of the application and the inclusive
dates of each such address;
      (4)   If the application is for a sexually oriented business license, the
name, business location, business mailing address and phone number of the
proposed sexually oriented business;
      (5)   Height, weight, color of eyes and hair;
      (6)   The business, occupation or employment history for the five year
period immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application;
      (7)   Information as to whether such individual or business has ever been
refused any similar license or permit or has had any similar license or permit
issued to such individual or business in Xenia or elsewhere revoked or
suspended, and the reason or reasons therefore;
      (8)   All prior criminal convictions excepting minor traffic offenses;
      (9)   If the applicant is a corporation, the name of the corporation
shall be set forth exactly as shown in its articles of incorporation or charter
together with the state and date of incorporation, and the names, residence
addresses, and dates of birth of each of its current officers and directors and
each stockholder holding more than five percent of the stock in the
corporation. If the applicant is a partnership, the applicant shall set forth
the names, residence addresses and dates or birth of each of the partners,
including limited partners and profit interest holders. If the applicant is a
limited partnership, the applicant shall furnish a copy of the certificate of
limited partnership. If one or more of the partners is a corporation, the
provisions of this section pertaining to corporations shall apply. The
corporation or partnership applicant shall designate one of its officers or
general partners to act as its responsible managing officer. Such designated
person shall complete and sign all application forms required of an individual
applicant under this chapter, but only one application fee shall be charged;
      (10)   If the application is for a sexually oriented business license,
the name and address of the statutory agent or other agent authorized to
receive service of process. The information provided pursuant to subsection (d)
(1) through (11) of this section shall be supplemented in writing by certified
mail, return receipt requested, to the City Manager within ten working days of
a change of circumstances which would render the information originally
submitted false or incomplete; and
      (11)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is
an individual, he or she shall sign the application for a license as applicant.
If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each officer, director, general partner or other person who will
participate directly in decisions relating to management of the business shall
sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must be
qualified under § 858.04 and each applicant shall be considered a licensee if a
license is granted.
   (e)   The application shall be accompanied by the following:
      (1)   Ohio driver’s license or state identification;
      (2)   Written proof of age, in the form of a certified copy of birth
certificate, current Ohio drivers’ license with picture, or other picture
identification document issued by a governmental agency;
      (3)   The applicant’s complete fingerprints, recorded by the Police
Division; the cost of fingerprinting to be paid by applicant; and
      (4)   Two identical, passport-quality photographs of the applicant,
approximately two inches by two inches in size, taken within the preceding
month.
   (f)   The applicant shall sign an authority to release information giving
permission to do a background check; the background check shall be paid for by
the applicant(s).
   (g)   The application for a sexually oriented business license shall be
accompanied by a sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared but shall be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches. Applicants who are
required to comply with §
858.15 of this chapter shall submit a diagram meeting the requirements of §
858.15.
   (h)   The information provided by an applicant in connection with the
application for a license under this chapter shall be maintained by the City
Manager on a confidential basis, except that such information may be disclosed
only to other governmental agencies in connection with a law enforcement or
public safety function, or as may otherwise be required by law.
(Ord. 05-20, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 858.04 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (a)   The City Manager shall approve or deny the issuance of a license to an
applicant for a sexually oriented business license or a sexually oriented
business employee license within 30 days after receipt of a completed
application. The City Manager shall approve the issuance of a license unless
one or more of the following is found to be true.
      (1)   An applicant is less than 18 years of age.
      (2)   An applicant or an applicant’s spouse is delinquent in the payment
to the city of taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against or imposed
upon the applicant or the applicant’s spouse in relation to a sexually oriented
business.
      (3)   An applicant has failed to provide information as required by §
858.03 for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form.
      (4)   An applicant; an applicant’s spouse; a business entity for which
the applicant had, at the time of an offense leading to a criminal conviction
described herein, a management responsibility or a controlling interest; or a
business entity which is a “related member” of the applicant (as “related
member” is defined in Ohio R.C. § 5733.042, without regard to subsection (B) of
that section), has been convicted of a violation of a provision of this
chapter, other than an offense of operating a sexually oriented business
without a license, within two years immediately preceding the application. The
fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect.
      (5)   The license application fee required by this section has not been
paid.
      (6)   A representative of the proposed establishment has not obtained a
certificate of compliance pursuant to § 1274.04(a) of the Xenia Zoning Code or
filed a notice of appeal on an adverse zoning decision which is pending at the
time of receipt of the application, which shall stay the final decision until a
determination is reached on the appeal by the Court of Common Pleas of Greene
County, Ohio.
      (7)   The proposed establishment is located in a zoning district other
than an I-2 Heavy Industrial District established under the Xenia Zoning Code;
or is not in compliance with the location restrictions established for sexually
oriented businesses in that zoning district.
      (8)   An applicant; an applicant’s spouse; a business entity for which
the applicant had, at the time of an offense leading to a criminal conviction
described herein, a management responsibility or a controlling interest; or a
business entity which is a “related member” of the applicant (as “related
member” is defined in Ohio R.C. § 5733.042, without regard to division (B) of
that section), has been convicted of any offense in violation of Ohio R.C.
Chapter 2907 or any other sex offenses as defined by the Ohio Revised Code and
committed in this state or any offense committed outside this state which if
committed in this state would constitute an offense in violation of Ohio R.C.
Chapter 2907 or any other sex offenses as defined by the Ohio Revised Code for
which:
         A.   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later date, if the
conviction is of a misdemeanor offense for the specified criminal acts which
are sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape, or crimes connected
with another sexually oriented business including but not limited to
distribution of obscenity or material harmful to minors, prostitution,
pandering or tax violations;
         B.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later date, if the
conviction is of a felony offense; for the specified criminal acts which are
sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape or crimes connected with
another sexually oriented business including but not limited to distribution of
obscenity or material harmful to minors, prostitution, pandering or tax
violations; or
         C.   Less than five years have elapsed since the latest date of
conviction, or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later
date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor offenses for specified
criminal acts which are sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape, or
crimes connected with another sexually oriented business, including but not
limited to, distribution of obscenity or materials harmful to minors,
prostitution, pandering, or tax violations; for two or more offenses occurring
within any 24 month period.
   (b)   The fact that a relevant conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on the disqualification of the applicant or applicant’s spouse.
   (c)   An applicant ineligible for a license due to subsection (a)(4) or (a)
(8) of this section may qualify for a sexually oriented business license only
when the time period required by the applicable subsection has elapsed.
   (d)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the number of the license issued to
that applicant, the expiration date, and, if the license is for a sexually
oriented business, the address of the sexually oriented business. A sexually
oriented business employee license shall contain a photograph of the licensee.
The sexually oriented business license shall be posted in a conspicuous place
at or near the entrance to the sexually oriented business so that it may be
easily read at any time. A sexually oriented business employee shall keep the
employee’s license on his or her person or on the premises where the licensee
is then working or performing and shall produce such license for inspection
upon request by a law enforcement officer or other authorized city official.
(Ord. 05-20, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 858.05 FEES.
   The nonrefundable application fees for a sexually oriented business license
or a sexually oriented business employee license shall be set by the City
Council. These fees are as set forth in the fee schedule in Part Two - Title
Twelve, Chapter 298 of these Codified Ordinances.
(Ord. 05-20, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 858.06 INSPECTION.
   (a)   Sexually oriented business operators and sexually oriented business
employees shall permit officers or agents of the City of Xenia’s Police
Division or Manager’s office to inspect from time to time on an occasional
basis, the portions of the sexually oriented business premises where patrons
are permitted, for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the specific
regulations of this chapter, during those times when the sexually oriented
business is occupied by patrons or is open for business. A licensee’s knowing
or intentional refusal to permit such an inspection shall not constitute a
misdemeanor, but shall constitute a violation of this section for purposes of
license denial, suspension, and/or revocation. This section shall be narrowly
construed by the city to authorize reasonable inspections of the licensed
premises pursuant to this chapter, but not to authorize a harassing or
excessive pattern of inspections.
   (b)   The provisions of this section do not apply to areas of an adult motel
which are currently being rented by a customer for use as a permanent or
temporary habitation.
(Ord. 05-20, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 858.07 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   Each license shall remain valid for a period of one calendar year from the
date of issuance unless otherwise suspended or revoked. Such license may be
renewed only by making application and payment of a fee as provided in §§
858.03 and
858.05. Application for renewal should be made at least 75 days before the
expiration date, and when made less than 75 days before the expiration date,
the expiration of the license will not be affected.
(Ord. 05-20, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 858.08 SUSPENSION.
   The city shall issue a written letter of intent to suspend a sexually
oriented business license for a period not to exceed 30 days if it is
determined that the sexually oriented business licensee has knowingly violated
this chapter or has knowingly allowed an employee to violate this chapter.
(Ord. 05-20, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 858.09 REVOCATION.
   (a)   The City Manager shall revoke a sexually oriented business license or
a sexually oriented business employee license if a cause of suspension in §
858.08 occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding 12
months.
   (b)   The City Manager shall revoke a sexually oriented business license if
the Manager determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false information in the application for a sexually
oriented business license or in any document related to the operation of the
sexually oriented business;
      (2)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use, or
sale of alcoholic beverages or controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the
premises;
      (4)   A licensee or an employee knowingly operated the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
      (5)   A licensee has been convicted of an offense listed in §
858.04(a) for which the time period required in §
858.04(a) has not elapsed;
      (6)   On two or more occasions within a 12-month period, a person or
persons while in or on the licensed premises committed an offense listed in §
858.04(a), for which a conviction has been obtained, and the person or persons
were a licensee or employee(s) of the sexually oriented business at the time
the offenses were committed;
      (7)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed any sexual activity
to occur in or on the licensed premises. The term “sexual activity” shall have
the same meaning as it is defined in Ohio R.C. § 2907.01;
      (8)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city of taxes or fees
related to the sexually oriented business; or
      (9)   A violation of zoning and/or building code requirements.
   (c)   The fact that any relevant conviction, as described in §
858.04, is being appealed shall have no effect on the revocation of the
license.
   (d)   For the purposes of license denial, suspension or revocation, an act
by any employee that constitutes grounds for revocation of that employee’s
license shall be imputed to the sexually oriented business licensee only if the
hearing officer determines by a preponderance of evidence that an officer,
director, or general partner, or an employee who managed, supervised, or
controlled the operation of the business, knowingly allowed such act to occur
on the premises. Subsection (b)(7) of this section does not apply to adult
motels as a ground for revoking the license unless the licensee or employee
knowingly allowed sexual activity to occur in exchange for money or within
public view.
   (e)   When the City Manager revokes a license, the revocation shall continue
for one year and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business
license for one year from the date revocation becomes effective. If, subsequent
to revocation, the City Manager finds that the basis for the revocation has
been corrected or abated, the applicant shall be granted a license if at least
90 days have elapsed since the date the revocation became effective. If the
license was revoked under subsection (b)(5) of this section, an applicant may
not be granted another license until the appropriate number of years required
under §
858.04(a) has elapsed.
(Ord. 05-20, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 858.10 HEARING, REVOCATION, LICENSE DENIAL, SUSPENSION; APPEAL.
   (a)   (1)   If the City Manager determines that probable grounds exist for
denial, suspension or revocation of a license under this chapter, the Manager
shall notify the applicant or licensee (respondent) in writing of the intent to
deny, suspend or revoke the license, including the grounds therefore, by
personal delivery or by certified mail. The notification shall be directed to
the most current business address on file with the City Manager.
      (2)   Within ten working days of receipt of such notice, the respondent
may provide to the City Manager or his or her designee in writing a response
which shall include a statement of reasons why the license or permit should not
be denied, suspended or revoked. For purposes of this section, any designee of
the City Manager shall not be the City Manager or an employee in the office of
the City Manager. The City Manager or his or her designee shall notify the
respondent in writing of the hearing date within three days of the receipt of
such written response. Within ten working days of the receipt of such written
response, the City Manager or his or her designee shall conduct a hearing at
which respondent shall have the opportunity to be represented by counsel, to
present evidence and witnesses on his or her behalf and to cross-examine
adverse witnesses.
      (3)   The City Manager or his or her designee shall give due
consideration to the issues raised and shall exercise independent discretion in
reaching a decision on such issues. The hearing shall last no more than two
days, unless extended by request of the respondent or necessary for the
administration of justice and due process. If a response is not received by the
City Manager or his or her designee in the time stated or, if after the hearing
the City Manager or his or her designee finds that grounds exist for denial,
suspension or revocation, then such action shall become final and notice of
such final action sent to the applicant or licensee in writing by the City
Manager or his or her designee within five working days after the conclusion of
the hearing. Such notice shall include a statement advising the applicant or
licensee of the right to appeal such decision to any court of competent
jurisdiction to decide the factual or legal issues therein. If the City Manager
or his or her designee finds that no grounds exist for denial, suspension or
revocation of a license then the City Manager or his or her designee shall
withdraw the intent to deny, suspend or revoke the license and shall so notify
the respondent in writing by delivery, or by certified mail of such action.
   (b)   (1)   When a decision to deny, suspend or revoke a license becomes
final, the applicant or licensee whose application for a license has been
denied or whose license has been suspended or revoked shall have the right to
appeal such action to a court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to Ohio R.C.
Chapter 2506. Any suspension or revocation of a license for a sexually oriented
business does not take effect until a final decision is rendered in an appeal
taken pursuant to this section.
      (2)   Immediately upon the filing of an appeal pursuant to this section
by an applicant for a sexually oriented business license, the applicant shall
be issued a temporary license to operate the sexually oriented business pending
a final decision on the appeal. Such temporary license shall be subject to all
provisions of this chapter and shall not expire until a court of competent
jurisdiction has entered a judgment on the merits of the applicant or
licensee’s appeal.
(Ord. 05-20, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 858.11 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Ord. 05-20, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 858.12 LIVE NUDITY AT SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS PROHIBITED.
   Live nudity is prohibited in any sexually oriented business including
businesses where no alcoholic beverages are sold, served or consumed on the
premises and regardless of whether a permit has been issued pursuant to this
chapter. Any sexually oriented business that is found in violation of this
section shall have its permit suspended pursuant to the provisions of §
858.08.
(Ord. 05-20, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 858.13 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT MOTELS.
   (a)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial
establishment has been rented and vacated two or more times in a period of time
that is less than 12 hours creates a rebuttable presumption that the
establishment is an adult motel as that term is defined in §
858.01.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for a person who is in control of a sleeping room
in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment that does not have a
sexually oriented business license to rent or sub-rent a sleeping room to a
person and, within 12 hours from the time the room is rented, rent or sub-rent
the same sleeping room again.
   (c)   For purposes of subsection (b) above of this section, the terms rent
or sub-rent mean the act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of
consideration.
(Ord. 05-20, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 858.14 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (a)   No sexually oriented business shall open to do business before 10:00
a.m. or remain open after 10:00 p.m., provided that, a sexually oriented
business which has obtained a license to sell alcoholic beverages from the
State of Ohio may remain open pursuant to the terms of that license, but may
not conduct sexually oriented business activity after 10:00 p.m. No adult
arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret,
adult entertainment out-call service in the form of semi-nude dancing or
exhibition, adult motion picture theater, adult theater or semi-nude model
studio shall be open for business on any Sunday or a federal legal holiday.
This subsection shall not apply to any business, regulated under both this
chapter and section, which is not an adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult
novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult entertainment out-call
service in the form of semi-nude dancing or exhibition, adult motion picture
theater, adult theater, or semi-nude model studio as the same is defined in
this chapter.
   (b)   All building openings, entries, windows, and the like, for adult uses
shall be located, covered or service in such a manner as to prevent a view into
the interior from any public or semipublic area, sidewalk or street. For new
construction, the building shall be oriented so as to minimize any possibility
of viewing the interior from public or semipublic areas.
   (c)   No employees of the subject establishment shall conduct themselves
outside the confines of the structure in such attire and/or by such actions
that are distracting, distasteful and/or detrimental to adjacent business
interests, residents or passers by.
(Ord. 05-20, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 858.15 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS OR
VIDEOS.
   (a)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video
cassette or other video reproduction which depicts specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Each application for a sexually oriented business license shall
contain a diagram of the premises showing the location of all manager’s
stations, viewing rooms, overhead lighting fixtures, video cameras and monitors
installed for monitoring purposes and restrooms, and shall designate all
portions of the premises in which patrons will not be permitted. Restrooms
shall not contain video reproduction equipment. The diagram shall also
designate the place at which the permit will be conspicuously posted, if
granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or
architect’s blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram shall be
oriented to the north or to some designated street or object and shall be drawn
to a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various
internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy
of plus or minus six inches. The City Manager may waive the foregoing diagram
for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously
submitted and certifies that the configuration of the premises has not been
altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s
station or viewing room may be made without the prior approval of the City
Manager.
      (4)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of
the premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted in the application filed pursuant to subsection (a)(1) of this
section.
      (5)   The interior premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting
fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are
permitted access at an illumination of not less than one foot candle as
measured at the floor level. It shall be duty of the operator, and of any
employees present on the premises, to ensure that the illumination described
above is maintained at all times that the premises is occupied or open for
business.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no sexual activity occurs in or on the licensed
premises.
      (7)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that not more than one person is present in a
viewing room at any time. No person shall enter a viewing room that is occupied
by another person.
      (8)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no openings of any kind exist between viewing
rooms. No person shall make an attempt to make an opening of any kind between
viewing rooms.
      (9)   It shall be the duty of the operator, or of any employee who
discovers two or more patrons in a viewing room or discovers any person making
or attempting to make an opening of any kind between viewing rooms, to
immediately escort such persons from the premises.
      (10)   It shall be the duty of the operator, or of any employee, who
discovers an opening of any kind between viewing rooms to immediately secure
such rooms, and prevent entry into them by any patron until such time as the
wall between the rooms has been repaired to remove the opening. Removal and
repairing openings between viewing rooms shall be in a manner that is as
structurally substantial as the original wall construction.
      (11)   It shall be the duty of the operator, during each business day, to
regularly inspect the walls between viewing rooms for openings of any kind.
      (12)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employee on the
premises, to initiate and enforce a no loitering policy in viewing rooms.
      (13)   It shall be the duty of the operator to post conspicuous signs in
well-lighted entry areas of the business stating all of the following.
         A.   No loitering is permitted in viewing rooms.
         B.   The occupancy of viewing rooms is limited to one person.
         C.   Sexual activity on the premises is prohibited.
         D.   The making of openings between viewing rooms is prohibited.
         E.   Violators will be required to leave the premises.
         F.   That violations of subsection (13)B., C. and D. above are
unlawful.
      (14)   It shall be the duty of the operator to ensure that floor
coverings in viewing rooms are nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no
rugs or carpeting.
      (15)   It shall be the duty of the operator to ensure that all wall
surfaces and seating surfaces in viewing rooms, or any room or area providing
patron privacy are constructed of, or permanently covered by nonporous easily
cleanable material.
      (16)   It shall be the duty of the operator to ensure that premises are
clean and sanitary at all times. Cleaning procedures shall include all of the
following:
         A.   The operator shall maintain a regular cleaning schedule,
documented by appropriate logs, and shall employ sufficient personnel to assure
the establishment is clean;
         B.   The operator shall provide an employee to check all areas for
garbage, trash, body fluids and excrement and to remove and clean all areas
with a disinfectant. All solid waste generated by the business shall be
collected from the premises for disposal at a lawful solid waste disposal
facility at least twice each week. Prior to collection solid waste shall be
stored in a manner that prevents access by animals or members of the public and
which will not facilitate the creation of a health nuisance; and
         C.   Thorough cleaning of the entire interior of any room providing
patron privacy shall be done using a disinfectant. Cleaning shall include
floors, walls, doors, seating, monitors, video cameras, and windows and other
surfaces.
      (17)   It shall be the duty of the operator to ensure any seating within
a viewing room is designed so as to accommodate one person only.
      (18)   It shall be the duty of the operator to provide in a conspicuous
place on the premises free information relating to the prevention of sexually
transmitted diseases, including AIDS.
      (19)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of
the premises, including the interior of each viewing room but excluding
restrooms, to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose. A manager’s
station shall not exceed 32 square feet of floor area. If the premises has two
or more manager’s stations designated, then the interior of the premises shall
be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed view of each area
of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose from at
least one of the manager’s stations. The view required in this subsection must
be by direct line of sight from the manager’s station. It is the duty of the
operator to ensure that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each
manager’s station at all times that any patron is on the premises. It shall be
the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the duty of any employees
present on the premises to ensure that the view area specified in this
subsection remains unobstructed by any doors, curtains, walls, merchandise,
display racks or other materials or enclosures at all times that any patron is
present on the premises.
      (20)   No screens, loudspeakers or sound equipment shall be used for
adult motion picture theaters (enclosed or drive-in) that can be seen or
discerned by the public from public or semipublic areas.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under this section to
knowingly fail to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 05-20, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 858.16 SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate a sexual encounter establishment as defined in this
chapter. Operation of such an establishment shall constitute a public nuisance
per se, and will additionally result in imposition of penalties for violation
of this chapter.
(Ord. 05-20, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 858.17 LOITERING AND EXTERIOR LIGHTING AND MONITORING REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the operator of a sexually oriented business
to:
      (1)   Post conspicuous signs stating that no loitering is permitted on
such property;
      (2)   Designate one or more employees to monitor the activities of
persons on such property by visually inspecting such property at least once
every 30 minutes or inspecting such property by use of video cameras and
monitors; and
      (3)   Provide lighting of not less than one foot candle as measured at
the floor level to the exterior premises to provide for visual inspection or
video monitoring to prohibit loitering. The video cameras and monitors shall
operate continuously at all times that the premises is open for business. The
monitors shall be installed within a manager’s station.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under this section to
knowingly fail to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 05-20, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 858.18 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES FEATURING
PERFORMANCES.
   A sexually oriented business that regularly features persons who appear in a
state of semi-nudity or live performances that are characterized by specified
sexual activities shall be operated in accordance with the following
regulations. It is unlawful for a sexually oriented business licensee to
knowingly violate the following regulations or to knowingly allow an employee
or any other person to violate the following regulations.
   (a)   A person shall not knowingly appear in a state of semi-nudity except
upon a stage elevated at least 18 inches above floor level. All parts of the
stage, or a clearly designated area thereof within which the person appears in
a state of semi-nudity or performs, shall be a distance of at least three feet
from all parts of a clearly designated area in which patrons may be present.
The stage or designated area thereof shall be separated from the area in which
patrons may be located by a barrier or railing the top of which is at least
three feet above floor level. No person appearing in a state of semi-nudity or
engaging in such live performances or patron may knowingly extend any part of
his or her body over or beyond the barrier or railing.
   (b)   An employee may not knowingly touch the breast, buttocks, or genitals
of a patron, nor may a patron touch the breast, buttocks, or genitals of an
employee.
   (c)   A patron may not knowingly place any money on the person or in or on
the costume of an employee.
   (d)   A sign in a form to be prescribed by the City Manager and summarizing
the provisions of subsections (a), (b) and (c) above of this section, shall be
posted near the entrance of the sexually oriented business in such a manner as
to be clearly visible to patrons upon entry.
(Ord. 05-20, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 858.19 PROHIBITION AGAINST PRESENCE OF PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 18.
   (a)   A person commits a violation of this chapter if the person knowingly
allows a person under the age of 18 years on the premises of a sexually
oriented business.
   (b)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees on the
premises to verify the ages of all patrons as being 18 years or older. It shall
be unlawful for a person having a duty under this section to knowingly fail to
fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 05-20, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 858.20 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are severable, and the invalidity of any
phrase, clause or part of this chapter shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remainder of the chapter.
(Ord. 05-20, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 858.99 PENALTY.
   A person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
upon each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   The City Law Director is hereby authorized to institute civil proceedings
necessary for the enforcement of this chapter to restrain or correct violations
hereof. Such civil proceedings, including injunction, shall be brought in the
name of the city, provided, however, that nothing in this section and no action
taken there under, shall be held to exclude such criminal proceedings as may be
authorized by this code, or any of the laws or ordinances in force in the city
or to exempt anyone violating this code or any part of the laws from any
penalty which may be incurred.
(Ord. 05-20, passed 5-12-2005)
CHAPTER 860: PET SHOPS AND KENNELS
Section
860.01   Commercial kennels and per shops; general conditions.
860.02   Facilities; indoor.
860.03   Facilities; outdoor.
860.04   Private kennel; conditions.
860.05   Grooming parlors; conditions.
860.06   Nuisance; injunction.
 
860.99   Penalty.
   CROSS REFERENCES
   Power to regulate - see Ohio R.C. 715.61 et seq.
   Sales of animals - see GEN. OFF. 618.06
   Disturbing the peace - see GEN. OFF. Ch.
648
§ 860.01 COMMERCIAL KENNELS AND PER SHOPS; GENERAL CONDITIONS.
   Animal shelters, commercial kennels, pet shops, pet hotels, and places where
pets are boarded shall meet the following conditions.
   (a)   (1)   Animal housing facilities shall be provided for the animals and
shall be structurally sound and shall be maintained in good repair; shall be
designed so as to protect the animals from injury and restrict the entrance of
other animals.
      (2)   In addition, each animal so housed shall be provided with adequate
floor space to allow each animal to turn about freely and to easily stand, sit
and lie in a comfortable normal position.
   (b)   Electrical power shall be supplied in conformance with applicable
electrical codes adequate to supply heating, ventilation and lighting as may be
required by this chapter.
   (c)   Water shall be supplied at sufficient pressure and quantity to clean
indoor housing facilities and enclosures of debris and excreta.
   (d)   Adequate food and bedding shall be provided and stored in facilities
adequate to provide protection against infestation or contamination by insects
or rodents. Refrigeration shall be provided for the protection of perishable
foods.
   (e)   Provision shall be made for the removal and disposal of animal and
food wastes, bedding, dead animals and debris. Disposal facilities shall be so
provided and operated as to minimize vermin infestation, odors and disease
hazards.
   (f)   Washroom facilities, including sinks with hot and cold water and
toilets, shall be conveniently available to maintain cleanliness among animal
caretakers and for the purpose of washing utensils and equipment.
   (g)   Sick, diseased or injured animals shall be separated from those
appearing healthy and normal. Sick, diseased or injured animals for sale shall
be removed from display and sale and kept in isolation quarters. Ventilation of
quarters for sick or diseased animals shall be arranged to avoid contamination
of healthy animals.
   (h)   During hours any store is open, there shall be an employee or keeper
on duty at all times, whose responsibility shall be the care and supervision of
the animals in that shop or department held for sale or display.
   (i)   An employee, keeper or owner shall make provision to feed, water and
do the necessary cleaning of animals on days the store or establishment is
closed.
   (j)   No person, persons, association, firm or corporation shall knowingly
misrepresent an animal to a consumer in any way.
   (k)   No person, persons, association, firm or corporation shall knowingly
sell a sick or injured animal.
   (l)   Adequate care and feeding instructions must be given, in writing, to
each animal purchaser.
   (m)   Animals which are caged, closely confined or restrained shall be
permitted daily, and for an appropriate length of time, as determined by their
size, age and species, to exercise in a yard or area suitable for that purpose.
(Ord. 06-35, passed 5-25-2006)
§ 860.02 FACILITIES; INDOOR.
   Animal shelters, commercial kennels, pet shops, pet hotels and places where
pets are boarded which have indoor facilities for animals shall:
   (a)   Be sufficiently heated or cooled when necessary to protect the animals
from temperatures to which they are not accustomed, taking into consideration
their age, size and species;
   (b)   Be adequately ventilated to provide for the health of the animals and
to remove foul odors therefrom. The ventilation system so utilized shall be
designed so that the volume of air within any enclosed indoor facility or part
hereof shall be replaced by fresh air three or more times per hour. If
ventilation equipment is used, it shall be constructed in conformance with
current standards of good engineering practice with respect to noise and
minimization of drafts;
   (c)   Have ample light, either natural or artificial, or both, of good
quality and well-distributed to provide for such illumination as is necessary
to inspect and clean during the entire working period. Such facilities shall be
placed as to protect animals from excessive illumination;
   (d)   Have interior surfaces constructed and maintained so as to be
substantially impervious to moisture and may be readily sanitized; and
   (e)   Contain a suitable method of drainage to facilitate the rapid
elimination of excess water under any weather or temperature condition from
indoor housing facilities. Such system shall be connected to a sanitary sewer
which shall conform with standards of city building codes. If drains are used,
they shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition and a safe and
effective disinfectant shall be used in the cleaning of such facilities.
(Ord. 06-35, passed 5-25-2006)
§ 860.03 FACILITIES; OUTDOOR.
   Animal shelters, commercial kennels, pet shops, pet hotels and places where
pets are boarded which have outdoor facilities for animals shall:
   (a)   Be constructed to provide shelter from excessive sunlight, rain, snow,
wind, heat, cold or other elements;
   (b)   Contain a suitable system of drainage and be constructed to prevent an
accumulation of water, mud, debris, excreta or other material and be capable of
being kept clean and sanitary and shall be so kept; and
   (c)   Be enclosed by four walls or fence sufficient to keep animals within
and to prevent entrance of other animals.
(Ord. 06-35, passed 5-25-2006)
§ 860.04 PRIVATE KENNEL; CONDITIONS.
   (a)   In all cases requiring the issuance of a private kennel license where
the animals comprising the private kennel are housed within the dwelling unit
located on the lot, the yard or some portion thereof shall be fenced and
maintained in good repair so as to protect the animals from injury, to contain
or to confine the animals upon the property, and to restrict the entrance of
other animals.
   (b)   When an animal run or separate structure is provided to house an adult
dog or cat it shall not be located closer than 30 feet to the property line or
closer than 30 feet to any dwelling unit on the same premises.
(Ord. 06-35, passed 5-25-2006)
§ 860.05 GROOMING PARLORS; CONDITIONS.
   (a)   Not board animals, but keep the animals for a reasonable time in order
to perform the business of grooming. This provision shall not prevent the
existence of a grooming parlor and animal shelters, commercial kennels, pet
shops, pet hotels and places where pets are boarded on the same premises, if
each such establishment complies with all applicable provisions.
   (b)   Keep each animal in an individual cage.
   (c)   Not permit animals therein kept for the direct purpose of grooming to
have contact with other animals kept therein.
   (d)   Sanitize all equipment after each animal has been groomed.
   (e)   Not prescribe treatment or medicine that is the province of a licensed
veterinarian.
   (f)   Not leave animals unattended during the drying process.
   (g)   Take reasonable precautions to prevent injury from occurring to any
animals while in the custody of the parlor.
(Ord. 06-35, passed 5-25-2006)
§ 860.06 NUISANCE; INJUNCTION.
   Any violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance. In
addition to any other relief provided by this chapter, the City Attorney may
apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for an injunction to prohibit the
continuation of any violation of this ordinance. Such application for relief
may include seeking a temporary restraining order, temporary injunction and
permanent injunction.
(Ord. 06-35, passed 5-25-2006)
§ 860.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this ordinance is
a minor misdemeanor for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 06-35, passed 5-25-2006)
CHAPTER 862: TAXICABS
Section
862.01   Definitions.
862.02   Driver’s license required.
862.03   Vehicle equipment and maintenance.
862.04   Display of license.
862.05   Identification of taxicabs.
862.06   Taximeter required. (Repealed)
862.07   Dome lights.
862.08   Rates of fare.
862.09   Receipts.
862.10   Refusal of passenger to pay fare.
862.11   Solicitation, acceptance and discharge of passengers.
 
862.99   Penalty.
   CROSS REFERENCES
   Power to regulate - see Ohio R.C. 715.22, 715.66
   Operators to be 18 years of age - see Ohio R.C. 4507.321
   Operation of motor vehicles generally - see TRAF. Ch.
432
   O.V.I.; reckless operation; speed - see TRAF. Ch.
434
   Accidents - see TRAF.
436.11 et seq.
   Safety and equipment - see TRAF. Ch.
438
   Taxicab stands - see TRAF.
452.11
§ 862.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and/or phrases used in this section are defined in
Chapter 802, §
802.01.
   CRUISING
   DRIVER’S LICENSE
   TAXICAB
   TAXIMETER
   WAITING TIME
(Ord. 93-43, passed 8-12-1993)
§ 862.02 DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a taxicab for hire upon the streets of the city, and
no person who owns, operates or controls a taxicab shall permit it to be
operated or driven, unless the driver of such taxicab shall have first
obtained, and have in full force and effect, a driver’s license issued by the
state.
(Ord. 93-43, passed 8-12-1993)
§ 862.03 VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND MAINTENANCE.
   (a)   Prior to the use and operation of any vehicle as a taxicab under the
provisions of this chapter, the vehicle shall be thoroughly examined and
inspected by a licensed dealer and found to comply with all of the applicable
provisions of the Ohio Revised Code and these Codified Ordinances regarding
vehicle equipment and maintenance, so as to ensure public safety.
   (b)   Every vehicle operating as a taxicab under the provisions of this
chapter may be subject to periodic inspection by the Division of Police of the
city at such intervals as it shall deem necessary to ensure the continued
maintenance and safe operating condition of such vehicle.
   (c)   Every vehicle operating as a taxicab under this chapter shall be kept
in a clean and sanitary condition.
(Ord. 93-43, passed 8-12-1993)
§ 862.04 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every driver operating a taxicab under this chapter shall post an
identification or I.D. with photograph, issued by the owner of the taxicab in
such a place as to be conspicuous and in full view of all passengers.
(Ord. 93-43, passed 8-12-1993; Am. Ord. 04-09, passed 3-11-2004)
§ 862.05 IDENTIFICATION OF TAXICABS.
   Each taxicab shall bear, on the outside of one door on each side of the
taxicab, the name of the owner or company to whom or which the taxicab belongs,
and, in addition, any other identifying designs permitted by state law.
(Ord. 93-43, passed 8-12-1993)
§ 862.06 TAXIMETER REQUIRED. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: This section was repealed by Ordinance 04-09, passed 3-11-
2004.)
§ 862.07 DOME LIGHTS.
   All taxicabs operating under the authority of this chapter shall be equipped
with dome lights on the exterior front top of the taxicab, which shall be
connected to the taximeter so that when the meter is not in operation the dome
light shall be lighted, and when the meter is in operation the dome light shall
not be lighted.
(Ord. 93-43, passed 8-12-1993)
§ 862.08 RATES OF FARE.
   No owner, operator or driver of a taxicab shall charge a sum greater than
seven dollars and fifty cents ($7.50) per passenger, per stop within the limits
of the City of Xenia. The rate of fare must be posted in a prominent place
within the taxicab.
(Ord. 93-43, passed 8-12-1993; Am. Ord. 04-09, passed 3-11-2004)
§ 862.09 RECEIPTS.
   The driver of any taxicab shall, upon request of any passenger, render to
such passenger a receipt for the amount charged, either a mechanically printed
receipt or by a specially prepared receipt, on which shall be denominated the
name of the owner, the license number or motor number of the taxicab, the
amount of the meter reading, the total charge or charges and the date of the
transaction.
(Ord. 93-43, passed 8-12-1993)
§ 862.10 REFUSAL OF PASSENGER TO PAY FARE.
   No person shall refuse to pay the legal fare of any taxicab operated under
the authority of this chapter after having hired the same, and no person shall
hire any taxicab operated under the authority of this chapter with the intent
to defraud the owner, operator or driver thereof of the value of such service.
(Ord. 93-43, passed 8-12-1993)
§ 862.11 SOLICITATION, ACCEPTANCE AND DISCHARGE OF PASSENGERS.
   (a)   No driver shall solicit passengers for a taxicab except when sitting
in the driver’s compartment of such taxicab or while standing immediately
adjacent to the curbside thereof. The driver of any taxicab shall remain in the
driver’s compartment or immediately adjacent to his or her vehicle at all times
when such vehicle is upon a public street, provided that, when necessary, a
driver may be absent from his or her taxicab for not more than three
consecutive minutes, and provided, further, that nothing herein contained shall
be held to prohibit any driver from alighting to the street or sidewalk for the
purpose of assisting passengers into or out of such vehicle.
   (b)   No driver shall solicit patronage in a loud or annoying tone of voice
or by sign, or in any manner annoy any person, obstruct the movement of any
person or follow any person for the purpose of soliciting patronage.
   (c)   Drivers of taxicabs shall not receive or discharge passengers in the
roadway, but shall pull up to the right-hand sidewalk as nearly as possible or,
in the absence of a sidewalk, to the right-hand side of the road and there
receive or discharge passengers, except upon one-way streets, where passengers
may be discharged at either the right or left-hand sidewalk, or on the side of
the roadway in the absence of a sidewalk. Where there is a curb, the receipt
and discharge of passengers shall be made at the curb, and the taxicab shall
not be more than three feet from the curb when receiving or discharging
passengers.
   (d)   No driver shall permit more persons to be carried in a taxicab as
passengers than the rated seating capacity of the taxicab.
   (e)   No driver shall refuse or neglect to convey any orderly person or
persons, upon request, unless previously engaged or unless he or she is unable
or forbidden by the provisions of this chapter to do so.
   (f)   No driver of a taxicab shall solicit business for any hotel or attempt
to divert patronage from one hotel to another.
   (g)   No driver shall engage in selling intoxicating liquor, solicit
business for any house of ill repute or use his or her vehicle for any purpose
other than for transporting passengers, baggage, trunks, parcels or packages.
(Ord. 93-43, passed 8-12-1993)
§ 862.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 93-43, passed 8-12-1993)
CHAPTER 866: COMPETITIVE VIDEO SERVICE AUTHORIZATIONS
Section
866.01   Definitions.
866.02   VSP fee, percentage, and audit.
866.03   VSP fee notice provision.
866.04   VSP access provision.
866.05   Access programming requirement.
866.06   Fee payment requirements.
866.07   PEG origination point.
866.08   Notice requirement.
866.09   Application to incumbent cable providers.
866.10   Customer service standards.
§ 866.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and/or phrases used in this section are defined in
Chapter 802, §
802.01.
   INCUMBENT CABLE PROVIDER
   PEG
   VIDEO SERVICE
   VIDEO SERVICE AUTHORIZATION or VSA
   VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER or VSP
   VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE or VSP FEE
(Ord. 07-64, passed 12-27-2007)
§ 866.02 VSP FEE, PERCENTAGE, AND AUDIT.
   (a)   Not sooner than 45 nor later than 60 days after the end of each
calendar quarter, a video service provider shall pay a video service provider
fee to the city. The fee shall be calculated quarterly by determining the
provider's gross revenue for the preceding calendar quarter as described in
subsection (b) of this section and multiplying the result by the percentage
specified in subsection (c)(1) or (2) of this section.
   (b)   Gross revenue shall be computed in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles.
      (1)   Gross revenue shall consist of all of the following revenue for the
calendar quarter that is collected by the provider for video service from all
its subscribers having service addresses within the City:
         A.   Recurring monthly charges for video service;
         B.   Event-based charges for video service, including, but not limited
to, pay-per-view and video-on-demand charges;
         C.   Charges for rental of set top boxes and other video service
equipment;
         D.   Service charges related to the provision of video service,
including, but not limited to, activation, installation, and repair;
         E.   Administrative charges related to the provision of video service,
including, but not limited to, service order and service termination charges;
         F.   Advertising revenue. (EDITOR’S NOTE: The definition contained in
this section is also located in
Chapter 802, §
802.01.) For these purposes, ADVERTISING REVENUE means the net revenue received
by the video service provider for advertising on its subscription-based video
service within the city. If such revenue is derived under a regional or
national compensation contract or arrangement between the video service
provider and one or more advertisers or advertising representatives, the amount
of revenue derived for the city shall be determined by multiplying the total
net revenue received by the video service provider under the contract or
arrangement by the percentage resulting from dividing the number of subscribers
in the city by the total number of regional or national subscribers that
potentially receive the advertising under the contract or arrangement.
      (2)   Gross revenue shall not include any of the following:
         A.   Any taxes, fees, or assessments that are collected by the video
service provider from video service subscribers for pass-through to any
federal, state, or local government agency, including the video service
provider fee authorized under this section, the fee authorized under Ohio R.C.
1332.30(F), and the Federal Communication Commission user fee;
         B.   Uncollectible charges, except that uncollectible charges, all or
part of which are written off as bad debt but subsequently collected, less the
expenses of their collection shall be included in gross revenue in the quarter
collected;
         C.   Late payment charges;
         D.   Maintenance charges;
         E.   Charges for services other than video service, reasonably
identifiable on books or records the video service provider keeps in the
regular course of business or by other reasonable means, that are aggregated or
bundled with amounts billed to video service subscribers, including, but not
limited to, any revenue received by a video service provider or its affiliates
for telecommunications service, information service, or the provision of
directory or internet advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner
advertising, and electronic publishing;
         F.   Reimbursement by programmers of marketing costs actually incurred
by the video service provider;
         G.   Any revenue not expressly enumerated in subsection (b)(1) of this
section.
   (c)   (1)   If in a calendar quarter a franchise fee is payable by a
provider under a franchise in effect in the city, the percentage of gross
revenue payable in that calendar quarter by the video service provider to the
city shall be the same percentage of gross revenue payable in that calendar
quarter pursuant to that franchise, not to exceed five percent.
      (2)   Otherwise, the percentage shall be five percent of a video service
provider's gross revenues, as calculated in accordance with this chapter.
   (d)   A video service provider that pays a video service provider fee
pursuant to this section may identify and collect the amount of that fee as a
separate line item on the regular bill of each of its video service subscribers
that has a service address within any portion of the city.
   (e)   (1)   At its sole expense and not more often than once per calendar
year, the city or its designee may conduct an audit for the purpose of
verifying the accuracy of a video service provider's calculation of the video
service provider fees it paid to city in the audit period. For the purpose of
the audit, the video service provider shall make available for inspection, at
the location where such records are kept in the normal course of business,
those records pertaining to its gross revenue as defined in §
866.02(b) of the Xenia Ordinances.
      (2)   A video service provider shall pay any amounts found to have been
underpaid in the audit within 30 days after notice and shall include interest
on the underpayments. However, payment need not be made in that 30-day period
if the video service provider brings an action under subsection (e)(3) of this
section.
      (3)   An action by the city or by the video service provider to dispute
the amount of video service provider fee due based on the audit results may be
brought in a court of competent jurisdiction not later than two years following
the end of the quarter to which the disputed amount relates.
(Ord. 07-64, passed 12-27-2007)
§ 866.03 VSP FEE NOTICE PROVISION.
   Upon receipt of notice from a VSP that it will begin providing video service
in the city pursuant to a state-issued video service authorization, the City
Manager or his/her designee is authorized and directed to provide such VSP with
notice of the VSP fee as determined by this city in §
866.02 which notice shall be delivered in a manner that provides for proof of
timely delivery.
(Ord. 07-64, passed 12-27-2007)
§ 866.04 VSP ACCESS PROVISION.
   Upon receipt of notice from a VSP that it will begin providing video service
in the city pursuant to a VSA, the City Manager or his/her designee is
authorized and directed to provide such VSP with notice that the VSP shall be
required to provide the same number of PEG channels in the city under the same
service tier conditions and subject to the same channel reclamation conditions
as may be proscribed by Ohio R.C. 1332.30(A)(1)(a) - (b) for the incumbent
cable provider with the most recent obligation in the city, which notice shall
be delivered in a manner that provides for proof of timely delivery and shall
state the appropriate number of PEG channels and service tiers required to be
provided by the VSP within the city within 120 days after delivery of such
notice.
(Ord. 07-64, passed 12-27-2007)
§ 866.05 ACCESS PROGRAMMING REQUIREMENT.
   In accordance with the requirements of Ohio R.C. 1332.30(A)(l)(a), when more
than three PEG access channels are provided to the city by an incumbent cable
provider or VSP, such additional channel shall be programmed by the city with
at least 40 hours of non-character generated content per week with at least 60
percent of the programming being non-repeat and locally produced. (EDITOR’S
NOTE: The definition contained in this section is also located in
Chapter 802, §
802.01.) For the purposes of this section NON-REPEAT AND LOCALLY PRODUCED shall
mean the first three playbacks of programming produced or provided by any local
resident, or any local public or private agency that provides services to
residents of Xenia, or any transmission of a meeting or proceeding of any
local, state, or federal governmental entity.
(Ord. 07-64, passed 12-27-2007)
§ 866.06 FEE PAYMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Any VSP Fee or community service fee payments required to be paid to the
city by a VSP shall be made quarterly and be remitted directly to the City of
Xenia via a negotiable instrument made payable to the City of Xenia, 101 N.
Detroit St., Xenia, Ohio 45385, not later than 60 days after the end of a
calendar quarter.
(Ord. 07-64, passed 12-27-2007)
§ 866.07 PEG ORIGINATION POINT.
   The PEG programming origination point of the city for the delivery of VSP
access services shall be located at City Hall, City of Xenia, 101 N. Detroit
St., Xenia, Ohio 45385.
(Ord. 07-64, passed 12-27-2007)
§ 866.08 NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   Any notice to the city that is required of a VSP in accordance with of Ohio
R.C. 1332.21 through 1332.34 shall be provided in written form to the City
Manager either by certified mail, express mail or upon personal delivery, all
evidenced by a return receipt.
(Ord. 07-64, passed 12-27-2007)
§ 866.09 APPLICATION TO INCUMBENT CABLE PROVIDERS.
   Nothing in this section shall apply to incumbent cable providers until they
are granted a video service authorization in accordance with Ohio R.C. 1332.21
through 1331.34 et seq.
(Ord. 07-64, passed 12-27-2007)
§ 866.10 CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS.
   (a)   When requested to do so, a video service provider shall assist the
city in addressing video service subscriber complaints, in a manner consistent
with the provider's complaint handling process.
    (b)   A video service provider shall meet all of the following customer
service standards:
      (1)   The provider shall restore video service within 72 hours after a
subscriber reports a service interruption or other problem if the cause was not
a natural disaster.
      (2)   Upon a report by a subscriber of a service interruption and if the
interruption is caused by the video service provider and lasts for more than
fours hours in a given day, the provider shall give the subscriber a credit in
the amount of the cost of each such day's video service as would be billed to
the subscriber.
      (3)   Upon a report by a subscriber of a service interruption and if the
interruption is not caused by the video service provider and lasts for more
than 24 consecutive hours, the provider shall give the subscriber, for each
hour of service interruption, a credit in the amount of the cost of per hour
video service as would be billed to the subscriber.
      (4)   The provider shall give a subscriber at least 30 days' advance,
written notice before removing a channel from the provider's video service, but
no such notice is required if the provider must remove the channel because of
circumstances beyond its control.
      (5)   The provider shall give a subscriber at least ten days' advance,
written notice of a disconnection of all or part of the subscriber's video
service, except if the disconnection has been requested by the subscriber, is
necessary to prevent theft of video service, or is necessary to reduce or
prevent signal leakage as described in 47 C.F.R. 76.611.
      (6)   The provider shall not disconnect all or part of a subscriber's
video service for failure of the subscriber to pay its video service bill,
until the bill is at least 45 days past due.
      (7)   The provider shall give a subscriber at least 30 days' advance,
written notice before instituting an increase in video service rates.
(Ord. 07-64, passed 12-27-2007)
CHAPTER 870: SWEEPSTAKES/INTERNET CAFÉS
Section
870.01   Purposes and applicability.
870.02   Definitions.
870.03   License application and requirements.
870.04   License fee; transfer and display.
870.05   Revocation; hearing procedure.
870.06   Hours of operation.
870.07   Prohibited conduct.
870.08   Miscellaneous.
870.09   Nuisance.
870.98   Severability.
870.99   Penalty.
§ 870.01 PURPOSES AND APPLICABILITY.
   (a)   Applicability. This chapter shall apply to the operation of
computerized sweepstakes terminals and internet cafés or establishments
operating such terminals. This chapter shall only apply to the operation of
such terminals that are lawfully operating pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code
and nothing in this chapter shall be construed to legalize, license or
authorize any operation of a device that is unlawful to operate pursuant to the
Ohio Revised Code. This chapter shall apply immediately to all devices, arcades
and/or internet cafés that commence operation after the date of enactment of
this chapter. All arcades, internet cafés, or establishments in existence at
the time of enactment of this chapter shall come into compliance with all
sections of this chapter no later than 30 days after enactment unless otherwise
stated herein.
   (b)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter and the policy of the city
to establish standards for licensing and regulation of computerized sweepstakes
devices and arcades and/or internet cafés upon which they are located and
operate. This chapter is designed to prevent safety and fire hazards, prevent
disturbances, preserve the peaceful enjoyment of neighboring establishments and
residences, and prevent gambling and other criminal behavior in the city.
(Ord. 11-69, passed 11-22-2011)
§ 870.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and/or phrases used in this section are defined in
Chapter 802, §
802.01.
   COMPUTERIZED SWEEPSTAKES DEVICE
   ENTER OR ENTRY
   LICENSEE
   OPERATOR
   OWNER
   PREMISES
   PRIZE
   SWEEPSTAKES
   SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE
   SWEEPSTAKES/INTERNET CAFÉ
(Ord. 11-69, passed 11-22-2011)
§ 870.03 LICENSE APPLICATION AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   No person, partnership, corporation, or other entity shall operate or
conduct a sweepstakes/internet café without first obtaining a license from the
city. Every person, partnership, corporation, organization or other entity
shall make an application in writing to the city, which application shall set
forth:
      (1)   The name under which the business is to be conducted;
      (2)   The location where the business is conducted, with a description of
the premises, including a scaled diagram;
      (3)   The name, address, and date of birth of any manager, supervisor,
and all other employees;
      (4)   The name, address, and date of birth of the owner or owners of the
entertainment devices;
      (5)   The name, address, date of birth, and principal occupation of every
person with an interest in the business. If the business is conducted by:
         A.   A sole proprietorship: the name, home address, date of birth and
principal occupation of that individual.
         B.   A firm or partnership: the names, home addresses, dates of birth,
and principal occupations of each member of the firm or partnership.
         C.   A corporation: the names, home addresses, dates of birth and
principal occupations of all directors, officers and shareholders owning more
than 25% of the outstanding shares.
      (6)   The name, address, date of birth and principal occupation of the
statutory agent for the firm, partnership, or corporation.
      (7)   The name, description, model number and serial number of each
computerized sweepstakes device on the premises and any other device on the
premises that is necessary to the operation of the computerized sweepstakes
device.
      (8)   A list of each separate prize that may be given out and each
separate dollar amount that may be given; and the odds of winning any offered
prize or dollar amount awarded for the participation in any game, activity,
program, scheme or play, use or participation in any way in a computerized
sweepstakes device or participation in any other activity or promotion in the
sweepstakes/internet café, whether or not the determination of the giving of
the thing of value or the delivery of the thing of value occurs totally within
the confines of the premises or requires some event, occurrence or happening at
another location.
      (9)   The name and address of any and all persons, businesses or
organizations that provide games, computer software, equipment, or services or
operate devices linked to the computerized sweepstakes devices or to devices
necessary to operate the entertainment devices, whether any such provisions are
sold, leased or licensed.
      (10)   The application is to include supporting documentation from a
Certified Independent Regulatory Compliance Testing Laboratory that the
software performs in similar fashion as other permitted sweepstakes
commercially offered to the public and that the entries are drawn from a pre-
created finite static pool of entries with assigned values. To be certified,
the Independent Regulatory Compliance Testing Laboratory must be authorized to
test regulated gaming equipment by at least one state government gaming
regulatory agency.
   (b)   The person, partnership, corporation, or other entity operating or
conducting the business shall have a continuing duty to inform the city as to
changes in the information required in this section. No person, partnership,
corporation, or other entity shall operate or conduct a sweepstakes/internet
café at any time unless the information on file with the city is current and
accurately reports the licensing information at the time of operation.
   (c)   If an application is not approved, the city shall notify the applicant
in writing, with reasons for rejection.
   (d)   The city shall not issue a license to any person, partnership,
corporation, or other entity if any of the persons with an interest in the
business or if any of the employees of the business have been convicted of a
violation of a federal or state statute or of any local ordinance pertaining to
gambling or other crime of moral turpitude within five years preceding the
application. All owners, employees and persons having an interest in the
business, as set forth in subsection (a)(5) of this section, shall consent to a
criminal history check by the Xenia Police Division.
   (e)   As a prerequisite to the issuance of such license, an inspection shall
be made of the premises by the Fire Division and the premises must be in
compliance with all applicable fire regulations. The sweepstakes/internet café
shall be open to inspection and viewing of operations by law enforcement
officers and fire division personnel at all times of operation. No operator
shall fail to immediately permit entry to any such city officials.
   (f)   Failure to register or pay a license fee for a computerized
sweepstakes device shall be grounds for suspension or revocation of the license
for the establishment and said device shall be seized and forfeited to the
city.
(Ord. 11-69, passed 11-22-2011)
§ 870.04 LICENSE FEE; TRANSFER AND DISPLAY.
   (a)   The license fee, payable to the city at the time of application and
annually thereafter, shall be five thousand dollars ($5,000) for each business
location per year or any part thereof ending on December 31 of each year. In
the event that an application is denied under this chapter, one-half of the
application fee shall be returned to the applicant. In the event that a license
is revoked or suspended hereunder, no portion of the license fee shall be
returned.
   (b)   The fee for each computerized sweepstakes device shall be fifty
dollars ($50) for each device up to 50 devices and one hundred fifty dollars
($150) each for 51 or more devices on the premises for each year or any part
thereof ending on the last day of the year.
   (c)   The fees, which are paid at the time of application, are not
refundable in any case. The license fee shall be paid for each device brought
to the facility before the device is put into use. For purposes of determining
licensing fees, each device that is operable by one or more persons is a
separate device.
   (d)   Licenses issued under this section shall not be transferable to any
other person, partnership, corporation, or other entity and the business may be
conducted only at the location for which the license is issued. The license
must be so placed as to be made conspicuously visible and shall list each
device with serial number.
   (e)   Failure to register any computerized sweepstakes device before
placement on the premises is an unclassified misdemeanor and the operators
shall each be liable for a mandatory fine of one hundred fifty dollars ($150)
for each day the device is not registered, and said fine shall not be reduced
or suspended, and may result in forfeiture of license to operate a sweepstakes/
internet café.
(Ord. 11-69, passed 11-22-2011)
§ 870.05 REVOCATION; HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (a)   The license may be suspended or revoked at any time by the city on
satisfactory proof that violation of the laws of the state, ordinances of the
city, or of this chapter occur on the premises. In addition to any license
suspension, the city may assess the licensee a penalty fee of not less than
five hundred dollars ($500) nor more than one thousand five hundred dollars
($1,500) for any violation of this section. Each day a continuing violation
exists shall constitute a separate violation for purpose of assessing penalty
fees. Suspensions, revocations and assessments of penalty fees is in addition
to and separate from any criminal liability and does not preclude criminal
prosecution for any violation of this section or other municipal, state or
federal laws.
   (b)   The City Manager or his designee may regularly inspect the premises,
the operation, the computerized sweepstakes devices and the licensee's records
and may issue a complaint to the licensee for any violations.
(Ord. 11-69, passed 11-22-2011)
§ 870.06 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No operator of a sweepstakes/internet café shall permit the same to be or
remain open between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. of the next day. No
operator shall permit any person to operate any computerized sweepstakes devise
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. of the next day.
(Ord. 11-69, passed 11-22-2011)
§ 870.07 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   No licensee of a sweepstakes/internet café by himself/herself, directly or
indirectly, or by any servant, agent or employee, shall permit or fail to take
active steps to eliminate or prevent the activities specified in this section
from occurring on the premises. All such licensees shall have a duty to
diligently pursue enforcement of this section. The actions or inactions of the
operator and the failure to take action by the operator shall be imputed to the
licensees. No such licensee shall:
   (a)   Permit any indecent, immoral or profane language, or indecent, immoral
or disorderly conduct, upon the premises;
   (b)   Permit gambling as defined in the Ohio Revised Code in any form or the
possession or use of gambling paraphernalia upon the premises;
   (c)   Permit the possession or use of any unlawful drug, narcotic or
controlled substance;
   (d)   Permit the public streets, sidewalks, alleys or walkways adjacent to
the premises to become littered;
   (e)   Permit the premises or the activity conducted thereon to become a
public nuisance to the surrounding environs;
   (f)   Permit the walkways to become obstructed in any manner so that
pedestrian traffic is hindered;
   (g)   Permit any computerized sweepstakes device thereon to be operated at
any time the premises is not open for business, or permit the entrance to be
locked at any time that the premises are open for business;
   (h)   Permit the premises to be open for business without displaying the
licenses therefore in a conspicuous place thereon;
   (i)   Permit the operation of any unlicensed computerized sweepstakes device
upon the premises; or
   (j)   Permit any person under the age of 21 on the premises.
(Ord. 11-69, passed 11-22-2011)
§ 870.08 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (a)   Any sweepstakes/internet café shall have an adult who is 21 years of
age or over on the premises and supervising at all times the computerized
sweepstakes devices during all hours of operation.
   (b)   The operator shall require a photo identification of every person to
whom anything of value is given in connection with the sweepstakes/internet
café and shall record the person's name, date of birth, and home address and a
description of the thing given, a stated dollar value of the thing given, the
date and time of the giving and, if an entertainment device is involved in the
circumstances of the giving, the serial number of other identifying description
of the device.
      (1)   If the dollar value given for any single event for which there is a
chance of winning, as calculated by the odds of winning provided to the city in
§
870.03, is six hundred dollars ($600) or more the operator shall also include a
record of the person's Social Security number.
      (2)   Since all gambling winnings are taxable, copies of Form W-2G that
you provide to sweepstakes winners must be provided to the City of Xenia Tax
Division by February 28 of the following year (e.g., February 28, 2013 for tax
year 2012).
   (c)   The operator shall post in a conspicuous place on the premises in the
room where the computerized sweepstakes devices are located in no less than
twenty point type:
      (1)   Each separate prize that may be given and each separate dollar
amount that might be given.
      (2)   The odds as stated in the filing with the city, as required in §
870.03(a)(8).
      (3)   A complete statement of the rules and conditions pertaining to the
giving of any prize or anything of value to any person, whether or not the
determination of the giving of the thing of value or the delivery of the thing
of value occurs totally within the confines of the premises or requires some
event, occurrence or happening at another location.
         A.   The operator shall keep a complete set of all records of the
operation at the premises at all times, including all federal, state and local
tax records, all records of payments and receipts, all records of expenses and
revenues of the operation, all banking records, all contracts, leases and
agreement affecting the premises, equipment and operation, all personnel
records and all other records pertaining to the business. Records shall be
maintained for ten years.
         B.   No applicant shall make a false or incorrect statement in an
application for a license and no operator shall fail to update the information
supplied to the city to reflect existing operations as required in §
870.03(b).
         C.   It is the intent of this chapter that operators are strictly
liable for any violation of this section.
         D.   No person shall be denied any license or the right to use a
licensed computerized sweepstakes device under this chapter in the city because
of race, color, creed, sex, religious belief or natural origin.
(Ord. 11-69, passed 11-22-2011)
§ 870.09 NUISANCE.
   A violation of this chapter shall constitute a nuisance and is subject to
civil proceedings, including an injunction, as well as prosecution for criminal
violations of the State of Ohio and Codified Ordinances of the City of Xenia.
(Ord. 11-69, passed 11-22-2011)
§ 870.98 SEVERABILITY.
   In the event any provision of this chapter shall be declared by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall
not affect the validity of this chapter as a whole or any part thereof other
than the part so declared to be invalid or unconstitutional.
(Ord. 11-69, passed 11-22-2011)
§ 870.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which a specific penalty
is not otherwise stated shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues. In addition to the penalties set forth herein,
the license for the sweepstakes/internet café shall be permanently revoked.
(Ord. 11-69, passed 11-22-2011)
CHAPTER 872: Medical Marijuana and Adult Use Cannabis Operators
Section
872.01   Definitions.
872.02   Cultivating, processing, or dispensing medical marijuana prohibited.
872.99   Penalties.
   CROSS REFERENCES
      See Section Histories for Similar State Law
      Adult Use Cannabis Control - ORC Ch. 3780
      Medical Marijuana - ORC Ch. 3796
§ 872.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   "Adult use cannabis" or "cannabis" or "marijuana" means marihuana as
defined in ORC 3719.01.
   (b)   "Adult use cannabis operator" includes adult use cannabis cultivators,
adult use processors, and adult use dispensaries, as defined in ORC 3780.01.
   (c)   "Medical marijuana" means marijuana that is cultivated, processed,
dispensed, tested, possessed, or used for a medical purpose.
   (d)   "Medical marijuana operator" means a medical marijuana cultivators,
processors, and retail dispensaries, as the same are defined in ORC Chapter
3796.
(Ord. 17-14. Adopted 04/13/17; Ord. 2024-26. Adopted 10/10/24)
§ 872.02 CULTIVATING, PROCESSING, OR DISPENSING MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROHIBITED.
   (a)   Medical Marijuana. In accordance with ORC 3796.29, medical marijuana
operators licensed under ORC Chapter 3796. are prohibited within the City of
Xenia. As provided in ORC 3796.29, this section does not limit research related
to marijuana conducted at a state university, academic medical center, or
private research and development organization as part of a research protocol
approved by an institutional review board or equivalent entity.
   (b)   Adult Use Cannabis. In accordance with ORC 3780.25, adult use cannabis
operators licensed under ORC Chapter 3780. are prohibited within the City of
Xenia. As provided in ORC 3780.25, this section does not:
      (1)   Limit research related to marijuana conducted at a state
university, academic medical center, or private research and development
organization as part of a research protocol approved by an institutional review
board or equivalent entity;
      (2)   Prohibit or limit home grow otherwise authorized under ORC Chapter
3780;
      (3)   Prohibit or restrict any other activity that is authorized under
ORC Chapter 3780.
   (c)   Prohibition. No person shall cultivate, process, dispense, or sell
medical marijuana or adult use cannabis within this City in violation of this
section.
(Ord. 17-14. Adopted 04/13/17; Ord. 2024-26. Adopted 10/10/24)
§ 872.99 PENALTIES.
   Whoever violates Section
872.02(c) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate and complete offense.
(Ord. 17-14. Adopted 04/13/17; Ord. 2024-26. Adopted 10/10/24)
TITLE FOUR: TAXATION
CHAPTER 878: DEFINITIONS — IN EFFECT FOR TAX YEARS 2015 AND PRIOR
Section
878.01   Definitions.
§ 878.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of these Codified Ordinances, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME. A C corporation’s federal taxable income
before net operating losses and special deductions as determined under the
Internal Revenue Code, but including subsequent adjustments from required
additions and deductions. Pass-through entities must compute adjusted federal
taxable income as if the pass-through entity was a C corporation. This
definition does not apply to any taxpayer required to file a return under Ohio
R.C. 5745.03 or to the net profit from a sole proprietorship.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Director of Finance, as set forth in §§
6.03 and
6.04 of the Xenia City Charter, or the delegate of the Director of Finance.
   ASSOCIATION. A partnership, limited partnership, S corporation or any other
form of unincorporated enterprise, owned by one or more persons.
   BUSINESS or DIRECT ACCOUNT. An enterprise, profession, undertaking or other
activity of any nature conducted for profit, whether by an individual,
partnership, limited partnership, corporation or any other entity, including,
but not limited to, the leasing of property, real, personal or mixed.
   CORPORATION. A corporation or joint stock association organized under the
laws of the United States, the State of Ohio or any other state, territory or
foreign country or dependency.
   DIRECTOR OF FINANCE. The Director of Finance of the City of Xenia.
   DOMICILE. A principal residence that the taxpayer intends to use for an
indefinite time and to which whenever he or she is absent he or she intends to
return. A taxpayer has only one domicile even though he or she may have more
than one residence.
   EMPLOYEE. One who works for qualifying wages, salary, commission, other
compensation and other taxable income earned and received in the service of an
employer.
   EMPLOYER. An individual, partnership, association, corporation, governmental
body, unit or agency, or any other entity, whether or not organized for profit,
having a place of business or doing business within the city, and businesses
performing services for the city and who or that employ one or more persons on
a qualifying wage, commission or other compensation, or other taxable income
basis.
   FISCAL YEAR. An accounting period of 12 months or less ending on any day
other than December 31.
   GENERIC FORM. An electronic or paper form designed for reporting estimated
municipal income taxes and annual municipal income tax liability or for filing
a refund claim that is not prescribed by a particular municipal corporation for
the reporting of that municipal corporation’s tax on income. Any municipality
that requires taxpayers to file income tax returns, reports or other documents
shall accept for filing a generic form of such return, report, or document if
the generic form, once completed and filed, contains all of the information
required to be submitted with the municipality’s prescribed returns, reports or
documents.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. The total income from any source whatsoever required to be
included in the return.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. Every establishment kept, used, maintained, advertised or
held out to the public to be a place where sleeping accommodations are offered
for a consideration to guests, in which five or more rooms are used for the
accommodation of such guests, whether such rooms are in one or several
structures.
   INCOME FROM A PASS-THROUGH ENTITY. Partnership income of partners,
membership interests of members of a limited liability company, distributive
shares of shareholders of an S corporation, or other distributive or
proportionate ownership shares of income from other pass-through entities.
   INTANGIBLE INCOME. Income of any of the following types: income yield,
interest, capital gains, dividends, or other income arising from the ownership,
sale, exchange, or other disposition of intangible property including, but not
limited to, investments, deposits, money, or credits as those terms are defined
in Ohio R.C. Chapter 5701, and patents, copyrights, trademarks, tradenames,
investments in real estate investment trusts, investments in regulated
investment companies, and appreciation on deferred compensation. INTANGIBLE
INCOME does not include prizes, awards, or other income associated with any
lottery or gambling winnings or other similar games of chance.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 100 Stat. 2085, 26
U.S.C. 1, as amended.
   INTERNET. The international computer network of both federal and nonfederal
interoperable packet switched data networks, including the graphical subnetwork
known as the worldwide web.
   LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY. A limited liability company formed under Ohio
R.C. Chapter 1705 or under the laws of another state.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any and all vehicles included in the definition of motor
vehicle in Ohio R.C. 4501.01 and 4505.01.
   NET PROFIT. For a taxpayer other than an individual, NET PROFIT means
adjusted federal taxable income. NET PROFIT for a taxpayer who is an individual
means the individual’s profit required to be reported on schedule C, schedule
E, schedule F, schedule K1 or any other applicable federal schedule.
   NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN. A compensation plan described in
the Internal Revenue Code § 3121(v)(2)(C).
   NONRESIDENT. Any individual who is domiciled outside the city.
   NONRESIDENT INCORPORATED BUSINESS ENTITY. An incorporated business entity
not having an office or place of business within the municipality.
   NONRESIDENT UNINCORPORATED BUSINESS ENTITY. An unincorporated business
entity not having a place of business within the city.
   OCCUPANCY. The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of
any room or rooms or facility, space or portion thereof, in any hotel or motel,
for dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes. The use or possession or the right
to use or possess, any room or any suite of connecting rooms, as office space
or as banquet or private dining rooms, or as exhibit, sample or display space,
shall not be considered OCCUPANCY within the meaning of this definition, unless
the person exercising OCCUPANCY uses or possesses, or has the right to use or
possess, all or any portion of such room or suite of rooms for dwelling,
lodging or sleeping purposes.
   OPERATOR. The person who is the proprietor of the hotel or motel, whether in
the capacity of owner, lessee, licensee, mortgagee in possession or any other
capacity. Where the OPERATOR performs his or her functions through a managing
agent of any kind, other than an employee, the managing agent shall be deemed
an OPERATOR for the purposes of this chapter and shall have the same duties and
liabilities as his or her principal. Compliance with the provisions of this
chapter by either the principal or the managing agent shall, however, be
considered to be compliance by both.
   OTHER ACTIVITY. Any undertaking, not otherwise specifically defined herein,
which is normally entered into for profit, including, but not limited to, the
rental of real and personal property and a business conducted by a trust or
guardianship estate.
   OTHER PAYER. Any person, other than an individual’s employer or the
employer’s agent, that pays an individual any amount included in the federal
gross income of the individual.
   OWNER. A partner of a partnership, a member of a limited liability company,
a shareholder of an S corporation, or other person with an ownership interest
in a pass-through entity.
   OWNER’S PROPORTIONATE SHARE. With respect to each owner of a pass-through
entity, means the ratio of (a) the owners’ income from the pass-through entity
that is subject to taxation by the municipal corporation, to (b) the total
income from that entity of all owners whose income from the entity is subject
to taxation by that municipal corporation.
   PARTNERSHIP. All partnerships, limited partnerships or any other form of
unincorporated enterprise owned by two or more persons.
   PASS-THROUGH ENTITY. A partnership, limited liability company, S
corporation, or any other class of entity the income or profits from which are
given pass-through treatment under the Internal Revenue Code.
   PERSON. Individuals, firms, companies, business trusts, estates, trusts,
partnerships, limited liability companies, associations, governmental entities
and any other entity. Whenever used in any section prescribing and imposing a
penalty, the term PERSON includes an officer or employee of a corporation, or a
member or employee of an association, who, as such officer, employee or member,
is under a duty to perform the act in respect of which the violation occurs.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any bona fide office (other than a mere statutory
office), factory, warehouse or other space which is occupied and used by the
taxpayer in carrying on any business activity individually or through one or
more of his or her regular employees regularly in attendance.
   PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS. In the case of an employer having headquarters’
activities at a place of business within a taxing municipality, the place of
business at which the headquarters is situated. In the case of any employer not
having its headquarters’ activities at a place of business within a taxing
municipality, the term means the largest place of business located in a taxing
municipality.
   PROPERTY. The rights and interests which an individual or business (one) has
in anything subject to ownership, whether that thing is movable or immovable,
tangible or intangible, visible or invisible.
   QUALIFIED PLAN. A retirement plan satisfying the requirements under the
Internal Revenue Code § 401, as amended.
   QUALIFYING NON-RETAIL BUSINESS. A business involved in manufacturing,
distribution, research and development, technology, or any other non-retail
business category deemed eligible by City Council.
   QUALIFYING WAGES. Wages, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code § 312(a),
without regard to any wage limitations, adjusted in accordance with Ohio R.C.
718.03(A).
   RENT. The consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and
property or services of any kind, and also any amount for which the occupant is
liable for the occupancy, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
   RESIDENT. An individual domiciled in the City of Xenia.
   RESIDENT INCORPORATED BUSINESS ENTITY. An incorporated business entity whose
office, place or operations or business situs is within the municipality.
   RESIDENT UNINCORPORATED BUSINESS ENTITY. An unincorporated business entity
having a place of business within the city or doing business for the city.
   RETURN PREPARER. Any person other than a taxpayer that is authorized by a
taxpayer to complete or file an income tax return, report, or other document
for or on behalf of the taxpayer.
   RULES AND REGULATIONS. The rules and regulations as set forth in this
chapter.
   S CORPORATION. A corporation that has made an election under subchapter S of
Chapter 1 of Subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code for its taxable year.
   SCHEDULE C. Internal Revenue Service schedule C filed by a taxpayer pursuant
to the Internal Revenue Code.
   SCHEDULE E. Internal Revenue Service schedule E filed by a taxpayer pursuant
to the Internal Revenue Code.
   SCHEDULE F. Internal Revenue Service schedule F filed by a taxpayer pursuant
to the Internal Revenue Code.
   SCHEDULE K1. Internal Revenue Service schedule K1 filed by a taxpayer
pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   SOLE PROPRIETORSHIP. A business entity that is owned entirely by one
individual.
   TAX APPEALS COMMITTEE. The Committee created by and constituted as provided
in §
880.13.
   TAXABLE INCOME. Qualifying wages paid by an employer or employers,
compensation for personal services, other income defined by statute as taxable,
including all income received as gambling winnings as reported on IRS Form W-
2G, Form 5754 and or any other form required by the IRS that reports winnings
from gambling, prizes, and lottery winnings and net profits, and/or adjusted
federal taxable income from the operation of a business, profession, or other
enterprise or activity adjusted in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year or the fiscal year upon the basis of which
the taxable income is to be computed under this chapter and, in the case of a
return for a fractional part of a year, the period for which such return is
required to be made. Unless approved by the Administrator, the TAXABLE YEAR of
a wage earner shall be a calendar year.
   TAXING MUNICIPALITY. A municipality levying a tax on income earned by
nonresidents working within such municipality or on income earned by its
residents.
   TAXPAYER. An individual or an officer of any unincorporated enterprise, any
corporation or any other entity, required hereunder to file a return or pay a
tax.
   TRANSIENT GUESTS. Persons occupying a room or rooms for sleeping
accommodations for less than 30 consecutive days.
   UNINCORPORATED BUSINESS. An enterprise, activity, profession or undertaking
of any nature conducted for profit or ordinarily conducted for profit, whether
by an individual (sole proprietor) or partnership.
(1997 Code, §§ 880.02, 882.01, 884.01) (Ord. 87-59, passed 8-27-1987; Ord. 82-
6, passed 2-11-1982; Ord. 91-62, passed 10-24-1991; Am. Ord. 04-33, passed 8-
12-2004; Am. Ord. 10-37, passed 8-26-2010)
CHAPTER 880: INCOME TAX — IN EFFECT FOR TAX YEARS 2015 AND PRIOR
Section
880.01   Purpose; levy of tax.
880.02   Definitions.
880.03   Imposition of direct tax.
880.04   Imposition of withholding tax.
880.05   Effective period.
880.06   Return and payment of tax.
880.07   Declarations.
880.08   Duties and powers of the Administrator.
880.09   Investigative powers of Administrator; divulging confidential
information.
880.10   Interest and penalties.
880.11   Collection of unpaid taxes; refund of overpayments.
880.12   Violations; statute of limitations.
880.13   Tax Appeals Committee.
880.14   Allocation of funds.
880.15   Credit for tax paid to another municipality or joint economic
development district.
880.16   Collection of tax after termination of chapter.
880.17   Charge for dishonored checks.
880.18   Rules and regulations.
880.19   Income Tax Fund. (Repealed)
880.20   Exemptions.
880.21   Separability.
880.22   Ohio Business Gateway.
880.23   Delinquent income tax accounts sent to debt collection agencies.
880.24   Income Tax Rebate Program.
 
880.99   Penalty.
   CROSS REFERENCES
   Power to levy - see Ohio Const., Art. XVIII, § 3
   Payroll deductions - see Ohio R.C. 9.42
   Municipal income taxes - see Ohio R.C. Ch. 718
§ 880.01 PURPOSE; LEVY OF TAX.
   To provide funds for the purposes of capital improvements, general municipal
operations, maintenance, new equipment, extension and enlargement of municipal
services and facilities of the city, there shall be and is hereby levied a tax
on qualifying wages, compensation for personnel services, other income,
including gambling and lottery winnings and net profits, and/or adjusted
federal taxable income.
(Ord. 82-6, passed 2-11-1982; Am. Ord. 04-33, passed 8-12-2004)
§ 880.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and/or phrases used in this section are defined in
Chapter 878, §
878.01.
   ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME
   ADMINISTRATOR
   ASSOCIATION
   BUSINESS OR DIRECT ACCOUNT
   CORPORATION
   DOMICILE
   EMPLOYEE
   EMPLOYER
   FISCAL YEAR
   GENERIC FORM
   GROSS RECEIPTS
   INCOME FROM A PASS-THROUGH ENTITY
   INTANGIBLE INCOME
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE
   INTERNET
   LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY
   NET PROFIT
   NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN
   NONRESIDENT
   NONRESIDENT INCORPORATED BUSINESS ENTITY
   NONRESIDENT UNINCORPORATED BUSINESS ENTITY
   OTHER ACTIVITY
   OTHER PAYER
   OWNER
   OWNER’S PROPORTIONATE SHARE
   PARTNERSHIP
   PASS-THROUGH ENTITY
   PERSON
   PLACE OF BUSINESS
   PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS
   PROPERTY
   QUALIFIED PLAN
   QUALIFYING WAGES
   RESIDENT
   RESIDENT INCORPORATED BUSINESS ENTITY
   RESIDENT UNINCORPORATED BUSINESS ENTITY
   RETURN PREPARER
   RULES AND REGULATIONS
   S CORPORATION
   SCHEDULE C
   SCHEDULE E
   SCHEDULE F
   SCHEDULE K1
   SOLE PROPRIETORSHIP
   TAX APPEALS COMMITTEE
   TAXABLE INCOME
   TAXING MUNICIPALITY
   TAXABLE YEAR
   TAXPAYER
   UNINCORPORATED BUSINESS
(Ord. 82-6, passed 2-11-1982; Am. Ord. 04-33, passed 8-12-2004)
§ 880.03 IMPOSITION OF DIRECT TAX.
   Subject to the provisions of §§
880.16 and
880.20, an annual tax for the purposes specified in §
880.01 shall be imposed on and after 1-1-2011, at the rate of two and one-
quarter percent per annum on taxable income as specified in Article III,
paragraph A.1, of the Income Tax Rules and Regulations.
(Ord. 91-24, passed 5-16-1991: Am. Ord. 10-27, passed 6-24-2010)
§ 880.04 IMPOSITION OF WITHHOLDING TAX.
   Subject to the provisions of §§
880.16 and
880.20, each employer shall, at the time of payment of any taxable income
specified in Article III, paragraph B., of the Income Tax Rules and
Regulations, deduct the tax of two and one-quarter percent, commencing 1-1-
2011, of the qualifying wages due by such employer to his or her employees who
are subject to the provisions of this chapter. Each employer shall make returns
and pay to the Accounts Receivable Division the tax withheld in accordance with
Article III, paragraph B.1, of the Income Tax Rules and Regulations.
(Ord. 91-24, passed 5-16-1991; Am. Ord. 03-40, passed 8-14-2003; Am. Ord. 04-
33, passed 8-12-2004; Am. Ord. 10-27, passed 6-24-2010)
§ 880.05 EFFECTIVE PERIOD.
   (a)   The tax imposed by this chapter shall be levied, collected and paid
with respect to the qualifying wages, commissions, other compensation, and
other taxable income earned and received, and shall be levied with respect to
the net profits of businesses, professions or other activities earned and
accrued or received, commencing 10-1-1967.
    (b)   Where the fiscal year of the business, profession or other activity
differs from the calendar year, the tax shall be applied to that part of the
annual net profits for the fiscal year as shall be earned and accrued or
received on and after 10-1-1967.
(Ord. 82-6, passed 2-11-1982; Am. Ord. 04-33, passed 8-12-2004)
§ 880.06 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (a)   Each city resident and each person who engages in business or other
activity or whose qualifying wage, commission, other compensation and other
taxable income earned and received is subject to the tax imposed by this
chapter, shall, whether or not a tax is due thereon, make and file a return on
or before April 15 of each year. For tax years beginning after 2007, the filing
date for filing on a calendar year basis shall not be required to be filed on
any date before the filing date for the corresponding tax reporting period as
prescribed for such a taxpayer under the Internal Revenue Code. When the return
is made for a fiscal year or other period different from the calendar year, the
return shall be filed on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month from
the end of such fiscal year or period.
(Ord. 89-30, passed 6-8-1989; Am. Ord. 04-33, passed 8-12-2004)
   (b)   The return shall be filed with the Accounts Receivable Division on a
generic form or forms furnished by or obtainable upon request from the Accounts
Receivable Division setting forth:
      (1)   The aggregate amounts of taxable income received by him or her
earned during the preceding year and subject to such tax;
      (2)   The amounts of the tax imposed by this chapter on such taxable
income; and
      (3)   Such other pertinent statements, information returns or other
information as the Administrator may require.
   (c)   The Administrator may extend the time for filing of the annual return
upon the request of the taxpayer and receipt of the federal extension to the
last day of the month following the month to which the due date of the federal
return has been extended. Extension requests must be accompanied by payment of
estimated tax liability to avoid non-payment penalty and/or interest.
(Am. Ord. 06-65, passed 10-26-2006)
    (d)   (1)   The taxpayer making a return shall, at the time of the filing
thereof, pay to the Accounts Receivable Division the amount of taxes shown as
due thereon, provided, however, that credit shall be allowed for:
         A.   Any portion of the tax so due which shall have been deducted at
the source pursuant to the provisions of §
880.04;
         B.   Any portion of such tax which shall have been paid by the
taxpayer pursuant to the provisions of §
880.07; and
         C.   Credit to the extent allowed by §
880.15 for tax paid to another municipality.
      (2)   Subject to the limitations contained in §
880.11, any taxpayer who has overpaid the amount of tax to which the city is
entitled under the provisions of this chapter may have such overpayment applied
against any subsequent liability hereunder or, at his or her election indicated
on the return, such overpayment (or part thereof) shall be refunded.
    (e)   (1)   Where necessary, an amended return shall be filed in order to
report additional income and pay any additional tax due, or claim a refund of
tax overpaid, subject to the requirements and/or limitations contained in §
880.11. Such amended returns shall be on a generic form or form obtainable from
the Accounts Receivable Division. A taxpayer may not change the method of
accounting or apportionment of taxable income after the due date for filing the
original return without the approval of the Administrator.
      (2)   Within three months from the final determination of any federal tax
liability affecting the taxpayer’s city tax liability, such taxpayer shall make
and file an amended city return showing income subject to the city tax based
upon such final determination of federal tax liability and pay any additional
tax shown due thereon or make claim for refund of any overpayment.
   (f)   Information returns, schedules and statements required to support tax
returns which are incomplete without such information shall be filed within the
time limits set forth for the filing of the tax returns and the failure to file
such information returns, schedules and statements shall be deemed to be a
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 82-6, passed 2-11-1982; Am. Ord. 04-33, passed 8-12-2004; Am. Ord. 08-65,
passed 9-25-2008)
§ 880.07 DECLARATIONS.
   (a)   Every person who anticipates the receipt of any taxable income which
is not subject to §
880.04, or who engages in any business, profession, enterprise or activity
subject to the tax imposed by §
880.03, shall file a declaration setting forth such person’s estimated taxable
income, together with any estimated tax due thereon, if any, provided, however,
that if a person’s income is wholly from qualified wages from which the tax
shall be withheld and remitted to the city in accordance with §
880.04, such person need not file a declaration.
   (b)   (1)   Such declaration shall be filed on or before April 30 of each
year during the life of this chapter, or within four months after the date the
taxpayer becomes subject to the provisions of this chapter. For tax years
beginning after 2003, such declaration shall be filed on or before April 15 of
each year during the life of this chapter or on or before the fifteenth day of
the fourth month after the date the taxpayer becomes subject to the provisions
of this chapter.
      (2)   Those taxpayers reporting on a fiscal year basis shall file a
declaration within four months after the beginning of each fiscal year or
period. For tax years beginning after 2003, those taxpayers reporting on a
fiscal year basis shall file a declaration on or before the fifteenth day of
the fourth month after the beginning of each fiscal year or period.
    (c)   (1)   Such declaration shall be filed upon a generic form or form
furnished by or obtainable upon request from the Accounts Receivable Division,
provided, however, that credit shall be taken for the city tax to be withheld
from any portion of such income to determine the estimated tax due. In
accordance with the provisions of §
880.15, credit may be taken for tax to be paid or to be withheld and remitted
to another taxing municipality.
      (2)   The original declaration (or any subsequent amendment thereof) may
be amended at any time.
(Ord. 82-6, passed 2-11-1982; Am. Ord. 04-33, passed 8-12-2004)
      (3)   An amended declaration shall be filed on or before January 31 of
the following year, or, in the case of a taxpayer on a fiscal year, on or
before the date fixed by regulation of the Administrator if it appears that the
original declaration made for such taxable year underestimated the taxpayer’s
income by 20 percent or more. At such time, a payment which, together with
prior payments, is sufficient to pay the taxpayer’s entire estimated liability
shall be made. If, upon the filing of the return required by §
880.06, it appears that the taxpayer did not pay 80 percent of his or her tax
liability as shown on such return, on or before January 31 or the date fixed by
regulations, whichever is applicable, the difference between 80 percent of such
taxpayer’s tax liability and the amount of estimated tax actually paid on or
before January 31, or the date fixed by regulation, whichever is applicable,
shall be subject to the interest and penalty provisions of §
880.10. For tax years beginning after 2003, an amended declaration shall be
filed on or before January 15 of the following year, or, in the case of a
taxpayer on a fiscal year, on or before the date fixed by regulation of the
Administrator if it appears that the original declaration made for such taxable
year underestimated the taxpayer’s income by 20 percent or more. At such time,
a payment which, together with prior payments, is sufficient to pay the
taxpayer’s entire estimated liability shall be made. If, upon the filing of the
return required by §
880.06, it appears that the taxpayer did not pay 80 percent of his or her tax
liability as shown on such return, on or before January 15 or the date fixed by
regulations, whichever is applicable, the difference between 80 percent of such
taxpayer’s tax liability and the amount of estimated tax actually paid on or
before January 15, or the date fixed by regulation, whichever is applicable,
shall be subject to the interest and penalty provisions of §
880.10.
(Ord. 89-72, passed 11-21-1989; Am. Ord. 04-33, passed 8-12-2004)
   (d)   (1)   Such declaration of net estimated tax to be paid to the city
shall be accompanied by a payment of at least one-fourth of the estimated
annual tax, less credit, and at least a similar amount shall be paid on or
before the last day of the seventh, tenth and thirteenth months after the
beginning of the taxable year. However, in case an amended declaration has been
filed, the unpaid balance shown due thereon shall be paid in equal installments
on or before the remaining payment dates. For tax years beginning after 2003,
such declaration of net estimated tax to be paid to the city shall be
accompanied by a payment of at least one-fourth of the estimated annual tax,
less credit, and at least a similar amount shall be paid on or before the
fifteenth day of the seventh, tenth, and thirteenth months after the beginning
of the taxable year. However, in case an amended declaration has been filed,
the unpaid balance shown due thereon shall be paid in equal installments on or
before the remaining payment dates.
      (2)   However, the last quarterly payment of estimated tax need not be
made if the taxpayer files his or her final return and pays the balance of the
tax due thereon within 45 days following the end of his or her taxable year.
   (e)   On or before the last day of the fourth month of the calendar or
fiscal year following that for which such declaration or amended declaration
was filed, an annual return shall be filed and any balance which may be due the
city shall be paid therewith in accordance with the provisions of §
880.06. For tax years beginning after 2003, on or before the fifteenth day of
the fourth month of the calendar or fiscal year following that for which such
declaration or amended declaration was filed, an annual return shall be filed
and any balance which may be due the city shall be paid therewith in accordance
with the provisions of §
880.06.
(Ord. 82-6, passed 2-11-1982; Am. Ord. 04-33, passed 8-12-2004)
§ 880.08 DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (a)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Administrator to receive the tax
imposed by this chapter in the manner prescribed herein from the taxpayers, to
keep an accurate record thereof and to report daily all moneys so received.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Administrator to enforce payment of all
taxes owing the city, to keep accurate records for a minimum of six years
showing the amount due from each taxpayer required to file a declaration and/or
make any return, including taxes withheld, and to show the dates and amount of
payments thereof.
   (b)   The Administrator is hereby charged with the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter, and is hereby empowered, subject to the approval of
the City Council by motion, to adopt, promulgate and enforce rules and
regulations relating to any matter or thing pertaining to the collection of
taxes and the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter,
including provisions for the re-examination and correction of returns.
    (c)   In any case where a taxpayer or employer has failed to file a return
or has filed a return which does not show the proper amount of tax due, the
Administrator may assess the amount of tax appearing to be due, together with
interest and penalties thereon, if any, as specified in Article VI. C of the
Income Tax Rules and Regulations.
(Ord. 82-6, passed 2-11-1982; Am. Ord. 04-33, passed 8-12-2004)
§ 880.09 INVESTIGATIVE POWERS OF ADMINISTRATOR; DIVULGING CONFIDENTIAL
INFORMATION.
   (a)   The Administrator, or any authorized employee, is hereby authorized to
examine the books, papers, records and copies of federal income tax returns of
any employer or of any taxpayer or person subject to, or whom the Administrator
believes is subject to, the provisions of this chapter, for the purpose of
verifying the accuracy of any return made, or, if no return was made, to
ascertain the tax due under this chapter. Every such employer, supposed
employer, taxpayer or supposed taxpayer, is hereby directed and required to
furnish, within ten days following a written request by the Administrator, or
any duly authorized agent or employee, the means, facilities and opportunity
for making such examinations and investigations as are hereby authorized.
   (b)   The Administrator is hereby authorized to order any person presumed to
have knowledge of the facts to appear before him or her and may examine such
person, under oath, concerning any income which was or should have been
returned for taxation or any transaction tending to affect such income, and for
this purpose may compel the production of books, papers, records and copies of
federal income tax returns and the attendance of all persons before him or her,
whether as parties or witnesses, whenever he or she believes such persons have
knowledge of such income or information pertinent to such inquiry.
   (c)   The refusal to produce books, papers, records and copies of federal
income tax returns, or the refusal to submit to such examination, by any
employer or person subject or presumed to be subject to the tax, or by any
officer, agent or employee of a person subject to the tax or required to
withhold tax, or the failure of any person to comply with the provisions of
this section or with an order or subpoena of the Accounts Receivable Division
authorized hereby, shall be deemed to be in violation of this chapter,
punishable as provided in §
880.99.
   (d)   Any information gained as the result of any returns, investigations,
hearings or verifications required or authorized by this chapter shall be
confidential, except for official purposes, or except when ordered by a court
of competent jurisdiction. No person shall divulge such information in
violation of this subsection.
   (e)   Every taxpayer shall retain all records necessary to compute his or
her tax liability for a period of six years from the date his or her return is
filed or the withholding taxes are paid.
    (f)   Every owner of one or more rental units and every owner or operator
of a mobile home park is hereby directed to furnish to the Accounts Receivable
Division a semi-annual roster of the names of all the persons residing in such
rental unit or mobile home park and shall also file a statement of any changes
in the roster at the end of each month. The semi-annual statement provided for
herein shall be filed with the Accounts Receivable Division on or before
January 31 and July 31.
(Ord. 82-6, passed 2-11-1982; Ord. 04-33, passed 8-12-2004)
§ 880.10 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (a)   All taxes imposed and all moneys withheld or required to be withheld
by employers under the provisions of this chapter and remaining unpaid after
they become due shall bear interest as specified by Article III, A., 2., h. and
Article III, B., 2., a. (3) of the Income Tax Rules and Regulations.
    (b)   In addition to interest as provided in subsection (a) hereof,
penalties are hereby imposed as specified by Article III, A., 2., h. and
Article III, B., 2., a., (3) of the Income Tax Rules and Regulations.
(Ord. 89-72, passed 11-21-1989)
§ 880.11 COLLECTION OF UNPAID TAXES; REFUND OF OVERPAYMENTS.
   (a)   All taxes imposed by this chapter shall be collectible, together with
any interest and penalties thereon, by suit, as other debts of like amount are
recoverable. Except in the case of fraud, omission of 25 percent of income
subject to this tax, or failure to file a return, an additional assessment
shall not be made after three years from the time the return was due or filed,
whichever is later, provided, however, that in those cases in which the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue and the taxpayer have executed a waiver of the
federal statute of limitations, the period within which an additional
assessment may be made by the Administrator shall be one year from the time of
the final determination of the federal tax liability.
    (b)   Taxes erroneously paid shall not be refunded unless a claim for
refund is made within three years from the date which such payment was made or
the return was due, or within three months after final determination of the
federal tax liability, whichever is later.
   (c)   Additional amounts of less than two dollars ($2.00) shall not be
refunded or assessed unless such assessment results from income which the
taxpayer has failed to report.
(Ord. 82-6, passed 2-11-1982)
   (d)   Interest shall be allowed and paid on any overpayment by a taxpayer of
any municipal income tax obligation from the date of overpayment until the date
of the refund of the overpayment, except that if any overpayment is refunded
within 90 days after the final filing date of the annual return or 90 days
after the complete return is filed, whichever is later, no interest shall be
allowed on the refunded overpayment. For purposes of computing the payment of
interest on overpayments, no amount of tax for any taxable year shall be
treated as having been paid before the date on which the tax return for that
year was due without regard to any extension of time for filing that return.
The interest shall be paid at the rate of interest prescribed by Ohio R.C.
5703.47.
(Ord. 04-33, passed 8-12-2004)
§ 880.12 VIOLATIONS; STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (a)   No person shall:
      (1)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any return or declaration required
by this chapter;
      (2)   Make any incomplete, false or fraudulent return;
      (3)   Knowingly fail or refuse to pay the tax, penalties or interest
imposed by this chapter;
      (4)   Knowingly fail or refuse to withhold the tax from his or her
employees or remit such withholding, penalties or interest imposed by this
chapter to the Accounts Receivable Division;
      (5)   Refuse to permit the Administrator or any duly authorized agent or
employee to examine his or her employer’s books, records, papers and copies of
federal income tax returns relating to the income or net profits of a taxpayer;
      (6)   Fail to appear before the Administrator and to produce his or her
or his or her employer’s books, records, papers or copies of federal income tax
returns relating to the income or net profits of a taxpayer under order of
subpoena of the Accounts Receivable Division;
      (7)   Refuse to disclose to the Administrator or any duly authorized
agent or employee any information with respect to the income or net profits of
a taxpayer;
      (8)   Fail to comply with the provisions of this chapter or any order or
subpoena of the Accounts Receivable Division; or
      (9)   Attempt to do anything whatever to avoid the payment of the whole
or any part of the tax, penalties or interest imposed by this chapter.
    (b)   (1)   Any person subject to the provisions of this chapter who has
failed to file a return or has filed an incorrect return, or who has failed to
pay the full amount of tax due, shall not be deemed to have committed an
offense punishable under the provisions of §
880.99 until the assessment issued against him or her under the provisions of §
880.08 has become due and payable.
      (2)   Any person who has filed a return under the provisions of this
chapter, indicating the amount of tax due, and who has failed to pay such tax,
together with any penalties or interest that may have accrued thereon, shall
not be deemed to have committed an offense for having knowingly failed to pay
the tax, penalties or interest due as provided in subsection (a)(3) hereof,
until the date of the filing of such return.
      (3)   The term person as used in this section, includes, in addition to
the meaning prescribed in §
880.02, in the case of an association or corporation not having any partner,
member or officer within the city, any employee or agent of such association or
corporation who can be found within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 89-72, passed 11-21-1989)
    (c)   All prosecutions under this section must be commenced within the
periods provided for in Ohio R.C. 718.12.
(Adopting Ordinance) (Ord. 04-33, passed 8-12-2004)
    (d)   The failure of any employer, taxpayer or person to receive or procure
a return, declaration or other required form shall not excuse him or her from
making any information return, return or declaration, from filing such forms or
from paying the tax.
(Ord. 82-6, passed 2-11-1982; Am. Ord. 89-72, passed 11-21-1989)
§ 880.13 TAX APPEALS COMMITTEE.
   (a)   A Chairperson and two other residents of the city shall constitute a
Tax Appeals Committee. Members of the Committee shall be appointed by Council
for four-year terms. A majority of the members of the Committee shall
constitute a quorum. The Committee shall adopt its own procedural rules and
shall keep a record of its transactions. Any hearing by the Committee may be
conducted privately and the provisions of §
880.09, with reference to the confidential character of information required to
be disclosed by this chapter, shall apply to such matters as may be heard
before the Committee on appeal.
   (b)   The Committee shall hear and pass on appeals from any ruling or
decision of the Administrator, and, at the request of the taxpayer or the
Administrator, is empowered to substitute alternative methods of allocation.
   (c)   Any person dissatisfied with any ruling or decision of the
Administrator which is made under the authority conferred by this chapter, or
any other ruling or decision of the Administrator concerning any other tax
imposed by this chapter or any other municipal ordinance, may appeal therefrom
to the Tax Appeals Committee. For the tax years beginning after 2003, the
taxpayer shall be notified in writing, at the same time of the decision, of
their right to appeal the decision of the Administrator and the manner in which
the taxpayer may appeal the decision. The appeal shall be in writing and shall
state with particularity why the decision should be deemed incorrect or
unlawful and shall be filed within 30 days from the announcement of such ruling
and decision by the Administrator. The Tax Appeals Committee shall schedule a
hearing with 45 days after receiving the request, unless the taxpayer waives
the hearing. If the taxpayer does not waive the hearing, the taxpayer may
appear before the Committee and may be represented by an attorney at law. Other
representatives such a CPAs may appear as witnesses. The Committee shall, on
hearing, have jurisdiction to affirm, reverse or modify such ruling or
decision, or any part thereof. The Tax Appeals Committee shall issue a decision
on the appeal within 90 days after the Committee’s final hearing on the appeal,
and send notice of its final decision by ordinary mail to all parties to the
appeal within 15 days after issuing the decision. For tax years beginning after
2003, the taxpayer or the Tax Administrator may appeal the Committee’s decision
to either Common Pleas Court or the Ohio Board of Tax Appeals.
(Am. Ord. 06-14, passed 1-26-2006)
   (d)   All references to the Board of Tax Appeals which appear in ordinances,
resolutions, motions, policies, procedures or any other document of the City of
Xenia, Ohio, shall mean the Tax Appeals Committee.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 3-11-1999; Am. Ord. 04-33, passed 8-12-2004)
§ 880.14 ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.
   (a)   The funds collected under the provisions of this chapter shall be
allocated in such manner as prescribed by ordinances adopted by the City
Council.
(Ord. 82-6, passed 2-11-1982)
   (b)   The proceeds from the one-quarter of one percent increase of the
income tax rate and the proceeds resulting from changes in the credit for tax
paid to another municipality shall be used solely for the purpose of employing
additional police and fire personnel.
(Ord. 91-24, passed 5-16-1991)
§ 880.15 CREDIT FOR TAX PAID TO ANOTHER MUNICIPALITY OR JOINT ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   (a)   Where a resident of the City of Xenia is subject to a municipal income
tax in another municipality, he or she shall receive a credit of not to exceed
one and one-half percent of the earnings taxed by such municipality against the
tax imposed by this chapter.
    (b)   Where a resident of the City of Xenia is subject to joint economic
development zone as created under Ohio R.C. 715.691 or a joint economic
development district created under Ohio R.C. 715.70, 715.71, or 715.72, he or
she shall receive a credit not to exceed one and one-half percent of the
earnings taxed by such joint economic development zone or joint economic
development district against the tax imposed by this chapter with the exception
of a joint economic district where the City of Xenia is a party to the joint
economic district and the Board of the joint economic zone or district levies a
tax up to or equivalent to the current City of Xenia Income tax rate.
   (c)   Every individual taxpayer who resides in the City of Xenia who
receives net profits, salaries, wages, commissions or other personal service
compensation for work done or services performed or rendered outside of the
City of Xenia, if it is made to appear that he or she has paid a municipal
income tax on the same income taxable under this chapter, shall be allowed a
credit against the tax imposed by this chapter of the amount so paid by him or
her or on his or her behalf to such other municipality. Such credit shall not
exceed one and one-half percent of the income so taxed by such other
municipality.
   (d)   Every individual taxpayer who resides in the City of Xenia who
receives net profits, salaries, wages, commissions or other personal service
compensation for work done or services performed or rendered outside of the
City of Xenia, if it is made to appear that he or she has paid a joint economic
development zone or joint economic development district tax on the same income
taxable under this chapter, shall be allowed a credit against the tax imposed
by this chapter of the amount so paid by him or her or on his or her behalf to
such joint economic development zone or joint economic district. Such credit
shall not exceed one and one-half percent of the income so taxed by such joint
economic development zone or joint economic district with the exception of a
joint economic zone or district where the City of Xenia is a party to the joint
economic zone or district and the Board of the joint economic zone or district
levies a tax up to or equivalent to the current City of Xenia Income tax rate.
   (e)   A claim for refund or credit under this section shall be made in such
manner as the Administrator may by regulation provide.
(Ord. 91-24, passed 5-16-1991)
   (f)   If tax or withholding is paid to a municipal corporation on taxable
income, and if a second municipal corporation imposes a tax on that taxable
income after the time period allowed for a refund of the tax or withholding
paid to the first municipal corporation, the second municipal corporation shall
allow a nonrefundable credit, against the tax or withholding the second
municipality claims is due with respect to such taxable income, equal to the
tax or withholding paid to the first municipal corporation with respect to such
taxable income. If the tax rate in the second municipal corporation is less
than the tax rate in the first municipal corporation, then the credit shall be
calculated using the tax rate in effect in the second municipal corporation.
(Ord. 04-33, passed 8-12-2004; Am. Ord. 11-46, passed 9-22-2011)
§ 880.16 COLLECTION OF TAX AFTER TERMINATION OF CHAPTER.
   (a)   This chapter shall continue effective, insofar as the levy of taxes
and the collection of taxes levied hereunder and actions or proceedings for
collecting any tax so levied or enforcing any provisions of this chapter are
concerned, until all of such taxes levied hereunder are fully paid and any and
all suits and prosecutions for the collection of such taxes or for the
punishment of violations of this chapter have been fully terminated, subject to
the limitations contained in §§
880.11 and
880.12.
    (b)   Annual returns due for all or any part of the last effective year of
this chapter shall be due on the date provided in §§
880.05 and
880.06 as though the same were continuing.
(Ord. 82-6, passed 2-11-1982)
§ 880.17 CHARGE FOR DISHONORED CHECKS.
   Effective 3-1-2006, a charge for dishonored checks as set forth in the fee
schedule in Part Two - Title Twelve, Chapter 298 of these Codified Ordinances
shall be added to the taxpayer’s income tax account as a handling charge when a
check submitted as payment for an income tax charge is not honored for any
reason by the bank on which it is drawn. The Director of Finance shall
recommend yearly to the City Council, at its first regular meeting in November,
the amount of the charge for dishonored checks based on an annual cost
analysis.
(Ord. 89-72, passed 11-21-1989; Am. Ord. 06-13, passed 1-26-2006)
§ 880.18 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of the rules and regulations referred to in this chapter,
known officially as the Income Tax Rules and Regulations, dated January, 1982,
are hereby approved, adopted and incorporated herein by reference and made a
part of this chapter along with any supplements or amendments thereto hereafter
approved by the City Council by motion. The Administrator is directed to carry
out the administration of his or her office in conformity with the provisions
of this chapter and the Income Tax Rules and Regulations.
(Ord. 82-6, passed 2-11-1982)
§ 880.19 INCOME TAX FUND. (REPEALED)
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: This section was repealed by Ordinance 05-73, passed 11-22-
2005.)
§ 880.20 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to any person or income as to whom or which it
is beyond the power of the City Council to impose the tax herein provided for.
(Ord. 82-6, passed 2-11-1982)
§ 880.21 SEPARABILITY.
   If any sentence, clause, section or part of this chapter, or any tax against
any individual or any of the several groups specified herein, is found to be
unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such unconstitutionality, illegality or
invalidity shall affect only such sentence, clause, section or part of this
chapter and shall not affect or impair any of the remaining sentences, clauses,
sections or other parts of this chapter. It is hereby declared to be the
intention of the City Council that this chapter would have been adopted had
such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid sentence, clause, section or part
thereof not been included herein.
(Ord. 82-6, passed 2-11-1982)
§ 880.22 OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY.
   (a)   For taxable years beginning on or after 1-1-2005, a taxpayer subject
to any municipal corporation’s tax on the net profit from a business or
profession may file any municipal income tax return or estimated municipal
income return, and may make payment of amounts due on such returns, by using
the Ohio Business Gateway.
   (b)   Any employer may report the amount of municipal income tax withheld
from qualifying wages paid on or after 1-1-2007, and may make remittance
amounts, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
   (c)   Notwithstanding §
880.06(c) of this chapter, on and after 1-1-2005, any taxpayer that is subject
to any municipal corporation’s tax on the net profit from a business or
profession and has received an extension to file the federal income tax return
shall not be required to notify the municipal corporation of the federal
extension and shall not be required to file any municipal income tax return
until the last day of the month to which the due date for filing the federal
return has been extended, provided that, on or before the date for filing the
municipal income tax return, the person notifies the Tax Commissioner of the
federal extension through the Ohio Business Gateway. An extension of time to
file is not an extension of the time to pay any tax due.
(Ord. 04-33, passed 8-12-2004)
§ 880.23 DELINQUENT INCOME TAX ACCOUNTS SENT TO DEBT COLLECTION AGENCIES.
   A charge in the amount set forth in Part Two - Title Twelve, Chapter 298 of
these Codified Ordinances shall be added to the taxpayer's account if the
income taxes, penalty and/or interest becomes more than 60 days past due and
the account is sent to a debt collection agency.
(Ord. 09-19, passed 4-9-2009)
§ 880.24 INCOME TAX REBATE PROGRAM.
   (a)   Where a qualifying non-retail business is subject to the provisions of
§
880.04, imposition of withholding tax, it may be eligible for the City Income
Tax Rebate Program. Qualifying businesses will be non- retail businesses
including, but not limited to, manufacturing, distribution, research and
development, or technology firms. The incentive program is available to
qualifying new businesses or qualifying existing businesses.
   (b)   The Income Tax Rebate Program will rebate a portion of withholding
income taxes collected from qualifying non-retail businesses creating at least
45 new full-time jobs with a wage of 150 percent of the federal minimum wage or
20 jobs at 400 percent of the federal minimum wage or some combination such
that the total payroll exceeds seven hundred fifty thousand dollars ($750,000)
for those jobs paying in excess of 150 percent of the federal minimum wage. At
least 20 percent of the jobs will be held by city residents.
   (c)   If the qualifying non-retail business adds the requisite number of
employees and payroll they will be eligible for a rebate of withholding taxes
paid based on a credit of up to 1 percent of the withholding income tax rate
(i.e. credit of up to 1 percent of current 2.25 percent tax rate equating to
44.44 percent rebate of withholding taxes paid). (EDITOR’S NOTE: The 2.25% tax
rate was approved by voters on November 2, 2010.)
   (d)   Qualifying non-retail businesses are eligible for a rebate for up to
five years, if they commit to staying in the city for at least ten years. The
rebate program will contain claw back provisions specified in the rebate
agreement if the qualifying non-retail business leaves prior to the ten-year
period or significantly reduces employment.
   (e)   All rebate agreements are subject to the approval of City Council.
(Ord. 10-37, passed 8-26-2010; Am. Ord. 14-60, passed 12-29-2014)
§ 880.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter, for which no
penalty is otherwise provided, is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree
and shall be fined not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisoned
not more than six months, or both, for each offense. If the offender has not
previously been convicted of a violation of this chapter, the court shall
impose a minimum fine of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) plus the costs of the
action. If the offender has previously been convicted of a violation of this
chapter within the five-year period preceding the date of the offense, the
court shall impose a minimum fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) plus the costs of
the action, in addition to any other penalty provided by this chapter.
(Ord. 89-72, passed 11-21-1989)
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates §
880.09(d) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisoned not more than six
months, or both, for each offense. Each disclosure shall constitute a separate
offense.
      (2)   In addition to the penalty set forth in this section, any employee
of the city who violates §
880.09(d) shall be guilty of an offense punishable by immediate dismissal.
(Ord. 82-6, passed 2-11-1982)
CHAPTER 881: MUNICIPAL INCOME TAX (FOR TAX YEARS BEGINNING JANUARY 1, 2016)
Section
881.01   Authority to Levy; Purpose; Rate; Applicability
881.02   Definitions
881.03   Imposition of Tax
881.04   Collection at the Source
881.05   Annual Return; Filing
881.06   Nonrefundable Credit for Tax Paid to Another Municipality
881.07   Estimated Taxes
881.08   Rounding of Amounts
881.09   Requests for Refunds
881.10   Amended Returns
881.11   Electronic Availability of Rules and Forms
881.12   Limitations
881.13   Audits
881.14   Service of Assessment
881.15   Administration of Claims
881.16   Tax Information Confidential
881.17   Falsification; Fraud
881.18   Interest and Penalties
881.19   Authority of Tax Administrator; Verification of Information
881.20   Request for Opinion of the Tax Administrator
881.21   Board of Tax Review
881.22   Rules and Regulations
881.23   Rental and Leased Property
881.24   Savings Clause
881.25   Collection of Tax After Termination of Chapter
881.26   Income Tax Rebate Program
881.27   Returns Filed Pursuant to Opt-In Provisions of ORC 718.80 – 718.95
881.99   Violations; Penalties
   CROSS REFERENCES
      Authority to Levy - see OH CONST. Article XVIII, Section 3
      Finance Department - see ADMIN. Chapter 236.
      Municipal Income Tax - see ORC Chapter 718.
§ 881.01 AUTHORITY TO LEVY; PURPOSE; RATE; APPLICABILITY.
   (a)   Authority to Levy. The tax on income and the withholding tax
established by this Chapter are authorized by Article XVIII, Section 3 of the
Ohio Constitution. The tax on income and the withholding tax established by
this Chapter are deemed to be levied in accordance with, and to be consistent
with, the provisions and limitations of ORC Chapter 718. This Chapter is
adopted with the intent to conform to ORC Chapter 718. and is deemed to
incorporate the provisions of ORC Chapter 718.
   (b)   Purpose. To provide funds for the purposes of capital improvements,
general municipal operations, maintenance, new equipment, extension and
enlargement of municipal services and facilities of the City, there shall be
and is hereby levied an annual municipal income tax on income, qualifying
wages, commissions and other compensation, and on net profits as provided in
this
Chapter 881.
   (c)   Rate of Tax. The rate of tax on income and the withholding tax
established by this Chapter shall be two and one-quarter percent (2.25%), and
shall continue at that rate until amended or repealed, as established by
Ordinance 10-27, which was approved by the voters on November 2, 2010, and
became effective on January 1, 2011. The tax is levied at a uniform rate on all
persons residing in or earning or receiving income in the City of Xenia. The
tax is levied on income, qualifying wages, commissions and other compensation,
and on net profits as provided in Section
881.03 of this Chapter and other sections as they may apply.
   (d)   Applicability.
      (1)   
Chapter 881., and corresponding changes to ORC Chapter 718. apply to municipal
taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016. All provisions of this
Chapter 881. apply to taxable years beginning 2016 and succeeding taxable
years.
      (2)   Enactment of this
Chapter 881. does not repeal the existing sections of
Chapter 880. for any taxable year prior to 2016. For municipal taxable years
beginning before January 1, 2016, the City shall continue to administer, audit
and enforce the income tax of the City under
Chapter 880., ORC Chapter 718., and ordinances and resolutions of the City as
those ORC Chapters, ordinances and resolutions existed before January 1, 2016.
   (e)   Allocation of Funds. The funds collected under the provisions of this
Chapter shall be allocated in such manner as prescribed by ordinances and
policies adopted by the City Council.
(Source: ORC 718.04)
(Ord. 15-33. Adopted 07/23/15; Ord. 2018-08. Adopted 02/22/18; Ord. 2020-10.
Adopted 04/23/20)
§ 881.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Any term used in this Chapter that is not otherwise defined in this Chapter
has the same meaning as when used in a comparable context in laws of the United
States relating to federal income taxation or in Title LVII of the Ohio Revised
Code, unless a different meaning is clearly required. Except as provided in ORC
718.81, if a term used in this Chapter that is not otherwise defined in this
Chapter is used in a comparable context in both the laws of the United States
relating to federal income tax and in Title LVII of the Ohio Revised Code and
the use is not consistent, then the use of the term in the laws of the United
States relating to federal income tax shall control over the use of the term in
Title LVII of the Ohio Revised Code.
   For purposes of this section, the singular shall include the plural, and the
masculine shall include the feminine and the gender neutral.
   Except as otherwise provided in ORC 718.81, as used in this Chapter:
   (a)   Adjusted Federal Taxable Income. For a person required to file as a C
corporation, or for a person that has elected to be taxed as a C corporation
under division (x)(5) of this section, adjusted federal taxable income means a
C corporation's federal taxable income before net operating losses and special
deductions as determined under the Internal Revenue Code, adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Deduct intangible income to the extent included in federal taxable
income. The deduction shall be allowed regardless of whether the intangible
income relates to assets used in a trade or business or assets held for the
production of income.
      (2)   Add an amount equal to five percent (5%) of intangible income
deducted under division (a)(1) of this section, but excluding that portion of
intangible income directly related to the sale, exchange, or other disposition
of property described in Section 1221 of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (3)   Add any losses allowed as a deduction in the computation of federal
taxable income if the losses directly relate to the sale, exchange, or other
disposition of an asset described in Section 1221 or 1231 of the Internal
Revenue Code.
      (4)   A.   Except as provided in division (a)(4)B. of this section,
deduct income and gain included in federal taxable income to the extent the
income and gain directly relate to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of
an asset described in Section 1221 or 1231 of the Internal Revenue Code;
         B.   Division (a)(4)A. of this section does not apply to the extent
the income or gain is income or gain described in Section 1245 or 1250 of the
Internal Revenue Code.
      (5)   Add taxes on or measured by net income allowed as a deduction in
the computation of federal taxable income.
      (6)   In the case of a real estate investment trust or regulated
investment company, add all amounts with respect to dividends to, distributions
to, or amounts set aside for or credited to the benefit of investors and
allowed as a deduction in the computation of federal taxable income.
      (7)   Deduct, to the extent not otherwise deducted or excluded in
computing federal taxable income, any income derived from a transfer agreement
or from the enterprise transferred under that agreement under ORC 4313.02.
      (8)   Deduct exempt income to the extent not otherwise deducted or
excluded in computing adjusted federal taxable income.
      (9)   Deduct any net profit of a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer's federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that net profit in
the group's federal taxable income in accordance with Section
881.05(h)(5)C.(ii) of this Chapter.
      (10)   Add any loss incurred by a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer's federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that loss in the
group's federal taxable income in accordance with Section
881.05(h)(5)C.(ii) of this Chapter.
      If the taxpayer is not a C corporation, is not a disregarded entity that
has made the election described in division (ww)(2) of this section, is not a
publicly traded partnership that has made the election described in division
(x)(5) of this section, and is not an individual, the taxpayer shall compute
adjusted federal taxable income under this section as if the taxpayer were a C
corporation, except guaranteed payments and other similar amounts paid or
accrued to a partner, former partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member,
or former member shall not be allowed as a deductible expense unless such
payments are a pension or retirement benefit payment paid to a retired partner,
retired shareholder, or retired member or are in consideration for the use of
capital and treated as payment of interest under Section 469 of the Internal
Revenue Code or United States treasury regulations. Amounts paid or accrued to
a qualified self-employed retirement plan with respect to a partner, former
partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member of the
taxpayer, amounts paid or accrued to or for health insurance for a partner,
former partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member, and
amounts paid or accrued to or for life insurance for a partner, former partner,
shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member shall not be allowed
as a deduction.
      Nothing in division (a) of this section shall be construed as allowing
the taxpayer to add or deduct any amount more than once or shall be construed
as allowing any taxpayer to deduct any amount paid to or accrued for purposes
of federal self-employment tax.
   (b)   Assessment.
      (1)   Assessment means a written finding by the Tax Administrator that a
person has underpaid City income tax, or owes penalty and interest, or any
combination of tax, penalty, or interest, to the City that commences the
person's time limitation for making an appeal to the Board of Tax Review
pursuant to Section
881.21 of this Chapter, and has "ASSESSMENT" written in all capital letters at
the top of such finding.
      (2)   "Assessment" does not include notice(s) denying a request for
refund issued under Section 811.09(c)(3) of this Chapter, a billing statement
notifying a taxpayer of current or past-due balances owed to the City, a Tax
Administrator's request for additional information, a notification to the
taxpayer of mathematical errors, or a Tax Administrator's other written
correspondence to a person or taxpayer that does not meet the criteria
prescribed by division (b)(1) of this section.
   (c)   Audit. The examination of a person or the inspection of the books,
records, memoranda, or accounts of a person, ordered to appear before the Tax
Administrator, for the purpose of determining liability for City income tax.
   (d)   Board of Tax Review. "Board of Tax Review" or "Board of Review" or
"Board of Tax Appeals," or other named local board constituted to hear appeals
of municipal income tax matters, means the entity created under Section
881.21.
   (e)   Calendar Quarter. The three- (3) month period ending on the last day
of March, June, September or December.
   (f)   Casino Operator and Casino Facility have the same meanings as in ORC
3772.01.
   (g)   Certified Mail, Express Mail, United States Mail, and/or Postal
Service (and similar terms) include any delivery service authorized pursuant to
ORC 5703.056.
   (h)   Disregarded Entity. A single member limited liability company, a
qualifying subchapter S subsidiary, or another entity if the company,
subsidiary, or entity is a disregarded entity for federal income tax purposes.
   (i)   Domicile. The true, fixed and permanent home of the taxpayer to which,
whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return. A taxpayer may have more than
one residence but not more than one domicile.
   (j)   Employee. An individual who is an employee for federal income tax
purposes.
   (k)   Employer. A person that is an employer for federal income tax
purposes.
   (l)   Exempt Income. Exempt income includes all of the following:
      (1)   The military pay or allowances of members of the Armed Forces of
the United States or members of their reserve components, including the
national guard of any state.
      (2)   Intangible income.
      (3)   Social security benefits, railroad retirement benefits,
unemployment compensation, pensions, retirement benefit payments, payments from
annuities and similar payments made to an employee or to the beneficiary of an
employee under a retirement program or plan, disability payments received from
private industry or local, state or federal governments or from charitable,
religious or educational organizations, and the proceeds of sickness, accident
or liability insurance policies. As used in division (l)(3) of this section,
"unemployment compensation" does not include supplemental unemployment
compensation described in Section 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (4)   The income of religious, fraternal, charitable, scientific,
literary or educational institutions to the extent such income is derived from
tax-exempt real estate, tax-exempt tangible or intangible property, or tax-
exempt activities.
      (5)   Compensation paid under ORC 3501.28 or 3501.36 to a person serving
as a precinct election official to the extent that such compensation does not
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000) for the taxable year. Such compensation in
excess of one thousand dollars ($1,000) for the taxable year may be subject to
taxation by the City. The City shall not require the payer of such compensation
to withhold any tax from that compensation.
      (6)   Dues, contributions, and similar payments received by charitable,
religious, educational, or literary organizations or labor unions, lodges, and
similar organizations.
      (7)   Alimony and child support received.
      (8)   Awards for personal injuries or for damages to property from
insurance proceeds or otherwise, excluding compensation paid for lost salaries
or wages or awards for punitive damages.
      (9)   Income of a public utility when that public utility is subject to
the tax levied under ORC 5727.24 or 5727.30. Division (l)(9) of this section
does not apply for purposes of ORC Chapter 5745.
      (10)   Gains from involuntary conversions, interest on federal
obligations, items of income subject to a tax levied by the state and that a
municipal corporation is specifically prohibited by law from taxing, and income
of a decedent's estate during the period of administration except such income
from the operation of a trade or business.
      (11)   Compensation or allowances excluded from federal gross income
under Section 107 of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (12)   Employee compensation that is not qualifying wages as defined in
division (ii) of this section.
      (13)   Compensation paid to a person employed within the boundaries of a
United States Air Force base under the jurisdiction of the United States Air
Force that is used for the housing of members of the United States Air Force
and is a center for Air Force operations, unless the person is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile. If the compensation is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile, tax on such income shall be payable
only to the municipal corporation of residence or domicile.
      (14)   An S corporation shareholder's share of net profits of the S
corporation, other than any part of the share of net profits that represents
wages as defined in Section 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue Code or net
earnings from self-employment as defined in Section 1402(a) of the Internal
Revenue Code.
      (15)   For tax years through 2023, all of the income of individuals or a
class of individuals sixteen (16) years of age or younger. For tax years 2024
and after, the income of individuals under eighteen (18) years of age.
      (16)   A.   Except as provided in divisions (l)(16)B., C. and D. of this
section, qualifying wages described in Section
881.04(b)(2) or (b)(5) of this Chapter to the extent the qualifying wages are
not subject to withholding for the City under either of those divisions.
         B.   The exemption provided in division (l)(16)A. of this section does
not apply with respect to an employee who resided in the City at the time the
employee earned the qualifying wages.
         C.   The exemption provided in division (l)(16)A. of this section does
not apply to qualifying wages that an employer elects to withhold under Section
881.04(b)(4)B. of this Chapter.
         D.   The exemption provided in division (l)(16)A. of this section does
not apply to qualifying wages if both of the following conditions apply:
            (i)   For qualifying wages described in Section
881.04(b)(2) of this Chapter, the employee's employer withholds and remits tax
on the qualifying wages to the City and the employee's principal place of work
is situated in the City, or, for qualifying wages described in Section
881.04(b)(5) of this Chapter, the employee's employer withholds and remits tax
on the qualifying wages to the City and the employer's fixed location is
located in the City;
            (ii)   The employee receives a refund of the tax described in
division (l)(16)D.(i) of this section on the basis of the employee not
performing services in the City.
      (17)   A.   Except as provided in division (l)(17)B. or C. of this
section, compensation that is not qualifying wages paid to a nonresident
individual for personal services performed in the City on not more than twenty
(20) days in a taxable year.
         B.   The exemption provided in division (l)(17)A. of this section does
not apply under either of the following circumstances:
            (i)   The individual's base of operation is located in the City; or
            (ii)   The individual is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer, or public figure, and the compensation is paid for the performance
of services in the individual's capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer, or public figure. For purposes of division (l)(17)B.
(ii) of this section, "professional athlete," "professional entertainer," and
"public figure" have the same meanings as in Section
881.04(b) of this Chapter.
         C.   Compensation to which division (l)(17) of this section applies
shall be treated as earned or received at the individual's base of operation.
If the individual does not have a base of operation, the compensation shall be
treated as earned or received where the individual is domiciled.
         D.   For purposes of division (l)(17) of this section, "base of
operation" means the location where an individual owns or rents an office,
storefront or similar facility to which the individual regularly reports and at
which the individual regularly performs personal services for compensation.
      (18)   Compensation paid to a person for personal services performed for
a political subdivision on property owned by the political subdivision,
regardless of whether the compensation is received by an employee of the
subdivision or another person performing services for the subdivision under a
contract with the subdivision, if the property on which services are performed
is annexed to the City pursuant to ORC 709.023 on or after March 27, 2013,
unless the person is subject to such taxation because of residence. If the
compensation is subject to taxation because of residence, municipal income tax
shall be payable only to the municipal corporation of residence.
      (19)   In the case of a tax administered, collected, and enforced by the
City pursuant to an agreement with the board of directors of a joint economic
development district under ORC 715.72, the net profits of a business and the
income of the employees of that business exempted from the tax under ORC 715.72
(Q).
      (20)   All of the following:
         A.   Income derived from disaster work conducted in Ohio by an out-of-
state disaster business during a disaster response period pursuant to a
qualifying solicitation received by the business;
         B.   Income of a qualifying employee described in ORC 5703.94(A)(14)
(a), to the extent such income is derived from disaster work conducted in Ohio
by the employee during a disaster response period pursuant to a qualifying
solicitation received by the employee's employer;
         C.   Income of a qualifying employee described in ORC 5703.94(A)(14)
(b), to the extent such income is derived from disaster work conducted in Ohio
by the employee during a disaster response period on critical infrastructure
owned or used by the employee's employer.
         For the purposes of division (l)(20), "out-of-state disaster
business," "qualifying solicitation," "qualifying employee," "disaster work,"
"critical infrastructure," and "disaster response period" have the same
meanings as in ORC 5703.94.
      (21)   Income the taxation of which is prohibited by the constitution or
laws of the United States.
      Any item of income that is exempt income of a pass-through entity under
division (l) of this section is exempt income of each owner of the pass-through
entity to the extent of that owner's distributive or proportionate share of
that item of the entity's income.
   (m)   Form 2106. Internal Revenue Service form 2106 filed by a taxpayer
pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   (n)   Generic Form. An electronic or paper form that is not prescribed by
the City and that is designed for reporting taxes withheld by an employer,
agent of an employer, or other payer, estimated municipal income taxes, or
annual municipal income tax liability, including a request for refund.
   (o)   Gross Receipts. The total revenue derived from sales, work done, or
services rendered.
   (p)   Income.
      (1)   Income means the following:
         A.   For residents, all income, salaries, qualifying wages,
commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or received by
the resident, including the resident's distributive share of the net profit of
pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by the resident and any net
profit of the resident, except as provided in division (x)(5) of this section.
         B.   For the purposes of division (p)(1)A. of this section:
            (i)   Any net operating loss of the resident incurred in the
taxable year and the resident's distributive share of any net operating loss
generated in the same taxable year and attributable to the resident's ownership
interest in a pass-through entity shall be allowed as a deduction, for that
taxable year and the following five (5) taxable years, against any other net
profit of the resident or the resident's distributive share of any net profit
attributable to the resident's ownership interest in a pass-through entity
until fully utilized, subject to division (p)(1)D. of this section;
            (ii)   The resident's distributive share of the net profit of each
pass-through entity owned directly or indirectly by the resident shall be
calculated without regard to any net operating loss that is carried forward by
that entity from a prior taxable year and applied to reduce the entity's net
profit for the current taxable year.
         C.   Division (p)(1)B. of this section does not apply with respect to
any net profit or net operating loss attributable to an ownership interest in
an S corporation unless shareholders' distributive shares of net profits from S
corporations are subject to tax in the municipal corporation as provided in
division (l)(14) of this section.
         D.   Any amount of a net operating loss used to reduce a taxpayer's
net profit for a taxable year shall reduce the amount of net operating loss
that may be carried forward to any subsequent year for use by that taxpayer. In
no event shall the cumulative deductions for all taxable years with respect to
a taxpayer's net operating loss exceed the original amount of that net
operating loss available to that taxpayer.
      (2)   In the case of nonresidents, all income, salaries, qualifying
wages, commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or
received by the nonresident for work done, services performed or rendered, or
activities conducted in the City, including any net profit of the nonresident,
but excluding the nonresident's distributive share of the net profit or loss of
only pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by the nonresident.
      (3)   For taxpayers that are not individuals, net profit of the taxpayer.
      (4)   Lottery, sweepstakes, gambling and sports winnings, winnings from
games of chance, and prizes and awards. If the taxpayer is a professional
gambler for federal income tax purposes, the taxpayer may deduct related
wagering losses and expenses to the extent authorized under the Internal
Revenue Code and claimed against such winnings. Credit for tax withheld or paid
to another municipal corporation on such winnings paid to the municipal
corporation where winnings occur is limited to the credit as specified in
Section
881.06 of this Chapter.
   (q)   Intangible Income. Income of any of the following types: income yield,
interest, capital gains, dividends, or other income arising from the ownership,
sale, exchange, or other disposition of intangible property including, but not
limited to, investments, deposits, money, or credits as those terms are defined
in ORC Chapter 5701., and patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade names,
investments in real estate investment trusts, investments in regulated
investment companies, and appreciation on deferred compensation. "Intangible
income" does not include prizes, awards, or other income associated with any
lottery winnings, gambling winnings, or other similar games of chance.
   (r)   Internal Revenue Code. Internal Revenue Code has the same meaning as
in ORC 5747.01.
   (s)   Limited Liability Company. A limited liability company formed under
ORC Chapter 1705. or 1706. or under the laws of another state.
   (t)   Municipal Corporation.
      (1)   In general terms, a status conferred upon a local government unit,
by state law giving the unit certain autonomous operating authority such as the
power of taxation, power of eminent domain, police power and regulatory power,
and includes a joint economic development district or joint economic
development zone that levies an income tax under ORC 715.691, 715.70, 715.71,
or 715.74.
      (2)   For the purposes of this Chapter "municipal corporation" includes
the City of Xenia, Ohio, and "Municipality" or "City" means the City of Xenia,
Ohio.
   (u)   Municipal Taxable Income.
      (1)   Means the following:
         A.   For a person other than an individual, income apportioned or
sitused to the City under Section
881.03 of this Chapter, as applicable, reduced by any pre-2017 net operating
loss carryforward available to the person for the City.
         B.   (i)   For an individual who is a resident of the City, income
reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income, then
reduced as provided in division (u)(2) of this section, and further reduced by
any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward available to the individual for
the City.
            (ii)   For an individual who is a nonresident of the City, income
reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and then,
as applicable, apportioned or sitused to the City under Section
881.03 of this Chapter, then reduced as provided in division (u)(2) of this
section, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward
available to the individual for the City.
      (2)   In computing the municipal taxable income of a taxpayer who is an
individual, the taxpayer may subtract, as provided in division (u)(1)B.(i) or
(ii) of this section, the amount of the individual's employee business expenses
reported on the individual's form 2106 that the individual deducted for federal
income tax purposes for the taxable year, subject to the limitation imposed by
Section 67 of the Internal Revenue Code.
         A.   If the taxpayer is a resident of the City, the taxpayer may
deduct all such expenses allowed for federal income tax purposes.
         B.   If the taxpayer is not a resident of the City, the taxpayer may
deduct such expenses only to the extent the expenses are related to the
taxpayer's performance of personal services in the City.
   (v)   Municipality. The City of Xenia, Ohio. If the term "Municipality" or
"City" is capitalized herein, the term refers to the City of Xenia. If the term
"Municipality" or "City" is not capitalized, the term refers to a municipal
corporation other than the City of Xenia.
   (w)   Net Operating Loss. A loss incurred by a person in the operation of a
trade or business. "Net operating loss" does not include unutilized losses
resulting from basis limitations, at-risk limitations or passive activity loss
limitations.
   (x)   Net Profit.
      (1)   For a person who is an individual, "net profit" means the
individual's net profit required to be reported on IRS schedule C, schedule E
or schedule F reduced by any net operating loss carried forward. For the
purposes of division (x)(1) of this section, the net operating loss carried
forward shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in
division (x)(3) of this section.
      (2)   "Net profit" for a person other than an individual means adjusted
federal taxable income reduced by any net operating loss incurred by the person
in a taxable year beginning on or after January 1, 2017, subject to the
limitations of division (x)(3) of this section.
      (3)   A.   The amount of such net operating loss shall be deducted from
net profit to the extent necessary to reduce municipal taxable income to zero,
with any remaining unused portion of the net operating loss carried forward to
not more than five (5) consecutive taxable years following the taxable year in
which the loss was incurred, but in no case for more years than necessary for
the deduction to be fully utilized.
         B.   No person shall use the deduction allowed by division (x)(3) of
this section to offset qualifying wages.
         C.   (i)   For taxable years beginning in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021 or
2022, a person may not deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by the
City, more than fifty percent (50%) of the amount of the deduction other
allowed by division (x)(3) of this section.
            (ii)   For taxable years beginning in 2023 or thereafter, a person
may deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by the City, the full amount
allowed by division (x)(3) of this section without regard to the limitation of
division (x)(3)C.(i) of this section.
         D.   Any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward deduction that is
available may be utilized before a taxpayer may deduct any amount pursuant to
division (x)(3) of this section.
         E.   Nothing in division (x)(3)C.(i) of this section precludes a
person from carrying forward, for use with respect to any return filed for a
taxable year beginning after 2018, any amount of net operating loss that was
not fully utilized by operation of division (x)(3)C.(i) of this section. To the
extent that an amount of net operating loss that was not fully utilized in one
or more taxable years by operation of division (x)(3)C.(i) of this section is
carried forward for use with respect to a return filed for a taxable year
beginning in 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022, the limitation described in division (x)
(3)C.(i) of this section shall apply to the amount carried forward.
      (4)   For the purposes of this Chapter, and notwithstanding division (x)
(2) of this section, net profit of a disregarded entity shall not be taxable as
against that disregarded entity, but shall instead be included in the net
profit of the owner of the disregarded entity.
      (5)   For the purposes of this Chapter, and notwithstanding any other
provision of this Chapter, the net profit of a publicly traded partnership that
makes the election described in division (x)(5) of this section shall be taxed
as if the partnership were a C corporation and shall not be treated as the net
profit or income of any owner of the partnership. A publicly traded partnership
that is treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes and that is
not subject to tax on its net profits by the City may elect to be treated as a
C corporation for City income tax purposes. The publicly traded partnership
shall make the election on the annual return filed with the City. The City will
treat the publicly traded partnership as a C corporation if the election is so
made.
   (y)   Nonresident. An individual that is not a resident of the City.
   (z)   Ohio Business Gateway. The online, computer-network system created
under ORC 125.30 that allows persons to electronically file business reply
forms with state agencies and includes any successor electronic filing and
payment system.
   (aa)   Other Payer. Any person, other than an individual's employer or the
employer's agent, that pays an individual any amount included in the federal
gross income of the individual. "Other payer" includes casino operators and
video lottery terminal sales agents.
   (bb)   Pass-Through Entity. A partnership not treated as an association
taxable as a C corporation for federal income tax purposes, a limited liability
company not treated as an association taxable as a C corporation for federal
income tax purposes, an S corporation, or any other class of entity from which
the income or profits of the entity are given pass-through treatment for
federal income tax purposes. "Pass-through entity" does not include a trust,
estate, grantor of a grantor trust, or disregarded entity.
   (cc)   Pension. A retirement benefit plan, regardless of whether the plan
satisfies the qualifications described under section 401(a) of the Internal
Revenue Code, including amounts that are taxable under the "Federal Insurance
Contributions Act," Chapter 21 of the Internal Revenue Code, excluding employee
contributions and elective deferrals, and regardless of whether such amounts
are paid in the same taxable year in which the amounts are included in the
employee's wages, as defined by section 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue Code.
   (dd)   Person. Includes individuals, firms, companies, joint stock
companies, business trusts, estates, trusts, partnerships, limited liability
partnerships, limited liability companies, associations, C corporations, S
corporations, governmental entities, and any other entity.
   (ee)   Postal Service. The United States postal service, or private delivery
service delivering documents and packages within an agreed upon delivery
schedule, or any other carrier service delivering the item.
   (ff)   Postmark Date or Date of Postmark (and similar terms) include the
date recorded and marked by a delivery service and recorded electronically to a
database kept in the regular course if its business and marked on the cover in
which the payment or document is enclosed, the date on which the payment or
document was given to the delivery service for delivery.
   (gg)   Pre-2017 Net Operating Loss Carryforward.
      (1)   Means any net operating loss incurred in a taxable year beginning
before January 1, 2017, to the extent such loss was permitted, by a resolution
or ordinance of the City that was adopted by the City before January 1, 2016,
to be carried forward and utilized to offset income or net profit generated in
such City in future taxable years.
      (2)   For the purpose of calculating municipal taxable income, any pre-
2017 net operating loss carryforward may be carried forward to any taxable
year, including taxable years beginning in 2017 or thereafter, for the number
of taxable years provided in the resolution or ordinance or until fully
utilized, whichever is earlier.
   (hh)   Publicly Traded Partnership. Any partnership, an interest in which is
regularly traded on an established securities market. A publicly traded
partnership may have any number of partners.
   (ii)   Qualifying Wages. Wages, as defined in Section 3121(a) of the
Internal Revenue Code, without regard to any wage limitations, adjusted as
follows:
      (1)   Deduct the following amounts:
         A.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes
compensation attributable to a plan or program described in Section 125 of the
Internal Revenue Code.
         B.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes payment on
account of a disability related to sickness or an accident paid by a party
unrelated to the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer.
         C.   Any amount included in wages that is exempt income.
      (2)   Add the following amounts:
         A.   Any amount not included in wages solely because the employee was
employed by the employer before April 1, 1986.
         B.   Any amount not included in wages because the amount arises from
the sale, exchange, or other disposition of a stock option, the exercise of a
stock option, or the sale, exchange, or other disposition of stock purchased
under a stock option. Division (ii)(2)B. of this section applies only to those
amounts constituting ordinary income.
         C.   Any amount not included in wages if the amount is an amount
described in Section 401(k), 403(b), or 457 of the Internal Revenue Code.
Division (ii)(2)C. of this section applies only to employee contributions and
employee deferrals.
         D.   Any amount that is supplemental unemployment compensation
benefits described in Section 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code and not
included in wages.
         E.   Any amount received that is treated as self-employment income for
federal tax purposes in accordance with Section 1402(a)(8) of the Internal
Revenue Code.
         F.   Any amount not included in wages if all of the following apply:
            (i)   For the taxable year, the amount is employee compensation
that is earned outside of the United States and that either is included in the
taxpayer's gross income for federal income tax purposes or would have been
included in the taxpayer's gross income for such purposes if the taxpayer did
not elect to exclude the income under Section 911 of the Internal Revenue Code;
            (ii)   For no preceding taxable year did the amount constitute
wages as defined in Section 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue Code;
            (iii)   For no succeeding taxable year will the amount constitute
wages; and
            (iv)   For any taxable year the amount has not otherwise been added
to wages pursuant to either division (ii)(2) of this section or ORC 718.03, as
that section existed before the effective date of HB 5 of the 130th General
Assembly, March 23, 2015.
   (jj)   Related Entity. Any of the following:
      (1)   An individual stockholder, or a member of the stockholder's family
enumerated in Section 318 of the Internal Revenue Code, if the stockholder and
the members of the stockholder's family own directly, indirectly, beneficially,
or constructively, in the aggregate, at least fifty percent (50%) of the value
of the taxpayer's outstanding stock;
      (2)   A stockholder, or a stockholder's partnership, estate, trust, or
corporation, if the stockholder and the stockholder's partnerships, estates,
trusts, or corporations own directly, indirectly, beneficially, or
constructively, in the aggregate, at least fifty percent (50%) of the value of
the taxpayer's outstanding stock;
      (3)   A corporation, or a party related to the corporation in a manner
that would require an attribution of stock from the corporation to the party or
from the party to the corporation under division (jj)(4) of this section,
provided the taxpayer owns directly, indirectly, beneficially, or
constructively, at least fifty percent (50%) of the value of the corporation's
outstanding stock; and/or
      (4)   The attribution rules described in Section 318 of the Internal
Revenue Code apply for the purpose of determining whether the ownership
requirements in divisions (jj)(1) to (3) of this section have been met.
   (kk)   Related Member. A person that, with respect to the taxpayer during
all or any portion of the taxable year, is either a related entity, a component
member as defined in Section 1563(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, or a person
to or from whom there is attribution of stock ownership in accordance with
Section 1563(e) of the Internal Revenue Code except, for purposes of
determining whether a person is a related member under this division, "twenty
percent (20%)" shall be substituted for "five percent (5%)" wherever "five
percent (5%)" appears in Section 1563(e) of the Internal Revenue Code.
   (ll)   Resident. An individual who is domiciled in the City as determined
under Section
881.03(d) of this Chapter.
   (mm)   Retirement Benefit Plan. An arrangement whereby an entity provides
benefits to individuals either on or after their termination of service because
of retirement or disability. "Retirement benefit plan" does not include wage
continuation payments, severance payments, or payments made for accrued
personal or vacation time.
   (nn)   S Corporation. A person that has made an election under subchapter S
of Chapter 1 of Subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code for its taxable year.
   (oo)   Schedule C. Internal Revenue Service Schedule C (form 1040) filed by
a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   (pp)   Schedule E. Internal Revenue Service Schedule E (form 1040) filed by
a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   (qq)   Schedule F. Internal Revenue Service Schedule F (form 1040) filed by
a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   (rr)   Single Member Limited Liability Company. A limited liability company
that has one direct member.
   (ss)   Small Employer. Any employer that had total revenue of less than five
hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) during the preceding taxable year. For
purposes of this division, "total revenue" means receipts of any type or kind,
including, but not limited to, sales receipts; payments; rents; profits; gains,
dividends, and other investment income; commissions; premiums; money; property;
grants; contributions; donations; gifts; program service revenue; patient
service revenue; premiums; fees, including premium fees and service fees;
tuition payments; unrelated business revenue; reimbursements; any type of
payment from a governmental unit, including grants and other allocations; and
any other similar receipts reported for federal income tax purposes or under
generally accepted accounting principles. "Small employer" does not include the
federal government; any state government, including any state agency or
instrumentality; any political subdivision; or any entity treated as a
government for financial accounting and reporting purposes.
   (tt)   Tax Administrator.
      (1)   The individual or entity charged with direct responsibility for
administration and enforcement of the income tax levied by City in accordance
with this Chapter, which may include the following:
         A.   A municipal corporation acting as the agent of the City;
         B.   A person retained by the City to administer the income tax levied
by the City, but only if the City does not compensate the person in whole or in
part on a contingency basis;
         C.   The Central Collection Agency (CCA) or the Regional Income Tax
Agency (RITA) or their successors in interest, or another entity organized to
perform functions similar to those performed by the Central Collection Agency
and the Regional Income Tax Agency.
      (2)   "Tax Administrator" does not include Tax Commissioner. "Tax
Commissioner" means the State Tax Commissioner appointed under ORC 121.03.
      (3)   A private individual or entity serving in any position described in
division (tt)(1)B. or C. shall have no access to criminal history record
information.
   (uu)   Tax Return Preparer. Any individual described in Section 7701(a)(36)
of the Internal Revenue Code and 26 C.F.R. 301.7701-15.
   (vv)   Taxable Year. The corresponding tax reporting period as prescribed
for the taxpayer under the Internal Revenue Code.
   (ww)   Taxpayer.
      (1)   A person subject to the tax levied on income by the City in
accordance with this Chapter. "Taxpayer" does not include a grantor trust or,
except as provided in division (ww)(2)A. of this section, a disregarded entity.
      (2)   A.   A single member limited liability company that is a
disregarded entity for federal tax purposes may be a separate taxpayer from its
single member if it either filed as a separate taxpayer with the City or did
not file for its taxable year ending in 2003, if all of the following
conditions are met:
            (i)   The limited liability company's single member is also a
limited liability company;
            (ii)   The limited liability company and its single member were
formed and doing business in one (1) or more Ohio municipal corporations for at
least five (5) years before January 1, 2004;
            (iii)   Not later than December 31, 2004, the limited liability
company and its single member each made an election to be treated as a separate
taxpayer under ORC 718.01(L), as that section existed on December 31, 2004;
            (iv)   The limited liability company was not formed for the purpose
of evading or reducing Ohio municipal corporation income tax liability of the
limited liability company or its single member; and
            (v)   The City that was the primary place of business of the sole
member of the limited liability company and the City consented to the election.
         B.   For purposes of division (ww)(2)A.(v) of this section, the City
was the primary place of business of a limited liability company if, for the
limited liability company's taxable year ending in 2003, its income tax
liability was greater in the City than in any other municipal corporation in
Ohio, and that tax liability to the City for its taxable year ending in 2003
was at least four hundred thousand dollars ($400,000).
   (xx)   Taxpayers' Rights and Responsibilities. The rights provided to
taxpayers under Sections 881.09, 881.12, 881.13, 881.19(b), 881.20 and 881.21
or under ORC 718.11, 718.12, 718.19, 718.23, 718.36, 718.37, 718.38, 5717.011
and 5717.03, and any corresponding ordinances of the City, and the
responsibilities of taxpayers to file, report, withhold, remit and pay City
income tax and otherwise comply with this Chapter 881. and resolutions,
ordinances, and rules adopted by the City for the imposition and administration
of the City income tax.
   (yy)   Video Lottery Terminal. Has the same meaning as in ORC 3770.21.
   (zz)   Video Lottery Terminal Sales Agent. A lottery sales agent licensed
under ORC Chapter 3770. to conduct video lottery terminals on behalf of the
state pursuant to ORC.
(Source: ORC 718.01)
(Ord. 2020-10. Adopted 04/23/20; Ord. 2023-31. Adopted 11/21/23)
§ 881.03 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (a)   Imposition. The annual tax for the purposes specified in Section
881.01 shall be imposed at a uniform rate on and after January 1, 2016, for tax
year 2016 and beyond, at the rate of two and one-quarter percent (2.25%) per
annum on municipal taxable income for every person residing in or earning or
receiving income in the City of Xenia.
   (b)   Individuals.
      (1)   For residents of the City, the income tax levied herein shall be on
all income, salaries, qualifying wages, commissions, and other compensation
from whatever source earned or received by the resident, including the
resident's distributive share of the net profit of pass-through entities owned
directly or indirectly by the resident and any net profit of the resident.
(This is further detailed in the definition of income (Section
881.02(p)).
      (2)   For nonresidents, all income, salaries, qualifying wages,
commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or received by
the nonresident for work done, services performed or rendered, or activities
conducted in the municipal corporation, including any net profit of the
nonresident, but excluding the nonresident's distributive share of the net
profit or loss of only pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by
the nonresident.
      (3)   For residents and nonresidents, income can be reduced to "Municipal
Taxable Income," as defined in Section
881.02(u). Exemptions which may apply are specified in Section
881.02(l).
   (c)   Refundable Credit for Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan.
      (1)   As used in this division:
         A.   "Nonqualified deferred compensation plan" means a compensation
plan described in Section 3121(v)(2)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         B.   (i)   Except as provided in division (c)(1)B.(ii) of this
section, "qualifying loss" means the excess, if any, of the total amount of
compensation, the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan over the total amount of income the taxpayer has
recognized for federal income tax purposes for all taxable years on a
cumulative basis as compensation with respect to the taxpayer's receipt of
money and property attributable to distributions in connection with the
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
            (ii)   If, for one (1) or more taxable years, the taxpayer has not
paid to one (1) or more municipal corporations income tax imposed on the entire
amount of compensation, the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a
nonqualified deferred compensation plan, then "qualifying loss" is the product
of the amount resulting from the calculation described in division (c)(1)B.(i)
of this section computed without regard to division (c)(1)B.(ii) of this
section and a fraction the numerator of which is the portion of such
compensation on which the taxpayer has paid income tax to one (1) or more
municipal corporations and the denominator of which is the total amount of
compensation the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan.
            (iii)   With respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan,
the taxpayer sustains a qualifying loss only in the taxable year in which the
taxpayer receives the final distribution of money and property pursuant to that
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
         C.   "Qualifying tax rate" means the applicable tax rate for the
taxable year for which the taxpayer paid income tax to the City with respect to
any portion of the total amount of compensation the payment of which is
deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan. If different
tax rates applied for different taxable years, then the "qualifying tax rate"
is a weighted average of those different tax rates. The weighted average shall
be based upon the tax paid to the City each year with respect to the
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      (2)   A.   Except as provided in division (c)(3) of this section, a
refundable credit shall be allowed against the income tax imposed by the City
for each qualifying loss sustained by the taxpayer during the taxable year. The
amount of the credit shall be equal to the product of the qualifying loss and
the qualifying rate.
         B.   A taxpayer shall claim the credit allowed under this section if
the taxpayer paid income tax to the City with respect to the nonqualified
deferred compensation plan in one or more taxable years.
         C.   If the taxpayer paid tax to the City and one or more other
municipal corporations with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation
plan, the amount of the credit that the taxpayer may claim from the City shall
be calculated on the basis of the City's proportionate share of the total
municipal income tax paid by the taxpayer to all municipal corporations with
respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
         D.   In no case shall the amount of the credit allowed under this
section exceed the cumulative income tax that a taxpayer has paid to the City
for all taxable years with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation
plan.
      (3)   A.   For the purposes of this section, income tax that has been
withheld with respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan shall be
considered to have been paid by the taxpayer with respect to the nonqualified
deferred compensation plan.
         B.   Any City income tax that has been refunded or otherwise credited
for the benefit of the taxpayer with respect to a nonqualified deferred
compensation plan shall not be considered to have been paid to the City by the
taxpayer.
      (4)   The credit allowed under this division is allowed only to the
extent the taxpayer's qualifying loss is attributable to:
         A.   The insolvency or bankruptcy of the employer who had established
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan; or
         B.   The employee's failure or inability to satisfy all of the
employer's terms and conditions necessary to receive the nonqualified deferred
compensation.
            (Source: ORC 718.17)
   (d)   Domicile.
      (1)   A.   An individual is presumed to be domiciled in the City of Xenia
for all or part of a taxable year if the individual was domiciled in the City
on the last day of the immediately preceding taxable year or if the Tax
Administrator reasonably concludes that the individual is domiciled in City for
all or part of the taxable year.
         B.   An individual may rebut the presumption of domicile described in
division (d)(1)A. of this section if the individual establishes by a
preponderance of evidence that the individual was not domiciled in the City of
Xenia for all or part of the taxable year.
      (2)   For the purpose of determining whether an individual is domiciled
in the City for all or part of a taxable year, factors that may be considered
include, but are not limited to, the following:
         A.   The individual's domicile in other taxable years;
         B.   The location at which the individual is registered to vote;
         C.   The address on the individual's driver's license;
         D.   The location of real estate for which the individual claimed a
property tax exemption or reduction allowed on the basis of the individual's
residence or domicile;
         E.   The location and value of abodes owned or leased by the
individual;
         F.   Declarations, written or oral, made by the individual regarding
the individual's residency;
         G.   The primary location at which the individual is employed;
         H.   The location of educational institutions attended by the
individual's dependents as defined in Section 152 of the Internal Revenue Code,
to the extent that tuition paid to such educational institution is based on the
residency of the individual or the individual's spouse in the municipal
corporation where the educational institution is located; and/or
         I.   The number of contact periods the individual has with the City.
For the purposes of this division, an individual has one "contact period" with
the City if the individual is away overnight from the individual's abode
located outside of the City and while away overnight from that abode spends at
least some portion, however minimal, of each of two (2) consecutive days in the
City.
      (3)   Additional applicable factors set forth in ORC 718.012 or as may be
set forth in the Rules and Regulations authorized by Section
881.22 of this Chapter.
         (Source: ORC 718.012)
   (e)   Businesses. This division applies to any taxpayer engaged in a
business or profession in the City, unless the taxpayer is an individual who
resides in the City or the taxpayer is an electric company, combined company,
or telephone company that is subject to and required to file reports under ORC
Chapter 5745.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (e)(2) and (g) of this
section, net profit from a business or profession conducted both within and
without the boundaries of the City shall be considered as having a taxable
situs in the City for purposes of municipal income taxation in the same
proportion as the average ratio of the following:
         A.   The average original cost of the real property and tangible
personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the business or profession
in the City during the taxable period to the average original cost of all of
the real and tangible personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the
business or profession during the same period, wherever situated. As used in
this division (e)(1)A., tangible personal or real property shall include
property rented or leased by the taxpayer and the value of such property shall
be determined by multiplying the annual rental thereon by eight (8);
         B.   Wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during the taxable
period to individuals employed in the business or profession for services
performed in the City to wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during
the same period to individuals employed in the business or profession, wherever
the individual's services are performed, excluding compensation from which
taxes are not required to be withheld under Section
881.04(b);
         C.   Total gross receipts of the business or profession from sales and
rentals made and services performed during the taxable period in the City to
total gross receipts of the business or profession during the same period from
sales, rentals, and services, wherever made or performed.
      (2)   A.   If the apportionment factors described in division (e)(1) of
this section do not fairly represent the extent of a taxpayer's business
activity in the City, the taxpayer may request, or the Tax Administrator may
require, that the taxpayer use, with respect to all or any portion of the
income of the taxpayer, an alternative apportionment method involving one or
more of the following:
            (i)   Separate accounting;
            (ii)   The exclusion of one or more of the factors;
            (iii)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors that would
provide for a fairer apportionment of the income of the taxpayer to the
municipal corporation; or
            (iv)   Modification of one or more of the factors.
         B.   A taxpayer request to use an alternative apportionment method
shall be in writing and shall accompany a tax return, timely filed appeal of an
assessment, or timely filed amended tax return. The taxpayer may use the
requested alternative method unless the Tax Administrator denies the request in
an assessment issued within the period prescribed by Section
881.12(a).
         C.   The Tax Administrator may require a taxpayer to use an
alternative apportionment method as described in division (e)(2)A. of this
section, but only by issuing an assessment to the taxpayer within the period
prescribed by Section
881.12(a).
         D.   Nothing in this division (e)(2) nullifies or otherwise affects
any alternative apportionment arrangement approved by the Tax Administrator or
otherwise agreed upon by both the Tax Administrator and taxpayer before January
1, 2016.
      (3)   As used in division (e)(1)B. of this section, "wages, salaries, and
other compensation" includes only wages, salaries, or other compensation paid
to an employee for services performed at any of the following locations:
         A.   A location that is owned, controlled, or used by, rented to, or
under the possession of one of the following:
            (i)   The employer;
            (ii)   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of the employer, or a
related member of such a vendor, customer, client, or patient;
            (iii)   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of a person
described in division (e)(3)A.(ii) of this section, or a related member of such
a vendor, customer, client, or patient.
         B.   Any location at which a trial, appeal, hearing, investigation,
inquiry, review, court-martial, or similar administrative, judicial, or
legislative matter or proceeding is being conducted, provided that the
compensation is paid for services performed for, or on behalf of, the employer
or that the employee's presence at the location directly or indirectly benefits
the employer;
         C.   Any other location, if the Tax Administrator determines that the
employer directed the employee to perform the services at the other location in
lieu of a location described in division (e)(3)A. or B. of this section solely
in order to avoid or reduce the employer's municipal income tax liability. If
the Tax Administrator makes such a determination, the employer may dispute the
determination by establishing, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Tax
Administrator's determination was unreasonable.
      (4)   For the purposes of division (e)(1)C. of this section, except as
provided in division (g) of this section, receipts from sales and rentals made
and services performed shall be sitused to a municipal corporation as follows:
         A.   Gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property shall
be sitused to the municipal corporation only if, regardless of where title
passes, the property meets either of the following criteria:
            (i)   The property is shipped to or delivered within the City from
a stock of goods located within the City.
            (ii)   The property is delivered within the City from a location
outside the City, provided the taxpayer is regularly engaged through its own
employees in the solicitation or promotion of sales within the City and the
sales result from such solicitation or promotion.
         B.   Gross receipts from the sale of services shall be sitused to the
City to the extent that such services are performed in the City.
         C.   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from the sale of
real property located in the City shall be sitused to the City.
         D.   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from rents and
royalties from real property located in the City shall be sitused to the City.
         E.   Gross receipts from rents and royalties from tangible personal
property shall be sitused to the City based upon the extent to which the
tangible personal property is used in the City.
      (5)   The net profit received by an individual taxpayer from the rental
of real estate owned directly by the individual, or by a disregarded entity
owned by the individual, shall be subject to the City's tax if the property
generating the net profit is located in the City or if the individual taxpayer
that receives the net profit is a resident of the City. The City shall allow
such taxpayers to elect to use separate accounting for the purpose of
calculating net profit sitused under this division to the municipal corporation
in which the property is located.
      (6)   A.   Except as provided in division (e)(6)B. of this section,
commissions received by a real estate agent or broker relating to the sale,
purchase, or lease of real estate shall be sitused to the municipal corporation
in which the real estate is located. Net profit reported by the real estate
agent or broker shall be allocated to the City, if applicable, based upon the
ratio of the commissions the agent or broker received from the sale, purchase,
or lease of real estate located in the City to the commissions received from
the sale, purchase, or lease of real estate everywhere in the taxable year.
         B.   An individual who is a resident of the City shall report the
individual's net profit from all real estate activity on the individual's
annual tax return for the City. The individual may claim a credit for taxes the
individual paid on such net profit to another municipal corporation to the
extent that such a credit is allowed under this Chapter.
      (7)   When calculating the ratios described in division (e)(1) of this
section for the purposes of that division or division (e)(2) of this section,
the owner of a disregarded entity shall include in the owner's ratios the
property, payroll, and gross receipts of such disregarded entity.
         (Source: ORC 718.02)
      (8)   Tax Credit for Businesses that Foster New Jobs in Ohio: The City,
by ordinance, may grant a refundable or nonrefundable credit against its tax on
income to a taxpayer to foster job creation in the City. If a credit is granted
under this section, it shall be measured as a percentage of the new income tax
revenue the City derives from new employees of the taxpayer and shall be for a
term not exceeding fifteen (15) years. Before the City passes an ordinance
granting a credit, the City and the taxpayer shall enter into an agreement
specifying all the conditions of the credit.
         (Source: ORC 718.15)
      (9)   Tax Credit to Foster Job Retention: The City, by ordinance, may
grant a refundable or nonrefundable credit against its tax on income to a
taxpayer for the purpose of fostering job retention in the City. If a credit is
granted under this section, it shall be measured as a percentage of the income
tax revenue the City derives from the retained employees of the taxpayer and
shall be for a term not exceeding fifteen (15) years. Before the City passes an
ordinance allowing such a credit, the City and the taxpayer shall enter into an
agreement specifying all the conditions of the credit.
         (Source: ORC 718.151)
   (f)   Exemption for Member or Employee of General Assembly and Certain
Judges.
      (1)   The City shall be permitted to levy a tax on the income of any
member or employee of the Ohio General Assembly, including the Lieutenant
Governor, whose income is received as a result of services rendered as such
member or employee and is paid from appropriated funds of the state, only if
the City is the municipal corporation of residence for such member or employee.
      (2)   The City shall be permitted to levy a tax on the income of the
Chief Justice or a Justice of the Supreme Court received as a result of
services rendered as the Chief Justice or Justice only if the City is the
municipal corporation of residence of such Justice. The City shall only be
permitted to levy a tax on the income of a judge sitting by assignment of the
Chief Justice or on the income of a district court of appeals judge sitting in
multiple locations within the district, received as a result of services
rendered as a judge, only if the City is the municipal corporation of residence
of such judge.
         (Source: ORC 718.50)
   (g)   Taxpayer Election for Remote Employees or Owner's Qualifying Remote
Work Location.
      (1)   As used in this division:
         A.   "Qualifying remote employee or owner" means an individual who is
an employee of a taxpayer or who is a partner or member holding an ownership
interest in a taxpayer that is treated as a partnership for federal income tax
purposes, provided that the individual meets both of the following criteria:
            (i)   The taxpayer has assigned the individual to a qualifying
reporting location.
            (ii)   The individual is permitted or required to perform services
for the taxpayer at a qualifying remote work location.
         B.   "Qualifying remote work location" means a permanent or temporary
location at which an employee or owner chooses or is required to perform
services for the taxpayer, other than a reporting location of the taxpayer or
any other location owned or controlled by a customer or client of the taxpayer.
"Qualifying remote work location" may include the residence of an employee or
owner and may be located outside of a municipal corporation that imposes an
income tax in accordance with this Chapter. An employee or owner may have more
than one qualifying remote work location during a taxable year.
         C.   "Reporting location" means either of the following:
            (i)   A permanent or temporary place of doing business, such as an
office, warehouse, storefront, construction site, or similar location, that is
owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the taxpayer;
            (ii)   Any location in this state owned or controlled by a customer
or client of the taxpayer, provided that the taxpayer is required to withhold
taxes under Section 881.04 of this Chapter, on qualifying wages paid to an
employee for the performance of personal services at that location.
         D.   "Qualifying reporting location" means one of the following:
            (i)   The reporting location in this state at which an employee or
owner performs services for the taxpayer on a regular or periodic basis during
the taxable year;
            (ii)   If no reporting location exists in this state for an
employee or owner under division (g)(1)D.(i) of this section, the reporting
location in this state at which the employee's or owner's supervisor regularly
or periodically reports during the taxable year;
            (iii)   If no reporting location exists in this state for an
employee or owner under division (g)(1)D.(i) or (ii) of this section, the
location that the taxpayer otherwise assigns as the employee's or owner's
qualifying reporting location, provided the assignment is made in good faith
and is recorded and maintained in the taxpayer's business records. A taxpayer
may change the qualifying reporting location designated for an employee or
owner under this division at any time.
      (2)   A.   For tax years ending on or after December 31, 2023, a taxpayer
may elect to apply the provisions of this division to the apportionment of its
net profit from a business or profession. For taxpayers that make this
election, the provisions of division (e) of this section apply to such
apportionment except as otherwise provided in this division.
         B.   A taxpayer shall make the election allowed under this division in
writing on or with the taxpayer's net profit return or, if applicable, a timely
filed amended net profit return or a timely filed appeal of an assessment. The
election applies to the taxable year for which that return or appeal is filed
and for all subsequent taxable years, until the taxpayer revokes the election.
         C.   The taxpayer shall make the initial election with the City's Tax
Administrator if, after applying the apportionment provisions authorized in
this division, the taxpayer is required to file a net profit tax return for
that taxable year. A taxpayer shall not be required to notify the Tax
Administrator if a qualifying remote employee's or owner's qualifying remote
work location is located in the City, unless the taxpayer is otherwise required
to file a net profit return with the City due to business operations that are
unrelated to the employee's or owner's activity at the qualifying remote work
location.
         D.   The taxpayer shall not be required to file a net profit return
with the City solely because a qualifying remote employee's or owner's
qualifying remote work location is located in the City.
         E.   Nothing in this division prohibits a taxpayer from making a new
election under this division after properly revoking a prior election.
      (3)   For the purpose of calculating the ratios described in division (e)
(1) of this section, all of the following apply to a taxpayer that has made the
election described in division (g)(2):
         A.   For the purpose of division (e)(1)A. of this section, the average
original cost of any tangible personal property used by a qualifying remote
employee or owner at that individual's qualifying remote work location shall be
sitused to that individual's qualifying reporting location.
         B.   For the purpose of division (e)(1)B. of this section, any wages,
salaries, and other compensation paid during the taxable period to a qualifying
remote employee or owner for services performed at that individual's qualifying
remote work location shall be sitused to that individual's qualifying reporting
location.
         C.   For the purpose of division (e)(1)C. of this section, and
notwithstanding division (e)(4) of this section, any gross receipts of the
business or profession from services performed during the taxable period by a
qualifying remote employee or owner for services performed at that individual's
qualifying remote work location shall be sitused to that individual's
qualifying reporting location.
      (4)   Nothing in this division prevents a taxpayer from requesting, or
the Tax Administrator from requiring, that the taxpayer use, with respect to
all or a portion of the income of the taxpayer, an alternative apportionment
method as described in division (e)(2) of this section. However, the Tax
Administrator shall not require an alternative apportionment method in such a
manner that it would require a taxpayer to file a net profit return with the
City solely because a qualifying remote employee's or owner's qualifying remote
work location is located in the City.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, nothing in this
division is intended to affect the withholding of taxes on qualifying wages
pursuant to Section 881.04 of this Chapter.
         (Source: ORC 718.021)
(Ord. 15-33. Adopted 07/23/15; Ord. 2018-08. Adopted 02/22/18; Ord. 2020-10.
Adopted 04/23/20; Ord. 2023-31. Adopted 11/21/23)
§ 881.04 COLLECTION AT THE SOURCE.
   (a)   Withholding Provisions.
      (1)   Each employer, agent of an employer, or other payer located or
doing business in the City shall withhold an income tax from the qualifying
wages earned and/or received by each employee in the City. Except for
qualifying wages for which withholding is not required under 881.03 or division
(a)(5) or (a)(7) of this section, the tax shall be withheld at the rate,
specified in Section
881.01(c) of this Chapter, of two and one-quarter percent (2.25%). An employer,
agent of an employer, or other payer shall deduct and withhold the tax from
qualifying wages on the date that the employer, agent, or other payer directly,
indirectly, or constructively pays the qualifying wages to, or credits the
qualifying wages to the benefit of, the employee.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (a)(3) of this section, an employer,
agent of an employer, or other payer shall remit to the Tax Administrator of
the greater of the income taxes deducted and withheld or the income taxes
required to be deducted and withheld by the employer, agent, or other payer
according to the following schedule:
         A.   Taxes required to be deducted and withheld shall be remitted
monthly to the Tax Administrator if the total taxes deducted and withheld or
required to be deducted and withheld by the employer, agent, or other payer on
behalf of the City in the preceding calendar year exceeded two thousand three
hundred ninety-nine dollars ($2,399), or if the total amount of taxes deducted
and withheld or required to be deducted and withheld on behalf of the City in
any month of the preceding calendar quarter exceeded two hundred dollars
($200).
         B.   Payments under division (a)(2)A. of this section shall be made to
the Tax Administrator not later than fifteen (15) days after the last day of
each month for which the tax was withheld.
         C.   Any employer, agent of an employer, or other payer not required
to make payments under division (a)(2)A. of this section of taxes required to
be deducted and withheld shall make quarterly payments to the Tax Administrator
not later than the last day of the month following the last day of each
calendar quarter.
      (3)   If the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer is required
to make payments electronically for the purpose of paying federal taxes
withheld on payments to employees under Section 6302 of the Internal Revenue
Code, 26 C.F.R. 31.6302-1, or any other federal statute or regulation, the
payment shall be made by electronic funds transfer to the Tax Administrator of
all taxes deducted and withheld on behalf of the City.
         The payment of tax by electronic funds transfer under this division
does not affect an employer's, agent's, or other payer's obligation to file any
return as required under this section.
      (4)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer shall make and
file a return showing the amount of tax withheld by the employer, agent, or
other payer from the qualifying wages of each employee and remitted to the Tax
Administrator. A return filed by an employer, agent, or other payer under this
division shall be accepted by Tax Administrator and the City as the return
required of an non-resident employee whose sole income subject to the tax under
this Chapter is the qualifying wages reported by the employee's employer, agent
of an employer, or other payer.
      (5)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer is not required
to withhold the City income tax with respect to an individual's disqualifying
disposition of an incentive stock option if, at the time of the disqualifying
disposition, the individual is not an employee of either the corporation with
respect to whose stock the option has been issued or of such corporation's
successor entity.
      (6)   A.   An employee is not relieved from liability for a tax by the
failure of the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer to withhold the
tax as required under this Chapter or by the employer's, agent's, or other
payer's exemption from the requirement to withhold the tax.
         B.   The failure of an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer
to remit to the City the tax withheld relieves the employee from liability for
that tax unless the employee colluded with the employer, agent, or other payer
in connection with the failure to remit the tax withheld.
      (7)   Compensation deferred before June 26, 2003, is not subject to the
City income tax or income tax withholding requirement to the extent the
deferred compensation does not constitute qualifying wages at the time the
deferred compensation is paid or distributed.
      (8)   Each employer, agent of an employer, or other payer required to
withhold taxes is liable for the payment of that amount required to be
withheld, whether or not such taxes have been withheld, and such amount shall
be deemed to be held in trust for the City until such time as the withheld
amount is remitted to the Tax Administrator.
      (9)   On or before the last day of February of each year, an employer
shall file a withholding reconciliation return with the Tax Administrator
listing:
         A.   The names, addresses, and social security numbers of all
employees from whose qualifying wages tax was withheld or should have been
withheld for the City during the preceding calendar year;
         B.   The amount of tax withheld, if any, from each such employee, the
total amount of qualifying wages paid to such employee during the preceding
calendar year;
         C.   The name of every other municipal corporation for which tax was
withheld or should have been withheld from such employee during the preceding
calendar year;
         D.   Any other information required for federal income tax reporting
purposes on Internal Revenue Service Form W-2 or its equivalent form with
respect to such employee; and
         E.   Other information as may be required by the Tax Administrator.
      (10)   The officer or the employee of the employer, agent of an employer,
or other payer with control or direct supervision of or charged with the
responsibility for withholding the tax or filing the reports and making
payments as required by this section, shall be personally liable for a failure
to file a report or pay the tax due as required by this section. The
dissolution of an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer does not
discharge the officer's or employee's liability for a failure of the employer,
agent of an employer, or other payer to file returns or pay any tax due.
      (11)   An employer is required to deduct and withhold City income tax on
tips and gratuities received by the employer's employees and constituting
qualifying wages, but only to the extent that the tips and gratuities are under
the employer's control. For the purposes of this division, a tip or gratuity is
under the employer's control if the tip or gratuity is paid by the customer to
the employer for subsequent remittance to the employee, or if the customer pays
the tip or gratuity by credit card, debit card, or other electronic means.
      (12)   The Tax Administrator shall consider any tax withheld by an
employer at the request of an employee, when such tax is not otherwise required
to be withheld by this Chapter, to be tax required to be withheld and remitted
for the purposes of this section.
         (Source: ORC 718.03)
   (b)   Occasional Entrant - Withholding.
      (1)   As used in this division:
         A.   "Employer" includes a person that is a related member to or of an
employer.
         B.   "Fixed location" means a permanent place of doing business in
this state, such as an office, warehouse, storefront, or similar location owned
or controlled by an employer.
         C.   "Principal place of work" means the fixed location to which an
employee is required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary
basis. If the employee is not required to report for employment duties on a
regular and ordinary basis to a fixed location, "principal place of work" means
the worksite location in this state to which the employee is required to report
for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis. If the employee is not
required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis to a
fixed location or worksite location, "principal place of work" means the
location in this state at which the employee spends the greatest number of days
in a calendar year performing services for or on behalf of the employee's
employer.
               If there is not a single municipal corporation in which the
employee spent the "greatest number of days in a calendar year" performing
services for or on behalf of the employer, but instead there are two (2) or
more municipal corporations in which the employee spent an identical number of
days that is greater than the number of days the employee spent in any other
municipal corporation, the employer shall allocate any of the employee's
qualifying wages subject to division (b)(2)A.(i) of this section among those
two (2) or more municipal corporations. The allocation shall be made using any
fair and reasonable method including, but not limited to, an equal allocation
among such municipal corporations or an allocation based upon the time spent or
sales made by the employee in each such municipal corporation. A municipal
corporation to which qualifying wages are allocated under this division shall
be the employee's "principal place of work" with respect to those qualifying
wages for the purposes of this section.
               For the purposes of this division, the location at which an
employee spends a particular day shall be determined in accordance with
division (b)(2)B. of this section, except that "location" shall be substituted
for "municipal corporation" wherever "municipal corporation" appears in that
division.
         D.   "Professional athlete" means an athlete who performs services in
a professional athletic event for wages or other remuneration.
         E.   "Professional entertainer" means a person who performs services
in the professional performing arts for wages or other remuneration on a per-
event basis.
         F.   "Public figure" means a person of prominence who performs
services at discrete events, such as speeches, public appearances, or similar
events, for wages or other remuneration on a per-event basis.
         G.   "Worksite location" means a construction site or other temporary
worksite in this State at which the employer provides services for more than
twenty (20) days during the calendar year. "Worksite location" does not include
the home of an employee.
      (2)   A.   Subject to divisions (b)(3), (b)(5), and (b)(6) of this
section, an employer is not required to withhold the City income tax on
qualifying wages paid to an employee for the performance of personal services
in the City if the employee performed such services in the City on twenty (20)
or fewer days in a calendar year, unless one of the following conditions
applies:
            (i)   The employee's principal place of work is located in the
City.
            (ii)   The employee performed services at one or more presumed
worksite locations in the City. For the purposes of this division, "presumed
worksite location" means a construction site or other temporary worksite in the
City at which the employer provides or provided services that can reasonably
be, or would have been, expected by the employer to last more than twenty (20)
days in a calendar year. Services can "reasonably be expected by the employer
to last more than twenty (20) days" if either of the following applies at the
time the services commence:
               1.   The nature of the services is such that it will require
more than twenty (20) days of the services to complete the services;
               2.   The agreement between the employer and its customer to
perform services at a location requires the employer to perform the services at
the location for more than twenty (20) days.
            (iii)   The employee is a resident of the City and has requested
that the employer withhold tax from the employee's qualifying wages as provided
in Section
881.04.
            (iv)   The employee is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer, or public figure, and the qualifying wages are paid for the
performance of services in the employee's capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer, or public figure.
         B.   For the purposes of division (b)(2)A. of this section, an
employee shall be considered to have spent a day performing services in the
City only if the employee spent more time performing services for or on behalf
of the employer in the City than in any other municipal corporation on that
day. For the purposes of determining the amount of time an employee spent in a
particular location, the time spent performing one or more of the following
activities shall be considered to have been spent at the employee's principal
place of work:
            (i)   Traveling to the location at which the employee will first
perform services for the employer for the day;
            (ii)   Traveling from a location at which the employee was
performing services for the employer to any other location;
            (iii)   Traveling from any location to another location in order to
pick up or load, for the purpose of transportation or delivery, property that
has been purchased, sold, assembled, fabricated, repaired, refurbished,
processed, remanufactured, or improved by the employee's employer;
            (iv)   Transporting or delivering property described in division
(b)(2)B.(iii) of this section, provided that, upon delivery of the property,
the employee does not temporarily or permanently affix the property to real
estate owned, used, or controlled by a person other than the employee's
employer;
            (v)   Traveling from the location at which the employee makes the
employee's final delivery or pick-up for the day to either the employee's
principal place of work or a location at which the employee will not perform
services for the employer.
      (3)   If the principal place of work of an employee is located in another
Ohio municipal corporation that imposes an income tax, the exception from
withholding requirements described in division (b)(2)A. of this section shall
apply only if, with respect to the employee's qualifying wages described in
that division, the employer withholds and remits tax on such qualifying wages
to that municipal corporation.
      (4)   A.   Except as provided in division (b)(4)B. of this section, if,
during a calendar year, the number of days an employee spends performing
personal services in the City exceeds the twenty- (20) day threshold, the
employer shall withhold and remit tax to the City for any subsequent days in
that calendar year on which the employer pays qualifying wages to the employee
for personal services performed in the City.
         B.   An employer required to begin withholding tax for the City under
division (b)(4)A. of this section may elect to withhold tax for the City for
the first twenty (20) days on which the employer paid qualifying wages to the
employee for personal services performed in the City.
      (5)   If an employer's fixed location is the City and the employer
qualifies as a small employer as defined in Section
881.02, the employer shall withhold municipal income tax on all of the
employee's qualifying wages for a taxable year and remit that tax only to the
City, regardless of the number of days which the employee worked outside the
corporate boundaries of the City.
            To determine whether an employer qualifies as a small employer for
a taxable year, the employer will be required to provide the Tax Administrator
with the employer's federal income tax return for the preceding taxable year.
      (6)   Divisions (b)(2)A. and (b)(4) of this section shall not apply to
the extent that the Tax Administrator and an employer enter into an agreement
regarding the manner in which the employer shall comply with the requirements
of Section
881.04.
         (Source: 718.011)
   (c)   Gambling Withholding. As used in this section, "sports gaming
facility" and "type B sports gaming proprietor" have the same meanings as in
ORC 3775.01, and "lottery sports gaming" has the same meaning as in ORC
3770.23.
      (1)   The following persons are required to withhold and remit municipal
income tax with respect to amounts other than qualifying wages as provided in
this section:
         A.   A casino facility or a casino operator, as defined in Section 6
(C)(9) of Article XV of the Ohio Constitution and ORC 3772.01, respectively;
         B.   A lottery sales agent conducting video lottery terminals on
behalf of the State of Ohio; and
         C.   A type B sports gaming proprietor offering sports gaming at a
sports gaming facility.
      (2)   If a person's winnings at a casino facility or sports gaming
facility are an amount for which reporting to the Internal Revenue Service of
the amount is required by section 6041 of the Internal Revenue Code, as
amended, a casino operator or sports gaming proprietor shall deduct and
withhold municipal income tax from the person's winnings at the rate of the tax
imposed by the City when the casino facility or sports gaming facility is
located in the City.
      (3)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a casino operator or sports gaming
proprietor are held in trust for the benefit of the municipal corporation to
which the tax is owed.
         A.   On or before the tenth day of each month, the casino operator or
sports gaming proprietor shall file a return electronically with the Tax
Administrator providing the name, address, and social security number of the
person from whose winnings amount were deducted and withheld; the amount of
each such deduction and withholding during the preceding calendar month; the
amount of the winnings from which each such amount was withheld; the type of
casino gaming or sports gaming that resulted in such winnings; and any other
information required by the Tax Administrator. With this return, the casino
operator or sports gaming proprietor shall remit electronically to the City all
amounts deducted and withheld during the preceding month.
         B.   Annually, on or before the thirty-first day of January, a casino
operator or sports gaming proprietor shall file an annual return electronically
with the Tax Administrator if the casino facility or sports gaming facility is
located in the City, indicating the total amount deducted and withheld during
the preceding calendar year. The casino operator or sports gaming proprietor
shall remit electronically with the annual return any amount that was deducted
and withheld and that was not previously remitted. If the name, address, or
social security number of a person or the amount deducted and withheld with
respect to that person was omitted on a monthly return for that reporting
period, that information shall be indicated on the annual return.
         C.   Annually, on or before the thirty-first day of January, a casino
operator or sports gaming proprietor shall issue an information return to each
person with respect to whom an amount has been deducted and withheld during the
preceding calendar year. The information return shall show the total amount of
municipal income tax deducted from the person's winnings during the preceding
year. The casino operator or sports gaming proprietor shall provide to the Tax
Administrator a copy of each information return issued under this division. The
Tax Administrator may require that such copies be transmitted electronically.
         D.   A casino operator or sports gaming proprietor that fails to file
a return and remit the amounts deducted and withheld shall be personally liable
for the amount withheld and not remitted. Such personal liability extends to
any penalty and interest imposed for the late filing of a return or the late
payment of tax deducted and withheld.
         E.   If a casino operator or sports gaming proprietor sells the casino
facility or sports gaming facility, or otherwise quits the casino or sports
gaming business, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties and
interest thereon are immediately due and payable. The successor shall withhold
an amount of the purchase money that is sufficient to cover the amounts
deducted and withheld along with any penalties and interest thereon until the
predecessor casino operator or sports gaming proprietor produces either of the
following:
            (i)   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid; or
            (ii)   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that no
amounts are due.
            If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the successor is
personally liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and withheld and
penalties and interest thereon.
         F.   The failure of a casino operator or sports gaming proprietor to
deduct and withhold the required amount from a person's winnings does not
relieve that person from liability for the municipal income tax with respect to
those winnings.
      (4)   If a person's prize award from a video lottery terminal or from
lottery sports gaming offered in a video lottery terminal facility is an amount
for which reporting to the Internal Revenue Service is required by section 6041
of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, the video lottery sales agent shall
deduct and withhold municipal income tax from the person's prize award at the
rate of the tax imposed by the City if the video lottery terminal facility is
located in the City.
      (5)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a video lottery sales agent are
held in trust for the benefit of the City.
         A.   The video lottery sales agent shall issue to a person from whose
prize award an amount has been deducted and withheld a receipt for the amount
deducted and withheld and shall obtain from the person receiving a prize award
the person's name, address, and social security number in order to facilitate
the preparation of returns required by this section.
         B.   On or before the tenth day of each month, the video lottery sales
agent shall file a return electronically with the Tax Administrator providing
the names, addresses, and social security numbers of the persons from whose
prize awards amounts were deducted and withheld; the amount of each such
deduction and withholding during the preceding calendar month; the amount of
the prize award from which each such amount was withheld; and any other
information required by the Tax Administrator. With the return, the video
lottery sales agent shall remit electronically to the Tax Administrator all
amounts deducted and withheld during the preceding month.
         C.   A video lottery sales agent shall maintain a record of all
receipts issued under division (c)(5) of this section and shall make those
records available to the Tax Administrator upon request. Such records shall be
maintained in accordance with ORC 5747.17 and any rules adopted pursuant
thereto.
         D.   Annually, on or before the thirty-first day of January, each
video lottery terminal sales agent shall file an annual return electronically
with the Tax Administrator if the facility is located in the City indicating
the total amount deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year. The
video lottery sales agent shall remit electronically with the annual return any
amount that was deducted and withheld and that was not previously remitted. If
the name, address, or social security number of a person or the amount deducted
and withheld with respect to that person was omitted on a monthly return for
that reporting period, that information shall be indicated on the annual
return.
         E.   Annually, on or before the thirty-first day of January, a video
lottery sales agent shall issue an information return to each person with
respect to whom an amount has been deducted and withheld during the preceding
calendar year. The information return shall show the total amount of municipal
income tax deducted and withheld from the person's prize award by the video
lottery sales agent during the preceding year. A video lottery sales agent
shall provide the Tax Administrator a copy of each information return issued
under this division. The Tax Administrator may require that such copies be
transmitted electronically.
         F.   A video lottery sales agent who fails to file a return and remit
the amounts deducted and withheld is personally liable for the amount deducted
and withheld and not remitted. Such personal liability extends to any penalty
and interest imposed for the late filing of a return or the late payment of tax
deducted and withheld.
      (6)   If a video lottery sales agent ceases to operate video lottery
terminals, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties and
interest thereon are immediately due and payable. The successor of the video
lottery sales agent that purchases the video lottery terminals from the agent
shall withhold an amount from the purchase money that is sufficient to cover
the amounts deducted and withheld and any penalties and interest thereon until
the predecessor video lottery sales agent operator produces either of the
following:
         A.   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid; or
         B.   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that no
amounts are due.
         If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the successor is
personally liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and withheld and
penalties and interest thereon.
      (7)   The failure of a video lottery sales agent to deduct and withhold
the required amount from a person's prize award does not relieve that person
from liability for the municipal income tax with respect to that prize award.
      (8)   If a casino operator, sports gaming proprietor, or lottery sales
agent files a return late, fails to file a return, remits amounts deducted and
withheld late, or fails to remit amounts deducted and withheld as required
under this section, the Tax Administrator may impose the following applicable
penalty:
         A.   For the late remittance of, or failure to remit, tax deducted and
withheld under this section, a penalty equal to fifty per cent (50%) of the tax
deducted and withheld;
         B.   For the failure to file, or the late filing of, a monthly or
annual return, a penalty of five hundred dollars ($500) for each return not
filed or filed late. Interest shall accrue on past due amounts deducted and
withheld at the rate prescribed in ORC 5703.47.
      (9)   Amounts deducted and withheld on behalf of the City shall be
allowed as a credit against payment of the tax imposed by the City and shall be
treated as taxes paid for purposes of Section 881.07 of this Chapter. This
division applies only to the person for whom the amount is deducted and
withheld.
      (10)   The Tax Administrator shall prescribe the forms of the receipts
and returns required under this section.
         (Source ORC 718.031)
(Ord. 15-33. Adopted 07/23/15; Ord. 2018-08. Adopted 02/22/18. Ord. 2020-10.
Adopted 04/23/20; Ord. 2023-31. Adopted 11/21/23)
§ 881.05 ANNUAL RETURN; FILING.
   (a)   Mandatory Filing. Except as provided in division (a)(1) of this
section, on or before the date prescribed by ORC Chapter 718., an annual City
income tax return shall be completed and filed by every taxpayer for each
taxable year for which the taxpayer is subject to the tax, whether or not a tax
is due thereon.
      (1)   A.   The Tax Administrator may accept on behalf of all nonresident
individual taxpayers a return filed by an employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer under Section
881.04 of this Chapter when the nonresident individual taxpayer's sole income
subject to the tax is the qualifying wages reported by the employer, agent of
an employer, or other payer, and no additional tax is due the City.
         B.   Retirees having no Municipal Taxable Income for the City income
tax purposes may file with the Tax Administrator a written exemption from these
filing requirements on a form prescribed by the Tax Administrator. The written
exemption shall indicate the date of retirement and the entity from which
retired. The exemption shall be in effect until such time as the retiree
receives Municipal Taxable Income taxable to the City, at which time the
retiree shall be required to comply with all applicable provisions of this
Chapter.
         C.   The City shall not require a qualifying employee whose income
consists exclusively of exempt income described in Section
881.02(l)(20) B. or C. to file a return under this section.
      (2)   If an individual is deceased, any return or notice required of that
individual shall be completed and filed by that decedent's executor,
administrator, or other person charged with the property of that decedent.
      (3)   If an individual is unable to complete and file a return or notice
required by the City, the return or notice required of that individual shall be
completed and filed by the individual's duly authorized agent, guardian,
conservator, fiduciary, or other person charged with the care of the person or
property of that individual.
      (4)   Returns or notices required of an estate or a trust shall be
completed and filed by the fiduciary of the estate or trust.
      (5)   The City shall permit spouses to file a joint return.
         (Source: ORC 718.05(A) - (E))
      (6)   As used in this division (a)(6), “worksite location” has the same
meaning as in Section 881.04(b)(1).
         A.   A person may notify the Tax Administrator that the person does
not expect to be a taxpayer subject to the City's income tax for a taxable year
if both of the following apply:
            (i)   The person was required to file a tax return with the City
for the immediately preceding taxable year because the person performed
services at a worksite location within the City.
            (ii)   The person no longer provides services in the City and does
not expect to be subject to the City income tax for the taxable year.
         B.   The person shall provide the notice in a signed affidavit that
briefly explains the person's circumstances, including the location of the
previous worksite location and the last date on which the person performed
services or made any sales within the City. The affidavit shall also include
the following statement: "The affiant has no plans to perform any services
within the City, make any sales in the City, or otherwise become subject to the
tax levied by the City during the taxable year. If the affiant does become
subject to the tax levied by the City for the taxable year, the affiant agrees
to be considered a taxpayer and to properly comply as a taxpayer with the City
income tax ordinance and rules and regulations." The person shall sign the
affidavit under penalty of perjury.
         C.   If a person submits an affidavit described in division (a)(6)B.,
the Tax Administrator shall not require the person to file a tax return for the
taxable year unless the Tax Administrator possesses information that conflicts
with the affidavit or if the circumstances described in the affidavit change.
         D.   Nothing in this division (a)(6) prohibits the Tax Administrator
from performing an audit of the person.
            (Source: ORC 718.05(N))
   (b)   Annual Return.
      (1)   Each return required to be filed under this Section shall contain
the signature of the taxpayer or the taxpayer's duly authorized agent and of
the person who prepared the return for the taxpayer. The return shall include
the taxpayer's social security number or taxpayer identification number. Each
return shall be verified by a declaration under penalty of perjury.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall require a taxpayer who is an individual
to include, with each annual return, and amended return, or request for refund
required under this section, copies of only the following documents: all of the
taxpayer's Internal Revenue Service form W-2, "Wage and Tax Statements,"
including all information reported on the taxpayer's federal W-2, as well as
taxable wages reported or withheld for any municipal corporation; the
taxpayer's Internal Revenue Service form 1040; and, with respect to an amended
tax return or refund request, any other documentation necessary to support the
refund request or the adjustments made in the amended return. An individual
taxpayer who files the annual return required by this section electronically is
not required to provide paper copies of any of the foregoing to the Tax
Administrator unless the Tax Administrator requests such copies after the
return has been filed.
      (3)   The Tax Administrator may require a taxpayer that is not an
individual to include, with each annual net profit return, amended net profit
return, or request for refund required under this section, copies of only the
following documents: the taxpayer's Internal Revenue Service form 1041, form
1065, form 1120, form 1120-REIT, form 1120F, or form 1120S, and, with respect
to an amended tax return or refund request, any other documentation necessary
to support the refund request or the adjustments made in the amended return.
            A taxpayer that is not an individual and that files an annual net
profit return electronically through the Ohio Business Gateway or in some other
manner shall either mail the documents required under this division to the Tax
Administrator at the time of filing or, if electronic submission is available,
submit the documents electronically through the Ohio Business Gateway.
      (4)   After a taxpayer files a tax return, the Tax Administrator may
request, and the taxpayer shall provide, any information, statements, or
documents required by the City to determine and verify the taxpayer's municipal
income tax liability. The requirements imposed under this division (b) apply
regardless of whether the taxpayer files on a generic form or on a form
prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
         (Source: ORC 718.05(F))
   (c)   Filing Dates.
      (1)   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, each individual
income tax return required to be filed under this section shall be completed
and filed as required by the Tax Administrator on or before the date prescribed
for the filing of state individual income tax returns under ORC 5747.08(G). The
taxpayer shall complete and file the return or notice on forms prescribed by
the Tax Administrator or on generic forms, together with remittance made
payable to the City. No remittance is required if the net amount due is ten
dollars ($10) or less.
         B.   Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, each annual net
profit return required to be filed under this section by a taxpayer that is not
an individual shall be completed and filed as required by the Tax Administrator
on or before the fifteenth day (15th) of the fourth (4th) month following the
end of the taxpayer's taxable year. The taxpayer shall complete and file the
return or notice on forms prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on generic
forms, together with remittance made payable to the City. No remittance is
required if the net amount due is ten dollars ($10) or less.
      (2)   A.   Any taxpayer that has duly requested an automatic six- (6)
month extension for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax return shall
automatically receive an extension for the filing of the City's income tax
return. The extended due date of the City's income tax return shall be the
fifteenth (15th) day of the tenth (10th) month after the last day of the
taxable year to which the return relates. For tax years ending on or after
January 1, 2023, the extended due date of the City's income tax return for a
taxpayer that is an individual shall remain the fifteenth (15th) day of the
tenth (10th) month after the last day of the taxable year to which the return
relates, and the extended due date of the City's income tax return for a
taxpayer that is not an individual shall be the fifteenth (15th) day of the
eleventh (11th) month after the last day of the taxable year to which the
return relates. A copy of the federal extension request shall be included with
the filing of the City's income tax return.
         B.   A taxpayer that has not requested or received a six- (6) month
extension for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax return may submit a
written request that the Tax Administrator grant the taxpayer a six- (6) month
extension of the date for filing the taxpayer's the City income tax return. If
the request is received by the Tax Administrator on or before the date the City
income tax return is due, the Tax Administrator shall grant the taxpayer's
requested extension.
         C.   An extension of time to file under this division (c)(2) is not an
extension of the time to pay any tax due unless the Tax Administrator grants an
extension of that date.
      (3)   If the State Tax Commissioner extends for all taxpayers the date
for filing state income tax returns under ORC 5747.08(G), a taxpayer shall
automatically receive an extension for the filing of the City's income tax
return. The extended due date of the City's income tax return shall be the same
as the extended due date of the state income tax return.
      (4)   If the Tax Administrator considers it necessary in order to ensure
the payment of the tax imposed by the City in accordance with this Chapter, the
Tax Administrator may require taxpayers to file returns and make payments
otherwise than as provided in this division, including taxpayers not otherwise
required to file annual returns.
      (5)   If a taxpayer receives an extension for the filing of the City's
income tax return under division (c)(2), (c)(3) or (c)(4) of this section, the
Tax Administrator shall not make any inquiry or send any notice to the taxpayer
with regard to the return on or before the date the taxpayer files the return
or on or before the extended due date to file the return, whichever occurs
first. If the Tax Administrator violates this division (c)(5), the City shall
reimburse the taxpayer for any reasonable costs incurred to respond to such
inquiry or notice, up to one hundred fifty dollars ($150). Division (c)(5) of
this section does not apply to an extension received under division (c)(2) of
this section if the Tax Administrator has actual knowledge that the taxpayer
failed to file for a federal extension as required to receive the extension
under division (c)(2)A. of this section or failed to file for an extension
under division (c)(2)B. of this section.
      (6)   To the extent that any provision in this division (c) conflicts
with any provision in Section 881.05(g), the provisions in Section
881.05(g) prevail.
         (Source: ORC 718.05(G))
   (d)   Remittance of Tax Due.
      (1)   For taxable years beginning after 2015, the City shall not require
a taxpayer to remit tax with respect to net profits if the net amount due is
ten dollars ($10) or less.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (d)(3), any taxpayer not required to
remit tax to the City for a taxable year pursuant to division (d)(1) of this
section shall file with the City an annual net profit return under division (b)
(3) of this section.
      (3)   The City shall not require a person to file a net profit return
under this section if the person's income consists exclusively of exempt income
described in Section
881.02(l)(20)A.
      (4)   If any report, claim, statement, or other document required to be
filed, or any payment required to be made, within a prescribed period or on or
before a prescribed date under this Chapter is delivered after that period or
that date by United States mail to the Tax Administrator or other municipal
official with which the report, claim, statement, or other document is required
to be filed, or to which the payment is required to be made, the date of the
postmark stamped on the cover in which the report, claim, statement, or other
document, or payment is mailed shall be deemed to be the date of delivery or
the date of payment. "The date of postmark" means, in the event there is more
than one date on the cover, the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the
postal service.
      (5)   If a payment under this Chapter is made by electronic funds
transfer, the payment shall be considered to be made on the date of the
timestamp assigned by the first electronic system receiving the payment.
      (6)   Taxes withheld for the City by an employer, the agent of an
employer, or other payer as described in Section
881.04 of this Chapter shall be allowed to the taxpayer as credits against
payment of the tax imposed on the taxpayer by the City, uncles the amounts
withheld are not remitted to the City and the recipient colluded with the
employer, agent, or other payer in connection with the failure to remit the
amounts withheld.
         (Source: ORC 718.05(H) - (J))
   (e)   Duties of Tax Administrator.
      (1)   Each return required by the City to be filed in accordance with
this division shall include a box that the taxpayer may check to authorize
another person, including a tax return preparer who prepared the return, to
communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters pertaining to the return.
The return or instructions accompanying the return shall indicate that by
checking the box the taxpayer authorizes the Tax Administrator to contact the
preparer or other person concerning questions that arise during the examination
or other review of the return and authorizes the preparer or other person only
to provide the Tax Administrator with information that is missing from the
return, to contact the Tax Administrator for information about the examination
or other review of the return or the status of the taxpayer's refund or
payments, and to respond to notices about mathematical errors, offsets, or
return preparation that the taxpayer has received from the Tax Administrator
and has shown to the preparer or other person.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall accept for filing a generic form of any
income tax return, report, or document required by the City in accordance with
this Chapter, provided that the generic form, once completed and filed,
contains all of the information required by ordinance, resolution, or rules and
regulations adopted by the City or the Tax Administrator, and provided that the
taxpayer or tax return preparer filing the generic form otherwise complies with
the provisions of this Chapter and of the City's ordinance, resolution, or
rules and regulations governing the filing of returns, reports, or documents.
      (3)   When income tax returns, reports, or other documents require the
signature of a tax return preparer, the Tax Administrator shall accept a
facsimile of such a signature in lieu of a manual signature.
         (Source: ORC 718.05(K) – (M))
   (f)   Filing Via Ohio Business Gateway.
      (1)   Any taxpayer subject to municipal income taxation with respect to
the taxpayer's net profit from a business or profession may file the City's
income tax return, estimated municipal income tax return, or extension for
filing a municipal income tax return, and may make payment of amounts shown to
be due on such returns, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
      (2)   Any employer, agent of an employer, or other payer may report the
amount of municipal income tax withheld from qualifying wages, and may make
remittance of such amounts, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
      (3)   Nothing in this section affects the due dates for filing employer
withholding tax returns.
      (4)   The use of the Ohio Business Gateway by the City, taxpayers, or
other persons pursuant to this section does not affect the legal rights of the
City or taxpayers as otherwise permitted by law. The State of Ohio shall not be
a party to the administration of the City's income taxes or to an appeal of a
City income tax matter, except as otherwise specifically provided by law.
      (5)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting or removing
the authority of the City to administer, audit, and enforce the provisions of
this Chapter.
         (Source: ORC 718.051)
   (g)   Extension for Certain Members of the Military.
      (1)   Each member of the national guard of any state and each member of a
reserve component of the Armed Forces of the United States called to active
duty pursuant to an executive order issued by the president of the United
States or an act of the Congress of the United States, and each civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the U.S. Armed Forces, may apply to the Tax Administrator for both
an extension of time for filing of the return and an extension of time for
payment of taxes required by the City during the period of the member's or
civilian's duty service, and for one hundred eighty (180) days thereafter. The
application shall be filed on or before the one hundred eightieth (180th) day
after the member's or civilian's duty terminates. An applicant shall provide
such evidence as the Tax Administrator considers necessary to demonstrate
eligibility for the extension.
      (2)   A.   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is
qualified for an extension under this section, the Tax Administrator shall
enter into a contract with the applicant for the payment of the tax in
installments that begin on the one hundred eighty-first (181st) day after the
applicant's active duty or service terminates. The Tax Administrator may
prescribe such contract terms as the Tax Administrator considers appropriate.
         B.   If the Tax Administrator determines that an applicant is
qualified for an extension under this section, the applicant shall neither be
required to file any return, report, or other tax document nor be required to
pay any tax otherwise due to the City before the one hundred eighty-first
(181st) day after the applicant's active duty or service terminates.
         C.   Taxes paid pursuant to a contract entered into under division (g)
(2)A. of this section are not delinquent. The Tax Administrator shall not
require any payments of penalties or interest in connection with those taxes
for the extension period.
      (3)   A.   Nothing in this division denies to any person described in
this division the application of divisions (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section.
         B.   (i)   A qualifying taxpayer who is eligible for an extension
under the Internal Revenue Code shall receive both an extension of time in
which to file any return, report, or other tax document and an extension of
time in which to make any payment of taxes required by the City in accordance
with this Chapter. The length of any extension granted under division (g)(3)B.
(i) of this section shall be equal to the length of the corresponding extension
that the taxpayer receives under the Internal Revenue Code. As used in this
division, "qualifying taxpayer" means a member of the national guard or a
member of a reserve component of the Armed Forces of the United States called
to active duty pursuant to either an executive order issued by the president of
the United States or an act of the Congress of the United States, or a civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the U.S. Armed Forces.
            (ii)   Taxes whose payment is extended in accordance with division
(g)(3)B.(i) of this section are not delinquent during the extension period.
Such taxes become delinquent on the first day after the expiration of the
extension period if the taxes are not paid prior to that date. The Tax
Administrator shall not require any payment of penalties or interest in
connection with those taxes for the extension period. The Tax Administrator
shall not include any period of extension granted under division (g) of this
section in calculating the penalty or interest due on any unpaid tax.
      (4)   For each taxable year to which division (g)(1), (g)(2) or (g)(3) of
this section applies to a taxpayer, the provisions of divisions (g)(2) B. and
C. of this section, as applicable, apply to the spouse of that taxpayer if the
filing status of the spouse and the taxpayer is married filing jointly for that
year.
         (Source: ORC 718.052)
   (h)   Consolidated Municipal Income Tax Return.
      (1)   As used in this division:
         A.   "Affiliated group of corporations" means an affiliated group as
defined in Section 1504 of the Internal Revenue Code, except that, if such a
group includes at least one incumbent local exchange carrier that is primarily
engaged in the business of providing local exchange telephone service in this
state, the affiliated group shall not include any incumbent local exchange
carrier that would otherwise be included in the group.
         B.   "Consolidated federal income tax return" means a consolidated
return filed for federal income tax purposes pursuant to Section 1501 of the
Internal Revenue Code.
         C.   "Consolidated federal taxable income" means the consolidated
taxable income of an affiliated group of corporations, as computed for the
purposes of filing a consolidated federal income tax return, before
consideration of net operating losses or special deductions. "Consolidated
federal taxable income" does not include income or loss of an incumbent local
exchange carrier that is excluded from the affiliated group under division (h)
(1)A. of this section.
         D.   "Incumbent local exchange carrier" has the same meaning as in ORC
4927.01.
         E.   "Local exchange telephone service" has the same meaning as in ORC
5727.01.
      (2)   A.   For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016, a
taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations may elect to
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year if at least
one member of the affiliated group of corporations is subject to the City's
income tax in that taxable year, and if the affiliated group of corporations
filed a consolidated federal income tax return with respect to that taxable
year. The election is binding for a five- (5) year period beginning with the
first taxable year of the initial election unless a change in the reporting
method is required under federal law. The election continues to be binding for
each subsequent five- (5) year period unless the taxpayer elects to discontinue
filing consolidated municipal income tax returns under division (h)(2)B. of
this section or a taxpayer receives permission from the Tax Administrator. The
Tax Administrator shall approve such a request for good cause shown.
         B.   An election to discontinue filing consolidated municipal income
tax returns under this section must be made in the first year following the
last year of a five- (5) year consolidated municipal income tax return election
period in effect under division (h)(2)A. of this section. The election to
discontinue filing a consolidated municipal income tax return is binding for a
five- (5) year period beginning with the first taxable year of the election.
         C.   An election made under division (h)(2)A. or B. of this section is
binding on all members of the affiliated group of corporations subject to a
municipal income tax.
         D.   When a taxpayer makes the election allowed under ORC 718.80, a
valid election made by a taxpayer under division (h)(2)A. or B. of this section
is binding upon the Tax Commissioner for the remainder of the five- (5) year
period.
         E.   When an election made under ORC 718.80 is terminated, a valid
election made under ORC 718.86 is binding upon the Tax Administrator for the
remainder of the five- (5) year period.
      (3)   A taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations
that filed a consolidated federal income tax return for a taxable year shall
file a consolidated the City income tax return for that taxable year if the Tax
Administrator determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, that intercompany
transactions have not been conducted at arm's length and that there has been a
distortive shifting of income or expenses with regard to allocation of net
profits to the City. A taxpayer that is required to file a consolidated City
income tax return for a taxable year shall file a consolidated City income tax
return for all subsequent taxable years, unless the taxpayer requests and
receives written permission from the Tax Administrator to file a separate
return or a taxpayer has experienced a change in circumstances.
      (4)   A taxpayer shall prepare a consolidated City income tax return in
the same manner as is required under the United States Department of the
Treasury regulations that prescribe procedures for the preparation of the
consolidated federal income tax return required to be filed by the common
parent of the affiliated group of which the taxpayer is a member.
      (5)   A.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (h)(5)B., C. and D.
of this section, corporations that file a consolidated municipal income tax
return shall compute adjusted federal taxable income, as defined in Section
881.02, by substituting "consolidated federal taxable income" for "federal
taxable income" wherever "federal taxable income" appears in that division and
by substituting "an affiliated group of corporation's" for "a C corporation's"
wherever "a C corporation's" appears in that division.
         B.   No corporation filing a consolidated City income tax return shall
make any adjustment otherwise required under Section
881.02(a) to the extent that the item of income or deduction otherwise subject
to the adjustment has been eliminated or consolidated in the computation of
consolidated federal taxable income.
         C.   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having at
least eighty percent (80%) of the value of its ownership interest owned or
controlled, directly or indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is
included in that affiliated group's consolidated federal taxable income for a
taxable year, the corporation filing a consolidated City income tax return
shall do one of the following with respect to that pass-through entity's net
profit or loss for that taxable year:
            (i)   Exclude the pass-through entity's net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in Section
881.05(h), exclude the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-
through entity in the computation of the affiliated group's net profit sitused
to the City. If the entity's net profit or loss is so excluded, the entity
shall be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of the
entity's net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
            (ii)   Include the pass-through entity's net profit or loss in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in Section
881.05(h), include the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-
through entity in the computation of the affiliated group's net profit sitused
to the City. If the entity's net profit or loss is so included, the entity
shall not be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of the
entity's net profits that are included in the consolidated federal taxable
income of the affiliated group.
         D.   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having less
than eighty percent (80%) of the value of its ownership interest owned or
controlled, directly or indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is
included in that affiliated group's consolidated federal taxable income for a
taxable year, all of the following shall apply:
            (i)   The corporation filing the consolidated municipal income tax
return shall exclude the pass-through entity's net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purposes of making the computations required in Section 881.05(h), exclude the
property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-through entity in the
computation of the affiliated group's net profit sitused to the City;
            (ii)   The pass-through entity shall be subject to the City's
income taxation as a separate taxpayer in accordance with this Chapter on the
basis of the entity's net profits that would otherwise be included in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
      (6)   Corporations filing a consolidated City income tax return shall
make the computations required under Section
881.05(h) by substituting "consolidated federal taxable income attributable to"
for "net profit from" wherever "net profit from" appears in that section and by
substituting "affiliated group of corporations" for "taxpayer" wherever
"taxpayer" appears in that section.
      (7)   Each corporation filing a consolidated City income tax return is
jointly and severally liable for any tax, interest, penalties, fines, charges,
or other amounts imposed by the City in accordance with this Chapter on the
corporation, an affiliated group of which the corporation is a member for any
portion of the taxable year, or any one or more members of such an affiliated
group.
      (8)   Corporations and their affiliates that made an election or entered
into an agreement with the City before January 1, 2016, to file a consolidated
or combined tax return with the City may continue to file consolidated or
combined tax returns in accordance with such election or agreement for taxable
years beginning on and after January 1, 2016.
         (Source: ORC 718.06)
(Ord. 15-33. Adopted 07/23/15; Ord. 16-54. Adopted 11/22/16; Ord. 2018-08.
Adopted 02/22/18; Ord. 2020-10. Adopted 04/23/20; Ord. 2023-31. Adopted 11/21/
23)
§ 881.06 NONREFUNDABLE CREDIT FOR TAX PAID TO ANOTHER MUNICIPALITY.
   (a)   Credit for Income Tax Paid to Another Municipality.
      (1)   Every individual taxpayer domiciled in the City of Xenia who is
required to and does pay, or has acknowledged liability for, a municipal tax to
another municipality, on or measured by the same income, qualifying wages,
commissions, net profits or other compensation taxable under this Chapter, may
claim a nonrefundable credit upon satisfactory evidence of the tax paid to the
other municipality. Subject to division (a)(2) of this section, the credit
shall not exceed one hundred percent (100%) of the amount obtained by
multiplying the income, qualifying wages, commissions, net profits or other
compensation subject to tax in the other municipality by the lower of the tax
rate in such other municipality or the rate of one and one-half percent (1.5%).
      (2)   If the amount of tax withheld or paid to the other municipality is
less than the amount of tax required to be withheld or paid to the other
municipality, then for the purposes of division (a)(1) of this section, "the
income, qualifying wages, commissions, net profits or other compensation"
subject to tax in the other municipality shall be limited to the amount
computed by dividing the tax withheld or paid to the other municipality by the
tax rate for that municipality.
      (3)   The City shall grant a credit against its tax on income to a
resident of the City who works in a joint economic development zone created
under ORC 715.691 or a joint economic development district (JEDD) created under
ORC 715.70, 715.71 or 715.72 to the same extent that it grants a credit against
its tax on income to residents who are employed in another municipality, with
the exception of the Xenia Township - City of Xenia JEDD-1 tax. Credit for
taxes paid to the Xenia Township - City of Xenia JEDD-1 shall not exceed two
and one-quarter percent (2.25%) of the income taxed by the Xenia Township -
City of Xenia JEDD-1.
         (Statutory Reference: ORC 718.16)
   (b)   Credit for Tax Imposed After Time Allowed for a Refund Paid to Other
Municipality.
      (1)   Subject to division (b)(2) of this section, income tax or
withholding on income or wages that is due to the City but was paid to another
municipality shall be subject to collection and recovery by the City. If City
imposes the tax after the time period allowed for a refund of the tax or
withholding from the other municipality to which it was paid, the City shall
allow a nonrefundable credit against the tax or withholding the City claims is
due with respect to such income or wages, equal to the tax or withholding paid
to the other municipality.
      (2)   If the City's tax rate is less than the tax rate of the other
municipality, then the nonrefundable credit described in division (b)(1) of
this section shall be calculated using the City's tax rate. If the City's tax
rate is greater than the tax rate of the other municipality, the tax due in
excess of the nonrefundable credit is to be paid to the City, along with any
penalty and interest that accrued during the period of nonpayment.
         (Source: ORC 718.121)
   (c)   No Carryforward. Nothing in this section permits any credit
carryforward.
(Ord. 15-33. Adopted 07/23/15; Ord. 2018-08. Adopted 02/22/18; Ord. 2020-10.
Adopted 04/23/20; Ord. 2023-31. Adopted 11/21/23)
§ 881.07 ESTIMATED TAXES.
   (a)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "Estimated taxes" means the amount that the taxpayer reasonably
estimates to be the taxpayer's tax liability for the City's income tax for the
current taxable year.
      (2)   "Tax liability" means the total taxes due to a City for the taxable
year, after allowing any credit to which the taxpayer is entitled, and after
applying any estimated tax payment, withholding payment or credit from another
taxable year.
   (b)   Declaration of Estimated Taxes.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (f) of this section, every taxpayer
shall make a declaration of estimated taxes for the current taxable year, on
the form prescribed by the Tax Administrator, if the amount payable as
estimated taxes is at least two hundred dollars ($200). For the purposes of
this section:
         A.   City income taxes withheld from qualifying wages shall be
considered as paid to the City in equal amounts on each payment date, unless
the taxpayer establishes the dates on which all amounts were actually withheld,
in which case they shall be considered as paid on the dates on which the
amounts were actually withheld.
         B.   An overpayment of tax applied as a credit to a subsequent taxable
year is deemed to be paid on the date of the postmark stamped on the cover in
which the payment is mailed or, if the payment is made by electronic funds
transfer, the date the payment is submitted. As used in this division, "date of
the postmark" means, in the event there is more than one date on the cover, the
earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
         C.   Taxes withheld by a casino operator, video lottery sales agent,
or type B sports gaming proprietor under Section 881.04(c) of this Chapter are
deemed to be paid to the City, if the taxes were withheld, on the date the
taxes are withheld from the taxpayer's winnings.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (f) of this section, taxpayers
filing joint returns shall file joint declarations of estimated taxes. A
taxpayer may amend a declaration under rules prescribed by the Tax
Administrator. Except as provided in division (f) of this section, a taxpayer
having a taxable year of less than twelve (12) months shall make a declaration
under rules prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
      (3)   The declaration of estimated taxes shall be filed on or before the
date prescribed for the filing of municipal income tax returns under Section
881.05(c) of this Chapter or on or before the fifteenth (15th) day of the
fourth (4th) month of the first taxable year after the taxpayer becomes subject
to tax for the first time.
      (4)   Taxpayers reporting on a fiscal year basis shall file a declaration
on or before the fifteenth (15th) day of the fourth (4th) month after the
beginning of each fiscal year or period.
      (5)   The original declaration or any subsequent amendment may be
increased or decreased on or before any subsequent quarterly payment day as
provided in this section.
   (c)   Tax Liability.
      (1)   The required portion of the tax liability for the taxable year that
shall be paid through estimated taxes made payable to the City or Tax
Administrator, including the application of tax refunds to estimated taxes and
withholding on or before the applicable payment date, shall be as follows:
         A.   On or before the fifteenth (15th) day of the fourth (4th) month
after the beginning of the taxable year, twenty-two and one-half percent (22½%)
of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         B.   On or before the fifteenth (15th) day of the sixth (6th) month
after the beginning of the taxable year, forty-five percent (45%) of the tax
liability for the taxable year;
         C.   On or before the fifteenth (15th) day of the ninth (9th) month
after the beginning of the taxable year, sixty-seven and one-half percent
(67½%) of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         D.   For an individual, on or before the fifteenth (15th) day of the
first month of the following taxable year, ninety percent (90%) of the tax
liability for the taxable year. For a person other than an individual, on or
before the fifteenth (15th) day of the twelfth (12th) month of the taxable
year, ninety percent (90%) of the tax liability for the taxable year.
      (2)   When an amended declaration has been filed, the unpaid balance
shown due on the amended declaration shall be paid in equal installments on or
before the remaining payment dates.
      (3)   On or before the fifteenth (15th) day of the fourth (4th) month of
the year following that for which the declaration or amended declaration was
filed, an annual return shall be filed and any balance which may be due shall
be paid with the return in accordance with Section
881.05 of this Chapter.
   (d)   Underpayments.
      (1)   In the case of any underpayment of any portion of a tax liability,
penalty and interest may be imposed pursuant to Section
881.18 of this Chapter upon the amount of underpayment for the period of
underpayment, unless the underpayment is due to reasonable cause as described
in division (e) of this section. The amount of the underpayment shall be
determined as follows:
         A.   For the first payment of estimated taxes each year, twenty-two
and one-half percent (22½%) of the tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid
by the date prescribed for that payment;
         B.   For the second payment of estimated taxes each year, forty-five
percent (45%) of the tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date
prescribed for that payment;
         C.   For the third payment of estimated taxes each year, sixty-seven
and one-half percent (67½%) of the tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid
by the date prescribed for that payment;
         D.   For the fourth payment of estimated taxes each year, ninety
percent (90%) of the tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date
prescribed for that payment.
      (2)   The period of the underpayment shall run from the day the estimated
payment was required to be made to the date on which the payment is made. For
purposes of this section, a payment of estimated taxes on or before any payment
date shall be considered a payment of any previous underpayment only to the
extent the payment of estimated taxes exceeds the amount of the payment
presently required to be paid to avoid any penalty.
   (e)   Exception to the Imposition of Penalty for Underpayments. An
underpayment of any portion of tax liability determined under division (d) of
this section shall be due to reasonable cause and the penalty imposed by this
section shall not be added to the taxes for the taxable year if any of the
following apply:
      (1)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least ninety
percent (90%) of the tax liability for the current taxable year, determined by
annualizing the income received during the year up to the end of the month
immediately preceding the month in which the payment is due.
      (2)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least one
hundred percent (100%) of the tax liability shown on the return of the taxpayer
for the preceding taxable year, provided that the immediately preceding taxable
year reflected a period of twelve (12) months and the taxpayer filed a return
with the City under Section
881.05 of this Chapter for that year.
      (3)   The taxpayer is an individual who resides in the City but was not
domiciled there on the first day of January of the calendar year that includes
the first day of the taxable year.
   (f)   Authority of Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator may waive the
requirement for filing a declaration of estimated taxes for any class of
taxpayers after finding that the waiver is reasonable and proper in view of
administrative costs and other factors.
(Source: ORC 718.08)
(Ord. 2020-10. Adopted 04/23/20; Ord. 2023-31. Adopted 11/21/23)
§ 881.08 ROUNDING OF AMOUNTS.
   A person may round to the nearest whole dollar all amounts the person is
required to enter on any return, report, voucher, or other document required
under this Chapter. Any fractional part of a dollar that equals or exceeds
fifty cents ($0.50) shall be rounded to the next whole dollar, and any
fractional part of a dollar that is less than fifty cents ($0.50) shall be
dropped, rounding down to the nearest whole dollar. If a person chooses to
round amounts entered on a document, the person shall round all amounts entered
on the document.
(Source: ORC 718.25)
(Ord. 2020-10. Adopted 04/23/20)
§ 881.09 REQUESTS FOR REFUNDS.
   (a)   Definitions. As used in this section, "withholding tax" has the same
meaning as in Section
881.18.
   (b)   Request for Refund. Upon receipt of a request for a refund, the Tax
Administrator, in accordance with this section, shall refund to employers,
agents of employers, other payers or taxpayers with respect to any income or
withholding tax levied by the City:
      (1)   Overpayments of more than ten dollars ($10);
      (2)   Amounts paid erroneously if the refund requested exceeds ten
dollars ($10).
   (c)   Filing Request.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, requests for refund
shall be filed with the Tax Administrator, on the form prescribed by the Tax
Administrator, within three (3) years after the tax was due or paid, whichever
is later. The Tax Administrator may require the requestor to file with the
request any documentation that substantiates the requestor's claim for a
refund.
      (2)   On filing of the refund request, the Tax Administrator shall
determine the amount of refund due and certify such amount to the Finance
Director for payment. Except as provided in division (c)(3) of this section,
the Tax Administrator shall issue an Assessment to any taxpayer whose request
for refund is fully or partially denied. The Assessment shall state the amount
of the refund that was denied, the reasons for the denial, and instructions for
appealing the Assessment.
      (3)   If the Tax Administrator denies in whole or in part a refund
request included within the taxpayer's originally filed annual income tax
return, the Tax Administrator shall notify the taxpayer, in writing, of the
amount of the refund that was denied, the reasons for the denial, and
instructions for requesting an Assessment that may be appealed under Section
881.21 of this Chapter.
   (d)   Timely Filing. A request for a refund that is received after the last
day for filing specified in division (c) of this section shall be considered to
have been filed in a timely manner if any of the following situations exist:
      (1)   The request is delivered by the postal service, and the earliest
postal service postmark on the cover in which the request is enclosed is not
later than the last day for filing the request;
      (2)   The request is delivered by the postal service, the only postmark
on the cover in which the request is enclosed was affixed by a private postal
meter, the date of that postmark is not later than the last day for filing the
request, and the request is received within seven days (7) of such last day;
      (3)   The request is delivered by the postal service, no postmark date
was affixed to the cover in which the request is enclosed or the date of the
postmark so affixed is not legible, and the request is received within seven
(7) days of the last day for making the request.
         (Source: ORC 718.19)
   (e)   Limitation. A claim for a refund shall be brought within the time
limitations provided in this section.
(Source: ORC 719.12(C))
   (f)   Interest on Refunds. Interest shall be allowed and paid on any
overpayment by a taxpayer of any City income tax obligation from the date of
the overpayment until the date of the refund of the overpayment, except that if
any overpayment is refunded within ninety (90) days after the final filing date
of the annual City income tax return or ninety days (90) after the completed
return is filed, whichever is later, no interest shall be allowed on the
refund. For the purpose of computing the payment of interest on amounts
overpaid, no amount of tax for any taxable year shall be considered to have
been paid before the date on which the City income tax return on which the tax
is reported is due, without regard to any extension of time for filing that
return. Interest shall be paid at the interest rate described in Section
881.18(a)(4) of this Chapter.
(Source: ORC 718.12(D))
(Ord. 15-33. Adopted 07/23/15; Ord. 2018-08. Adopted 02/22/18; Ord. 20-10.
Adopted 04/23/20; Ord. 2023-31. Adopted 11/21/23)
§ 881.10 AMENDED RETURNS.
   (a)   Time for Filing. Within sixty (60) days after the final determination
of any federal or state tax liability affecting the taxpayer's City income tax
liability, that taxpayer shall make and file an amended City return showing
income subject to City income tax based upon such final determination of
federal or state tax liability. The taxpayer shall pay any additional City
income tax shown due thereon or make a claim for refund of any overpayment,
unless the tax or overpayment is less than ten dollars ($10).
(Source: ORC 718.12(E))
   (b)   Amended Return. A taxpayer shall file an amended return with the Tax
Administrator in such form as the Tax Administrator requires if any of the
facts, figures, computations, or attachments required in the taxpayer's annual
return to determine the tax due levied by the City in accordance with this
Chapter must be altered as a result of an adjustment to the taxpayer's federal
income tax return, whether initiated by the taxpayer or the Internal Revenue
Service, and such alteration affects the taxpayer's tax liability under this
Chapter. If a taxpayer intends to file an amended consolidated municipal income
tax return, or to amend its type of return from a separate return to a
consolidated return, based on the taxpayer's consolidated federal income tax
return, the taxpayer shall notify the Tax Administrator before filing the
amended return.
   (c)   Underpayment.
      (1)   In the case of an underpayment, the amended return shall be
accompanied by payment of any combined additional tax due together with any
penalty and interest thereon. If the combined tax shown to be due is ten
dollars ($10) or less, no payment need be made. Except as provided in division
(c)(2) of this section, the amended return shall not reopen those facts,
figures, computations, or attachments from a previously filed return that are
not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the
taxpayer's federal or state income tax return unless the applicable statute of
limitations for civil actions or prosecutions under Section
881.12 of this Chapter has not expired for a previously filed return.
      (2)   The additional tax to be paid shall not exceed the amount of tax
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations, and attachments were
reopened.
   (d)   Overpayment.
      (1)   In the case of an overpayment, a request for refund may be filed
under this division within the period prescribed by division (a) of this
section for filing the amended return even if it is filed beyond the period
prescribed in that division if it otherwise conforms to the requirements of
that division. If the amount of the refund is ten dollars ($10) or less, no
refund need be paid by the City to the taxpayer. Except as set forth in
division (d)(2) of this section, a request filed under this division shall
claim refund of overpayments resulting from alterations to only those facts,
figures, computations or attachments required in the taxpayer's annual income
tax return that are affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment
to the taxpayer's federal or state income tax return and provided it is also
filed within the time prescribed in Section
881.09 of this Chapter. Except as provided in division (d)(2) of this section,
the request shall not reopen those facts, figures, computations, or attachments
that are not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the
taxpayer's federal or state income tax return.
      (2)   The amount to be refunded shall not exceed the amount of refund
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations, and attachments were
reopened.
         (Source: ORC 718.41)
(Ord. 2020-10. Adopted 04/23/20; Ord. 2023-31. Adopted 11/21/23)
§ 881.11 ELECTRONIC AVAILABILITY OF RULES AND FORMS.
   The Tax Administrator shall make electronic versions of any rules or
ordinances governing the tax available to the public through the internet
including, but not limited to, ordinances or rules governing the rate of tax;
payment and withholding of taxes; filing any prescribed returns, reports, or
other documents; dates for filing or paying taxes, including estimated taxes;
penalties, interest, assessment, and other collection remedies; rights of
taxpayers to appeal; procedures for filing appeals; and a summary of taxpayers'
rights and responsibilities. The Tax Administrator shall make blanks of any
prescribed returns, reports, or documents, and any instructions pertaining
thereto, available to the public electronically through the internet.
Electronic versions of rules, ordinances, blanks, and instructions shall be
made available by posting them on the electronic site established by the State
Tax Commissioner under ORC 5703.49 and, if the City or Tax Administrator
maintains an electronic site for the posting of such documents that is
accessible through the internet, by posting them on that electronic site. If
the City or Tax Administrator establishes such an electronic site, the City
shall incorporate an electronic link between that site and the site established
pursuant to ORC 5703.49 and shall provide to the State Tax Commissioner the
uniform resource locator of the site established pursuant to this division.
(Source: ORC 718.07)
(Ord. 2023-31. Adopted 11/21/23)
§ 881.12 LIMITATIONS.
   (a)   Civil Actions.
      (1)   A.   Civil actions to recover municipal income taxes and penalties
and interest on municipal income taxes shall be brought within the later of:
            (i)   Three (3) years after the tax was due or the return was
filed, whichever is later; or
            (ii)   One (1) year after the conclusion of the qualifying deferral
period, if any.
         B.   The time limit described in division (a)(1)A. of this section may
be extended at any time if both the Tax Administrator and the employer, agent
of the employer, other payer or taxpayer consent in writing to the extension.
Any extension shall also extend for the same period of time the time limit
described in Section
881.09(e) of this Chapter.
      (2)   As used in this section, "qualifying deferral period" means a
period of time beginning and ending as follows:
         A.   Beginning on the date a person who is aggrieved by an Assessment
files with the Board of Tax Review the request described in Section
881.21 of this Chapter. That date shall not be affected by any subsequent
decision, finding or holding by any administrative body or court that the Board
of Tax Review with which the aggrieved person filed the request did not have
jurisdiction to affirm, reverse or modify the Assessment or any part of that
Assessment.
         B.   Ending the later of the sixtieth (60th) day after the date on
which the final determination of the Board of Tax Review becomes final or, if
any party appeals from the determination of the Board of Tax Review, the
sixtieth (60th) day after the date on which the final determination of the
Board of Tax Review is either ultimately affirmed in whole or in part or
ultimately reversed and no further appeal of either that affirmation, in whole
or in part, or that reversal is available or taken.
(Source: ORC 718.12(A))
   (b)   Criminal Actions. Prosecutions for an offense made punishable under
this Chapter shall be commenced within three (3) years after the commission of
the offense; provided, however, that in the case of fraud, failure to file a
return or the omission of twenty-five percent (25%) or more of income required
to be reported, prosecutions may be commenced within six (6) years after the
commission of the offense.
(Source: ORC 718.12(B))
   (c)   Effect of Pending Appeal.
      (1)   Notwithstanding the fact that an appeal is pending, the petitioner
may pay all or a portion of the Assessment that is the subject of the appeal.
The acceptance of a payment by the City does not prejudice any claim for refund
upon final determination of the appeal.
      (2)   If, upon final determination of the appeal, an error in the
Assessment is corrected by the Tax Administrator, upon an appeal so filed or
pursuant to a final determination of the Board of Tax Review, of the Ohio Board
of Tax Appeals or any court to which the decision of the Ohio Board of Tax
Appeals has been appealed, so that the amount due from the party assessed under
the corrected assessment is less than the amount paid, there shall be issued to
the appellant or to the appellant's assigns or legal representative a refund in
the amount of the overpayment as provided by Section
881.09 of this Chapter, with interest on that amount as provided by
881.09(f).
         (Source: ORC 718.12(F))
   (d)   Limitation on Civil Actions. No civil action to recover municipal
income tax or related penalties or interest shall be brought during either of
the following time periods:
      (1)   The period during which a taxpayer has a right to appeal the
imposition of that tax or interest or those penalties;
      (2)   The period during which an appeal related to the imposition of that
tax or interest or those penalties is pending.
         (Source: ORC 718.12(G))
(Ord. 2020-10. Adopted 04/23/20; Ord. 2023-31. Adopted 11/21/23)
§ 881.13 AUDITS.
   (a)   Notice to Taxpayer. At or before the commencement of an audit, the Tax
Administrator shall provide to the taxpayer a written description of the roles
of the Tax Administrator and of the taxpayer during an audit and a statement of
the taxpayer's rights, including any right to obtain a refund of an overpayment
of tax. At or before the commencement of an audit, the Tax Administrator shall
inform the taxpayer when the audit is considered to have commenced.
   (b)   Audit. Except in cases involving suspected criminal activity, the Tax
Administrator shall conduct an audit of a taxpayer during regular business
hours and after providing reasonable notice to the taxpayer. A taxpayer who is
unable to comply with a proposed time for an audit on the grounds that the
proposed time would cause inconvenience or hardship must offer reasonable
alternative dates for the audit.
   (c)   Authorized Representative of the Taxpayer.
      (1)   At all stages of an audit by the Tax Administrator, a taxpayer is
entitled to be assisted or represented by an attorney, accountant, bookkeeper,
or other tax practitioner. The Tax Administrator shall prescribe a form by
which a taxpayer may designate such a person to assist or represent the
taxpayer in the conduct of any proceedings resulting from actions by the Tax
Administrator. If a taxpayer has not submitted such a form, the Tax
Administrator may accept other evidence, as the Tax Administrator considers
appropriate, that a person is the authorized representative of a taxpayer.
      (2)   A taxpayer may refuse to answer any questions asked by Tax
Administrator or other authorized person conducting an audit until the taxpayer
has an opportunity to consult with the taxpayer's attorney, accountant,
bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner. This division does not authorize the
practice of law by a person who is not an attorney.
   (d)   Recording of Audit. A taxpayer may record, electronically or
otherwise, the audit examination.
   (e)   Effect of Audit on Taxes Due. The failure of the Tax Administrator to
comply with a provision of this section shall neither excuse a taxpayer from
payment of any taxes owed by the taxpayer nor cure any procedural defect in a
taxpayer's case.
   (f)   Effect of Audit on Penalties and Interest. If the Tax Administrator
fails to substantially comply with the provisions of this section, the Tax
Administrator, upon application by the taxpayer, shall excuse the taxpayer from
penalties and interest arising from the audit.
(Source: ORC 718.36)
(Ord. 2020-10. Adopted 04/23/20)
§ 881.14 SERVICE OF ASSESSMENT.
   (a)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "Last known address" means the address the Tax Administrator has at
the time a document is originally sent by certified mail, or any address the
Tax Administrator can ascertain using reasonable means such as the use of a
change of address service offered by the postal service or an authorized
delivery service under ORC 5703.056.
      (2)   "Undeliverable address" means an address to which the postal
service or an authorized delivery service under ORC 5703.056 is not able to
deliver an Assessment of the Tax Administrator, except when the reason for non-
delivery is because the addressee fails to acknowledge or accept the
Assessment.
   (b)   Service.
      (1)   Subject to division (c) of this section, a copy of each Assessment
shall be served upon the person affected thereby either by personal service, by
certified mail, or by a delivery service authorized under ORC 5703.056.
      (2)   With the permission of the person affected by an Assessment, the
Tax Administrator may deliver the Assessment through alternative means as
provided in this section, including, but not limited to, delivery by secure
electronic mail. Delivery by such means satisfies the requirements for delivery
under this section.
   (c)   Return of Certified Mail.
      (1)   A.   If certified mail is returned because of an undeliverable
address, the Tax Administrator shall utilize reasonable means to ascertain a
new last known address, including the use of a change of address service
offered by the postal service or an authorized delivery service under ORC
5703.056. If, after using reasonable means, the Tax Administrator is unable to
ascertain a new last known address, the Assessment shall be sent by ordinary
mail and considered served. If the ordinary mail is subsequently returned
because of an undeliverable address, the Assessment remains appealable within
sixty (60) days after the Assessment's postmark.
         B.   Once the Tax Administrator or other City official, or the
designee of either, serves an Assessment on the person to whom the Assessment
is directed, the person may protest the ruling of that Assessment by filing an
appeal with the Board of Tax Review within sixty (60) days after the receipt of
service. The delivery of an Assessment of the Tax Administrator under division
(c)(1)A. of this section is prima facie evidence that delivery is complete and
that the Assessment is served.
      (2)   If mailing of an Assessment by the Tax Administrator by certified
mail is returned for some cause other than an undeliverable address, the Tax
Administrator shall resend the Assessment by ordinary mail. The Assessment
shall show the date the Tax Administrator sends the Assessment and include the
following statement:
         "This Assessment is deemed to be served on the addressee under
applicable law ten (10) days from the date this Assessment was mailed by the
Tax Administrator as shown on the Assessment, and all periods within which an
appeal may be filed apply from and after that date."
         Unless the mailing is returned because of an undeliverable address,
the mailing of that information is prima facie evidence that delivery of the
Assessment was completed ten (10) days after the Tax Administrator sent the
Assessment by ordinary mail and that the Assessment was served.
      (3)   If the ordinary mail is subsequently returned because of an
undeliverable address, the Tax Administrator shall proceed under division (c)
(1)A. of this section. A person may challenge the presumption of delivery and
service under this division in accordance with division (d) of this section.
   (d)   Appeal Based on Presumption of Delivery.
      (1)   A person disputing the presumption of delivery and service under
division (c) of this section bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of
the evidence that the address to which the Assessment was sent was not an
address with which the person was associated at the time the Tax Administrator
originally mailed the assessment by certified mail. For the purposes of this
section, a person is associated with an address at the time the Tax
Administrator originally mailed the Assessment if, at that time, the person was
residing, receiving legal documents, or conducting business at the address; or
if, before that time, the person had conducted business at the address and,
when the Assessment was mailed, the person's agent or the person's affiliate
was conducting business at the address. For the purposes of this section, a
person's affiliate is any other person that, at the time the assessment was
mailed, owned or controlled at least twenty percent (20%), as determined by
voting rights, of the addressee's business.
      (2)   If a person elects to appeal an Assessment on the basis described
in division (d)(1) of this section, and if that Assessment is subject to
collection and is not otherwise appealable, the person must do so within sixty
(60) days after the initial contact by the Tax Administrator or other City
official, or the designee of either, with the person. Nothing in this division
prevents the Tax Administrator or other official from entering into a
compromise with the person if the person does not actually file such an appeal
with the Board of Tax Review.
   (e)   Personal Service. Nothing in this section prohibits the Tax
Administrator or the Tax Administrator's designee from delivering an Assessment
by personal service.
   (f)   Stay of Collection Action. Collection actions taken upon any
assessment being appealed under division (c)(1)B. of this section shall be
stayed upon the pendency of an appeal under this section. If an appeal is filed
pursuant to this section on a claim that has been delivered for collection, the
collection activities with respect to the assessment shall be stayed.
   (g)   Additional Rules. Additional regulations as detailed in the Rules and
Regulations shall apply.
(Source: ORC 718.18)
(Ord. 2020-10. Adopted 04/23/20; Ord. 2023-31. Adopted 11/21/23)
§ 881.15 ADMINISTRATION OF CLAIMS.
   (a)   Definitions. As used in this section, "claim" means a claim for an
amount payable to the City that arises pursuant to the City's income tax
imposed in accordance with this Chapter.
   (b)   Authority of Tax Administrator. Nothing in this Chapter prohibits the
Tax Administrator from doing either of the following if such action is in the
best interests of the City:
      (1)   Compromise a claim;
      (2)   Extend for a reasonable period the time for payment of a claim by
agreeing to accept monthly or other periodic payments.
   (c)   No Appeal. The Tax Administrator's rejection of a compromise or
payment-over-time agreement proposed by a person with respect to a claim shall
not be appealable.
   (d)   Compromise; Payment-Over-Time Agreement.
      (1)   A person disputing the presumption of delivery and service under
division (c) of this section bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of
the evidence that the address to which the Assessment was sent was not an
address with which the person was associated at the time the Tax Administrator
originally mailed the assessment by certified mail. For the purposes of this
section, a person is associated with an address at the time the Tax
Administrator originally mailed the Assessment if, at that time, the person was
residing, receiving legal documents, or conducting business at the address; or
if, before that time, the person had conducted business at the address and,
when the Assessment was mailed, the person's agent or the person's affiliate
was conducting business at the address. For the purposes of this section, a
person's affiliate is any other person that, at the time the assessment was
mailed, owned or controlled at least twenty percent (20%), as determined by
voting rights, of the addressee's business.
      (2)   If a person elects to appeal an Assessment on the basis described
in division (d)(1) of this section, and if that Assessment is subject to
collection and is not otherwise appealable, the person must do so within sixty
(60) days after the initial contact by the Tax Administrator or other City
official, or the designee of either, with the person. Nothing in this division
prevents the Tax Administrator or other official from entering into a
compromise with the person if the person does not actually file such an appeal
with the Board of Tax Review.
   (e)   Personal Service. Nothing in this section prohibits the Tax
Administrator or the Tax Administrator's designee from delivering an Assessment
by personal service.
   (f)   Stay of Collection Action. Collection actions taken upon any
assessment being appealed under division (c)(1)B. of this section shall be
stayed upon the pendency of an appeal under this section. If an appeal is filed
pursuant to this section on a claim that has been delivered for collection, the
collection activities with respect to the assessment shall be stayed.
   (g)   Additional Rules. Additional regulations as detailed in the Rules and
Regulations shall apply.
(Source: ORC 718.18)
(Ord. 2020-10. Adopted 04/23/20; Ord. 2023-31. Adopted 11/21/23)
§ 881.16 TAX INFORMATION CONFIDENTIAL.
   (a)   Confidentiality of Income Tax Information. Any information gained as a
result of returns, investigations, hearings, or verifications required or
authorized by this Chapter, the City's Charter, other ordinance or resolution,
or any rule or regulation adopted pursuant to this Chapter or ORC Chapter 718.
is confidential, and no person shall access or disclose such information except
in accordance with a proper judicial order or in connection with the
performance of that person's official duties or the official business of the
City as authorized by this Chapter, the City's Charter, other ordinance or
resolution, or any rule or regulation adopted pursuant to this Chapter or ORC
Chapter 718. The Tax Administrator, or a designee thereof, may furnish copies
of returns filed or otherwise received under this Chapter and other related tax
information to the Internal Revenue Service, the State Tax Commissioner and Tax
Administrators of other municipal corporations.
   (b)   Income Tax Statistics. This section does not prohibit the City from
publishing or disclosing statistics in a form that does not disclose
information with respect to particular taxpayers.
(Source: ORC 718.13)
(Ord. 2020-10. Adopted 04/23/20)
§ 881.17 FALSIFICATION; FRAUD.
   No person shall knowingly make, present, aid or assist in the preparation or
presentation of a false or fraudulent report, return, schedule, statement,
claim and/or document authorized or required by this Chapter or state law to be
filed with the Tax Administrator, or knowingly procure, counsel or advise the
preparation or presentation of such report, return, schedule, statement, claim
or document, or knowingly change, alter, or amend or knowingly procure, counsel
or advise such change, alteration or amendment of the records upon which such
report, return, schedule, statement, claim and/or document is based with intent
to defraud the City or the Tax Administrator.
(Source: ORC 718.35)
(Ord. 2020-10. Adopted 04/23/20; Ord. 2023-31. Adopted 11/21/23)
§ 881.18 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (a)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   "Applicable Law" means this Chapter, the resolutions, ordinances,
codes, directives, instructions and rules adopted by the City and/or the Tax
Administrator, provided such resolutions, ordinances, codes, directives,
instructions and rules impose or directly or indirectly address the levy,
payment, remittance or filing requirements of the City income tax.
      (2)   "Federal Short-Term Rate" means the rate of the average market
yield on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States with remaining
periods to maturity of three (3) years or less, as determined under Section
1274 of the Internal Revenue Code, for July of the current year.
      (3)   "Income Tax," "Estimated Income Tax," and "Withholding Tax" mean
any income tax, estimated income tax and withholding tax imposed by the City
pursuant to this Chapter or other applicable law, including at any time before
January 1, 2016.
      (4)   "Interest Rate as described in division (a) of this section" means
the federal short-term rate, rounded to the nearest whole number percent, plus
five percent (5%). The rate shall apply for the calendar year next following
the July of the year in which the federal short-term rate is determined in
accordance with division (a)(2) of this section.
      (5)   "Return" includes any tax return, report, reconciliation, schedule
and other document required to be filed with the Tax Administrator or the City
by a taxpayer, employer, any agent of the employer or any other payer pursuant
to this Chapter or other applicable law, including at any time before January
1, 2016.
      (6)   "Unpaid Estimated Income Tax" means estimated income tax due but
not paid by the date the tax is required to be paid under this Chapter or other
applicable law.
      (7)   "Unpaid Income Tax" means income tax due but not paid by the date
the income tax is required to be paid under this Chapter or other applicable
law.
      (8)   "Unpaid Withholding Tax" means withholding tax due but not paid by
the date the withholding tax is required to be paid under this Chapter or other
applicable law.
      (9)   "Withholding Tax" includes amounts an employer, any agent of an
employer, or any other payer did not withhold in whole or in part from an
employee's qualifying wages, but that the employer, employer's agent or other
payer is required to withhold from an employee's qualifying wages under this
Chapter or other applicable law.
         (Source: ORC 718.27)
   (b)   Application of Section.
      (1)   This section shall apply to the following:
         A.   Any City income tax return required to be filed under this
Chapter for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016;
         B.   Income tax, estimated income tax and withholding tax required to
be paid or remitted to the City on or after January 1, 2016, for taxable years
beginning on or after January 1, 2016.
      (2)   This section does not apply to City income tax returns required to
be filed or payments required to be made before January 1, 2016, regardless of
the filing or payment date. Returns required to be filed or payments required
to be made before January 1, 2016, but filed or paid after that date shall be
subject to
Chapter 880. of the Xenia City Code.
   (c)   Penalties and Interest. The City may impose on a taxpayer, employer,
any agent of the employer, and other payer, and will attempt to collect, the
interest amounts and penalties prescribed in this division (c) when the
taxpayer, employer, any agent of the employer, or any other payer for any
reason fails, in whole or in part, to make to the City timely and full payment
or remittance of City income tax, estimated income tax or withholding tax or to
file timely with the City any return required to be filed.
      (1)   Interest shall be imposed at the Interest Rate described in
division (a) of this section, per annum, on all unpaid income tax, unpaid
estimated income tax, and unpaid withholding tax.
      (2)   A.   With respect to unpaid income tax and unpaid estimated income
tax, the City may impose a penalty equal to fifteen percent (15%) of the amount
not timely paid.
         B.   With respect to any unpaid withholding tax, the City may impose a
penalty not exceeding fifty percent (50%) of the amount not timely paid.
      (3)   A.   For tax years ending on or before December 31, 2022, with
respect to returns other than estimated income tax returns, the City may impose
a penalty of twenty-five dollars ($25) for each failure to timely file each
return, regardless of the liability shown thereon for each month, or any
fraction thereof, during which the return remains unfiled regardless of the
liability shown thereon. The penalty shall not exceed a total of one hundred
fifty dollars ($150) for each failure.
         B.   For tax years ending on or after January 1, 2023, with respect to
returns other than estimated income tax returns, the City may impose a penalty
not exceeding twenty-five dollars ($25) for each failure to timely file each
return, regardless of the liability shown thereon, except that the City shall
abate or refund the penalty assessed on a taxpayer's first failure to timely
file a return after the taxpayer files that return.
   (d)   Limitations.
      (1)   With respect to the income taxes, estimated income taxes,
withholding taxes, and returns, neither the City nor the Tax Administrator
shall impose, seek to collect, or collect any penalty, amount of interest,
charges, or additional fees not described in this Chapter.
      (2)   With respect to the income taxes, estimated income taxes,
withholding taxes, and returns not described in division (a) of this section,
nothing in this section requires the City to refund or credit any penalty,
amount of interest, charges, or additional fees the City has properly imposed
or collected before January 1, 2016.
   (e)   Authority of the Tax Administrator. Nothing in this section limits the
authority of the City to abate or partially abate penalties or interest imposed
under this section when the Tax Administrator determines, in the Tax
Administrator's sole discretion, that such abatement is appropriate.
   (f)   Publication of Interest Rate. By the thirty-first (31st) day of
October of each year, the City shall publish the Interest Rate described in
division (a) of this section applicable to the next succeeding calendar year.
   (g)   Collection of Post-Judgment Collection Costs and Fees. The City may
impose on the taxpayer, employer, any agent of the employer, or any other payer
the City's post-judgment collection costs and fees, including attorney's fees.
(Source: 718.27)
(Ord. 15-33. Adopted 07/23/15; Ord. 2018-08. Adopted 02/22/18; Ord. 2020-10.
Adopted 04/23/20; Ord. 2023-31. Adopted 11/21/23)
§ 881.19 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; VERIFICATION OF INFORMATION.
   (a)   Administrative Powers of the Tax Administrator. Nothing in this
Chapter shall limit the authority of the Tax Administrator to perform any of
the following duties and functions, unless the performance of such duties or
functions is expressly limited by a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, the
City Charter, the Xenia City Code, or other City ordinance:
      (1)   Exercise all powers whatsoever of an inquisitorial nature as
provided by this Chapter or other law including, the right to inspect books,
accounts, records, memorandums and federal and state income tax returns; to
examine persons under oath; to issue orders or subpoenas for the production of
books, accounts, papers, records, documents and testimony; to take depositions;
to apply to a court for attachment proceedings as for contempt; to approve
vouchers for the fees of officers and witnesses; and to administer oaths. The
powers referred to in this division shall be exercised by the Tax Administrator
only in connection with the performance of the duties respectively assigned to
the Tax Administrator under the Charter, this Chapter, or other ordinance or
resolution adopted in accordance with this Chapter.
      (2)   Appoint agents and prescribe their powers and duties.
      (3)   Confer and meet with officers of other municipal corporations and
states and officers of the United States on any matters pertaining to their
respective official duties, as provided by this Chapter or other law.
      (4)   Exercise the authority provided by this Chapter or other law,
including orders from bankruptcy courts, relative to remitting or refunding
taxes, including penalties and interest thereon, illegally or erroneously
imposed or collected or for any other reason overpaid, and, in addition, the
Tax Administrator may investigate any claim of overpayment and make a written
statement of the Tax Administrator's findings and, if the Tax Administrator
finds that there has been an overpayment, approve and issue a refund payable to
the taxpayer, the taxpayer's assigns or legal representative as provided in
this Chapter.
      (5)   Exercise the authority provided by this Chapter or other law
relative to consenting to the compromise and settlement of tax claims.
      (6)   Exercise the authority provided by this Chapter or other law
relative to the use of alternative apportionment methods by taxpayers in
accordance with Section
881.03(e)(1) - (7) of this Chapter.
      (7)   Make all tax findings, determinations, computations, Assessments
and orders the Tax Administrator is by this Chapter or other law authorized and
required to make and, pursuant to the time limitations provided by this Chapter
or other law, on the Tax Administrator's own motion, review, redetermine or
correct any tax findings, determinations, computations, or orders the Tax
Administrator has made, but the Tax Administrator shall not review, redetermine
or correct any tax finding, determination, computation, or order which the Tax
Administrator has made as to which an appeal has been filed with the Board of
Tax Review or other appropriate tribunal, unless such appeal or application is
withdrawn by the appellant or applicant, is dismissed, or is otherwise final.
      (8)   Destroy any or all returns or other tax documents in the manner
authorized by this Chapter or other law.
      (9)   Enter into an agreement with a taxpayer to simplify the withholding
obligations described in Section
881.04(a) of this Chapter.
         (Source: ORC 718.24)
   (b)   Verification of Accuracy of Returns and Determinations of Liability.
      (1)   The Tax Administrator, or any authorized agent or employee thereof,
may examine the books, papers, records and federal and state income tax returns
of any employer, taxpayer or other person that is subject to, or that the Tax
Administrator believes is subject to, the provisions of this Chapter for the
purpose of verifying the accuracy of any return made or, if no return was
filed, to ascertain the tax due under this Chapter. Upon written request by the
Tax Administrator, or a duly authorized agent or employee thereof, every
employer, taxpayer, or other person subject to this division (b) is required to
furnish the opportunity for the Tax Administrator, or any authorized agent or
employee, to investigate and examine such books, papers, records and/or federal
and state income tax returns at a reasonable time and place designated in the
request.
      (2)   The records and other documents of any taxpayer, employer or other
person that is subject to, or that a Tax Administrator believes is subject to,
the provisions of this Chapter shall be open to the Tax Administrator's
inspection during business hours and shall be preserved for a period of six (6)
years following the end of the taxable year to which the records or documents
relate, unless the Tax Administrator, in writing, consents to their destruction
within that period or by order requires that they be kept longer. The Tax
Administrator may require any person, by notice served on that person, to keep
such records as the Tax Administrator determines necessary to show whether or
not that person is liable and the extent of such liability for the income tax
levied by the City or for the withholding of such tax.
      (3)   The Tax Administrator may examine, under oath, any person that the
Tax Administrator reasonably believes has knowledge concerning any income that
was or would have been returned for taxation or any transaction tending to
affect such income. The Tax Administrator may, for this purpose, compel any
such person to attend a hearing or examination and to produce any books,
papers, records and/or federal and state income tax returns in such person's
possession or control. The person may be assisted or represented by an
attorney, accountant, bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner at any such hearing
or examination. This division does not authorize the practice of law by a
person who is not an attorney.
      (4)   No person issued written notice by the Tax Administrator compelling
attendance at a hearing or examination or the production of books, papers,
records and/or federal and state income tax returns under this division (b)
shall fail to comply.
         (Source: ORC 718.23)
   (c)   Identifying Information.
      (1)   Nothing in this Chapter prohibits the Tax Administrator from
requiring any person filing a tax document with the Tax Administrator to
provide identifying information, which may include the person's social security
number, federal employer identification number or other identification number
requested by the Tax Administrator. A person required by the Tax Administrator
to provide identifying information that has experienced any change with respect
to that information shall notify the Tax Administrator of the change before, or
upon, filing the next tax document requiring the identifying information.
      (2)   When transmitting or otherwise making use of a tax document that
contains a person's social security number, the Tax Administrator shall take
all reasonable measures necessary to ensure that the number is not capable of
being viewed by the general public including, when necessary, masking the
number so that it is not discernible by the general public. The Tax
Administrator shall not put a person's social security number on the outside of
any material mailed to the person.
      (3)   A.   If the Tax Administrator makes a request for identifying
information and the Tax Administrator does not receive valid identifying
information within thirty (30) days of making the request, nothing in this
Chapter prohibits the Tax Administrator from imposing a penalty upon the person
to whom the request was directed pursuant to Section
881.18 of this Chapter, in addition to any applicable penalty described in
Section
881.99 of this Chapter.
         B.   If a person required by the Tax Administrator to provide
identifying information does not notify the Tax Administrator of a change with
respect to that information as required under division (c)(1) of this section
within thirty (30) days after filing the next tax document requiring such
identifying information, nothing in this Chapter prohibits the Tax
Administrator from imposing a penalty pursuant to Section
881.18 of this Chapter.
         C.   The penalties provided for under divisions (c)(2)A. and B. of
this section may be billed and imposed in the same manner as the tax or fee
with respect to which the identifying information is sought and are in addition
to any applicable criminal penalties described in Section
881.99 of this Chapter for a violation of
881.17 of this Chapter and any other penalties that may be imposed by the Tax
Administrator under this Chapter or other applicable law.
            (Source: ORC 718.26)
   (d)   Contingency Pay. No person hired or retained by the Tax Administrator
to examine or inspect a taxpayer's books shall be paid on a contingency basis.
(Source: ORC 718.31)
   (e)   Inclusion of Contact Information. All of the Tax Administrator's
written correspondence to a taxpayer or other person shall include the name and
contact information of an individual designated to receive inquiries regarding
the correspondence when any of the following apply:
      (1)   The City has a population greater than thirty thousand (30,000)
according to the most recent decennial census.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator charged with the administration of the tax is
described in either division (tt)B. or (tt)C. of Section
881.02 of this Chapter.
The designated individual may be the Tax Administrator or an employee of the
Tax Administrator.
(Source: ORC 718.39)
(Ord. 2020-10. Adopted 04/23/20; Ord. 2023-31. Adopted 11/21/23)
§ 881.20 REQUEST FOR OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (a)   Definition. An "opinion of the Tax Administrator" means an opinion
issued under this section with respect to prospective City income tax
liability; it does not include ordinary correspondence of the Tax
Administrator.
   (b)   Taxpayer's Request for an Opinion of the Tax Administrator. A taxpayer
may submit a written request for an opinion of the Tax Administrator as to
whether or how certain income, source of income, or a certain activity or
transaction will be taxed, in accordance with the Rules and Regulations. The
written response of the Tax Administrator shall be an "opinion of the Tax
Administrator" and shall bind the Tax Administrator, in accordance with
divisions (c), (g), and (h) of this section, provided all of the following
conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The taxpayer's request fully and accurately describes the specific
facts or circumstance relevant to a determination of the taxability of the
income, source of income, activity, or transaction and, if an activity or
transaction, all parties involved in the activity or transaction are clearly
identified by name, location, or other pertinent facts.
      (2)   The request relates to a tax imposed by the City in accordance with
this Chapter.
      (3)   The Tax Administrator's response is signed by the Tax Administrator
and designated as an "opinion of the Tax Administrator."
   (c)   Effect of Opinion of the Tax Administrator. An opinion of the Tax
Administrator shall remain in effect and shall protect the taxpayer for whom
the opinion was prepared and who reasonably relies on it from liability for any
taxes, penalty, or interest otherwise chargeable on the activity or transaction
specifically held by the Tax Administrator's opinion to be taxable in a
particular manner or not to be subject to taxation for any taxable years that
may be specified in the opinion, or until the earliest of the following dates:
      (1)   The effective date of a written revocation by the Tax Administrator
sent to the taxpayer by certified mail, return receipt requested. The effective
date of the revocation shall be the taxpayer's date of receipt or one (1) year
after the issuance of the opinion, whichever is later.
      (2)   The effective date of any amendment or enactment of a relevant
section of the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified state law, or this Chapter that
would substantially change the analysis and conclusion of the opinion of the
Tax Administrator.
      (3)   The date on which a court issues an opinion establishing or
changing relevant case law with respect to the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified
state law, or this Chapter.
      (4)   If the opinion of the tax administrator was based on the
interpretation of federal law, the effective date of any change in the relevant
federal statutes or regulations, or the date on which a court issues an opinion
establishing or changing relevant case law with respect to federal statutes or
regulations.
      (5)   The effective date of any change in the taxpayer's material facts
or circumstances.
      (6)   The effective date of the expiration of the opinion, if specified
in the opinion.
   (d)   Effect of Taxpayer Misrepresentation on Opinion of the Tax
Administrator. A taxpayer is not relieved of tax liability for any activity or
transaction related to a request for an opinion that contained any
misrepresentation or omission of one or more material facts. If the taxpayer
knowingly has misrepresented the pertinent facts or omitted material facts with
intent to defraud the City in order to obtain a more favorable opinion, the
taxpayer may be in violation of Section
881.17 of this Chapter.
   (e)   Required Statement. If the Tax Administrator provides written advice
under this section, the opinion shall include a statement that:
      (1)   The tax consequences stated in the opinion may be subject to change
for any of the reasons stated in division (c) of this section.
      (2)   It is the duty of the taxpayer to be aware of such changes.
   (f)   Right of the Tax Administrator to Refuse to Issue Opinion. The Tax
Administrator may refuse to offer an opinion on any request received under this
section. Such refusal is not subject to appeal.
   (g)   Binding Only to Taxpayer Who Requested Opinion.
      (1)   This section binds the Tax Administrator only with respect to
opinions of the Tax Administrator issued on or after January 1, 2016.
      (2)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator binds the Tax Administrator
only with respect to the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and does
not bind the Tax Administrator of any other municipal corporation.
   (h)   Availability of Opinions. The Tax Administrator shall make available
the text of all opinions issued under this section, except those opinions
prepared for a taxpayer who has requested that the text of the opinion remain
confidential. In no event shall the text of an opinion be made available until
the Tax Administrator has removed all information that identifies the taxpayer
and any other parties involved in the activity or transaction.
   (i)   No Appeals. An opinion of the Tax Administrator issued under this
section is not subject to appeal.
(Source: ORC 718.38)
(Ord. 2020-10. Adopted 04/23/20; Ord. 2023-31. Adopted 11/21/23)
§ 881.21 BOARD OF TAX REVIEW.
   (a)   Board of Tax Review.
      (1)   The Board of Tax Review shall consist of three (3) members.
         A.   Two (2) members shall be appointed by City Council and may not be
employees of, elected officials of or contractors with the City at any time
during their term or in the five (5) years immediately preceding the date of
appointment.
         B.   One (1) member shall be appointed by the City Manager. This
member may be an employee of the City but may not be the Director of Finance or
equivalent officer, or the Tax Administrator or other similar official or an
employee directly involved in City tax matters, or any direct subordinate
thereof.
      (2)   The term for members of the Board of Tax Review appointed by City
Council shall be two (2) years. There is no limit on the number of terms that a
member may serve should the member be reappointed by City Council. The Board
member appointed by the City Manager shall serve at the discretion of the City
Manager.
      (3)   Members of the Board of Tax Review appointed by City Council may be
removed by City Council by majority vote for malfeasance, misfeasance, or
nonfeasance in office. To remove such a member, City Council must give the
member a copy of the charges against the member and afford the member an
opportunity to be publicly heard in person or by counsel in the member's own
defense upon not less than ten days' notice. The decision by City Council on
the charges is final and not appealable.
      (4)   A member of the Board who, for any reason, ceases to meet the
qualifications for the position prescribed by this section shall resign
immediately by operation of law.
      (5)   A vacancy in an unexpired term shall be filled in the same manner
as the original appointment within sixty (60) days of when the vacancy was
created. Any member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the
expiration of the term for which the member's predecessor was appointed shall
hold office for the remainder of such term. No vacancy on the Board shall
impair the power and authority of the remaining members to exercise all the
powers of the Board.
      (6)   If a member is temporarily unable to serve on the Board due to a
conflict of interest, illness, absence or similar reason, City Council or the
City Manager, whichever appointed the member shall appoint another individual
to temporarily serve on the Board in the member's place. This appointment of
such individual shall be subject to the same requirements and limitations as
are applicable to the appointment of the member temporarily unable to serve.
      (7)   No member of the Board of Tax Review shall receive compensation,
fee, or reimbursement of expenses for service on the Board.
   (b)   Notice of Right to Appeal an Assessment. Whenever the Tax
Administrator issues an Assessment regarding an underpayment of municipal
income tax or denies a refund claim, the Tax Administrator shall notify the
taxpayer in writing at the same time of the taxpayer's right to appeal the
Assessment or denial, the manner in which the taxpayer may appeal the
Assessment or denial, and the address to which the appeal should be directed,
and to whom the appeal should be directed.
   (c)   Appeal. Any person who has been issued an Assessment may appeal the
assessment to the Board of Review by filing a request with the Board. The
request shall be in writing, shall specify the reason or reasons why the
Assessment should be deemed incorrect or unlawful and shall be filed within
sixty (60) days after the taxpayer receives the Assessment.
   (d)   Hearing. The Board of Tax Review shall schedule a hearing to be held
within sixty (60) days after receiving an appeal of an Assessment under
division (c) of this section unless the taxpayer requests additional time to
prepare or waives a hearing. If the taxpayer does not waive the hearing, the
taxpayer may appear before the Board and may be represented by an attorney at
law, certified public accountant or other representative. The Board may allow a
hearing to be continued as jointly agreed to by the parties. In such a case,
the hearing must be completed within one hundred twenty (120) days after the
first day of the hearing, unless the parties agree otherwise.
   (e)   Determination by the Board of Review. The Board of Review may affirm,
reverse or modify the Tax Administrator's Assessment or any part of that
Assessment. The Board shall issue a final determination on the appeal within
ninety (90) days after the Board's final hearing on the appeal, and shall send
a copy of its final determination, by ordinary mail, to all of the parties to
the appeal within fifteen (15) days after issuing the final determination. The
taxpayer or the Tax Administrator may appeal the Board's final determination as
provided in ORC 5717.011.
(Source: ORC 718.11(A) – (E))
   (f)   Rules and Regulations of the Board of Review.
      (1)   The Local Board of Tax Review created pursuant to this section
shall adopt rules governing its procedures, including a schedule of related
costs, and shall keep a record of its transactions. The rules governing the
Local Board of Tax Review procedures shall be in writing and may be amended as
needed by the Board.
      (2)   Records of transactions of the Board are not public records
available for inspection under ORC 149.43. For this reason, any documentation,
copies of returns or reports, final determinations or working papers for each
case must be maintained in a secure location under the control of the Tax
Administrator. No member of the Board of Tax Review may remove such
documentation, copies of returns or reports, final determinations or working
papers from the hearing.
      (3)   Hearings requested by a taxpayer before the Board of Tax Review
created pursuant to this section are not meetings of a public body subject to
ORC 121.22. For this reason, such hearings shall not be open to the public, and
only those parties to the case may be present during the hearing.
         (Statutory reference: ORC 718.11(F))
(Ord. 2020-10. Adopted 04/23/20; Ord. 2023-31. Adopted 11/21/23)
§ 881.22 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Authority for Adoption. Nothing in this Chapter prohibits the City
Council or the Tax Administrator, pursuant to authority granted to the Tax
Administrator by resolution or ordinance, to adopt rules to administer the
City's income tax in accordance with this Chapter. Such rules shall not
conflict with or be inconsistent with any provision of this Chapter. All rules
adopted under this section shall be published and posted on the City's website.
(Source: ORC 718.20)
   (b)   Adoption of RITA Rules and Regulations. The City hereby adopts the
Regional Income Tax Agency (RITA) Rules & Regulations, including amendments
that may be made from time to time, for use as the City's Income Tax Rules and
Regulations. In the event of a conflict with any provision(s) of this Chapter
and the Rules & Regulations, the provisions of this Chapter shall supersede.
Until and if the contractual relationship between the City and RITA ceases,
this division (b) shall supersede division (a) of this section regarding
promulgation of rules and regulations by the Tax Administrator.
   (c)   Duty of Taxpayers. Taxpayers subject to the City's income tax are
hereby required to comply not only with the requirements of this Chapter, but
also to comply with the Rules and Regulations herein adopted.
(Ord. 15-33. Adopted 07/23/15; Ord. 15-61. Adopted 11/24/15; Ord. 2018-08.
Adopted 02/22/18; Ord. 2020-10. Adopted 04/23/20)
§ 881.23 RENTAL AND LEASED PROPERTY.
   (a)   Roster of Tenants. All property owners of real property located in the
City who rent or otherwise lease the same, or any part thereof, to any person
for residential dwelling purposes, including apartments, rooms and other rental
accommodations, and every owner of a mobile home park shall file with the Tax
Administrator a semi-annual roster of the names and addresses of all persons
residing in such rental, leased unit or premises, or mobile home park. Such
semi-annual statement shall be filed on or before January 31st and July 31st of
each year. In addition, every owner of one or more rental units, leased unit or
premises, or mobile home park shall file a statement of any changes in the
names or addresses on the last submitted semi-annual roster at the end of each
month.
   (b)   Authority of Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator may order the
appearance before him or her, or his or her duly authorized agent, of any
person whom the Tax Administrator believes to have any knowledge of the name,
address and telephone number of any tenant of residential rental real property
in the City. The Tax Administrator, or his or her duly authorized agent, is
authorized to examine any person, under oath, concerning the name, address and
telephone number of any tenant of residential real property located in the
City. The Tax Administrator, or his or her duly authorized agent, may compel
the production of papers and records and the attendance of all persons before
him or her, whether as parties or witnesses, whenever he or she believes such
person has knowledge of the name, address and telephone number of any tenant of
residential real property in the City.
   (c)   Violations. Any property owner or person that violates one or more of
the following shall be subject to Section
881.99 of this Chapter:
      (1)   Fails, refuses or neglects to timely file a written report required
by division (a) hereof; or
      (2)   Makes an incomplete or intentionally false written report required
by division (a) hereof; or
      (3)   Fails to appear before the Tax Administrator or any duly authorized
agent and to produce and disclose any tenant information pursuant to any order
or subpoena of the Tax Administrator as authorized in this section; or
      (4)   Fails to comply with the provisions of this section or any order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator.
(Ord. 2020-10. Adopted 04/23/20)
§ 881.24 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   This Chapter shall not apply to any person, firm or corporation, or to any
property as to whom or which it is beyond the power of the City's Council to
impose the income tax herein provided for. Any sentence, clause, section or
part of this Chapter or any tax against or exception granted any individual or
any of the several groups of persons, or forms of income specified herein if
found to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such unconstitutionality,
illegality or invalidity shall affect only such clause, sentence, section or
part of this Chapter and shall not affect or impair any of the remaining
provisions, sentences, clauses, sections or other parts of this Chapter. It is
hereby declared to be the intention of Council that this chapter would have
been adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid sentence, or part
hereof, not been included therein.
(Ord. 2020-10. Adopted 04/23/20)
§ 881.25 COLLECTION OF TAX AFTER TERMINATION OF CHAPTER.
   (a)   Levy and Collection of Tax. This Chapter shall continue effective,
insofar as the levy of taxes and the collection of taxes levied hereunder and
actions or proceedings for collecting any tax so levied or enforcing any
provisions of this Chapter are concerned, until all of such taxes levied
hereunder are fully paid and any and all suits and prosecutions for the
collection of such taxes or for the punishment of violations of this Chapter
have been fully terminated, subject to the limitations contained in Sections
881.12 and
881.99 of this Chapter.
   
   (b)   Returns. Annual returns due for all or any part of the last effective
year of this Chapter shall be due on the date provided in Sections
881.04 and
881.05 (ORC Chapter 718.) as though the same were continuing.
(Ord. 15-33. Adopted 07/23/15; Ord. 2018-08. Adopted 02/22/18; Ord. 2020-10.
Adopted 04/23/20)
§ 881.26 INCOME TAX REBATE PROGRAM.
   (a)   Eligibility. Where a qualifying non-retail business is subject to the
provisions of Section
881.04 of this Chapter, it may be eligible for the City Income Tax Rebate
Program. Qualifying businesses will be non-retail businesses including, but not
limited to, manufacturing, distribution, research and development, or
technology firms. The incentive program is available to qualifying new
businesses or qualifying existing businesses.
   (b)   Rebate Program.
      (1)   The Income Tax Rebate Program will rebate a portion of withholding
income taxes collected from qualifying non-retail businesses creating at least
forty-five (45) new full-time jobs with a wage of one hundred fifty percent
(150%) of the federal minimum wage, or twenty (20) jobs at four hundred percent
(400%) of the federal minimum wage, or some combination such that the total
payroll exceeds seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($750,000) for those
jobs paying in excess of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the federal
minimum wage. At least twenty percent (20%) of the jobs will be held by City
residents.
      (2)   If the qualifying non-retail business adds the requisite number of
employees and payroll, they will be eligible for a rebate of withholding taxes
paid based on a credit of up to one percent (1%) of the withholding income tax
rate (i.e., credit of up to 1% of current 2.25 percent tax rate equating to
44.44% rebate of withholding taxes paid).
      (3)   Qualifying non-retail businesses are eligible for a rebate for up
to five (5) years if they commit to staying in the City for at least ten (10)
years. The rebate program will contain claw back provisions specified in the
rebate agreement if the qualifying non-retail business leaves prior to the ten-
(10) year period or significantly reduces employment.
   (c)   Council Approval. All rebate agreements are subject to the approval of
City Council.
(Ord. 15-33. Adopted 07/23/15; Ord. 15-61. Adopted 11/24/15; Ord. 2018-08.
Adopted 02/22/18; Ord. 2020-10. Adopted 04/23/20)
§ 881.27 RETURNS FILED PURSUANT TO OPT-IN PROVISIONS OF ORC 718.80 - 718.95.
   (a)   Adoption. The City hereby adopts and incorporates by reference ORC
718.80 to 718.95 for tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2018.
   (b)   Election to Opt-In to State System. A taxpayer, as defined in division
(c) of this section, may elect to be subject to ORC 718.80 to 718.95 in lieu of
the provisions of this Chapter.
   (c)   Taxpayer Defined. "Taxpayer" has the same meaning as in ORC 718.01,
except that "taxpayer" does not include natural persons or entities subject to
the tax imposed under ORC Chapter 5745. "Taxpayer" may include receivers,
assignees, or trustees in bankruptcy when such persons are required to assume
the role of a taxpayer.
(Ord. 2018-08. Adopted 0/22/18; Ord. 2020-10. Adopted 04/23/20; Ord. 2023-31.
Adopted 11/21/23)
§ 881.99 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   (a)   Fraud; Disclosure of Tax Information; Failure to Remit Withheld Income
Taxes.
      (1)   Whoever violates Section
881.17 or Section
881.04 of this Chapter by failing to remit City income taxes deducted and
withheld from an employee, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree
and shall be subject to a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000)
or imprisonment for a term of up to six (6) months, or both.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (b) of this section, whoever
violates Section
881.16(a) of this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree
and shall be subject to a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000)
or imprisonment for a term of up to six (6) months, or both, unless the
violation is punishable by City ordinance or resolution requiring dismissal
from office or discharge from employment, or both, in which case the City
ordinance or resolution shall govern.
   (b)   Disclosure of Information in Violation of the Internal Revenue Code.
Any person who discloses information received from the Internal Revenue Service
in violation of Section
881.16(a) of this Chapter shall be guilty of a felony of the fifth degree and
shall be subject to a fine of not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000) plus
the costs of prosecution, or imprisonment for a term not exceeding five (5)
years, or both, unless the violation is punishable by City ordinance requiring
dismissal from office or discharge from employment, or both, in which case the
City ordinance shall govern.
   (c)   Separate Offenses. Each instance of access or disclosure in violation
of Section 881.16(a) of this Chapter constitutes a separate offense.
(Source: ORC 718.99)
   (d)   Other Violations; Penalties. Whoever violates any provision of this
Chapter for which violation no penalty is otherwise provided, is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense; on a second offense within
one (1) year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the second degree; on each subsequent offense within one (1) year after the
first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. By
way of an illustrative enumeration, violations of this Chapter shall include
but not be limited to the following acts, conduct, and/or omissions:
      (1)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any return or declaration required
by this Chapter.
      (2)   Knowingly make any incomplete return.
      (3)   Willfully fail, neglect or refuse to pay the tax, penalties, and
interest, or any combination thereof, imposed by this Chapter.
      (4)   Neglect or refuse to withhold or remit City income tax from
employees.
      (5)   Refuse to permit the Tax Administrator or any duly authorized agent
or employee to examine his or her books, records, papers, federal and state
income tax returns or any documentation relating to the income or net profits
of a taxpayer.
      (6)   Fail to appear before the Tax Administrator and to produce his or
her books, records, papers, federal and state income tax returns or any
documentation relating to the income or net profits of a taxpayer upon order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator.
      (7)   Refuse to disclose to the Tax Administrator any information with
respect to such person's income or net profits, or in the case of a person
responsible for maintaining information relating to his or her employer's
income or net profits, such person's employer's income or net profits.
      (8)   Fail to comply with the provisions of this Chapter or any order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator authorized hereby.
      (9)   To avoid imposition or collection of City income tax, willfully
give to an employer or prospective employer false information as to his or her
true name, correct social security number and residence address, or willfully
fail to promptly notify an employer or a prospective employer of any change in
residence address and date thereof.
      (10)   Fail, as an employer, agent of an employer or other payer, to
maintain proper records of employees' residence addresses, total qualifying
wages paid and municipal tax withheld, or to knowingly give the Tax
Administrator false information.
      (11)   Willfully fail, neglect or refuse to make any payment of estimated
City income tax for any taxable year or any part of any taxable year in
accordance with this Chapter.
      (12)   Attempt to do anything whatsoever to avoid the payment of the
whole or any part of the tax, penalties or interest imposed by this Chapter.
   (e)   Strict Liability. For purposes of this section, any violation that
does not specify a culpable mental state or intent, shall be one of strict
liability and no culpable mental state or intent shall be required for a person
to be guilty of that violation.
   (f)   Definition. For purposes of this section, the term "person" shall, in
addition to the meaning prescribed in Section
881.02, include in the case of a corporation, association, pass-through entity
or unincorporated business entity not having any resident owner or officer
within the City, any employee or agent of such corporation, association, pass-
through entity or unincorporated business entity who has control or supervision
over or is charged with the responsibility of filing the municipal income tax
returns and making the payments of the City income tax as required by this
Chapter.
(Source: ORC 718.99)
(Ord. 2018-08. Adopted 02/22/18; Ord. 2020-10. Adopted 04/23/20; Ord. 2023-31.
Adopted 11/21/23)
CHAPTER 882: HOTEL-MOTEL TAX
Section
882.01   Definitions.
882.02   Levy of three percent tax on rentals.
882.03   Exemptions.
882.04   Refusal to pay tax; false evidence of tax-exempt status.
882.05   Collection of tax by operators.
882.06   Registration; Transient Occupancy Registration Certificate.
882.07   Records.
882.08   Reporting and remitting the tax.
882.09   Penalties and interest.
882.10   Failure to collect and report tax; determination of tax by Director of
Finance.
882.11   Appeals.
882.12   Actions to collect.
882.13   Refunds.
882.14   Disbursement of funds.
882.15   Violations.
882.16   Separability.
 
882.99   Penalty.
   CROSS REFERENCES
   Hotels - see Ohio R.C. Ch. 3731
   Innkeepers - see Ohio R.C. Ch. 4721
   Authority to levy - see Ohio R.C. 5739.02(C)
   Discrimination by hotels - see GEN. OFF.
620.04
   Defrauding of hotels - see GEN. OFF.
672.14
§ 882.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and/or phrases used in this section are defined in
Chapter 878, §
878.01.
   DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
   HOTEL or MOTEL
   OCCUPANCY
   OPERATOR
   PERSON
   RENT
   TRANSIENT GUESTS
(Ord. 91-62, passed 10-24-1991)
§ 882.02 LEVY OF THREE PERCENT TAX ON RENTALS.
   (a)   For the purpose of providing revenue with which to meet the needs of
the City of Xenia, Ohio, there is hereby levied a tax of three percent on all
rents received by a hotel or motel for lodging furnished to transient guests.
    (b)   The tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient guest to the City of
Xenia. Such debt may be extinguished only by payment to the operator as trustee
for the city, or by payment to the city.
   (c)   The transient guest shall pay the tax to the operator of the hotel or
motel at the time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a
proportionate share of the tax shall be paid with each installment. The unpaid
tax shall be due from each transient guest at the time such guest ceases to
occupy space in the hotel or motel. If, for any reason, the tax due is not paid
to the operator of the hotel or motel, the Director of Finance may require that
such tax shall be paid directly to the Director of Finance by the hotel or
motel operator.
(Ord. 91-62, passed 10-24-1991)
§ 882.03 EXEMPTIONS.
    (a)   No tax shall be imposed under this chapter for lodging furnished to
and paid for by the federal government or governmental entities outside the
State of Ohio.
   (b)   Any claim of exemption hereunder shall be made in the manner
prescribed by the Director of Finance.
(Ord. 91-62, passed 10-24-1991)
§ 882.04 REFUSAL TO PAY TAX; FALSE EVIDENCE OF TAX-EXEMPT STATUS.
   (a)   No transient guest shall refuse to pay the full and exact tax required
by this chapter or present to the operator false evidence indicating that the
lodging as furnished is not subject to the tax.
   (b)   If the transaction is claimed to be exempt, the transient guest must
furnish to the operator, and the operator must obtain from the transient guest,
a certificate specifying the reason that the sale is not legally subject to the
tax. If no certificate is obtained, it shall be presumed that the tax applies.
(Ord. 91-62, passed 10-24-1991)
 
§ 882.05 COLLECTION OF TAX BY OPERATORS.
   (a)   The tax to be collected shall be stated and charged separately from
the rent and shown separately on any record thereof at the time the occupancy
is arranged or contracted and charged for. Such tax shall also be stated
separately upon every evidence of occupancy or any bill, statement or charge
made for the occupancy issued or delivered by the operator. The tax shall be
paid by the occupant to the operator as trustee for and on account of the City
of Xenia, and the operator shall be liable to the city for the collection
thereof and for the tax.
   (b)   No operator of a hotel or motel shall advertise or state in any
manner, whether directly or indirectly, that the tax or any part thereof will
be assumed or absorbed by the operator, or that it will not be added to the
rent, or that, if added, any part will be refunded, except in the manner
hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 91-62, passed 10-24-1991)
§ 882.06 REGISTRATION; TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE.
   (a)   Within 30 days after the effective date of this chapter, or within 30
days after commencing business, whichever is later, each operator of any hotel
or motel renting lodging to transient guests shall register the hotel or motel
with the Director of Finance and obtain from him or her a transient occupancy
registration certificate to be at all times posted in a conspicuous place on
the premises. The certificate shall, among other things, state the following:
      (1)   The name of the operator;
      (2)   The address of the hotel or motel; and
      (3)   The date upon which the certificate was issued.
   (b)   The transient occupancy registration certificate shall read as
follows:
“This transient occupancy registration certificate signifies that the person
named on the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of the Hotel-Motel Tax
Chapter by registering with the Director of Finance of the City of Xenia for
the purpose of collecting from transient guests the hotel-motel tax and
remitting the tax to the Director of Finance. This certificate does not
constitute a permit.”
(Ord. 91-62, passed 10-24-1991)
§ 882.07 RECORDS.
   Each operator shall keep complete and accurate records of all lodging
furnished and of the tax collected thereon, which shall be the amount due under
this chapter, and shall keep all invoices and such other pertinent documents.
If the operator furnishes lodging not subject to the tax, the operator’s
records shall show the identity of the transient guest, if the sale was not
exempted by reason of such identity, or shall show the nature of the
transaction if exempted for any other reason. Such records and other documents
shall be open during business hours for inspection by the Director of Finance
or his or her agents and shall be preserved for a period of four years, unless
the Director of Finance, in writing, consents to their destruction within that
period, or unless the four-year period is extended by any order requesting that
such records be kept for a longer period of time. If the Director of Finance
desires to inspect the records of the operator required under this section, he
or she shall notify the operator in writing at least seven days in advance of
his or her intention to do so.
(Ord. 91-62, passed 10-24-1991)
§ 882.08 REPORTING AND REMITTING THE TAX.
   (a)   On or before the last day of each calendar month, each operator shall
make and file a return for the preceding month on forms prescribed by the
Director of Finance. Such returns shall show the receipts from furnishing
lodging, the amount of tax due from the operator to the city for the period
covered by the return and such other information as the Director of Finance
deems necessary for the proper administration of this chapter. The Director of
Finance may extend the time for making and filing returns. Returns shall be
filed by delivering or mailing the same to the Director of Finance, together
with payment of the full amount of tax shown to be due thereon.
   (b)   All forms for claims for exemptions from tax filed by transient guests
with the operator during the reporting period shall be filed with the return.
   (c)   On or before April 30 of the year following the effective date of this
chapter, and each year thereafter, every operator subject to the provisions of
this chapter shall make and file with the Finance Director an annual income
statement clearly showing the gross room sales for the annual accounting
period. If the reconciliation (return) is made for a fiscal year or any period
less than a year, the reconciliation shall be made within four months from the
end of such fiscal year or other period.
   (d)   All returns and payments submitted by each operator shall be treated
as confidential by the Director of Finance and shall not be released by him or
her except upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction or to an officer or
agent of the United States, the State of Ohio, the County of Greene or the City
of Xenia, for official use only.
   (e)   If for any reason the hotel or motel shall cease doing business in the
City of Xenia, all returns and payments are due immediately upon cessation of
business.
   (f)   All taxes collected by operators pursuant to this chapter shall be
held in trust for the account of the City of Xenia until payment thereof is
made to the Director of Finance. The returns shall be signed by the operator or
his or her authorized agent.
(Ord. 91-62, passed 10-24-1991)
§ 882.09 PENALTIES AND INTEREST.
   (a)   Original delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any tax imposed
by this chapter within the time required shall pay a penalty equal to ten
percent of the amount of the tax due, in addition to the tax.
    (b)   Continued delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any delinquent
remittances on or before a period of 30 days following the date on which the
remittance first became delinquent shall pay a second delinquency penalty equal
to ten percent of the amount of the tax and previous penalty first imposed. An
additional penalty equal to ten percent of the total tax and penalty of the
previous 30-day period shall be added for each successive 30-day period the
account remains delinquent.
   (c)   Fraud. If the Director of Finance determines that the nonpayment of
any remittance due under this chapter is due to fraud, a penalty equal to 25
percent of the amount of the tax shall be added thereto, in addition to the
penalties stated in subsections (a) and (b) hereof.
    (d)   Interest. In addition to the previous penalties imposed, any operator
who fails to remit any tax imposed by this chapter shall pay interest at the
rate of one and one-half percent per month, or fraction thereof, on the amount
of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first
became delinquent, until paid.
    (e)   Penalties during pendency of appeal. No penalty provided under the
terms of this chapter shall be imposed during the pendency of appeal to the Tax
Appeals Committee provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. 91-62, passed 10-24-1991)
§ 882.10 FAILURE TO COLLECT AND REPORT TAX; DETERMINATION OF TAX BY DIRECTOR OF
FINANCE.
   (a)   If any operator shall fail or refuse to collect the tax and to make,
within the time provided in this chapter, any report and remittance of the tax
or any portion thereof required by this chapter, the Director of Finance shall
proceed in such manner as he or she may deem best to obtain facts and
information on which to base his or her estimate of the tax due.
    (b)   As soon as the Director of Finance shall procure such facts and
information as he or she is able to obtain, upon which to base the assessment
of any tax imposed by this chapter and payable by any operator who has failed
or refused to collect the same and to make such report and remittance, he or
she shall proceed to determine and assess against such operator the tax,
interest and penalties provided for by this chapter. In case such determination
is made, the Director of Finance shall give notice of the amount so assessed by
serving it personally, or by depositing it in the United States mail, postage
prepaid, addressed to the operator so assessed at his or her last known place
of business.
   (c)   Such operator may, within ten days after the serving or mailing of
such notice, make application in writing to the Director of Finance for a
hearing on the amount assessed. If application by the operator for a hearing is
not made within the time prescribed, the tax, interest and penalties, if any,
determined by the Director of Finance, shall become final and conclusive and
immediately due and payable.
    (d)   If such application is made, the Director of Finance shall give not
less than five days written notice in the manner prescribed herein to the
operator to show cause at a time and place fixed for such tax, interest and
penalties. At such hearing, the operator may appear and offer evidence as to
why such specified tax, interest and penalties should not be fixed.
   (e)   After such hearing, the Director of Finance shall determine the proper
tax to be remitted and shall thereafter give written notice to the person in
the manner prescribed herein of such determination and the amount of such tax,
interest and penalties. The amount determined to be due shall be payable after
15 days, unless an appeal is taken as provided in §
882.11.
(Ord. 91-62, passed 10-24-1991)
§ 882.11 APPEALS.
   Any operator aggrieved by any decision of the Director of Finance with
respect to the amount of tax, interest and penalties, if any, due under this
chapter, may appeal to the Tax Appeals Committee by filing a notice of appeal
with it within 15 days of the serving or mailing of the determination of tax
due in accordance with §
880.13. Any amount found to be due shall be immediately due and payable upon
the final decision of the Tax Appeals Committee.
(Ord. 91-62, passed 10-24-1991)
§ 882.12 ACTIONS TO COLLECT.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it is the duty of each
operator to collect the tax from the transient guest in accordance with §
882.02. Every operator required to collect and remit such tax to the city is
liable directly to the city for payment of such tax, whether or not such tax is
actually collected from transient guests. Every operator is deemed to be a
trustee for the city in collecting and holding the tax required to be collected
under this chapter, and the funds so collected are deemed to be trust funds.
(Ord. 91-62, passed 10-24-1991)
§ 882.13 REFUNDS.
   (a)   Whenever the amount of any tax, interest or penalty has been overpaid
or paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or
received by the city under this chapter, it may be refunded as provided in
subsections (b) and (c) hereof, provided that a claim in writing therefor,
stating under penalty of perjury the specific grounds upon which the claim is
founded, is filed with the Director of Finance within three years of the date
of payment. The claim shall be on forms furnished by the Director of Finance.
   (b)   An operator may claim a refund or take as a credit against taxes
collected and remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once or erroneously
or illegally collected or received, when it is established in a manner
prescribed by the Director of Finance that the person from whom the tax has
been collected was not a transient guest, provided, however, that neither a
refund nor a credit shall be allowed, unless the amount of the tax so collected
has either been refunded to the transient guest or credited to rent
subsequently payable by the transient to the operator.
   (c)   A transient guest may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid, paid more
than once or erroneously or illegally collected or received by the city, by
filing of a claim in the manner provided in subsection (a) hereof, but only
when the tax was paid by the transient guest directly to the Director of
Finance, or when the transient guest, having paid the tax to the operator,
establishes to the satisfaction of the Director of Finance that the transient
guest has been unable to obtain a refund from the operator who collected the
tax.
   (d)   No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless
the claimant establishes his or her right thereto by written records showing
entitlement thereto.
(Ord. 91-62, passed 10-24-1991)
§ 882.14 DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS.
   The moneys received under the provisions of this chapter shall be credited
to the Capital (Permanent) Improvements Fund of the City and used as directed
by Council.
(Ord. 91-62. Adopted 10/24/91; Ord. 2022-44. Adopted 11/22/22)
§ 882.15 VIOLATIONS.
   No person shall:
   (a)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any return or declaration required by
this chapter;
   (b)   Make any incomplete, false or fraudulent return;
   (c)   Knowingly fail or refuse to pay the tax imposed by this chapter;
    (d)   Knowingly fail or refuse to collect the tax from the transient guest
or remit such tax, penalties or interest imposed by this chapter to the Finance
Director;
   (e)   Refuse to permit the Finance Director or any duly authorized agent or
employee of the city to examine the hotel or motel operator’s books, records
and papers;
    (f)   Refuse to disclose to the Finance Director or any duly authorized
agent or employee of the city any information with respect to the rents
received by a hotel or motel for lodging furnished to transient guests; or
   (g)   Attempt to do anything whatever to avoid the collection and/or payment
of the whole or any part of the tax, penalties or interest imposed by this
chapter.
(Ord. 91-62, passed 10-24-1991)
§ 882.16 SEPARABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter or
any part thereof is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional or
unenforceable, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this chapter or any parts thereof.
(Ord. 91-62, passed 10-24-1991)
§ 882.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisoned not more than six months, or both.
(Ord. 91-62, passed 10-24-1991)
CHAPTER 884: MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSE TAX
Section
884.01   Motor vehicle defined.
884.02   Imposition of tax; purposes.
884.03   Tax rate.
884.04   Effective period.
884.05   Payment of tax.
884.06   Disbursement of funds.
   CROSS REFERENCES
   Motor Vehicle License Tax - see Ohio R.C. 4504.06, 4504.172
   Display of license plates - see TRAF.
436.09
   Use of illegal license plates - see TRAF.
436.10
§ 884.01 MOTOR VEHICLE DEFINED.
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: The definition contained in this section is also located in
Chapter 878, §
878.01.)
   As used in this chapter, MOTOR VEHICLE means any and all vehicles included
in the definition of motor vehicle in Ohio R.C. 4501.01 and 4505.01.
(Ord. 87-59, passed 8-27-1987)
§ 884.02 IMPOSITION OF TAX; PURPOSES.
   There is hereby levied an annual license tax on the operation of motor
vehicles upon the public roads and highways, pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4504.172,
for the purposes of paying the costs and expenses of enforcing and
administering the tax provided for herein, planning, constructing, improving,
maintaining and repairing streets and highways within the city, maintaining
bridges within the city, providing additional revenue for the purposes set
forth in Ohio R.C. 4504.06, and supplementing revenue already available for
such purposes.
(Ord. 87-59, passed 8-27-1987)
§ 884.03 TAX RATE.
   The motor vehicle license tax shall be at the rate as set forth in the fee
schedule in Part Two - Title Twelve, Chapter 298 of these Codified Ordinances,
on each and every motor vehicle the district of registration of which, as
defined in Ohio R.C. 4503.10, is the city.
(Ord. 87-59, passed 8-27-1987)
§ 884.04 EFFECTIVE PERIOD.
   The tax imposed by this chapter shall apply to, and be in effect for, the
registration year commencing 1-1-1988, and shall continue in effect and
application during each registration year thereafter.
(Ord. 87-59, passed 8-27-1987)
§ 884.05 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   The tax imposed by this chapter shall be paid to the State Registrar of
Motor Vehicles or to a Deputy Registrar at the time that application for
registration of a motor vehicle is made, as provided in Ohio R.C. 4503.10.
(Ord. 87-59, passed 8-27-1987)
§ 884.06 DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS.
   All moneys derived from the tax levied by this chapter shall be used by the
city for the purposes specified in §
884.02.
(Ord. 87-59, passed 8-27-1987)
CHAPTER 886: COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AREAS PROGRAM
Section
886.01   Establishment of Community Reinvestment Area Program
886.02   Establishment of Community Reinvestment Areas
886.03   Tax Exemptions in Community Reinvestment Areas
886.04   Designation of Housing Officer
886.05   Remodeling of Structures of Historical or Architectural Significance
886.06   Notice Requirements
886.07   Annual Inspections
886.08   Appeals
886.99   Definitions
   CROSS REFERENCES
      Community Reinvestment Area Housing Council - ADMIN.
CH. 285
(Editor's Note: For Community Reinvestment Area No. 1, all ORC references are
to ORC Chapter 3735. as it existed pre-1994 Senate Bill 19)
§ 886.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AREA PROGRAM.
   (a)   For the purpose of fulfilling the requirements set forth in ORC
3765.65 to 3765.70, inclusive, the City Council hereby designates certain
Community Reinvestment Areas ("CRAs") within the City, as set forth in this
Chapter. The construction of new structures and the remodeling of existing
structures within the established CRAs is hereby declared to be a public
purpose for which exemptions from real property taxation may be granted in
accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.
   (b)   Purpose of CRA Program. This CRA Program is intended to promote and
expand conforming uses in the designated CRAs.
   (c)   Eligible Projects. Only new structures or remodeling classified as to
use as residential, commercial, or industrial, or some combination thereof, and
otherwise satisfying the requirement of ORC 3537.67, within a designated CRA
are eligible for exemptions under the CRA Program. The classification of the
structures or remodeling eligible for exemption under the CRA Program shall at
all times be consistent with zoning restrictions applicable to the area.
   (d)   Structures with Multiple Units. Whether a structure or remodeling
composed of multiple units is classified as residential, commercial, or
industrial shall be determined by the classification of the use of the
structure or remodeling under applicable zoning regulations.
(Ord. 15-57. Adopted 11/24/15; Ord. 2023-39. Adopted 12/28/23)
(Editor's Note: CRA No. 1 was originally established by Resolution 85-G, passed
on 08/08/1985, and was codified by the adoption of Ordinance 15-57, adopted on
11-24-15)
§ 886.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AREAS.
   (a)   Community Reinvestment Area No. 1.
      (1)   The boundaries of Community Reinvestment Area No. 1 are hereby
established and described as follows:
         Commencing at the northwest corner of 1412-1414 North Detroit Street
(Greene County Parcel ID M40000100030003200) and bordering a 13.15-acre parcel
owned by the Board of Greene County Commissioners and part of the Fairgrounds
Recreation Center property;
         Then following the northern boundaries of 1412-1414, 1452 and 1443
North Detroit Street and parcel M40000100040015400 containing the Little Miami
Scenic Trail, turning southward along the east boundary of said Trail parcel to
the southwestern corner of the Meadowbrook Section 2 subdivision, then
following the southern boundary of said subdivision to western boundary of
Country Club Estates, Section 4, then generally southward along the western/
northwestern boundaries of Country Club Estates, Sections 3 and 4 and
Meadowbrook, Section 7, to the Wilson Drive/Meadow Lane intersection, then
following Wilson Drive westward to its intersection with the Little Miami
Scenic Trail;
         Then proceeding southward along the east boundary of the Little Miami
Scenic Trail to the northwest corner of Shawnee Village, Section 1, and then
eastward along the northern boundaries of Shawnee Village, Section 1, Lots 85-
93, then south along Sutton Drive to its intersection with Weaver Street, then
west on Weaver Street to North Park Drive, following North Park Drive to
Detroit Boulevard, turning south along Detroit Boulevard to Church Street,
following Church Street east to Corwin Avenue, then proceeding eastward along
the northern boundaries of parcels with frontage on East Church Street, plus a
triangular southern section of 215 North Monroe Street (Greene County Parcel ID
M40000200050031500) and 318 East Church Street (Greene County Parcel ID
M40000200050031800) to its intersection with North Columbus Street, then
following the northwestern boundaries of parcels with frontage on the north
side of North Columbus Street to the southern parcel boundary of 626 North
Columbus Street, then proceeding eastward along said boundary to the southern
parcel boundary of 599 North Columbus Street, following said boundary as well
as the northern boundaries of the subdivisions of McGarey's Addition,
Weatherholt 1st/2nd/3rd, Smith E Et Al, Drake and Nichols Addition, Greene
County Parcel ID M40000200070001300, and Lexington Park to the eastern boundary
of the City of Xenia;
         Following said boundary southward to 1230 East Main Street (Greene
County Parcel ID M40000200090004500), along the north/east/south boundaries of
said parcel, then again following the boundary of the City of Xenia southward
to the Ohio-to-Erie Bike Path, then proceeding westward along the Ohio-to-Erie
Bike Path to South Columbus Street, proceeding southward along South Columbus
Street to the northern boundary of 383 South Columbus Street, following said
boundary eastward and along the northern boundaries of 456/476 Hill Street,
then following Hill Street eastward to Eavey Street, then following Eavey
Street south to the boundary of the City of Xenia but including 501-539 Eavey
Street and a portion of 549 Eavey Street, then following the boundary of the
City of Xenia southwestward to South Columbus Street, then following South
Columbus Street southward to Dowdell Avenue but including 735-745 South
Columbus Street, then following Dowdell Avenue southwestward to Home Avenue,
then following Home Avenue northwestward to the Wolfe D. K. Addition
subdivision, then following the eastern boundary of said subdivision, the
eastern boundary of the Home Park Addition subdivision, and the eastern and
southern boundaries of the Lake View Park Subdivision to South Detroit Street;
         Then following the northern/eastern boundaries of 1058 South Detroit
Street and the eastern boundary of Miller and Sols Addition, Lot 1B, to the
southern boundary of Sols Plat, following said boundary westward to and
including Miller and Sols Addition Lot 2A, following the southern boundaries of
the Millers Addition and Hooven and Allison subdivisions to Cincinnati Avenue,
then following the southwestern boundary of 858 Cincinnati Avenue northwestward
to the Little Miami Scenic Trail, then following said trail and then the
eastern boundary of parcel M40000100160003400 to Elm Street, then following Elm
Street to Walnut Street, then following Walnut Street northward to Bellbrook
Avenue, then following Bellbrook Avenue westward to and including 522 Bellbrook
Avenue, then proceeding north along the western boundaries of parcels with
frontage on the west side of South Allison Avenue, then including 845/855
Trumbull Street and then Trumbull Street westward to its terminus, then
following the southern boundaries of parcels with frontage on the south side of
West Second Street to the eastern boundary of Cherry Grove Cemetery, then to
West Second Street and following said street to the western boundary of Layne
Subdivision Number 4, Part B, then following said western boundary generally
northwestward to the south right-of-way line of Prouty Drive;
         Then following the southern right-of-way line of Prouty Drive to and
including Lot 19 of the Progress Center, Phase 3A, subdivision, then following
the north right-of-way line of Prouty Drive to the southwest corner of Layne
Subdivision, Number 4, Part C, following the western then northern boundary of
said subdivision, then crossing West Main Street to the westernmost corner of
the Gregson Addition, Section 2, subdivision, following the northern boundary
of said subdivision to the boundary of the City of Xenia, proceeding east and
then generally north along said boundary to the northwestern corner of Layne
Subdivision, Number 6, following the northern boundary of said subdivision and
of Layne Subdivision, Number 1, to the northwestern corner of Woodland
Cemetery, then following the western and generally southern boundary of said
cemetery property, crossing a former railroad parcel to and including the north
and east boundary of Beall and Perkins Addition, Lot 10, then southward along
the Creekside Trail parcel to and including the south boundary of Beall and
Perkins Lots 11-16, then along West Church Street to and including the rear lot
line of lots fronting on the west side of North Detroit Street from West Church
Street to West Ankeney Mill Road, then to the northwest along West Ankeney Mill
Road to and following generally the southeastern, eastern and southern
boundaries of the Greene County Fairgrounds and Fairgrounds Recreation Center
parcels to the eastern boundaries of the Family Acres subdivision, then
following the northern boundary of the Bertarose subdivision, then following
the rear lines of lots fronting on the west side of North Detroit Street, back
to the point of commencement.
      (2)   It is the finding of City Council that the area included in the
description of Community Reinvestment Area No. 1 is one in which housing
facilities or structures of historical significance are located and new housing
construction and repair of existing facilities or structures are discouraged.
(Ord. 15-57. Adopted 11/24/15; Ord. 2023-39. Adopted 12/28/23)
(Editor's Note: CRA No. 1 was originally established by Resolution 85-G, passed
on 08/08/1985, and was codified by the adoption of Ordinance 15-57, adopted on
11-24-15)
§ 886.03 TAX EXEMPTIONS IN COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AREAS.
   (a)   Community Reinvestment Area No. 1.
      (1)   Process for Residential Structures: The owner of any real property
within CRA No. 1 may file an application for an exemption from real property
taxation for a new structure or remodeling with the Housing Officer. The
Housing Officer shall verify the construction of the new structure or the cost
of remodeling and the facts asserted in the application. The Housing Officer
shall determine whether the construction or the cost of the remodeling meets
the requirements for an exemption under ORC 3735.67(D). If the construction or
remodeling meets the requirements for exemption, after complying with the
notice requirements of Section
886.06(a), the Housing Officer shall grant an exemption for the following
exemption period:
         A.   Up to ten (10) years for the remodeling of every one- (1-) and
two- (2-) family residential dwellings where the cost of remodeling is at least
two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500) [ORC 3735.67(D)(1)];
         B.   Up to twelve (12) years for the remodeling of every multi-family
dwelling containing three (3) or more residential units where the cost of the
remodeling is at least five thousand dollars ($5,000) [ORC 3735.67(D)(2)]; and
         C.   Up to fifteen (15) years for the new construction of residential
structures [ORC 3735.67(D)(3)].
      (2)   Process for Commercial and Industrial Structures: The owner of any
real property within CRA No. 1 may file an application for approval of an
exemption from real property taxation for a new structure or remodeling with
City Council. If City Council determines that the construction or cost of
remodeling would, upon completion, meet the requirements for an exemption under
ORC 3735.67(D), after complying with the notice requirements of Section
886.06(a), the City Council, by resolution, may approve an exemption for the
following exemption period:
         A.   Up to twelve (12) years for the remodeling of commercial or
industrial structures where the cost of remodeling is at least five thousand
dollars ($5,000) [ORC 3735.67(D)(2)]; and
         B.   Up to fifteen (15) years for the new construction of commercial
and industrial structures [ORC 3735.67(D)(3)].
         City Council's approval of the exemption and the terms therefor may be
set forth in an agreement between the City and the owner of the real property.
Following completion of the approved new structure or remodeling, the owner of
the real property must file an application for an exemption from real property
taxation for the approved new structure or remodeling with the Housing Officer
prior to commencement of the exemption. The Housing Officer shall verify the
construction of the new structure or the cost of remodeling, compliance with
the terms of the exemption approved by City Council (including compliance with
the terms of any agreement for the exemption) and the facts asserted in the
application. The Housing Officer shall determine whether the construction or
the cost of the remodeling meets the requirements for an exemption under ORC
3735.67(D). If the Housing Officer determines that the construction or
remodeling meets the requirements for the exemption as approved by City
Council, then after complying with the notice requirements of Section 886.06
(a), the Housing Officer shall grant the exemption upon the terms approved by
City Council.
      (3)   Certification to County Auditor: Upon the grant of an exemption by
the Housing Officer, the Housing Officer shall forward the application to the
Greene County Auditor with a certification as the division of ORC 3735.67 under
which the exemption is granted and the period of the exemption.
      (4)   Exemption: The CRA tax exemption shall first apply in the year
following the calendar year in which the certification to the Greene County
Auditor is made.
         A.   If the exemption is for a remodeling which qualifies for an
exemption under Section ORC 3735.67(D)(1) and (D)(2), the dollar amount by
which the remodeling increased the market assessed value of the structure shall
be exempt from real property taxation during the exemption period.
         B.   If the exemption is for new construction which qualifies for an
exemption under Section ORC 3735.67(D)(3), the structure shall not be
considered an improvement on the land on which it is located for the purpose of
real property taxation during the exemption period.
(Ord. 15-57. Adopted 11/24/15; Ord. 2023-39. Adopted 12/28/23; Ord. 2024- 20.
Adopted 09/12/24)
(Editor's Note: CRA No. 1 was originally established by Resolution 85-G, passed
on 08/08/1985, and was codified by the adoption of Ordinance 15-57, adopted on
11-24-15)
§ 886.04 DESIGNATION OF HOUSING OFFICER.
   To administer and implement the provisions of this Chapter and the CRA
Program, the Director of the Development Services Department is hereby
designated as the Housing Officer for each of the City's Community Reinvestment
Areas to administer ORC 3735.65 to 3735.69. The Director is hereby authorized
to, by administrative directive, designate any person within his or her
Department to serve as the Housing Officer in his or her stead, or may
designate one person to act as the Housing Officer for residential projects and
another to act as the Housing Officer for commercial and industrial projects.
(Ord. 15-57. Adopted 11/24/15; Ord. 2023-39. Adopted 12/28/23)
§ 886.05 REMODELING OF STRUCTURES OF HISTORICAL OR ARCHITECTURAL SIGNIFICANCE.
   In cases involving a structure of historical or architectural significance,
the designated Housing Officer shall not determine whether the remodeling meets
the requirements for a tax exemption under this Chapter unless the
appropriateness of the remodeling has been certified, in writing, by the
society, association, agency, or legislative authority that designated the
structure or by any organization or person authorized, in writing, by such
society, association, agency, or legislative authority to certify the
appropriateness of the remodeling.
(ORC 3735.67(B))
(Ord. 15-57. Adopted 11/24/15; Ord. 2023-39. Adopted 12/28/23)
§ 886.06 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   CRA No. 1. Before certifying an exemption in CRA No. 1 to the Greene
County Auditor, the Housing Officer shall notify the board of education of each
school district in which the proposed tax-exempted property is located. The
notice shall include a copy of the exemption application. The notice shall be
delivered at least fourteen (14) days prior to City Council taking formal
action on the exemption application or before the Housing Officer certifies the
exemption to the County Auditor, as applicable. If the board of education
comments on the exemption, City Council or the Housing Officer, as applicable,
shall consider the comments.
(Ord. 15-57. Adopted 11/24/15; Ord. 2023-39. Adopted 12/28/23)
§ 886.07 ANNUAL INSPECTIONS.
   (a)   Housing Officer. The Housing Officer shall make annual inspections of
the properties for which a CRA exemption has been granted. If the Housing
Officer finds that the property has not been properly maintained or repaired
due to the neglect of the owner, the Housing Officer may revoke the exemption
at any time after the first year of the exemption. The Housing Officer shall
notify the Greene County Auditor and the owner of the property that the tax
exemption no longer applies. If the Housing Officer revokes a tax exemption, he
or she shall send a report of the revocation to the Community Reinvestment Area
Housing Council, containing a statement of his or her findings as to the
maintenance and repair of the property and the reason for revoking the
exemption.
   (b)   CRA Housing Council. The Housing Officer shall file a report of his or
her annual inspections under division (a) hereof to the CRA Housing Council.
The CRA Housing Council's review and approval of said report shall be deemed
its annual inspection of the properties within any CRA for which exemptions
have been granted, as required under Xenia City Code Section 285.04. As a part
of its review of the Housing Officer's report, the CRA Housing Council may make
any further physical inspections of properties within a CRA for which
exemptions have been granted as the CRA Housing Council deems necessary.
(Ord. 15-57. Adopted 11/24/15; Ord. 2023-39. Adopted 12/28/23)
§ 886.08 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Housing Officer under this Chapter
may appeal to the CRA Housing Council, which shall have the authority to
overrule any decision of the Housing Officer. Appeals may be taken from a
decision of the CRA Housing Council to the Greene County Court of Common Pleas.
(ORC 3735.70)
(Ord. 15-57. Adopted 11/24/15; Ord. 2023-39. Adopted 12/28/23)
§ 886.99 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   "Remodeling" means any change made in a structure for the purpose of
making it structurally more sound, more habitable, or for the purpose of
improving its appearance.
   (b)   "Structure of historical or architectural significance" means those
designated as such by resolution of the City Council, based on age, rarity,
architectural quality, or because of a previous designation by a historical
society, association or agency.
(ORC 3735.65)
(Ord. 2023-39. Adopted 12/28/23)
PART TEN - STREETS, UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SERVICES CODE
         TITLE TWO - Street and Sidewalk Areas
            
Chapter 1000. Street Excavations & Openings
            
Chapter 1001. Sidewalks, Driveway Aprons, Curbs & Gutters
            
Chapter 1002. Right-of-Way Administration
         TITLE FOUR - Utilities
            
Chapter 1010. Water Utility
            
Chapter 1015. Sanitary Sewer Utility
            
Chapter 1016. Discharges into Wastewater Treatment Plant
            
Chapter 1020. Stormwater Management Utility
            
Chapter 1021. Illicit Discharge and Illegal Connection Control
            
Chapter 1025. Solid Waste Collection & Sanitation Utility
            
Chapter 1030. Utility Billing
            
Chapter 1031. Extraterritorial Customers
         TITLE SIX - Other Public Services
            
Chapter 1040. Parks
            
Chapter 1041. Street Banner Programs
            
Chapter 1042. Community Events, Parades & Assemblies
            
Chapter 1043. Public Trees
TITLE TWO: STREET AND SIDEWALK AREAS
CHAPTER 1000
Street Excavations & Openings
1000.01   Permit Required; Restoration
1000.02   Permit Process
1000.03   Safety Standards
1000.04   Refund of Deposits
1000.05   Tracking Mud Prohibited; Clean Up
1000.06   General Requirements; Rules and Regulations
1000.07   Disclaimer of Liability; Indemnification
1000.99   Penalties
   CROSS REFERENCES
   Care, Supervision, and Control of Streets - see ORC 723.01
   Injurious Material or Obstruction in Street - see TRAF.
412.01
   Right-of-Way Administration - see S. U. & P. S.
CH. 1002
§ 1000.01 PERMIT REQUIRED; RESTORATION.
   (a)   Permit Required. No person, except in emergency situations, shall make
or cause to be made any test boring, opening or excavation of any kind upon,
through, or under any portion of a street, road, sidewalk, tree lawn or other
public property within the City without first properly registering with and
obtaining a permit therefor from the City Engineer. When an emergency situation
exists, the person for whom the work is to be performed or the person
performing the work shall submit the required application during the next
normal business day of the City.
   (b)   Restoration. Every such test boring, opening or excavation shall be
repaired, and the pavement or surface thereof restored to its previous
condition, within a reasonable period of time, as established by the City
Engineer, but in no event later than one (1) week from the commencement of such
test boring, opening or excavation, unless the person responsible therefor
first obtains from the City Engineer, in writing, an extension of time. If such
test boring, opening, or excavation is not repaired and restored within the
period of time established by the City Engineer, the Engineer may have such
work performed and the cost thereof shall be charged to the permittee and
deducted from the deposit or bond required under Section 1000.02(f).
   (c)   Application. The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to any test
boring, opening or excavation of any kind upon, through, or under any portion
of a street, road, or other public right-of-way to which the provisions of
Chapter 1002 do not apply. The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to any
test boring, opening or excavation of any kind upon, through, or under any
portion of a street, road, or other public right-of-way to which the provisions
of Chapter 1002 apply when so provided by that Chapter.
(1964 Code § 901.01; Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted
02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1000.02 PERMIT PROCESS.
   (a)   Application. The City Engineer shall prepare and make available an
application for the permit required under this Chapter. Such application shall
require, at a minimum:
      (1)   Information setting forth the location where the work is to be
performed, the name, address, and telephone number of the person for whom the
work is being performed, and the name, address, and phone number of the person
doing the work.
      (2)   A certificate of insurance showing that the applicant or person
performing the work has current liability insurance against any loss or damage
to persons or property resulting from the work being done, the policy to have
the minimum limits of one hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00) for
injury or death to any one person and three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000.00) for any one accident, and seventy-five thousand dollars
($75,000.00) for property damage, and naming the City as an additional insured.
      (3)   The application may also require any other information the City
Engineer deems necessary.
   (b)   Filing Application and Application Fee. All applications for a permit
under this Chapter shall be filed at least ten (10) business days before the
date of the proposed work; provided, however, that the City Engineer, in his or
her sole discretion, may allow for a shorter period in case of emergencies. To
cover administrative costs of reviewing the application, the applicant shall
pay, at the time of application filing, an application fee as set forth in the
City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A of the City Government Code, no portion of which shall be refunded.
Such fee shall be in addition to the required inspection fee and the required
deposit or bond.
   (c)   Review of Application. The City Engineer shall review the application
and approve or deny it within five (5) business days of receipt. The City
Engineer may deny a permit to any person who has been guilty of repeated
violations of the Chapter.
   (d)   Issuance of Permit. If approved, the City Engineer shall notify the
applicant that the application has been approved but the permit will not be
issued until the applicant has paid the required inspection fee and made the
required deposit. No permit shall be issued nor shall any work be performed
without the applicant paying the required inspection fee and required deposit.
   (e)   Inspection Fee. For all approved applications, the applicant shall pay
an inspection fee as set forth in the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code, no portion of which shall be refunded,
prior to the issuance of the required permit. This inspection fee will cover
one (1) inspection. Should additional inspections be required, the applicant
shall be charged for each additional inspection.
   (f)   Deposit or Bond. The applicant shall also be required to deposit cash
or a satisfactory bond, payable to the City, to guarantee that the restoration
work required under Section 1000.01 is completed to the satisfaction of the
City Engineer. The amount of the required deposit or bond shall as set forth in
the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code. The deposit shall be made or the bond
filed with the City's Finance Director.
(1964 Code § 901.02; Ord. 05-08. Adopted 03/24/05; Ord. 06-62. Adopted 09/28/
06; Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord.
2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1000.03 SAFETY STANDARDS.
   (a)   Fences or Barricades; Warning Signs. The permittee, or person
performing the work on behalf of the permittee, shall ensure that any test
boring, opening or excavation is adequately fenced or barricaded and warning
signs posted. Fences or barricades and warning signs shall be securely and
conspicuously placed in or near such test boring, opening or excavation, one at
each end of the space so opened or excavated, and if the opening or excavation
exceeds twenty feet (20') in length, additional warning devices shall be placed
for each additional twenty feet (20') in length or portion thereof.
   (b)   Warning Lights. If an opening or excavation has been approved by the
City Engineer to remain open overnight, the permittee, or the person performing
the work on behalf of the permittee, shall also ensure that the opening is
adequately lighted by flashing yellow lights or similar warning devices.
   (c)   Traffic Control. It shall be the responsibility of the permittee, or
the person performing the work on behalf of the permittee, to provide adequate
traffic control, as required by the City Engineer.
(1964 Code § 901.03; Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted
02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1000.04 REFUND OF DEPOSITS.
   Upon notification that the restoration required under Section
1000.01(b) has been made to the satisfaction of the City Engineer, the Finance
Director shall refund to the permittee the cash deposit or bond filed by the
permittee within thirty (30) days provided; however, that the permittee has
paid any outstanding costs for additional inspections, as required under
Section
1000.02(e), and any removal or remediation costs, as required under Section
1000.05(b).
(1964 Code § 901.04; Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted
02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1000.05 TRACKING MUD PROHIBITED; CLEAN UP.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person performing work under a permit issued pursuant
to this Chapter shall litter or track onto the streets or public ways of this
City any mud, earth, snow, rubbish, rocks, refuse, or other debris. If, because
of the weather or the type of work being done, it becomes impossible to avoid
such littering or tracking onto the streets or public ways, the person
performing the work shall, as soon as practicable, remove, wash and/or
otherwise clean such street, public ways, curbs, inlets, and/or storm sewer
lines at their own expense.
   (b)   Public Nuisance. If there is such littering or tracking onto the
streets or public ways that it causes a public nuisance, environmental hazard
or a danger to the traveling public, the City Engineer may order the immediate
removal of all such littering or tracking and may issue an order to stop work
until such public nuisance is removed. If such littering or tracking is not
removed or remedied within two (2) hours of the City Engineer's order, removal
and remediation services may be rendered by the City and the permittee shall be
billed at the current hourly rates of the City's equipment and personnel.
Alternatively, the City retains the right to contract out such removal or
remediation services, as deemed necessary by the City, and bill the permittee
for all costs incurred.
   (c)   Presumption. For the purposes of this section, it shall be presumed,
unless otherwise demonstrated by the permittee, that any mud, earth, snow,
rubbish, rocks, refuse, or other debris of any kind deposited upon any street
or public way emanating from any point of entry or exit to or from the work
site is due to such work or related transportation.
(1964 Code § 901.05; Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted
02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1000.06 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (a)   General Requirements. The following general requirements will apply to
all test borings, openings, or excavations for which a permit is issued
pursuant to this Chapter:
      (1)   All street and curb cuts must be outlined first with a diamond
point saw that will ensure a neat patch.
      (2)   All excess material excavated that will not be used for restoration
must be hauled away from the work site.
      (3)   All backfill must be granular backfill, well compacted to paving
subgrade, or Control Density Fill (CDF), as determined by the City Engineer or
representative.
      (4)   Paving must be replaced with a similar material to that removed, as
approved by the City Engineer, and in the unpaved areas, the surface shall be
left in comparable condition to that prior to excavation.
   (b)   Specific Requirements. The City Engineer is hereby authorized to place
any further requirements regarding the test boring, opening, or excavation work
and/or the restoration work as he or she deems necessary. Such specific
requirements shall be listed on the issued permit.
   (c)   Rules and Regulations. The City Engineer is hereby authorized to
promulgate rules and regulations, in accordance with the requirements of this
Chapter, regarding required application information, inspections, construction
and material requirements, safety standards, or any other regulations necessary
to protect the City's streets and public ways as well as the motoring public.
(1964 Code § 901.06; Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted
02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1000.07 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY; INDEMNIFICATION.
   (a)   Disclaimer. Compliance with the provisions of this Chapter shall not
relieve any person or permittee from responsibility or liability for damage to
any persons or property. The provisions of this Chapter are promulgated to
promote the health, safety, and welfare of the public and are not intended or
designed to create a benefit for any specific individual or particular
property.
   (b)   Indemnification. By applying for and accepting a permit under this
Chapter, the permittee is agreeing to, and shall be required to, defend,
indemnify, and hold harmless the City's agents, elected officials, officers,
employees, volunteers, and subcontractors from all costs, liabilities, claims
and suits for damages of any kind arising out of the test boring, opening,
excavation, or work associated therewith, by the permittee, or the person
performing the work on behalf of the permittee, whether any act or omission
complained of is authorized, allowed, or prohibited by the permit. No
permittee, or person performing work on behalf of the permittee, shall bring,
or cause to be brought, any action, suit or other proceeding claiming damages,
or seeking any other relief against the City's agents, elected officials,
officers, employees, volunteers, and subcontractors for any claim, nor for any
award arising out of the test boring, opening, or excavation or any activity
related thereto, whether the act or omission complained of is authorized,
allowed or prohibited by a permit. This division is not, as to third parties, a
waiver of any defense or immunity otherwise available to the permittee, the
person performing work on behalf of the permittee, or to the City, and the
permittee and/or person performing work on behalf of the permittee in defending
any action on behalf of the City, shall be entitled to assert in any action
every defense or immunity that the City could assert on its own behalf.
(Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1000.99 PENALTIES.
   (a)   Penalties. Whoever violates any provisions of this Chapter is guilty
of a minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (b)   Damages. Whoever violates any provision of this Chapter shall be
liable to the City for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned by the City by
reason of such violation, in addition to the penalties provided in division (a)
hereof.
(Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
CHAPTER 1001
Sidewalks, Driveway Aprons, Curbs & Gutters
1001.01   Construction and Material Specifications
1001.02   Permit Required
1001.03   Duty to Maintain Sidewalks and Driveway Aprons
1001.04   Curb Cuts; Driveway Access Policy
1001.05   No Limitation
1001.97   Disclaimer of Liability; Indemnification
1001.98   Definitions
1001.99   Penalties
   CROSS REFERENCES
   Construction or Repair Required - see ORC CH. 729
   Control of Sidewalks, Curbs and Gutters - see ORC 723.011
   Illicit Discharge and Illegal Connection Control - see S.U.&P.S.
CH. 1021
   Owner's Duty of Snow and Ice Removal - see GEN. OFF.
660.05
   Sidewalk Obstructions - see GEN. OFF.
660.10
   Stormwater Management Utility - see S.U.&P.S.
CH. 1020
§ 1001.01 CONSTRUCTION AND MATERIAL SPECIFICATIONS.
   All sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs and gutters shall be constructed and/
or repaired in accordance with the specifications and material requirements
prescribed by the City Engineer. Such specifications and material requirements
shall be kept on file at the City's Public Service Department and shall be made
available on the City's website.
(1964 Code § 903.01; Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted
02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1001.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (a)   When a Permit is Required. No person shall or permit to be done by its
agents, contractors, or employees, the construction or repair of any sidewalk
and/or driveway apron, or the making of any curb cut, or the construction or
repair of any curb or gutter, without having first obtained a permit from the
City Engineer unless the construction or repair has been approved by the City
as a part of the zoning process or when such construction or repair is a part
of the City's annual Sidewalk Repair Program.
   (b)   Application. The City Engineer shall prepare and make available an
application for the permit required under this section. Such application shall
require, at a minimum, the location where the construction or repair is to be
performed, the name, address, and telephone number of the person for whom the
work is being performed, and the name, address, and telephone number of the
person performing the work. The application may also require any other
information the City Engineer deems necessary.
   (c)   Filing Application and Application Fee. All applications for a permit
under this section shall be filed at least ten (10) business days before the
date of the proposed work; provided, however, that the City Engineer, in his or
her sole discretion, may allow for a shorter period in case of emergencies. To
cover administrative costs of reviewing the application, the applicant shall
pay an application fee as set forth in the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A of the City Government Code, no portion of which shall be refunded.
Such fee shall be in addition to the required inspection fee.
   (d)   Issuance of Permit. The City Engineer shall review the application and
approve or deny it within five (5) business days of receipt. If approved, the
City Engineer shall notify the applicant that the application has been approved
but the permit will not be issued until the applicant has paid the required
inspection fee. No permit shall be issued nor shall any work be performed
without the applicant paying the required inspection fee.
   (e)   Inspection Fee. For all approved applications, the applicant shall pay
an inspection fee as set forth in the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code, no portion of which shall be refunded,
prior to the issuance of the required permit. This inspection fee will cover
one (1) inspection. Should additional inspections be required, the applicant
shall be charged for each additional inspection.
(Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1001.03 DUTY TO MAINTAIN SIDEWALKS AND DRIVEWAY APRONS.
   (a)   Duty of Owners. Every owner of any lot or parcel situated within the
corporate limits of the City shall keep and maintain the sidewalks and driveway
aprons on or abutting such lot or parcel, now or hereafter constructed, in good
order and repair.
   (b)   Requirements. Sidewalks and/or driveway aprons shall be repaired to
conform to the construction and material specifications prescribed by the City
Engineer and such repair work shall be subject to inspection by the City.
   (c)   Sidewalk Repair Program. City Council may establish an annual Sidewalk
Repair Program, and the owner of any lot or parcel situated within the
corporate limits of the City shall repair the sidewalk and/or driveway apron on
or abutting such lot or parcel upon notice from the City to make such repairs
pursuant to ORC Chapter 729. If the owner fails to comply with the notice, the
City may cause the sidewalk to be repaired and assess the cost to the lot or
parcel, in accordance with the process set forth in ORC Chapter 729.
(Ord. 78-26. Adopted 06/22/78; Ord. 05-08. Adopted 03/24/05; Ord. 11-37.
Adopted 08/25/11; Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/
08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1001.04 CURB CUTS; DRIVEWAY ACCESS POLICY.
   (a)   Permit Required. No person shall make any cut to any curb on any
public street or way within the City without first having obtained a permit in
accordance with Section
1001.02 of this Chapter.
   (b)   Driveway Apron. When the curb is cut for the purpose of installing a
driveway apron, such driveway apron shall be constructed in accordance with the
construction and material specifications prescribed by the City Engineer. The
cutting of the curb, upon the issuance of the required permit, shall be done
before the driveway is constructed or paved.
   (c)   Driveway Access Policy. The City Engineer shall establish a Driveway
Access Policy setting forth the regulations for the location and design of all
curb cuts, driveway aprons, and driveways, and the number of driveways/access
points permitted per lot or parcel. Such Policy may also establish regulations
regarding restricted movements, joint driveways, and median openings. Such
Policy shall be based on sound engineering principles, the safety of the
motoring public and pedestrians, and future roadway improvements based on the
City's Thoroughfare Plan.
(Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1001.05 NO LIMITATION.
   Nothing in this Chapter shall be deemed a limitation on any authority
granted to the City under the Ohio Revised Code, including, but not limited to,
ORC Chapter 729.
(Ord. 66-2. Adopted 01/27/66; Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01.
Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1001.97 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY; INDEMNIFICATION.
   (a)   Disclaimer. Compliance with the provisions of this Chapter shall not
relieve any person or permittee from responsibility or liability for damage to
any persons or property. The provisions of this Chapter are promulgated to
promote the health, safety and welfare of the public and are not intended or
designed to create a benefit for any specific individual or particular
property.
   (b)   Indemnification. By applying for and accepting a permit under this
Chapter, the permittee is agreeing to, and shall be required to, defend,
indemnify, and hold harmless the City's agents, elected officials, officers,
employees, volunteers, and subcontractors from all costs, liabilities, claims
and suits for damages of any kind arising out of the test boring, opening,
excavation, or work associated therewith, by the permittee, or the person
performing on the work on behalf of the permittee, whether any act or omission
complained of is authorized, allowed, or prohibited by the permit. No
permittee, or person performing work on behalf of the permittee, shall bring,
or cause to be brought, any action, suit or other proceeding claiming damages,
or seeking any other relief against the City's agents, elected officials,
officers, employees, volunteers, and subcontractors for any claim, nor for any
award arising out of the test boring, opening, or excavation or any activity
related thereto, whether the act or omission complained of is authorized,
allowed or prohibited by a permit. This division is not, as to third parties, a
waiver of any defense or immunity otherwise available to the permittee, the
person performing work on behalf of the permittee, or to the City, and the
permittee and/or person performing work on behalf of the permittee in defending
any action on behalf of the City, shall be entitled to assert in any action
every defense or immunity that the City could assert on its own behalf.
(Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1001.98 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
   (a)   "Construction" means the construction or new work where no work has
previously been done.
   (b)   "Repair" means the relaying, rebuilding, reconstruction, or repair of
old work, in part or as a whole.
   (c)   "Sidewalk" means any main or approach sidewalk, in most cases between
the curb line and private property line, designed to be used by pedestrian
traffic and open to the public.
(Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1001.99 PENALTIES.
   (a)   Penalties. Whoever violates any provisions of this Chapter is guilty
of a minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (b)   Damages. Whoever violates any provision of this Chapter shall be
liable to the City for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned by the City by
reason of such violation, in addition to the penalties provided in division (a)
hereof.
(Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
CHAPTER 1002
Rights-Of-Way Administration
1002.01   Declaration of Findings and Purpose; Scope; Definitions
1002.02   Rights-of-Way Administration
1002.03   Discontinuance of Operations; Abandoned and Unused Facilities
1002.04   Nature of Issuance
1002.05   Other Approvals, Permits and Agreements
1002.06   Certificate of Registration Applications
1002.07   Reporting Requirements
1002.08   Compensation for Certificate of Registration
1002.09   Oversight and Regulation
1002.10   Registration Term
1002.11   Indemnity
1002.12   Civil Forfeitures
1002.13   Termination of Certificate of Registration
1002.14   Unauthorized Use of Public Rights- of-Way
1002.15   Assignment or Transfer of Ownership and Renewal
1002.16   Construction Permits
1002.17   Construction, Relocation and Restoration
1002.18   Right-of-Way Minor Maintenance Permits
1002.19   Enforcement of Permit Obligation
1002.20   Construction and Removal Bonds
1002.21   Small Cell Facilities and Wireless System Support Structures
1002.22   Indemnification and Liability
1002.23   General Provisions
1002.99   Penalties
   CROSS REFERENCES
   Street Openings & Excavations - see S.U. & P.S.
CH. 1000
   Supervision and Control of Streets - ORC 723.01
§ 1002.01 DECLARATION OF FINDINGS AND PURPOSE; SCOPE; DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   Findings and Purpose.
      (1)   The City of Xenia, Ohio (the "City") is vitally concerned with the
use of all Rights-of-Way in the City as such Rights-of-Way are a valuable and
limited resource.
      (2)   Changes in the public utilities and communication industries have
increased the demand and need for access to Rights-of-Way and placement of
facilities and structures therein.
      (3)   It is necessary to comprehensively plan and manage access to, and
structures and facilities in, the Rights-of-Way.
      (4)   The City has authority under the laws and Constitution of the State
of Ohio, including, but not limited, to Article 18, Sections 3, 4, and 7, to
regulate public and private entities which use the Rights-of-Way.
   (b)   Scope. The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to all users of the
Rights-of-Way. To the extent that anything in this Chapter conflicts with other
sections of the Xenia City Code, then the provisions of this Chapter shall
control.
   (c)   Definitions. For the purposes of this Chapter, the following terms,
phrases, words, and their derivations have the meanings set forth herein. When
not inconsistent with the context, words in the present tense include the
future tense, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words
in the singular number include the plural number. The words "shall" and "will"
are mandatory and "may" is permissive. Words not defined shall be given their
common and ordinary meaning.
   References hereafter to "sections" are, unless otherwise specified,
references to sections in this Chapter. Defined terms remain defined terms
whether or not capitalized.
      (1)   "Abandoned" means the designation given to a facility, except for a
small cell facility or wireless support structure in the right-of-way, when its
operations or use are discontinued for a period exceeding ninety (90)
consecutive days or a total of one hundred eighty (180) days in any three
hundred sixty-five (365) day period, without notice of the discontinued
operations or use given to the City by a Provider and without the City's
approval, and except for a period of discontinued operations or use that has
been caused by acts of God. Small cell facilities or wireless support
structures shall be deemed abandoned if the facilities or support structures
are unused for a period of three hundred sixty-five (365) days without the
operator otherwise notifying the City and receiving the City's approval.
      (2)   "Affiliate" means each person who falls into one or more of the
following categories:
         A.   Each person having, directly or indirectly, a controlling
interest in a Provider;
         B.   Each person in which a Provider has, directly or indirectly, a
controlling interest;
         C.   Each officer, director, general partner, limited partner or
shareholder holding an interest of fifteen percent (15%) or more, joint venture
or joint venture partner, of a Provider; and
         D.   Each person, directly or indirectly, controlling, controlled by,
or under common control with the Provider; provided that an affiliate shall in
no event mean any limited partner or shareholder holding an interest of less
than fifteen percent (15%) of such Provider, or any creditor of such Provider
solely by virtue of its status as a creditor and which is not otherwise an
affiliate by reason of owning a controlling interest in, being owned by, or
being under common ownership, common management, or common control with such
Provider.
      (3)   "Antenna" means communications equipment that transmits or receives
radio frequency signals in the provision of wireless service.
      (4)   "Applicant" means any person who seeks to obtain or renew a
Certificate of Registration and/or Permit.
      (5)   "Application" means the process by which an applicant submits a
request to obtain Certificate of Registration or a Permit.
      (6)   "Application Fee" means the fee paid to the City with an
application for a Certificate of Registration pursuant to Section 1002.06(a) of
this Chapter.
      (7)   "Bankruptcy Code" means the United States Bankruptcy Code of 1978,
as amended including regulations promulgated by Title 11 of the United States
Code.
      (8)   "Best Effort(s)" means the best reasonable efforts under the
circumstances, taking into consideration, among other appropriate matters, all
applicable laws, regulations, safety, engineering and operational codes,
available technology, human resources and cost.
      (9)   "Business Day" means any Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or
Friday excluding legal holidays observed by the City.
      (10)   "Cable Franchise" means the same as "franchise" in the Cable
Communications Policy Act of 1984, 98 Stat. 2779, 47 USC 522.
      (11)   "Cable Operator" means the same as in the Cable Communications
Policy Act of 1984, 98 Stat. 2779, 47 USC 522.
      (12)   "Cable Service" means the same as in the Cable Communications
Policy Act of 1984, 98 Stat. 2779, 47 USC 522.
      (13)   "Certificate of Registration" means the document issued to each
Provider and its unique system to occupy the rights-of-way within the City that
outlines the terms of that occupancy of the rights-of-way.
      (14)   "City" means the City of Xenia, Ohio.
      (15)   "City Council" means the governing body of the City of Xenia,
Ohio.
      (16)   "City Manager" means the duly appointed City Manager of the City,
or his or her designee.
      (17)   "Code" means the Xenia City Code ("XCC"), also known as the
Codified Ordinances of the City.
      (18)   "Collocation" or "Co-location" means to install, mount, maintain,
modify, operate, or replace wireless facilities on a wireless support
structure.
      (19)   "Construct" means, but shall not be limited to, digging, boring,
tunneling, trenching, excavating, obstructing, installing wires, installing
conduit, installing pipes, installing transmission lines, installing poles,
installing signs, or installing facilities, other than landscaping, ornamental
plantings, in, on, above, within, over, below, under, or through any part of
the rights-of-way. Construct shall also include the act of opening and/or
cutting into the surface of any paved or improved surface that is any part of
the right-of-way.
      (20)   "Construction" means, but shall not be limited to, the act or
process of digging, boring, tunneling, trenching, excavating, obstructing,
installing wires, installing conduit, installing pipes, installing transmission
lines, installing poles, installing signs, or installing facilities, other than
landscaping, ornamental plantings in, on, above, within, over, below, under, or
through any part of the right-of-way. "Construction" shall also include the act
of opening and/or cutting into the surface of any paved or improved surface
that is part of the right-of-way.
      (21)   "Construction Bond" means a bond posted to ensure proper and
complete construction and/or repair of a facility and the affected rights-of-
way pursuant to a Permit.
      (22)   "Construction Cost" means the cost of installation, materials,
engineering costs, and other incidental fees required for the construction,
repair, or replacement of the real and/or personal property or facilities
affected by construction in the rights-of-way.
      (23)   "Construction Permit" means the Permit, as specified in Section
1002.16 of this Chapter which must be obtained before a person may construct
in, locate in, occupy, maintain, move, or remove facilities from, in, or on a
right-of-way.
      (24)   "Construction and Major Maintenance Plan" means a written plan
including maps of the expected location, design, other related equipment, and
facilities of a Provider which describes in full the construction intended to
be accomplished by the Provider in the rights-of-way over the next calendar
year.
      (25)   "County" means Greene County, Ohio. County specifically excludes
any and all contractors, agents, or other persons acting on behalf of such
County.
      (26)   "Credible" means worthy of being believed.
      (27)   "Decorative Pole" means a pole, arch, or structure, other than a
street light pole, placed in the right-of-way specifically designed and placed
for aesthetic purposes and on which no appurtenances or attachments have been
placed, except for the following: electric lighting means specifically designed
informational or directional signage; or temporary holiday or special event
attachments.
      (28)   "Department of Public Service" means the City's Department of
Public Service, which may also be called the Public Service Department.
      (29)   "Design Guidelines" means detailed guidelines and specifications
promulgated by the City in accordance with ORC Chapter 4939 for the design and
installation of small cell facilities and wireless support structures in the
right-of-way.
      (30)   "Emergency" means a condition that poses a clear and immediate
danger to life or health, or a significant loss of property.
      (31)   "Facility(ies)" means any tangible thing located in any rights-of-
way within the City, and includes wireless facilities and wireless support
structures, but shall not include boulevard plantings, ornamental plantings, or
gardens planted or maintained in the rights-of-way between a person's property
and the street edge of pavement.
      (32)   "FCC" means the Federal Communications Commission, or any
successor thereto.
      (33)   "FERC" means the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission as created
and amended in accordance with the Federal Power Act, 16 USC 792, or its
statutory successor.
      (34)   "Full" means unable to accommodate any additional facilities as
determined by the Public Service Director following a reasonable analysis
taking into consideration all applicable laws, commonly accepted industry
standards, and routine engineering practices.
      (35)   "Graffiti" means unauthorized writings, drawings, signs, or other
materials illegally scribbled, scratched, sprayed, or posted on any surface.
      (36)   "Height" means the distance measured from the pre-existing grade
level to the highest point on the structure, including the small cell
facilities, even if said highest point is an antenna or lightening protection
device.
      (37)   "Historic District" means a building, property, or site or group
of buildings, properties, or sites that are either of the following:
         A.   Listed in the National Register of Historic Places or formally
determined eligible for listing by the keeper of the National Register, who is
the individual who has been delegated the authority by the federal agency to
list properties and determine their eligibility for the National Register in
accordance with Section VI.D.1.a.i-v of the nationwide programmatic agreement,
codified at 47 CFR Part 1, Appendix C.
         B.   A registered historic district, as defined in ORC 149.311.
      (38)   "In" when used in conjunction with rights-of-way, means in, on,
above, within, over, below, under or through a right-of-way.
      (39)   "Inspector" means any person authorized by the Public Service
Director to carry out inspections related to the provisions of this Chapter.
      (40)   "Law(s)" means any local, state, or federal legislative, judicial,
or administrative order, certificate, decision, statute, constitution,
ordinance, resolution, regulation, rule, tariff, or other requirement in effect
either at the time of execution of this Chapter or at any time during the
location of, and/or while a Provider's facilities are located in, the public
rights-of-way.
      (41)   "Law Director" means the City's duly appointed Director of Law of
the City, or his or her designee.
      (42)   "Micro Wireless Permit" means a Permit that must be obtained
before a person can construct, modify, collocate, or replace a small cell
facility or wireless support structure, as set forth in Section
1002.19 of this Chapter, in or on the rights-of-way.
      (43)   "Minor Maintenance Permit" means a Permit, as specified Section
1002.18 of this Chapter, which must be obtained before a person can perform
minor maintenance, as set forth in Section
1002.20 of this Chapter, in or on the rights-of-way.
      (44)   "Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (OMUTCD)" means
the uniform system of traffic control devices promulgated by the Ohio
Department of Transportation pursuant to ORC 4511.09.
      (45)   "ORC" means the Revised Code of the State of Ohio.
      (46)   "Ohio Utility Protection Service" means the utility protection
service as defined and described in ORC 153.64 and/or ORC 3781.25-3781.32 or
any statutory successor(s) thereto.
      (47)   "Operator" means a wireless service provider, cable operator, or a
video service provider that operates a small cell facility and provides
wireless service. For the purposes of this Chapter, "Operator" includes a
wireless service provider, cable operator, or a video service provider that
provides information services as defined in the Telecommunications Act of 1996,
110 Stat.59, 47 USC 153(20), as services that are fixed in nature or use
unlicensed spectrum.
      (48)   "Permit" means a Construction Permit, Micro Wireless Permit, or a
Minor Maintenance Permit, unless otherwise specified.
      (49)   "Permit Cost" means all direct, incidental, and indirect costs
actually incurred or realized by the City for permit issuance, permit
oversight, and pavement degradation resulting from construction activity.
      (50)   "Permit Fee" means money paid to the City for a permit to
construct in the rights-of-way as required by this Chapter.
      (51)   "Permittee" means any person to whom a Construction Permit, Micro
Wireless Permit, and/or a Minor Maintenance Permit has been granted by the City
and not revoked.
      (52)   "Person" means any natural or corporate person, business
association, or other business entity including, but not limited to, a
partnership, a sole proprietorship, a political subdivision, a public or
private agency of any kind, a utility, a successor or assign of any of the
foregoing, or any other legal entity.
      (53)   "Provider" means a person who owns or operates a system and has a
valid Certificate of Registration. The City, County, small cell facility
operators, and cable operators operating pursuant to a valid cable franchise,
or video service providers operating pursuant to a valid VSA shall also be
considered Providers.
      (54)   "Public Service Director" means the duly appointed Director of the
City's Department of Public Service, or his or her designee.
      (55)   "Public Utility" means a wireless service provider, as defined in
ORC 4927.01(A)(20) or any company described in ORC 4905.03, except in ORC
4905.03(B) and (I), which company is also a "Public Utility" as defined in ORC
4905.02, and includes any electric supplier, as defined in ORC 4933.81.
      (56)   "PUCO" means the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio, as defined
in ORC 4901.02.
      (57)   "Registration Maintenance Fee" means the money paid to the City to
maintain a Certificate of Registration and compensate the City for all actual
costs incurred by the City in the management, administration, and control of
the rights-of-way of the City, and which are not reasonably recoverable by the
City through Construction Permit fees or other approved recovery mechanisms.
      (58)   "Removal Bond" means a bond posted to ensure the availability of
sufficient funds to remove a Provider's facilities upon abandonment, disuse, or
discontinuance of a Provider's use or occupation of the rights-of-way.
      (59)   "Restoration" means the process and the resultant effects by which
a right-of-way is returned to a condition as good as or better than its
condition immediately prior to the construction. Restoration shall occur in
accordance with the Rules and Regulations as may be enacted or amended from
time to time.
      (60)   "Right(s)-of-Way" means the surface and space in, on, above,
within, over, below, under or through any real property in which the City has
an interest in law or equity, whether held in fee, or other estate or interest,
or as a trustee for the public including, but not limited to, any public
street, boulevard, road, highway, freeway, lane, alley, court, sidewalk,
parkway, river, tunnel, viaduct, bridge, conduit or any other place, area, or
real property owned by or under the legal or equitable control of the City
that, consistent with the purposes for which it was dedicated, may be used for
the purposes of constructing, operating, repairing or replacing a system.
Rights-of-way shall not include buildings, parks, or other public property or
easements that have not been dedicated to compatible uses, except to the extent
the use or occupation of such property is specifically granted in a Permit or
by law.
      (61)   "Right(s)-of-Way Cost" means all direct, incidental, and indirect
costs borne by the City for the management and administration of the rights-of-
way and this Chapter.
      (62)   "Rule(s) and Regulation(s)" means any rules or regulations adopted
by the Public Service Director pursuant to Section 1002.09(e) of this Chapter.
      (63)   "Service(s)" means the offering of any service or utility for a
fee directly to the public, or to such classes of users as to be effectively
available directly to the public, or alternatively, the provision (for a fee or
otherwise) of any service or utility between two or more points for a
proprietary purpose to a class of users other than the general public that, in
the opinion of the Public Service Director, constitutes a service.
      (64)   "Small Cell Facility" means a wireless facility that meets both of
the following requirements:
         A.   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of not more than six
cubic feet (6 cu. ft.) in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed
elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an
enclosure of not more than six cubic feet (6 cu. ft.) in volume.
         B.   All other wireless equipment associated with the facility in
cumulatively not more than twenty-eight cubic feet (28 cu. ft.) in volume. The
calculation of equipment volume shall not include electric meters, concealment
elements, telecommunication demarcation boxes, grounding equipment, power
transfer switches and vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other
services.
      (65)   "State" means the State of Ohio.
      (66)   "Supplementary Application" means any application made to
construct on or in more of the rights-of-way than previously allowed, or to
extend a Permit that had already been issued or otherwise modify or amend the
specifics of a Permit application.
      (67)   "System" means any system of conduit, ducts, cables, pipes, wires,
lines, towers, antennae, wave guides, optic fiber, microwave, laser beams, and
any associated converters, equipment, or facilities or utilities designed and
constructed for the purpose of producing, receiving, amplifying, delivering, or
distributing service within the City. A system shall specifically include, but
not necessarily be limited to, electric distribution and/or transmission
systems, natural or artificial gas distribution and/or transmission systems,
water distribution systems, storm sewer systems, sanitary sewer systems, cable
television systems, video service networks, telecommunications systems (whether
voice, video, data or other), fiber optic systems, and wireless communications
systems.
      (68)   "System Representative" means the specifically identified agent/
employee of a Provider who is authorized to direct field activities of that
Provider and serve as official notice agent for system-related information. Any
such System Representative shall be required to be available at all times to
receive notice of and immediately direct response to system related emergencies
or situations.
      (69)   "Transfer" means the disposal by the Provider, directly or
indirectly, by gift, assignment, voluntary sale, merger, consolidation, or
otherwise, of fifty-one percent (51%) or more at one time of the ownership or
controlling interest in the system, or fifty-one percent (51%) cumulatively
over the term of a Certificate of Registration of such interests to a
corporation, partnership, limited partnership, trust, or association, or person
or group of persons acting in concert.
      (70)   "Trenchless Technology" means, but shall not be limited to, the
use of directional boring, horizontal drilling, microtunneling, and other
techniques in the construction of underground portions of facilities which
result in the least amount of disruption and damage to the rights-of-way as
possible.
      (71)   "Underground Facility(ies)" means all lines, cables, conduits,
pipes, posts, tanks, vaults and any other facilities, which are located wholly
or partially underneath the rights-of-way.
      (72)   "Unused Facility(ies)" means facilities located in the rights-of-
way which have remained unused for twelve (12) months and for which the
Provider is unable to provide the City with a credible plan detailing the
procedure by which the Provider intends to begin actively using such facilities
within the next twelve (12) months, or that it has a potential purchaser or
user of the facilities who will be actively using the facilities within the
next twelve (12) months, or, that the availability of such facilities is
required by the Provider to adequately and efficiently operate its system.
      (73)   "Utility(ies)" means any water, sewer, gas, drainage, sprinkler,
or culvert pipe and any electric power, telecommunications, signal
communications, or cable television conduit, fiber, wire, cable, or an operator
thereof.
      (74)   "Utility Corridor(s)" means those specific areas of the rights-of-
way designated as such by the Public Service Director pursuant to Section
1002.06(f)(1) of this Chapter.
      (75)   "Video Service" means the same as "video service" in ORC 1332.21
(J).
      (76)   "Video Service Authorization (or VSA)" means a "video service
authorization" as issued to a video service provider by the Director of the
Ohio Department of Commerce in accordance with ORC 1332.24(A)(1).
      (77)   "Video Service Network" means the same as "video service network"
in ORC 1332.21(L).
      (78)   "Video Service Provider (or VSP)" means the same as "video service
provider" in ORC 1332.21(M).
      (79)   "Wireless Facility" means:
         A.   Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including
all of the following:
            (i)   Equipment associated with wireless communications;
            (ii)   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable,
regular and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration.
         B.   The term includes small cell facilities.
         C.   The term does not include any of the following:
            (i)   The structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated;
            (ii)   Coaxial or fiber-optic cable that is between wireless
support structures or utility poles or that is otherwise not immediately
adjacent to or directly associated with a particular antenna. An antenna,
accessory equipment, distributed antenna system, small cell facility, micro
wireless facility, or other device or equipment used to provide wireless
service, including such devices and equipment as provided for in ORC Chapter
4939.
      (80)   "Wireless Service" means any service using licensed or unlicensed
wireless spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile, provided to the
public using wireless facilities.
      (81)   "Wireless Support Structure" means a pole, such as a monopole,
either guyed or self-supporting, street light pole, traffic signal pole, a
fifteen-foot (15') or taller sign pole, or utility pole capable of supporting
small cell facilities. As used in this Chapter, "Wireless Support Structure"
excludes any of the following:
         A.   A utility pole or other facility owned or operated by a municipal
electric utility.
         B.   A utility pole or other facility used to supply traction power to
public transit systems including railways, trams, streetcars, and trolleybuses.
(Ord. 2022-46. Adopted 12/08/22; Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1002.02 RIGHTS-OF-WAY ADMINISTRATION.
   (a)   Administration. The Public Service Director shall be the principal
City official responsible for the administration of this Chapter, except as
otherwise provided herein. The Public Service Director may delegate any and all
the duties hereunder to the Assistant City Engineer or other designee.
   (b)   Rights-of-Way Occupancy. Each person who occupies, uses, or seeks to
occupy or use the rights-of-way to operate a system located in the rights-of-
way, or who has, or seeks to have, a system located in any rights-of-way, shall
apply for and obtain a Certificate of Registration pursuant to this Chapter.
Any person owning, operating, or maintaining a system in the right-of-way
without a Certificate of Registration, including persons operating under
permit, license or franchise issued by the City prior to the effective date of
this Chapter, shall apply for and obtain a Certificate of Registration from the
City, unless exempted by subsection (d) of this section. Applications will
consist of providing the application information set forth in Section 1002.06
of this Chapter and as reasonably required by the Public Service Director.
   (c)   No Construction Without a Certificate of Registration. Following the
effective date of this Chapter, no person shall construct or perform any work
on or in, or use any system or any part thereof located on or in, any rights-
of-way without first obtaining a Certificate of Registration. Whoever violates
this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, as provided for
in Section
1002.99 of this Chapter.
   (d)   Exceptions.
      (1)   The following entities are not obligated to obtain a Certificate of
Registration: the City and resellers of services or persons that do not own any
system or facilities in the rights-of-way.
      (2)   The following entities are required to participate in the
Certificate of Registration process, but shall be exempt from the financial
obligation of the application fee required by Section 1002.06(a) and the
registration maintenance fee required by Section 1002.08(a) of this Chapter:
         A.   The County, cable operators for the purpose of providing only
cable service and operating pursuant to a valid cable franchise;
         B.   Video service providers for the purpose of providing only video
service and operating pursuant to a valid video service authorization issued in
accordance with ORC 1332.24;
         C.   Small cell facility operators for the purpose of providing
wireless service.
   (e)   Systems in Place Without a Certificate of Registration. Any system or
part of a system found in a rights-of-way for which a Certificate of
Registration has not been obtained shall be deemed to be a nuisance and an
unauthorized use of the rights-of-way. The City may exercise any remedies or
rights it has at law or in equity including, but not limited to, abating the
nuisance; taking possession of the facilities and/or non-complying portion of
such system; and/or prosecuting the violator.
   (f)   Future Uses. In allowing facilities to be placed in the rights-of-way,
the City is not liable for any damages caused thereby to any Provider's
facilities that are already in place or that shall be placed in the rights-of-
way unless those damages arise out of the sole negligence, gross negligence,
willful misconduct, or fraud of the City. No Provider is entitled to rely on
the provisions of this Chapter as creating a special duty to any Provider.
(Ord. 2022-46. Adopted 12/08/22; Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1002.03 DISCONTINUANCE OF OPERATIONS; ABANDONED AND UNUSED FACILITIES.
   (a)   Discontinuance of Operations. A Provider who has discontinued or is
discontinuing its operation of any system in the City shall:
      (1)   Provide information satisfactory to the City that the Provider's
obligations for its system in the rights-of-way under this Chapter and any
other chapters in the Code or other laws have been lawfully assumed by another
applicant and/or Provider; or
      (2)   Submit a written proposal to re-use its facilities in a manner that
promotes the City's goals of providing innovative and economic solutions to
efficiently and economically utilize limited rights-of-way capacity. Such
proposal must be approved by the Public Service Director; or
      (3)   Submit a written proposal for abandonment of facilities in place
indicating why good engineering practice would support this type of solution.
Such proposal must be approved by the Public Service Director; or
      (4)   Completely remove all specifically identified portion(s) of its
system in a manner acceptable to the City within a reasonable amount of time if
the City believes there exists a reasonable justification for such removal; or
      (5)   Submit to the City, within a reasonable amount of time, and in
accordance with ORC 4905.20 and 4905.21, a proposal for transferring ownership
of its facilities to the City. If a Provider proceeds under this clause, the
City may, at its option where lawful:
         A.   Purchase the facilities; or
         B.   Unless a valid removal bond has already been posted pursuant to
Section 1002.20(b) of this Chapter, require the Provider to post a bond in an
amount sufficient to reimburse the City for reasonably anticipated costs to be
incurred in removing the facilities.
   (b)   Abandoned and Unused Facilities. Facilities of a Provider who fail to
comply with this section and which remain unused facilities shall be deemed to
be abandoned. Abandoned facilities are deemed to be a nuisance. The City may
exercise any remedies or rights it has at law or in equity including, but not
limited to, abating the nuisance; or taking possession of the facilities and
restoring them to a useable condition subject to the finding of the PUCO
pursuant to the requirements of ORC 4905.20 and 4905.21; or requiring removal
of the facilities by the Provider or by the Provider's surety. If the City
determines to require a Provider to remove unused facilities in any rights-of-
way, the City shall use reasonable efforts to direct that this removal occur in
conjunction with other scheduled excavation of the rights-of-way. If the City
abates the nuisance, it may take all action necessary to recover its costs and
to abate said nuisance, including, but not limited to, those methods set forth
in ORC 715.261.
(Ord. 2022-46. Adopted 12/08/22; Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1002.04 NATURE OF ISSUANCE.
   A Certificate of Registration shall not convey equitable or legal title in
the rights-of-way. A Certificate of Registration is only the nonexclusive,
limited right to occupy rights-of-way in the City for the limited purposes and
for the limited period stated in the Certificate of Registration and in
accordance with this Chapter. The right to occupy the right-of-way itself may
not be subdivided or subleased; provided, however, that two or more Providers
may collocate facilities in the same area of the rights-of-way so long as each
such Provider complies with the provisions of this Chapter. Collocating
Providers may file a joint application for a Construction Permit. A Certificate
of Registration does not excuse a Provider from obtaining appropriate access or
pole attachment agreements before collocating its facilities on facilities of
others, including the City's facilities. A Certificate of Registration does not
prevent a Provider from leasing space in or on the Provider's system, so long
as the sharing of facilities does not cause a violation of law, including the
provisions of this Chapter. A Certificate of Registration does not excuse a
Provider from complying with any provisions of this Chapter or other applicable
laws.
(Ord. 2022-46. Adopted 12/08/22; Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1002.05 OTHER APPROVALS, PERMITS AND AGREEMENTS.
   In addition to a Certificate of Registration, Providers shall obtain any and
all regulatory approvals, permits, authorizations, or licenses necessary for
the offering or provision of such services from the appropriate federal, state,
and local authorities and upon the City's reasonable request, shall provide
copies of such documents to the City. Further, a Certificate of Registration
issued pursuant to this Chapter shall not entitle a Provider to use, alter,
convert to, or interfere with, the facilities, easements, poles, conduits,
lines, pipelines, wires, fiber, cable, or any other real or personal property
of any kind whatsoever under the management or control of the City.
(Ord. 2022-46. Adopted 12/08/22 Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1002.06 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION APPLICATIONS.
   (a)   Certificate of Registration Applications. To obtain a Certificate of
Registration to construct, own, or maintain any system within the City, or to
obtain a renewal of a Certificate of Registration issued pursuant to this
Chapter, an application must be filed with the City on the form adopted by the
Public Service Director, which is hereby incorporated by reference. For all
applications, the City shall collect an application fee. The application fee
shall be equal to all the actual and direct costs incurred by the City that are
associated with receiving, reviewing, processing, and granting (or denying) an
application. At the time of its decision to either grant or deny an
application, the City shall calculate and assess all actual and direct costs
involved in receiving, reviewing, processing, and granting (or denying) the
application and provide a written invoice to the applicant for the appropriate
amount. The City shall require that the applicant remit all application fee
amounts invoiced within thirty (30) calendar days of its decision to either
grant or deny a Certificate of Registration. Any applicant who fails to timely
remit such invoiced application fee amounts shall be subject to the penalties
of this Chapter, the imposition of any other legal or equitable remedies
available to the City and the immediate revocation of any Certificate of
Registration having been issued.
   (b)   Information Required for Application to Obtain a Certificate of
Registration. The applicant shall keep all of the information required in this
section current at all times, provided that the applicant or Provider shall
notify the City of any changes to the information required by Section
1002.06(b)(2) within fifteen (15) calendar days following the date on which the
applicant or Provider has knowledge of any such change and shall notify the
City of any changes to other information required by this section within thirty
(30) calendar days following the date on which the applicant or Provider has
knowledge of such change. The information provided to the City at the time of
application shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Each applicant's name, legal status (i.e., partnership,
corporation, etc.), street address, and e-mail address, if applicable, and
telephone and facsimile numbers, and
      (2)   The name, street address and e-mail address, if applicable, and
telephone and facsimile numbers of a system representative. The system
representative shall be available at all times. Current information regarding
how to contact the system representative in an emergency shall be provided at
the time of application and shall be updated as necessary to assure accurate
contact information is available to the City at all times.
      (3)   Certificate of Insurance: A certificate of insurance where required
to be provided to meet the requirements of this section shall:
         A.   Verify that an insurance policy has been issued to the applicant
by an insurance company licensed to do business in the State of Ohio;
         B.   Verify that the applicant is insured on an occurrence basis
against claims for personal injury, including death, as well as claims for
property damage arising out of the: use and occupancy of the rights-of-way by
the applicant, its officers, agents, employees and contractors; and placement
and use of facilities in the rights-of-way by the applicant, its officers,
agents, employees and contractors, including, but not limited to, protection
against liability arising from any and all operations, damage of underground
facilities, explosion, environmental release, and collapse of property;
         C.   Name the City, its elected officials, officers, employees, agents
and volunteers as additional insured as to whom the comprehensive general
liability and completed operation and products liability insurance required
herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will be provided as to
all such coverages;
         D.   Require that the City be notified thirty (30) calendar days in
advance of cancellation of, or coverage changes in, the policy. The liability
insurance policies required by this section shall contain the following
endorsement: "It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be
diminished in value, canceled, nor the intention not to renew be stated, until
thirty (30) calendar days after receipt by the City, by registered mail, return
receipt requested, of a written notice addressed to the City's Public Service
Director of such intent to cancel, diminish, or not to renew." Within thirty
(30) calendar days after receipt by the City of said notice, and in no event
later than five (5) calendar days prior to said cancellation, the Provider (or
applicant) shall obtain and furnish to the Public Service Director a
certificate of insurance evidencing replacement insurance policies.
      (4)   Satisfy the requirements for comprehensive liability coverage,
automobile liability coverage and umbrella coverage as follows:
         A.   Comprehensive general liability insurance: comprehensive general
liability insurance to cover liability, bodily injury, and property damage must
be maintained. Coverage must be written on an occurrence basis, with the
following minimum limits of liability and provisions, or their equivalent:
            (i)   Bodily injury each occurrence: One Million Dollars
($1,000,000).
               Annual aggregate: Three Million Dollars ($3,000,000).
            (ii)   Property damage each occurrence: One Million Dollars
($1,000,000).
               Annual aggregate: Three Million Dollars ($3,000,000).
            (iii)   Personal injury annual aggregate: Three Million Dollars
($3,000,000).
         B.   Completed operations and products liability shall be maintained
for six (6) months after the termination of a Certificate of Registration.
         C.   Property damage liability insurance shall include coverage for
the following hazards: E - explosion, C - collapse, U - underground.
      (5)   Comprehensive Auto Liability Insurance: Comprehensive auto
liability insurance to cover owned, hired, and non-owned vehicles must be
maintained. Applicant may maintain comprehensive auto liability insurance as
part of applicant's comprehensive general liability insurance; however, said
insurance is subject to approval by the Public Service Director. Coverage must
be written on an occurrence basis, with the following limits of liability and
provisions, or their equivalent:
         A.   Bodily injury each occurrence: One Million Dollars
($1,000,000.00)
            Annual aggregate: Three Million Dollars ($3,000,000.00)
         B.   Property damage each occurrence: One Million Dollars
($1,000,000.00)
            Annual aggregate: Three Million Dollars ($3,000,000.00)
      (6)   Additional Insurance: The City reserves the right to require any
other insurance coverage it deems necessary after review of any proposal
submitted by applicant.
      (7)   Self-insurance: Those applicants maintaining a book value in excess
of Fifty Million Dollars ($50,000,000.00) may submit a statement requesting to
self-insure. If approval to self-insure is granted, applicant shall assure the
City that such self-insurance shall provide the City with no less than would
have been afforded to the City by a third-party insurer providing applicant
with the types and amounts of coverage detailed in this section. This statement
shall include the following:
         A.   Audited financial statements for the previous year;
         B.   A description of the applicant's self-insurance program; and
         C.   A listing of any and all actions against or claims made against
applicant for amounts over One Million Dollars ($1,000,000.00) or proof of
available excess umbrella liability coverage to satisfy all total current claim
amounts above Fifty Million Dollars ($50,000,000.00).
         D.   The Public Service Director may modify or waive these
requirements if they are not necessary in determining the sufficiency of the
self-insurance. The Public Service Director may request applicable and
pertinent additional information if it is necessary in determining the
sufficiency of the self-insurance.
      (8)   The City's examination of, or failure to request or demand, any
evidence of insurance in accordance with this Chapter, shall not constitute a
waiver of any requirement of this section and the existence of any insurance
shall not limit applicant's obligations under this Chapter.
      (9)   Documentation that applicant or Provider maintains standard
workers' compensation coverage as required by law. Similarly, Provider shall
require any subcontractor to provide workers' compensation coverage in amounts
required by law for all of the subcontractor's employees.
      (10)   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate of
incorporation (or its legal equivalent), as recorded and certified to by the
secretary of state (or legal equivalent) in the state or country in which
incorporated.
      (11)   A copy of the person's certificate of authority from the PUCO and/
or the FCC and/or FERC, if the person is lawfully required to have or actually
does possess such certificate from said Commission(s) and any other approvals,
permits, or agreements as set out in Section
1002.05.
      (12)   Upon request of the City, a narrative (or if applicable PUCO/FCC/
FERC application information) describing applicant's proposed activities in the
City including credible information detailing applicant's financial,
managerial, and technical ability to fulfill applicant's obligations under this
Chapter and carry on applicant's proposed activities.
   (c)   Criteria For Issuance of a Certificate of Registration. In deciding
whether to issue a Certificate of Registration, the City shall consider:
      (1)   Whether the issuing of the Certificate of Registration will
contribute to the health, safety, and welfare of the City and its citizens.
      (2)   Whether issuing of the Certificate of Registration will be
consistent with this Chapter;
      (3)   Whether applicant has submitted a complete application and has
secured all certificates and other authorizations required by law in order to
construct and operate a system in the manner proposed by the applicant;
      (4)   Whether the applicant is delinquent on any taxes or other
obligations owed to the City, County, and/or state;
      (5)   Unless the applicant is otherwise exempted from such consideration
by ORC 4939.03(c)(5), whether the applicant has the requisite financial,
managerial, and technical ability to fulfill all its obligations under this
Chapter and the issuance of a Certificate of Registration; and
      (6)   Any other applicable law.
   (d)   Grant or Denial of an Application for a Certificate of Registration.
      (1)   The City, not later than sixty (60) calendar days after the date of
filing by an applicant of a completed application, shall grant or deny the
application.
      (2)   If an application for a Certificate of Registration is denied, the
City shall provide to the applicant, in writing, the reasons for denying the
application and such other information as the applicant may reasonably request
to obtain consent.
   (e)   Obligations of a Provider Upon Receipt of a Certificate of
Registration. In addition to the other requirements set forth herein, and in
the Rules and Regulations, each Provider shall:
      (1)   Use its best efforts to cooperate with other Providers and users of
the rights-of-way and the City for the best, most efficient, and least
obtrusive use of rights-of-way, consistent with safety, and to minimize traffic
and other disruptions including street cuts; and
      (2)   When possible, participate in joint planning, construction and
advance notification of rights-of-way work, as may be required by the City; and
      (3)   Upon reasonable written notice, and at the discretion of the Public
Service Director, promptly remove or rearrange facilities as necessary for
public safety; and
      (4)   Perform all work, construction, maintenance or removal of
facilities within the rights-of-way, in accordance with good engineering,
construction and arboricultural practice (if applicable), including any
appropriate state building codes, safety codes and laws and use best efforts to
repair and replace any street, curb or other portion of the rights-of-way, or
facilities located therein, to a condition to be determined by the Public
Service Director to be adequate under current standards and not less than
materially equivalent to its condition prior to such work and to do so in a
manner which minimizes any inconvenience to the public, the City and other
Providers, all in accordance with all applicable provisions of this Chapter,
any Rules and Regulations the City may adopt, and the Code; and
      (5)   Construct, install, operate, and maintain its facilities and system
in a manner consistent with all applicable laws, ordinances, construction
standards and governmental requirements including, but not limited to, the
National Electric Safety Code, National Electric Code, and applicable FCC,
FERC, or other federal, state and/or local regulations; and
      (6)   Be on notice that removal of trees, or the use of vegetation
management programs within the rights-of-way of the City require prior written
approval by the Public Service Director. Any such activities, unless an
emergency, shall only be performed following the prior written approval of the
Public Service Director and must be performed in accordance with standard
horticultural and arboreal practices as promulgated by entities such as the
National Arbor Day Foundation, the International Society of Arboriculture, and
the tree care industry, all as may be required by the City. Pruning shall at a
minimum meet or exceed the requirements of the most current version of the
American National Standards Institute ANSI A300 Standard. Any additionally
required horticultural and arboreal practices and guidelines, including
required special consideration/ protection of historical trees, shall be
described in the Rules and Regulations adopted by pursuant to Section
1002.09(e) of this Chapter. Emergency removal of trees or the use of vegetation
management programs within the rights-of-way of the City may be performed in
rights-of-way as described herein and in accordance with the Rules and
Regulations, but the Public Service Director shall be provided notice of such
emergency work being performed within two (2) business days of the start of the
work. Any non-emergency tree removal or the use of vegetation management
programs within the rights-of-way that is performed without the Public Service
Director's written permission shall subject a person to the penalties of
Section
1002.99 of this Chapter and may further require that the tree or vegetation be
replaced, at the sole expense of the responsible person, with a healthy tree or
vegetation of like kind and quality; and
      (7)   Warrant that all worker facilities, conditions, and procedures that
are used during construction, installation, operation and maintenance of the
Provider's facilities within the rights-of-way shall comply with all applicable
standards of the Federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration; and
      (8)   Use its best efforts to cooperate with the City in any emergencies
involving the rights-of-way; and
      (9)   Provider shall, weather permitting, remove all graffiti within
twenty-one (21) calendar days of notice. Provider shall use all reasonable
efforts to remove any and all graffiti on any of the Provider's facilities
located within the City rights-of-way. Should the Provider fail to do so, the
City may take whatever action is necessary to remove the graffiti and bill the
Provider for the cost thereof; and
      (10)   Providers shall use all reasonable efforts to field identify their
facilities in the rights-of-way whenever Providers are notified by the City
that the City has determined that such identification is reasonably necessary
in order for the City to begin planning for the construction, paving,
maintenance, repairing, relocating or in any way altering any street or area in
the rights-of-way as defined in this Chapter. The City shall notify the
Providers of the City's date to begin the process at least thirty (30) calendar
days prior to the commencement of said activities. In field identifying
facilities:
         A.   Providers shall identify all facilities that are within the
affected rights-of-way using customary industry standards and distinct
identification; and
         B.   Facilities will be so marked as to identify the Provider
responsible for said facilities; and
         C.   Should any such marking interfere with the facilities function,
create a safety problem or violate any safety code, alternative methods of
marking the facilities may be approved by the Public Service Director; and
         D.   All marking should be clearly readable from the ground and
include Provider's name, logo and identification numbering or tracking
information. No advertising will be permitted.
      (11)   A Provider that is replacing an existing utility pole shall be
responsible to coordinate with all other Providers to ensure the orderly
transfer of all lines or cables to the replacement utility pole, the removal of
the existing utility pole, and the restoration of the rights-of-way within
thirty (30) calendar days, weather permitting, after the replacement utility
pole is installed. Upon request, the Public Service Director may grant the
Provider additional time for good cause.
   (f)   Establishment of Utility Corridors.
      (1)   The Public Service Director may assign specific corridors within
the rights-of-way, or any particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for
each type of facilities that are, or that the Public Service Director expects
may someday be, located within the rights-of-way.
      (2)   Any Provider whose facilities are in the rights-of-way and are in a
position at variance with utility corridors established by the Public Service
Director shall at the time of the next construction of the area, excluding
normal maintenance activities, move such facilities to their assigned position
within the rights-of-way. Existing underground facilities located within a
designated utility corridor shall not be required to relocate into adjacent or
alternative portions of the rights-of-way unless they are in conflict with an
actual or proposed public improvement project. The above requirements may be
waived by the Public Service Director for good cause shown including, but not
limited to, consideration of such factors as the remaining economic life of the
facilities; public safety; customer service needs; laws precluding such
undergrounding of facilities; and hardship to the Provider. If a Provider is
denied a requested waiver from the above requirements by the Public Service
Director, the Provider may appeal the denial.
      (3)   The Public Service Director shall make every good faith attempt to
accommodate all existing and potential users of the rights-of-way as set forth
in this Chapter.
      (4)   Providers may enter into written agreements to use existing poles
and conduits with the owners of same and shall use best efforts to install
their facilities within the rights-of-way.
      (5)   No facility placed in any rights-of-way shall be placed in such a
manner that interferes with normal travel on such rights-of-way.
      (6)   Unless otherwise stated in a Certificate of Registration, Permit,
or Section
1002.06(f)(6)C., all facilities within the rights-of-way shall be constructed
and located in accordance with the Code and with the following provision:
         A.   Whenever all existing facilities that have been traditionally
located overhead are located underground in a certain area within the City, a
Provider who desires to place its facilities in the same area must also locate
its facilities underground.
         B.   Whenever a Provider is required to locate or relocate facilities
underground within a certain area of the City, every Provider with facilities
within the same area of the City shall concurrently relocate their facilities
underground.
         C.   The above requirements may be waived by the City for good cause
shown including, but not limited to, consideration of such factors as the
remaining economic life of the facilities; public safety; customer service
needs; laws precluding such undergrounding of the facilities; and hardship to
the Provider. If a Provider is denied a requested waiver from the above
requirements by the Public Service Director, the Provider may appeal the
denial.
   (g)   Historic Districts.
      (1)   Unless otherwise required by law, the City shall have the authority
to prohibit the use or occupation of the right-of-way by a Provider if the
right-of-way for which the Provider seeks use and occupancy lies within a
Historic District.
      (2)   As a condition for approval for the collocation or installation of
small cell facilities and/or wireless support structures in an area designated
as a Historic District, the City may:
         A.   Require reasonable, technically feasible, and nondiscriminatory
design or concealment measures for the small cell facilities and wireless
support structures.
         B.   Request that a Provider comply with the design and aesthetic
standards of the Historic District or a residential district, as provided for
in the City's Design Guidelines.
         C.   Request that a Provider explore the feasibility of using certain
camouflage measures to improve the aesthetics of the small cell facilities and
wireless support structures to minimize the impact to the area aesthetics.
      (3)   This section may not be construed to limit the City's authority to
enforce local codes, administrative rules, or any rules or regulations adopted
or authorized by ordinance that are applicable to a historic area designated by
the state or City and historic preservation zoning regulations consistent with
the preservation of local zoning authority under 47 USC 332(c)(7), the
requirements for facility modifications under 47 USC 1455(a), or the National
Historic Preservation Act of 1966 (54 USC 300101 et seq.), and the regulations
adopted to implement those laws.
(Ord. 2022-46. Adopted 12/08/22; Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1002.07 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Reporting Obligations of Providers. Each Provider shall at the time of
initial application, using its best efforts, by January 1st of each following
year, file a construction and major maintenance plan with the Public Service
Director. Such construction and major maintenance plan shall be provided for
all geographical areas requested by the Public Service Director, up to and
including the entire geographical area of City. It shall be submitted using a
format(s) mutually agreeable to the Provider and the City and shall contain the
information determined by the Public Service Director to be necessary to
facilitate the coordination and reduction in the frequency of construction in
the rights-of-way. The construction and major maintenance plan shall include,
but not be limited to, all currently scheduled and/or anticipated construction
or major maintenance projects for the next calendar year; if none are scheduled
or anticipated, then the plan shall so state.
   (b)   Mapping Data.
      (1)   With the filing of its application for a Certificate of
Registration, a Provider shall be required to accurately inform the City of the
number of miles (rounded up to the nearest mile) of rights-of-way the
Provider's system currently occupies and begin submitting to the City all
information that currently exists and can be provided regarding the location of
its facilities in the right-of-way in hard copy or in the most advanced format
(including, but not limited to, electronic and/or digital format) then
currently being used by the Provider that is then currently capable of
technologically being ready (or readily converted to a readable form) by the
City. Unless otherwise required by Section 1002.16(b), a Provider shall have up
to one (1) year from the date of the Provider's initial filing of an
application for a Certificate of Registration to completely submit all the
mapping data for a Provider's system in the entire geographical area of the
City which it owns or over which it has control that are located in any rights-
of-way of the City in the most advanced format (including, but not limited to,
electronic and/or digital format) then currently being used by the Provider
that is then currently capable of technologically being read (or readily
converted to a readable form) by the City. The mapping data is only required to
be at the "Atlas" level of detail necessary for the City to reasonably
determine the location of the Provider's facilities in the rights-of-way. The
Provider shall supply the mapping data on paper if the Public Service Director
determines that the format currently being used by the Provider is not capable
of being read by the City. Any time after the issuance of a Certificate of
Registration, and upon the reasonable request of the Public Service Director, a
Provider shall be required to provide the City any additional location
information for any facilities which it owns or over which it has control that
are located in any rights-of-way of the City, as required by the City. Any and
all actual direct, incidental, and indirect costs incurred by the City during
the process of reviewing, inputting and/or converting a Provider's mapping
information to comport with the City's then current standard format (whether
electronic or otherwise) shall be directly billed to, and must be timely
remitted by, the Provider. Failure to pay such mapping costs within sixty (60)
calendar days of receipt of an invoice shall subject an applicant or Provider
to revocation of its Certificate of Registration and the penalties of Section
1002.99 of this Chapter. Further, each Provider that has been issued a
Certificate of Registration shall accurately inform the City on or before each
subsequent January 1st of the number of miles (rounded up to the nearest mile)
of rights-of-way the Provider's system then occupied as of the immediately
previous December 1st.
      (2)   The Public Service Director may, in the future, adopt additional
specifications and further define or modify the mapping data requirements under
this section for reasons including, but not limited to, changes in technology
or the law regarding public disclosure of a Provider's mapping information.
When the City modifies and/or amends the mapping data requirements, the City
shall use best efforts to avoid unreasonably increasing the burden to the
Providers that may be associated with satisfying the amended mapping
requirements. When the mapping requirements of Section
1002.07(b) are amended, each Provider shall be served with a copy of the new
specifications or modifications by regular U.S. mail to the system
representative identified in each Certificate of Registration and in accordance
with Section
1002.23(d); provided, however, that any failure of any Provider to actually
receive such notice shall not in any way affect the validity or enforceability
of said specifications or modifications.
      (3)   A Provider shall notify the City if the Provider believes that any
specific document or portion of a document being submitted to the City is
exempt from the public records disclosure requirements of ORC 149.43. The
notification shall be in writing and indicate the specific document or portion
of a document that the Provider believes is exempt from disclosure. The
notification shall include the legal basis for the claimed exemption, including
the applicable statutory reference and any additional information necessary to
make a determination of exemption for each specific document or portion of a
document. If a public records request is made for documents submitted by a
Provider, the City will consider the written notification in making its own
independent determination of whether a specific document or a portion of a
document is exempt from the disclosure requirements of ORC 149.43. To the
extent permitted by law, the City will endeavor to use reasonable best efforts
to notify the Provider of the request prior to making the document available
for inspection or copying.
(Ord. 2022-46. Adopted 12/08/22; Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1002.08 COMPENSATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   (a)   Compensation. As compensation for the City's costs to administer this
Chapter, manage, administer, and control the rights-of-way and for each
Certificate of Registration issued, every Provider or any person operating a
system shall pay to the City registration maintenance fees beginning January 1,
2023. The registration maintenance fee shall be determined and assessed to
Providers and other persons operating a system or otherwise using and occupying
the rights-of-way in accordance with the following process and formula:
      (1)   The City by January 31st of each year shall calculate all actual
and incurred costs associated with rights-of-way management, administration,
and control for the previous calendar year that the City was not able to
reasonably recover through Construction Permit fees or other recovery
mechanisms provided for in this Chapter.
      (2)   Providers and applicants, as required in Section
1002.07(b), shall accurately inform the City upon application for a Certificate
of Registration and on or before each subsequent January 1st of the number of
miles (rounded up to the nearest mile) of rights-of-way the Provider's system
then occupied as of the immediately previous December 1st.
      (3)   The City shall total the entire number of miles of rights-of-way
reported as being used or occupied by all Providers.
      (4)   The City shall divide the calculated costs referenced in Section
1002.08(a)(1) by the total number of miles of right-of-way reported as being
used or occupied by all Providers as referenced in Section
1002.08(a)(3) to arrive at a per-mile cost number.
      (5)   The City shall then multiply each Provider's mileage calculation as
referenced in Section
1002.08(a)(2) by the per-mile cost calculation referenced in Section
1002.08(a)(4). The product shall be a Provider's then current annual
registration maintenance fee.
      (6)   The City shall perform its annual calculation of registration
maintenance fees following receipt of the Providers required January 1st
mileage report. Registration maintenance fees shall be invoiced to Providers on
or about February 1st of each calendar year and shall be due thirty (30)
calendar days following receipt.
      (7)   Cable companies operating under non exclusive cable franchises for
the purposes of providing cable service and Video Services Providers operating
under a VSA for the purpose of providing video services which compensate the
City under other mechanisms in an amount equal to or greater than the annual
registration maintenance fee that would normally be required for their rights-
of-way use in the City, shall have the mileage of the rights-of-way they use
and/or occupy included in the calculations described in Section
1002.08 but shall not be required to contribute to the recovery of rights-of-
way costs, as defined in this Chapter, with the exception of Permit costs.
      (8)   On or about January 31st of each year, in accordance with the
results of Section
1002.08(a)(4), the Finance Director is hereby authorized to update the City's
Fee Schedule,
Appendix A of the City Government Code, to reflect the new annual registration
maintenance fee (per mile) by appropriately increasing or decreasing the
previous year's registration maintenance fee (per mile).
   (b)   Timing. Registration maintenance fees shall be paid within thirty (30)
calendar days of the City providing an invoice to a Provider. Registration
maintenance fees shall be paid in full for the first year of the registration
as a condition of the Certificate of Registration becoming effective. Fees may
be prorated from the effective date of the Certificate of Registration to the
end of the calendar year if less than one (1) full year.
   (c)   Taxes and Assessments. To the extent taxes or other assessments are
imposed by taxing authorities on the use of City property as a result of a
Provider's use or occupation of the rights-of-way, the Provider shall be
responsible for payment of such taxes. Such payments shall be in addition to
any other fees payable pursuant to this Chapter and shall not be considered an
offset to, or in lieu of, the fees and charges listed in this Chapter. The
registration maintenance fee is not in lieu of any tax, fee, or other
assessment except as specifically provided in this Chapter or as required by
applicable law.
   (d)   Interest on Late Payments. In the event that any registration
maintenance fee is not paid to the City by the date due, a monthly late charge
of one percent (1%) of the unpaid balance shall be paid by the Provider for
each month or any portion thereof for which payment is not made.
   (e)   No Accord and Satisfaction. No acceptance by the City of any
registration maintenance fee shall be construed as an accord that the amount
paid is in fact the correct amount, nor shall such acceptance of such
registration maintenance fee payment be construed as a release of any claim the
City may have for additional sums payable.
   (f)   Costs of Publication. A Provider shall assume all actual and direct
newspaper or other appropriate publication costs of up to One Thousand Dollars
($1,000.00) associated with its Certificate of Registration that may be
required by law or that may otherwise be required by its application for a
Certificate of Registration or other Permit as provided for herein.
(Ord. 2022-46. Adopted 12/08/22; Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1002.09 OVERSIGHT AND REGULATION.
   (a)   Reports. Upon reasonable request of the Public Service Director, a
Provider shall provide the City with a list of any and all material
communications, public reports, petitions, or other filings, either received
from or submitted to any municipal, county, state or federal agency or official
(and any response thereto submitted by or received by a Provider), and any
other information or report reasonably related to a Provider's obligations
under this Chapter which in any way materially effects the operation of the
system or a Provider's representations and warranties set forth herein, but not
including tax returns or other filings which are confidential. Upon request, a
Provider shall promptly, but in no case later than thirty (30) calendar days
following the request, deliver to the City a complete copy of any item on said
list. Upon the request of the City, a Provider shall promptly submit to the
City any information or report reasonably related to a Provider's obligations
under this Chapter, its business and operations with respect to the system or
its operation, in such form and containing such information as the City shall
specify. Such information or report shall be accurate and complete and supplied
within thirty (30) calendar days.
   (b)   Confidentiality. All information submitted to the City that is
considered confidential information, trade secret and/or proprietary
information or information that upon public disclosure would be highly likely
to place critical portions of the Provider's system in real danger of
vandalism, sabotage or an act of terrorism, must be clearly marked as such when
submitted. The City shall exercise all reasonable legal protections so as not
to publicly disclose to any third party such proprietary information unless
required by law. The City shall, following receipt of a request for public
disclosure of clearly marked trade secret and/or proprietary information
submitted by a Provider, endeavor to use reasonable best efforts to timely
place the Provider's system representative on notice that such a request for
public disclosure has been made.
   (c)   Provider's Expense. All reports and records required under this
Chapter shall be furnished at the sole expense of a Provider, except as
otherwise provided in this Chapter.
   (d)   Right of Inspection and Audit. The City's designated representatives
shall have the right to inspect, examine, or audit during normal business hours
and upon reasonable notice to a Provider under the circumstances, all
documents, records, or other information which pertain to a Provider and its
operation of a system or its obligations under this Chapter or and Rules and
Regulations adopted pursuant hereto. All such documents shall be made available
within the City or in such other place that the City may agree upon in writing
in order to facilitate said inspection, examination, or audit; provided,
however, that if such documents are located outside of the City, then a
Provider shall pay the reasonable expenses incurred by the City's designated
representatives in traveling to such location.
   (e)   Rules and Regulations. The Public Service Director may propose, and
City Council may approve by resolution (and from time to time amend), Rules and
Regulations regarding this Chapter, construction standards, and occupancy
requirements of the rights-of-way. Such Rules and Regulations shall not
materially increase the obligation of any Provider hereunder; provided,
however, that none of the following shall in any way be considered a material
increase in obligation: the adoption of Rules and Regulations increasing fees;
the requiring of the placement of facilities in designated portions of the
rights-of-way (underground or otherwise); the overbuilding of facilities; or
the requiring of joint-builds. Prior to the adoption or amendment of the Rules
and Regulations, the City shall provide written notice and a copy of the
proposed language of such adoption or amendment, via U.S. regular mail, to each
Provider who holds a then current Certificate of Registration. Each Provider
shall then have thirty (30) calendar days following the date of the City's
mailing to provide written comment regarding the proposed language to the City.
At least forty-five (45) calendar days but not more than sixty (60) calendar
days following the date of the City's mailing, the City shall schedule and hold
a meeting to make available a forum at which all then current Providers may
address any questions, concerns and make reasonable suggestions regarding the
proposed new Rules and Regulations to the City. The Public Service Director
shall, following said meeting and the review of the Providers' comments and
suggestions, adopt or amend the Rules and Regulations in a manner that best
serves the City, for approval by the City Council.
(Ord. 2022-46. Adopted 12/08/22; Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1002.10 REGISTRATION TERM.
   The term of each Certificate of Registration granted under this Chapter
shall be valid from the date of issuance until such time as it is revoked,
terminated, has lapsed, or is properly amended.
(Ord. 2022-46. Adopted 12/08/22; Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1002.11 INDEMNITY.
   Each Certificate of Registration issued under this Chapter shall be under
the conditions and contain provisions whereby Providers agree to defend,
indemnify and hold the City and its agents, officers, elected officials,
employees, volunteers, subcontractors and contractors harmless from and against
all damages, costs, losses, or expenses: (a) for the repair, replacement, or
restoration of City's property, equipment, materials, structures and facilities
which are damaged, destroyed, or found to be defective as a result of such
Provider's acts or omissions; and (b) from and against any and all claims,
demands, suits, causes of action, and judgments for: (1) damage to or loss of
the property of any person (including, but not limited to, such Provider, its
agents, officers, employees and subcontractors, City's agents, officers,
elected officials, employees, volunteers, contractors and third parties); and/
or (2) death, bodily injury, illness, disease, worker's compensation, loss of
services, or loss of income or wages to any person (including, but not limited
to, the agents, officers and employees of such Provider, Provider's
subcontractors, the City, and third parties), arising out of, incident to,
concerning or resulting from the act or omissions of such Provider, its agents,
employees, and/or subcontractors, in the performance of activities pursuant to
such Certificate of Registration, no matter how, or to whom, such loss may
occur. In any event, all persons using or occupying the rights-of-way agree to
defend, indemnify, and hold the City harmless as set forth above as a condition
of their use or occupancy of the rights-of-way, but such requirement to defend,
indemnify and hold harmless shall not extend to the negligence of the City or
its agents, elected officials, officers, employees, volunteers, and
subcontractors, to the extent that the existence of such negligence shall be
proven to exist.
(Ord. 2022-46. Adopted 12/08/22; Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1002.12 CIVIL FORFEITURES.
   In addition to any other penalties set forth in this Chapter, and the remedy
of specific performance, which may be enforced in a court of competent
jurisdiction, the Public Service Director may assess an additional penalty of
civil forfeiture for failure to comply with any provision of this Chapter. Such
penalty shall be a monetary sum, payable to the City, in the amount of Five
Hundred Dollars ($500.00) per twenty-four (24) hour day of violation and any
subsequent portion of a day less than twenty-four (24) hours in length. Prior
to assessing such penalty, the Public Service Director shall provide written
notice to the Provider detailing the failure to comply with a specific
provision of this Chapter. The notice shall indicate that the penalty shall be
assessed in fifteen (15) calendar days subsequent to the date of receipt if
compliance is not achieved. If a Provider desires to challenge the penalty,
Provider shall request a hearing before the City Manager within ten (10)
calendar days of service of the notice. The hearing shall be held within thirty
(30) calendar days of the Provider's request. If the Provider requests such
hearing before the City Manager, the penalty shall be temporarily suspended;
however, if, after the hearing, the City Manager determines that Provider
failed to comply with the specific provision of this Chapter referenced in the
notice, the penalty shall be assessed starting with the fifteen (15) calendar
days after receipt of the notice referenced in this section and continuing each
day thereafter until compliance is achieved. The determination of the City
Manager shall be final. The Provider may file an administrative appeal pursuant
to ORC Chapter 2506. The penalty shall continue to accrue during the appeal
unless the Provider obtains a stay and posts a supersedes bond pursuant to ORC
2505.09 or the Provider comes into full compliance with this Chapter.
(Ord. 2022-46. Adopted 12/08/22; Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1002.13 TERMINATION OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   (a)   Notice of Default. The Public Service Director shall give written
notice of default to a Provider if it is determined that a Provider has:
      (1)   Violated any material provision or requirement of the issuance or
acceptance of a Certificate of Registration or any law and failed to cure as
may be required; or
      (2)   Attempted to evade any provision or requirement of the issuance of
a Certificate of Registration or the acceptance of it; or
      (3)   Practiced any fraud or deceit upon City; or
      (4)   Made a material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
Certificate of Registration.
   (b)   Failure to Cure. If a Provider fails to cure a default within thirty
(30) calendar days after such notice is served by the City, then such default
shall be a material breach and the City may exercise any remedies or rights it
has at law or in equity to terminate the Provider's Certificate of
Registration. If the Public Service Director decides there is cause or reason
to terminate, the following procedure shall be followed:
      (1)   City shall serve a Provider with a written notice of the reason or
cause for proposed termination and shall allow a Provider a minimum of fifteen
(15) calendar days to cure its breach.
      (2)   If the Provider fails to cure within fifteen (15) calendar days,
the Public Service Director may declare the Certificate of Registration
terminated.
      (3)   The Provider shall have ten (10) calendar days to appeal the
termination to the City Manager. All such appeals shall be in writing. If the
City Manager determines there was not a breach, then the City Manager shall
overturn the decision of the Public Service Director. Otherwise, the City
Manager shall affirm the decision of the Public Service Director to terminate.
The determination of the City Manager shall be final.
(Ord. 2022-46. Adopted 12/08/22; Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1002.14 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (a)   No Use without Certificate of Registration. No person shall use the
rights-of-way to operate a system that has not been authorized by the City in
accordance with the terms of this Chapter and been issued a Certificate of
Registration.
   (b)   No Facilities without Certificate of Registration. No Provider shall
place or have placed any facilities in, on, above, within, over, below, under,
or through the rights-of-way, unless allowed under this Chapter or having been
issued a Certificate of Registration.
   (c)   Unauthorized Use. Each and every unauthorized use shall be deemed to
be a violation and a distinct and separate offense. Each and every day any
violation of this Chapter continues shall constitute a distinct and separate
offense.
   (d)   Violations. No person shall fail to comply with the provisions of this
Chapter. Each and every failure to comply shall be deemed a distinct and
separate offense. Each and every day any violation of this Chapter continues
shall constitute a distinct and separate offense.
   (e)   Penalties. The violation of any provision of this Chapter shall be
unlawful and a misdemeanor offense. The penalty for any violation of this
Chapter shall be as provided in Section
1002.99.
(Ord. 2022-46. Adopted 12/08/22; Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1002.15 ASSIGNMENT OR TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP AND RENEWAL.
   (a)   Assignment or Transfer Approval Required. A Certificate of
Registration shall not be assigned or transferred, either in whole or in part,
other than to an affiliate, without the prior written consent of the City,
which consent shall not be reasonably withheld. Any assignment or transfer of
Certificate of Registration including an assignment or transfer by means of a
fundamental corporate change, requires the written approval of the City.
   (b)   Procedure to Request Assignment or Transfer Approval. The parties to
the assignment or transfer of Certificate of Registration shall make a written
request to the City for its consent in the form of the Certificate of
Registration application. The City shall reply in writing within sixty (60)
calendar days of actual receipt of the request and shall indicate its approval
of the request or its determination that a public hearing is necessary. The
City may conduct a public hearing on the request within thirty (30) calendar
days of such determination if it determines that a sale or transfer of the
Certificate of Registration adversely affects the City.
   (c)   Notice and Hearing. Notice of a hearing shall be given fourteen (14)
calendar days prior to the hearing by publishing notice thereof on the City's
website, by printing it once in a newspaper of general circulation in the City,
or by posting it in three (3) public places within the City. The notice shall
contain the date, time and place of the hearing and shall briefly state the
substance of the action to be considered by City.
   (d)   Review by City. The City will review the qualifications (including,
but not limited to, legal, technical and financial where appropriate) of the
proposed assignee or transferee and terms of the existing Certificate of
Registration. The City will make its decision in writing setting forth any
conditions for assignment or transfer. Within one hundred twenty (120) calendar
days of actual receipt of the request for assignment or transfer, the City
shall approve or deny such assignment or transfer request in writing.
   (e)   Fundamental Corporate Change. For purposes of this section,
fundamental corporate change means the sale or transfer of a controlling
interest in the stock of a corporation or the sale or transfer of all or a
majority of a corporation's assets, merger (including a parent and its
subsidiary corporation), consolidation or creation of a subsidiary corporation.
For the purposes of this section, fundamental partnership change means the sale
or transfer of all or a majority of a partnership's assets, change of a general
partner in a limited partnership, change from a limited to a general
partnership, incorporation of a partnership, or change in the control of a
partnership.
   (f)   Certificate of Registration and Assignee/Transferee Replacement
Issuance Required. In no event shall a transfer or assignment of ownership or
control be ultimately acceptable to the City without transferee or assignee
requesting and being issued a replacement Certificate of Registration within
ninety (90) calendar days of transfer or assignment.
   (g)   Not a Transfer. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, no such
consent or approval shall be required for a transfer or assignment to any
person controlling, controlled by or under the same common control of the
original holder of the Certificate of Registration.
(Ord. 2022-46. Adopted 12/08/22; Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1002.16 CONSTRUCTION PERMITS.
   (a)   Construction Permit Requirement. Except as otherwise provided in the
Code, no person may construct in any rights-of-way without first having
obtained a Construction Permit as set forth in this Chapter. This requirement
shall be in addition to any requirement set forth in XCC Chapters
1000 and
1001.
      (1)   A Construction Permit allows the permittee to construct in the part
of the right-of-way described in such Construction Permit and to obstruct
travel over the specified portion of the rights-of-way by placing facilities
described therein, to the extent and for the duration specified therein.
      (2)   Unless otherwise specified, a Construction Permit is valid for six
(6) months from the date of issuance for the area of rights-of-way specified in
the Permit.
      (3)   No permittee may construct in the rights-of-way beyond the date or
dates specified in the Construction Permit unless such permittee:
         A.   Makes a supplementary application for another Construction Permit
before the expiration of the initial Construction Permit; and
         B.   Is granted a new Construction Permit or construction permit
extension.
      (4)   Original Construction Permits issued under this Chapter shall, when
possible, be conspicuously displayed at all times at the indicated work site
and be available for inspection by inspectors and authorized City personnel. If
the original Construction Permit involves work conducted simultaneously at
multiple locations, each location shall display a photocopy of the original
Construction Permit. If the original Construction Permit is not conspicuously
displayed at the indicated worksite, then, upon request, the original
Construction Permit must be produced within twelve (12) business hours or the
first earliest business hour, whichever is later. For purposes of this section,
business hour shall mean the hours between 7:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. during a
business day.
   (b)   Construction Permit Applications. Application for a Construction
Permit, unless an emergency, shall be made to the Public Service Director no
less than five (5) business days prior to the requested start of construction.
In addition to any information required by the Public Service Director, all
Construction Permit applications shall contain, and will only be considered
complete upon compliance with, the requirements of the following provisions:
      (1)   Credible evidence that the applicant (where required) has been
issued a Certificate of Registration or proof that the applicant has written
authority to apply for a Construction Permit on behalf of a party that has been
issued a Certificate of Registration; and
      (2)   Submission of a completed Construction Permit application in the
form required by the Public Service Director, including, but not limited to,
all required attachments, and scaled, dated drawings showing the location and
area of the proposed project, number and location of street crossings, and the
location of all then known existing and proposed facilities of the applicant or
Provider within the proposed project area. All drawings, plans and
specifications submitted with the application comply with applicable technical
codes, Rules and Regulations, and be certified as to being in such compliance
by trained technical personnel acceptable to the Public Service Director. The
mapping data is only required to be at the "Atlas" level of detail necessary
for the City to reasonably determine the location of the Provider's facilities
in the rights-of-way. The City reserves the right, in circumstances that the
Public Service Director considers unique, complex or unusual, to request that
certain submitted drawings, plans and specifications be accompanied by the
certification of a registered licensed professional engineer; and
      (3)   A City approved traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed, consistent with the OMUTCD, to
prevent injury or damage to persons or property and to minimize disruptions to
efficient pedestrian and vehicular traffic; and
      (4)   If the applicant is proposing an aboveground installation on
existing poles within the rights-of-way, the applicant shall provide credible
information satisfactory to the City to sufficiently detail and identify:
         A.   The size and height of the existing poles; and
         B.   Based on the facilities currently on the existing poles, the
excess capacity currently available on such poles before installation of
applicant's facilities; and
         C.   Based on the facilities currently on the existing poles, the
excess capacity for like or similar facilities that will exist on such poles
after installation of applicant's facilities.
      (5)   If the applicant proposes to install new poles within the rights-
of-way, the applicant shall provide:
         A.   Credible evidence satisfactory to the City that there is no
excess capacity on existing poles or in existing underground systems; and
         B.   Credible evidence to the City that it is not financially and/or
technically practicable for the applicant to make an underground installation
or locate its facilities on existing poles; and
         C.   The location, size, height, color, and material of the proposed
poles; and
         D.   Credible evidence satisfactory to the City that the applicant
will adhere to all the applicable laws concerning the installation of new
poles.
      (6)   If the applicant is proposing an underground installation in
existing ducts or conduits within the rights-of-way, the applicant shall
provide credible information satisfactory to the City to sufficiently detail
and identify:
         A.   Based on the existing facilities, the excess capacity for like or
similar facilities currently available in such ducts or conduits before
installation of the applicant's facilities; and
         B.   Based on existing facilities, the excess capacity for like or
similar facilities that will exist in such ducts or conduits after installation
of applicant's facilities.
      (7)   If the applicant is proposing an underground installation within
new ducts or conduits to be constructed within the rights-of-way, the applicant
must provide credible information satisfactory to the City to sufficiently
detail and identify:
         A.   The location, depth, size, and quantity of proposed new ducts or
conduits; and
         B.   The excess capacity for like or similar equipment that will exist
in such ducts or conduits after installation of the applicant's facilities.
      (8)   A preliminary construction schedule and completion date.
      (9)   Payment of all money then due to the City for:
         A.   Permit fees;
         B.   Any loss, damage, or expense suffered by the City as a result of
the applicant's prior construction in the rights-of-way or any emergency
actions taken by the City; and
         C.   Any Certificate of Registration issued to the applicant/person
whose facilities are being constructed; and
         D.   Any other money due to the City from the applicant/person whose
facilities are being constructed.
      (10)   When a Construction Permit is requested for purposes of installing
additional systems or any part of a system, the posting of a construction bond
and removal bond, acceptable to the City and subject to Section
1002.20 of this Chapter for the additional systems or any part of a system is
required.
   (c)   Issuance of Construction Permit; Conditions.
      (1)   If the Public Service Director determines that the applicant has
satisfied the requirements of this Chapter and the Construction Permit process,
the Public Service Director shall issue a Construction Permit subject to the
provisions of this Chapter.
      (2)   The City may impose reasonable conditions upon the issuance of the
Construction Permit and the performance of the permittee thereunder in order to
protect the City's investment in the rights-of-way, protect the public health,
safety and welfare, to ensure the structural integrity of the rights-of-way, to
protect the property and safety of other users of the rights-of-way, or to
minimize the disruption and inconvenience to the traveling public.
   (d)   Construction Permit Fees. The City shall collect a Construction Permit
fee equal to the actual and direct cost incurred by the City that is associated
with receiving, reviewing, processing, and granting (or denying) the
Construction Permit and any oversight of the Construction Permit or the
construction work associated therewith. Following completion of the
construction work for which a Construction Permit has been granted (or at the
time of the denial of a Construction Permit) the City shall calculate and
assess all actual and direct costs involved in receiving, reviewing,
processing, and granting (or denying) the Construction Permit and any oversight
of the Construction Permit or construction work associated therewith and
provide a written invoice to the applicant for the appropriate amount. The City
shall require that the applicant remit all Construction Permit fee amounts
invoiced within thirty (30) calendar days. Any applicant who fails to timely
remit such invoiced Construction Permit fee amounts shall be subject to the
penalties of this Chapter, the imposition of any other legal or equitable
remedies available to the City and the immediate revocation of any Certificate
of Registration or Construction Permit having been issued.
      (1)   The City may, in addition to these direct and actual costs listed
in division (d), include in the Construction Permit fee the cost of the value
of degradation and reduction in the useful life of the rights-of-way that will
result from the Construction that has taken place therein. "Degradation and the
reduction in the useful life" for the purpose of this section means the
accelerated depreciation of the rights-of-way caused by construction in or
disturbance of the rights-of-way, resulting in the need to reconstruct or
repair such rights-of-way earlier than would be required if the construction
did not occur.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (d)(3), no future
Construction Permits shall be issued to an applicant without payment of all
outstanding Construction Permit fees within thirty (30) calendar days of
original invoice. The City and County shall be exempt from payment of
Construction Permit fees. Construction Permit fees that were paid for a Permit
that the City has revoked due to breach and in accordance with the terms of
Section
1002.13 and Section
1002.19(e) are not refundable.
      (3)   The Public Service Director may permit a Provider to make quarterly
payments of Construction Permit fees based upon the Provider's financial
condition and past payment history. The quarterly payment shall be due and
payable within thirty (30) calendar days after the end of the quarter. The
Public Service Director may revoke this permission due to a change in financial
condition, late payment, or other just cause.
   (e)   Joint Applications. Applicants are encouraged to submit joint
applications for Construction Permits to work in the rights-of-way at the same
place and time. Joint applicants shall have the ability to divide amongst
themselves, in proportions the parties find appropriate, any applicable
Construction Permit fees.
(Ord. 2022-46. Adopted 12/08/22; Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1002.17 CONSTRUCTION, RELOCATION AND RESTORATION.
   (a)   Utility Engineering Study Required.
      (1)   Prior to commencement of any initial construction, extension, or
relocation of facilities in the rights-of-way, except for repair, maintenance
or replacement with like facilities or relocations requested or caused by a
third party (excluding the City) or another permittee, a permittee shall
conduct a utility engineering study on the proposed route of construction
expansion or relocation if requested by the Public Service Director. Where such
construction and/or relocation is requested or caused by a third party, every
permittee located within the rights-of-way at issue or involved with the work
shall use all best efforts to cooperate and assist any other permittee or
person who is directed by the City to perform the required utility engineering
study. A utility engineering study consists of, at minimum, completion of the
following tasks:
         A.   Secure all available "as-built" plans, plats and other location
data indicating the existence and approximate location of all facilities along
the proposed construction route.
         B.   Visibly survey and record the location and dimensions of any
facilities along the proposed construction route, including, but not limited
to, manholes, valve boxes, utility boxes, posts and visible street cut repairs.
         C.   Determine and record the presence and precise location of all
underground facilities the applicant or person on whose behalf the Permit was
applied for owns or controls in the rights-of-way along the proposed system
route. Upon request of the Public Service Director, a permittee shall also
record and identify the general location of all other facilities in the rights-
of-way along the proposed system route. For the purposes of this section,
general location shall mean the alignment of other facilities in the rights-of-
way but shall not necessarily mean the depth of other facilities in the rights-
of-way.
         D.   Plot and incorporate the data obtained from completion of the
tasks described in Section
1002.17(a)(1)A. - C. on the construction permittee's proposed system route maps
and construction plans, along with the locations of the proposed facilities and
all other topographic and cadastral information.
         E.   Where the proposed location of facilities and the location of
existing underground facilities appear to conflict on the plans drafted in
accordance with Section
1002.17(a)(1)D., permittee has the option of either utilizing non-destructive
digging methods, such as vacuum excavation, at the critical points identified
to determine as precisely as possible, the horizontal, vertical and spatial
position, composition, size and other specifications of the conflicting
underground facilities, or re-designing the construction plans to eliminate the
apparent conflict. Unless waived by the Public Service Director, a permittee
shall not excavate more than a twelve-inch (12") hole in the rights-of-way to
complete this task for each apparent conflict. Any surfaces damaged shall be
immediately repaired by the permittee. A minimum of two (2) business days'
notice shall be provided to the City prior to performing these investigations.
         F.   Based on all of the data collected upon completion of the tasks
described in this section, adjust the proposed system design to avoid the need
to relocate other underground facilities.
      (2)   The Public Service Director may modify the scope of the utility
engineering study as necessary depending on the proposed construction plans.
   (b)   Copy to City. Upon completion of the tasks described in Section
1002.17(a), the permittee shall submit, if necessary labeled in accordance with
the requirements of Section
1002.09(b), the proposed system route maps and construction plans, with the
results of the utility engineering study, in the most advanced format
(including, but not be limited to, electronic and/or digital format) then
currently being used by the Provider that is then currently capable of
technologically being read (or readily converted to a readable form) by the
City. The mapping data is only required to be at the "Atlas" level of detail
necessary for the City to reasonably determine the location of the Provider's
facilities in the rights-of-way. The Provider shall supply the mapping data on
paper if the Public Service Director determines that the format currently being
used by the Provider is not capable of being read by the City.
   (c)   Qualified Firm. All utility engineering studies conducted pursuant to
this section shall be performed by the permittee if in the discretion of the
Public Service Director the permittee is qualified to complete the project
itself; alternatively, utility engineering studies shall be performed by a firm
specializing in utility engineering.
   (d)   Cost of Study. The permittee shall bear the cost of compliance with
Section
1002.17(a) - (c).
   (e)   Construction Schedule. Unless otherwise provided for in this Chapter
or in the Rules and Regulations, or unless the Public Service Director waives
any of the requirements of this section due to unique or unusual circumstances,
a permittee shall be required to submit a written construction schedule to the
City not less than five (5) business days before commencing any work in or
about the rights-of-way, and shall further notify the City not less than two
(2) business days in advance of any excavation in the rights-of-way. This
section shall apply to all situations with the exception of circumstances under
Section
1002.19(d)(1)A. and B. (emergency situations) and Section
1002.18 (minor maintenance).
   (f)   Location of Facilities.
      (1)   The placement of new facilities and replacement of old facilities,
either above ground or underground, shall be completed in conformity with
applicable laws and the City's Rules and Regulations. Detailed plans and
applicable specifications shall be submitted to the City for review and
approval prior to construction of any facilities except those that are
categorized as "minor maintenance" issues as per Section
1002.18 herein.
      (2)   The City shall have the power to prohibit or limit the placement of
new or additional facilities within the rights-of-way if the right-of-way is
full. In making such decisions, the City shall strive to the extent possible to
accommodate all existing and potential users of the rights-of-way but shall be
guided primarily by considerations of the public health, safety, and welfare,
the condition of the rights-of-way, the time of year with respect to essential
utilities, the protection of existing facilities in the rights-of-way, future
City and County plans for public improvements, development projects which have
been determined to be in the public interest, and the non-discriminatory and
competitively neutral treatment of Providers.
      (3)   Should it be determined by the City that any existing poles in the
rights-of-way are full, then those poles may be replaced with bigger and/or
taller poles in order to accommodate additional facilities or systems only
after the construction permittee has made reasonable attempts to reach an
acceptable solution without replacement with bigger and/or taller poles. This
division (f)(3) shall not apply to replacement of any existing pole(s) with
identically sized pole(s) which results from the destruction of or hazardous
condition of the existing pole(s) as long as no new facilities or additional
facilities are attached.
   (g)   Least Disruptive Technology. All construction or maintenance of
facilities shall be accomplished in the manner resulting in the least amount of
damage and disruption of the rights-of-way. Specifically, every permittee when
performing underground construction, if technically and/or technologically
feasible and not economically unreasonable, shall utilize trenchless
technology, including, but not limited to, horizontal drilling, directional
boring, or microtunneling. In addition, all cable, wire, or fiber optic cable
installed in the subsurface rights-of-way under this Chapter may be required to
be installed in conduit, and if so required, no cable, wire or fiber optic
cable may be installed under this Chapter using "direct bury" techniques.
   (h)   Special Exceptions. The City may grant a special exception to the
requirements of Sections
1002.17(f) and
1002.17(g) if a permittee, upon application, demonstrates with written evidence
that:
      (1)   The execution will not create any threat to the City's investment
or in the rights-of-way, the public health, safety, or welfare.
      (2)   Permittee demonstrates that the increased economic burden and the
potential adverse impact on the permittee's construction schedule resulting
from the strict enforcement of the requirement actually or effectively inhibits
the ability of the permittee to provide services to the City.
      (3)   The permittee demonstrates that the requirement unreasonably
discriminates against the permittee in favor of another person.
      (4)   The requirements requested by the City herein create an
unreasonable economic burden for the permittee that outweighs any potential
benefit to the City.
   (i)   Relocation of Facilities.
      (1)   A Provider shall as promptly as reasonably possible and at its own
expense, permanently remove and relocate its facilities in the rights-of-way
whenever the City finds it necessary to request such removal and relocation. In
instances where the City requests removal and/or relocation, the City shall
waive all applicable Construction Permit fees. Upon removal and/or relocation,
the Provider shall restore the rights-of-way to the same or better condition it
was in prior to said removal or relocation. If existing poles are required to
be removed and/or relocated, then the existing poles will be replaced with
poles of the same or similar size. In accordance with the law, the Public
Service Director may request relocation and/or removal in order to prevent
unreasonable interference by the Provider's facilities with:
         A.   A public improvement undertaken or approved by the City or
County;
         B.   The City's investment in the rights-of-way.
         C.   When the public health, safety, and welfare requires it, or when
necessary to prevent interference with the safety and convenience of ordinary
travel over the rights-of-way.
         D.   The sale, conveyance, vacation, or narrowing of all or any part
of a right-of-way.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Provider who has facilities in the
right-of-way subject to a vacation or narrowing that is not required for the
purposes of the City shall have a permanent easement in such a vacated portion
or excess portion in conformity with ORC 723.041.
      (3)   If, in the reasonable judgment of the City, a Provider fails to
commence removal and/or relocation of its facilities as designated by the City,
within thirty (30) calendar days after the City's removal order is served upon
Provider, or if a Provider fails to substantially complete such removal,
including all associated repair of the rights-of-way of the City, within twelve
(12) months thereafter, then, to the extent not inconsistent with applicable
law, the City shall have the right to:
         A.   Declare that all rights, title and interest to the facilities
belong to the City with all rights of ownership, including, but not limited to,
the right to connect and use the facilities or to effect a transfer of all
rights, title and interest in the facilities to another person for operation;
or
         B.   Authorize removal of the facilities installed by the Provider in,
on, over or under the rights-of-way of the City at Provider's cost and expense
by another person; however, the City shall have no liability for any damage
caused by such action and the Provider shall be liable to the City for all
reasonable costs incurred by the City in such action; and
         C.   To the extent consistent with applicable law, any portion of the
Provider's facilities in, on, over or under the rights-of-way of the City
designated by the City for removal and not timely removed by the Provider shall
belong to and become the property of the City without payment to the Provider,
and the Provider shall execute and deliver such documents, as the City shall
request, in form and substance acceptable to the City, to evidence such
ownership by the City.
   (j)   Pre-Excavation Facilities Location. Before the start date of any
rights-of-way excavation, each Provider who has facilities located in the area
to be excavated shall, to the best of its ability, mark the horizontal and
approximate vertical placement of all its facilities. All Providers shall
notify and work closely with the excavation contractor in an effort to
establish the exact location of its facilities and the best procedure for
excavation.
   (k)   Rights-of-Way Restoration.
      (1)   The work to be done under the Permit, and the restoration of the
rights-of-way as required herein, weather permitting, must be completed within
the dates specified in the Permit. In addition to its own work, the permittee
must restore the general area of the work, and the surrounding areas, including
trench backfill, paving and its foundations in accordance with the Code and
Rules and Regulations. If a permittee is unable to timely complete the
restoration of rights-of-way due to unreasonable inclement weather conditions,
the permittee shall complete the restoration of the rights-of-way as soon as
weather conditions make it possible to do so and, upon said completion, notify
the City.
      (2)   In approving an application for a Construction Permit, the City may
choose either to have the permittee restore the rights-of-way or the City may
restore the rights-of-way itself.
      (3)   If the City chooses to allow the permittee to restore the rights-
of-way, permittee shall at the time of application for a Construction Permit
post a construction bond in an amount determined by the City to be sufficient
to cover the cost of restoring the rights-of-way to its approximate pre-
excavation condition. If, within twelve (12) months after completion of the
restoration of the rights-of-way, the City determines that the rights-of-way
have been properly restored, the surety on the construction bond shall be
released.
      (4)   The permittee shall perform the work according to the standards and
with the materials specified by the City. The City shall have the authority to
prescribe the manner and extent of the restoration and may do so in written
procedures of general application or on a case-by-case basis. The City in
exercising this authority shall be guided by the following standards and
considerations: the number, size, depth and duration of the excavations,
disruptions or damage to the rights-of-way; the traffic volume carried by the
rights-of-way; the character of the neighborhood surrounding the rights-of-way;
the pre-excavation condition of the rights-of-way; the remaining life
expectancy of the rights-of-way affected by the excavation; whether the
relative cost of the method of restoration to the permittee is in reasonable
balance with the prevention of an accelerated depreciation of the rights-of-way
that would otherwise result from the excavation, disturbance or damage to the
rights-of-way; and the likelihood that the particular method of restoration
would be effective in slowing the depreciation of the rights-of-way that would
otherwise take place. Methods of restoration may include, but are not limited
to, patching the affected area, replacement of the rights-of-way base at the
affected area, and in the most severe cases, milling, overlay and/or street
reconstruction of the entire area of the rights-of-way affected by the work.
      (5)   By restoring the rights-of-way itself, the permittee guarantees its
work and shall maintain it for twelve (12) months following its completion.
During this twelve (12) month period, it shall, upon notification from the
Public Service Director, correct all restoration work to the extent necessary
using the method required by the Public Service Director. Weather permitting,
said work shall be completed within five (5) calendar days of the receipt of
the notice from the Public Service Director, unless otherwise extended by the
Public Service Director.
      (6)   If the permittee fails to restore the rights-of-way in the manner
and to the condition required by the City or fails to satisfactorily and timely
complete all repairs required by the City, the City, at its option, may do such
work. In that event, the permittee shall pay to the City, within thirty (30)
business days of billing, the cost of restoring the rights-of-way and any other
costs incurred by the City. Upon failure to pay, the City may call upon any
bond or letter of credit posted by permittee and/or pursue any and all legal
and equitable remedies.
      (7)   If the work to be done under the Permit is being done at the same
location and the same period of time as work by the City and/or another
permittee(s), then the Public Service Director may reasonably apportion the
restoration responsibility among the City, Providers, and/or other persons.
   (l)   Damage to Other Facilities.
      (1)   In the case of an emergency, and if possible after reasonable
efforts to contact the Provider seeking a timely response, when the City
performs work in the rights-of-way and finds it necessary to maintain, support,
or move a Provider's facilities to protect those facilities, the costs
associated therewith will be billed to that Provider and shall be paid within
thirty (30) calendar days from the date of billing. Upon failure to pay, the
City may pursue all legal and equitable remedies in the event a Provider does
not pay, or the City may call upon any bond or letter of credit posted by
permittee and pursue any and all legal or equitable remedies.
      (2)   Each Provider shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any
damage to the facilities of another Provider caused during the City's response
to an emergency occasioned by that Provider's facilities.
   (m)   Rights-of-Way Vacation. If the City sells or otherwise transfers a
rights-of-way that contains the facilities of a Provider, such sale or transfer
shall be subject to any existing easements of record and any easements required
pursuant to ORC 723.041.
   (n)   Installation Requirements. The excavation, backfilling, restoration,
and all other work performed in the rights-of-way shall be performed in
conformance with all applicable laws, Rules and Regulations, other standards as
may be promulgated by the Public Service Director.
   (o)   Inspection.
      (1)   When the construction under any Permit hereunder is completed, the
permittee shall notify the Public Service Director.
      (2)   The Permittee shall make the construction site available to the
inspector and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all
reasonable times during the execution and upon completion of the construction.
      (3)   At the time of inspection, the inspector may order the immediate
cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety,
or well-being of the public, violates any law, or which violates the terms and
conditions of the Permit and/or this Chapter. The City may inspect the work,
however, the failure of the City to inspect the work does not alleviate the
responsibility of the permittee to complete the work in accordance with the
approved Permit and the requirements of this Chapter.
      (4)   The inspector may issue an order to the permittee for any work
which does not conform to the Permit and/or applicable standards, conditions,
or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct the violation will be
cause for revocation of the Permit. The order may be served on the permittee as
provided in Section 1002.23(d). An order may be appealed to the Public Service
Director. The decision of the Public Service Director may be appealed to the
City Manager, whose decision shall be final. If not appealed, within ten (10)
calendar days after issuance of the order, the Provider shall present proof to
the Public Service Director that the violation has been corrected. If such
proof has not been presented within the required time, the Public Service
Director may revoke the Permit pursuant to Section
1002.19(e).
   (p)   Other Obligations. Obtaining a Construction Permit does not relieve
the permittee of its duty to obtain all other necessary permits, licenses, and
authority and to pay all fees, including on-site inspection fees, required by
the City, or any other city, county, State, or federal laws.
      (1)   A permittee shall comply with all requirements of all laws,
including the Ohio Utility Protection Service.
      (2)   Permittee shall perform all work in conformance with all applicable
laws and standards and is responsible for all work done in the rights-of-way
pursuant to its Permit, regardless of who performs the work.
      (3)   No rights-of-way obstruction or excavation may be performed when
seasonally prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for such work, except
in the case of an emergency, as outlined in Section
1002.10(d)(1).
      (4)   A permittee shall not obstruct a rights-of-way that the natural
free and clear passage of water through the gutters or other waterways shall be
interfered with. The Public Service Director may waive this requirement if it
is technically or economically unreasonable in the circumstances.
      (5)   Private vehicles other than necessary construction vehicles may not
be parked within or adjacent to a Permit area. The loading or unloading of
trucks adjacent to a permit area is prohibited unless specifically authorized
by the Permit.
   (q)   Undergrounding Required. Any owner of property abutting upon a street
or alley where service facilities are now located underground, and where the
service connection is at the property line, shall install or cause others to
install underground any service delivery infrastructure from the property line
to the buildings or other structures on such property to which such service is
supplied. Where not otherwise required to be placed underground by this
Chapter, a Provider shall locate its facilities underground at the request of
an adjacent property owner, provided that such placement of facilities
underground is consistent with the Provider's normal construction and operating
standards and that the additional costs of such undergrounding over the normal
aerial or above ground placement costs of identical facilities are borne
directly by the property owner making the request. A Provider, under any
circumstance shall, upon the reasonable request of the City, always use best
efforts to place facilities underground. Where technically possible and not
economically unreasonable or unsafe (based upon the technology right-of-way
employed and facilities installed), all facilities to be installed by a
Provider under the right-of-way shall be installed in conduit.
(Ord. 2022-46. Adopted 12/08/22 Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1002.18 RIGHT-OF-WAY MINOR MAINTENANCE PERMITS.
   (a)   Minor Maintenance Permit Requirements.
      (1)   No person shall perform minor maintenance of facilities in the
rights-of-way without first having obtained a Minor Maintenance Permit as set
forth in this Chapter. Minor maintenance means:
         A.   The routine repair or replacement of facilities with like
facilities not involving construction and not requiring traffic control for
more than two (2) hours at any one location; or
         B.   The routine repair or replacement of facilities with like
facilities not involving construction and taking place on thoroughfares and
arteries between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m.; or
         C.   The routine repair or replacement of facilities with like
facilities not involving construction on all rights-of-ways, other than
thoroughfares and arterials, that does not impede traffic and is for a period
of less than eight (8) contiguous hours; or
         D.   Construction other than on thoroughfares and arterials that takes
less than eight (8) contiguous hours to complete, does not impede traffic, and
does not involve a pavement cut. The Public Service Director may adopt Rules
and Regulations pursuant to Section
1002.09(e) that clarify the definition of minor maintenance and/or provide a
process for a Provider to determine whether particular activity constitutes
minor maintenance.
      (2)   A Minor Maintenance Permit allows the permittee to perform all
minor maintenance in any part of the rights-of-way as required.
      (3)   A Minor Maintenance Permit is valid from the date of issuance until
revoked by the Public Service Director.
      (4)   A Minor Maintenance Permit must be displayed or upon request
produced within twelve (12) business hours.
      (5)   A Minor Maintenance Permit by itself shall under no circumstances
provide a permittee with the ability to cut pavement without seeking additional
authority from the Public Service Director.
   (b)   Minor Maintenance Permit Applications. Application for a Minor
Maintenance Permit shall be made to the Public Service Director. In addition to
any information required by the Public Service Director, all Minor Maintenance
Permit applications shall contain, and will only be considered complete, upon
compliance with the following provisions:
      (1)   Credible evidence that the applicant has obtained a Certificate of
Registration or proof that the applicant has written authority to apply for a
Minor Maintenance Permit on behalf of a party that has been issued a
Certificate of Registration.
      (2)   Submission of a completed Minor Maintenance Permit application in
the form required by the Public Service Director.
      (3)   A statement that the applicant will employ protective measures and
devices that, consistent with the OMUTCD, will prevent injury or damage to
persons or property and to minimize disruptions to the efficient movement of
pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (c)   Issuance of Minor Maintenance Permits; Conditions.
      (1)   If the Public Service Director determines that the applicant has
satisfied the requirements of this Chapter and the Minor Maintenance Permit
process, the Public Service Director shall issue a Minor Maintenance Permit
subject to the provisions of this Chapter.
      (2)   The City may impose reasonable conditions in addition to the Rules
and Regulations enacted by the Public Service Director, upon the issuance of
the Minor Maintenance Permit and the performance of the minor maintenance
permittee thereunder in order to protect the public health, safety and welfare,
to insure the structural integrity of the rights-of-way, to protect the
property and safety of other users of the rights-of-way, to protect the City's
investment in the right-of-way, or to minimize the disruption and inconvenience
to the traveling public.
   (d)   Minor Maintenance Permit Fees. The Public Service Director shall not
charge a fee for the issuance of the Minor Maintenance Permit but may revoke
the Minor Maintenance Permit as any other Permit may be revoked under this
Chapter.
(Ord. 2022-46. Adopted 12/08/22 Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1002.19 ENFORCEMENT OF PERMIT OBLIGATION.
   (a)   Mandatory Denial of Permit. Except in the case of an emergency, no
Construction Permit or Minor Maintenance Permit will be granted:
      (1)   To any person who has not yet made an application; or
      (2)   To any person or their agent who has outstanding debt owed to the
City unless payment in full has been placed in an escrow account approved by
the Public Service Director and the Law Director; or
      (3)   To any person or their agent as to whom there exists grounds for
the revocation of a Permit; or
      (4)   If, in the discretion of the Public Service Director, the issuance
of a Permit for the particular date and/or time would cause a conflict or
interfere with an exhibition, celebration, festival, or any other event. The
Public Service Director, in exercising this discretion, shall be guided by the
safety and convenience of ordinary travel of the public over the rights-of-way,
considerations relating to the public health, safety, and welfare and/or the
City's investment in the rights-of-way.
   (b)   Permissive Denial. The Public Service Director may deny a Permit in
order to protect the public health, safety, and welfare and/or the City's
investment in the right-of-way, to prevent interference with the safety and
convenience of ordinary travel over the rights-of-way, or when necessary to
protect the rights-of-way and its users. The Public Service Director, in his/
her discretion, may consider one or more of the following factors: the extent
to which rights-of-way space where the Permit is sought is available; the
competing demands for the particular space in the rights-of-way; the
availability of other locations in the rights-of-way or in other rights-of-way
for the proposed Facilities; the applicability of this Chapter or other
regulations of the Rights-of-way that affect location of facilities in the
rights-of-way; the degree of compliance of the Provider with the terms and
conditions of its Certificate of Registration, this Chapter, and other
applicable ordinances and regulations; the degree of disruption to surrounding
communities and businesses that will result from the use of that part of the
rights-of-way; the condition and age of the rights-of-way and whether and when
it is scheduled for total or partial reconstruction; the balancing of the costs
of disruption to the public and damage to the rights-of-way against the
benefits to that part of the public served by the expansion into additional
parts of the rights-of-way; and whether such applicant or its agent has failed
within the past three (3) years to comply, or is presently not in full
compliance, with the requirements of this Chapter or, if applicable, any other
laws. Under no circumstances will open cutting take place on any street except
where an absolute emergency situation constitutes that an open cut is
necessary; and/or vital services to resident(s) or business(es) are needed or
have been cut off and there is no reasonable alternative (such as jacking or
boring) in supplying or restoring such services; and/or the Public Service
Director determines it is in the best interest of the City that such an open
cut take place.
   (c)   Discretionary Issuance of Permit.
      (1)   Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections
1002.19(a)(1) and
1002.19(a)(2), the Public Service Director may issue a Permit in any case where
the Permit is necessary:
         A.   To prevent substantial economic hardship to a customer of the
permit applicant if established by credible evidence satisfactory to the City;
         B.   To allow such customer to materially improve its service; or
         C.   To allow a new economic development project to be granted a
Permit under this section.
      (2)   To be granted a Permit under this section, the permit applicant
must not have had knowledge of the hardship, the plans for improvement of
service, or the development project when it was required to submit its list of
next year projects.
   (d)   Work Done Without A Permit.
      (1)   Emergency Situations: 
         A.   Each Provider shall, as soon as is practicable, immediately
notify the Public Service Director of any event regarding its facilities which
it considers to be an emergency. The Provider may proceed to take whatever
actions are necessary in order to respond to the emergency. Within five (5)
business days, unless otherwise extended by the Public Service Director, after
the occurrence or discovery of the emergency (whichever is later), the Provider
shall apply for the necessary Permits, pay the fees associated therewith and
fulfill the rest of the requirements necessary to bring itself into compliance
with this Chapter for any and all actions taken in response to the emergency.
         B.   In the event that the City becomes aware of an emergency
regarding a Provider's facilities, the City shall use best efforts to contact
the Provider or system representative of each Provider affected, or potentially
affected, by the emergency. In any event, the City may take whatever action it
deems necessary in order to respond to the emergency, the cost of which shall
be borne by the Provider whose facilities caused the emergency.
      (2)   Non-Emergency Situations: Except in the case of an emergency, any
Provider who constructs in, on, above, within, over, below or through a right-
of-way without a valid Permit shall subsequently obtain a Permit, pay double
the calculated fee for said Permit, pay double all the other fees required by
the Code, deposit with the City the fees necessary to correct any damage to the
rights-of-way and comply with all of the requirements of this Chapter.
   (e)   Revocation of Permits.
      (1)   Permittees hold Permits issued pursuant to the Code as a privilege
and not as a right. The City reserves its right, as provided herein, to revoke
any Permit, without refunding any fees, in the event of a substantial breach of
the terms and conditions of any law or any provision or condition of the
Permit. A substantial breach by permittee shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following:
         A.   The violation of any provision or condition of the Permit; or
         B.   An evasion or attempt to evade any provision or condition of the
Permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit upon
the City or its citizens; or
         C.   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
Permit; or
         D.   The failure to maintain the required construction or removal
bonds and/or insurance; or
         E.   The failure to obtain and/or maintain, when required, a
Certificate of Registration; or
         F.   The failure to complete the construction in a timely manner; or
         G.   The failure to correct a condition of an order issued pursuant to
Section
1002.19(o).
      (2)   If the Public Service Director determines that the permittee has
committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any law or any
condition of the Permit, the Public Service Director shall serve a written
demand upon the permittee to remedy such violation. The demand shall state that
continued violations may be cause for revocation of the Permit. Upon a
substantial breach, as stated above, the Public Service Director may place
additional or revised conditions on the Permit.
      (3)   By the close of the next business day following receipt of
notification of the breach, permittee shall contact the Public Service Director
with a plan, acceptable to the Public Service Director, for its correction.
Permittee's failure to so contact the Public Service Director, or the
permittee's failure to submit an acceptable plan, or permittee's failure to
reasonably implement the approved plan shall be cause for immediate revocation
of the Permit.
      (4)   If a permittee commits a second substantial breach/default as
outlined above, permittee's Permit will automatically be revoked and the
permittee will not be allowed further Permits for up to and including one (1)
full year, except for emergency repairs.
      (5)   If a Permit is revoked, the permittee shall also reimburse the City
for the City's reasonable costs, including restoration costs and the costs of
collection and reasonable attorneys' fees incurred in connection with such
revocation.
         (Ord. 2022-46. Adopted 12/08/22; Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em.
Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1002.20 CONSTRUCTION AND REMOVAL BONDS.
   (a)   Construction Bond. Prior to the commencement of any construction, a
construction permittee, excluding the County or City, shall deposit with the
Public Service Director an irrevocable, unconditional letter of credit and/or
surety bond in an amount determined by the Public Service Director to be
appropriate, based upon fair and reasonable criteria. Unless a construction
default, problem, or deficiency involves an emergency or endangers the safety
of the general public, the Public Service Director shall serve written notice
to the construction permittee detailing the construction default, problem, or
deficiency. If the Public Service Director determines that correction or repair
of the construction default, problem or deficiency has not occurred or has not
been substantially initiated within ten (10) calendar days after the date
following service and notification and detailing the construction default,
problem, or deficiency, then the City may attach the letter of credit or surety
bond. Upon attachment, written notice shall be served on the construction
permittee by the Public Service Director.
   (b)   Removal Bond. Upon issuance of a Certificate of Registration, and
continuously thereafter, and until one hundred twenty (120) calendar days after
a Provider's facilities have been removed from the rights-of-way (unless the
Public Service Director notifies the Provider that a reasonably longer period
shall apply), the Provider shall deposit with the Public Service Director and
maintain an irrevocable, unconditional letter of credit or surety bond in an
amount equal to or greater than One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000.00). The
Public Service Director shall make all reasonable effort to allow the Provider
a period of five (5) calendar days after serving notification in writing to
correct or repair any default, problem, or deficiency prior to the Public
Service Director's attachment of the letter of credit or surety bond regarding
the removal of facilities. Upon attachment, written notice shall be provided to
the Provider by the Public Service Director.
   (c)   Blanket Bond. In lieu of the construction bond required by Section
1002.20(a) and the removal bond required by Section
1002.20(b), the Provider may deposit with the Public Service Director an
irrevocable, unconditional letter of credit and/or surety bond in the amount of
Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000.00). Unless a construction default, problem or
deficiency involves an emergency or endangers the safety of the general public,
the Public Service Director shall make all reasonable effort to allow permittee
a period of five (5) calendar days after sending notification in writing to
correct or repair any default, problem, or deficiency prior to the Public
Service Director's attachment of the letter of credit or surety bond.
   (d)   Self-Bonding. In lieu of the construction bond required by Section
1002.20(a), the removal bond required by Section
1002.20(b), and the blanket bond required by Section
1002.20(c), those Providers maintaining a book value in excess of Fifty Million
Dollars ($50,000,000.00) may submit a statement to the Public Service Director
requesting to self-bond. If approval to self-bond is granted, a Provider shall
assure the City that such self-bonding shall provide the City with no less
protection and security than would have been afforded to the City by a third-
party surety providing the Provider with the types and amounts of bonds
detailed in the above-named sections. This statement shall include:
      (1)   Audited financial statements for the previous year; and
      (2)   A description of the applicant's self-bonding program; and
      (3)   Other applicable and pertinent information as reasonably requested
by the Public Service Director.
   (e)   Purposes. The bonds required by this section, and any self-bonding to
the extent it has been permitted, shall serve as security for:
      (1)   The faithful performance by the permittee or Provider of all terms,
conditions and obligations of this Chapter;
      (2)   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the City occasioned by
the permittee or Provider's violation of this Chapter or its failure to comply
with all rules, regulations, orders, Permits and other directives of the City
issued pursuant to this Chapter;
      (3)   The payment of all compensation due to the City, including Permit
fees;
      (4)   The payment of premiums (if any) for the liability insurance
required pursuant to this Chapter;
      (5)   The removal of facilities from the rights-of-way pursuant to this
Chapter;
      (6)   The payment to the City of any amounts for which the permittee or
Provider is liable that are not paid by its insurance or other surety; and
      (7)   The payment of any other amounts which become due to the City
pursuant to this Chapter or other laws.
   (f)   Form. The bond documents required by this section, and any replacement
bond documents shall, contain the following endorsement: "It is hereby
understood and agreed that this bond may not be canceled or not renewed by the
surety nor the intention to cancel or not to renew be stated by the surety
until ninety (90) calendar days after completion of construction of the
facilities and, notwithstanding the foregoing, shall in no case be canceled or
not renewed by the surety until at least ninety (90) calendar days' written
notice to City of surety's intention to cancel or not renew this bond."
(Ord. 2022-46. Adopted 12/08/22; Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1002.21 SMALL CELL FACILITIES AND WIRELESS SYSTEM SUPPORT STRUCTURES.
   (a)   Authority. In accordance with ORC Chapter 4939, this section
establishes terms and conditions for the use of the right-of-way by an operator
to collocate small cell facilities and construct, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless support structures to provide wireless service in the City.
   (b)   Applicability. The application procedures, permit fees, and auditing
procedures outlined in this Chapter shall be applicable to applications to
establish wireless facilities; provided, however, wireless facilities that are
not small cell facilities or wireless support structures as defined in this
Chapter are not subject to this section.
   (c)   Certificate of Registration Required. In accordance with this Chapter,
and unless otherwise prohibited by law, each person who occupies, uses, or
seeks to occupy or use the rights-of-way to operate a small cell facility or
wireless support structure in the right-of-way, or who has, or seeks to have, a
small cell facility or wireless support structure located in any right-of-way,
shall apply for and obtain a Certificate of Registration for the system
pursuant to this Chapter.
   (d)   Construction and Minor Maintenance Permits. All applications for the
construction or modification of a small cell facility or wireless support
structure shall comply with the Construction Permit and Minor Maintenance
Permit requirements set forth in this Chapter and any other applicable law.
   (e)   Micro Wireless Permit. In addition to the requirements in (c) and (d)
of this section, an application for a Micro Wireless Permit shall be submitted
by any person that seeks to construct, modify, collocate, or replace a small
cell facility or wireless support structure in any right-of-way. The City's
consent shall not be required for the replacement of a small cell facility and/
or wireless support structure with a small cell facility and/ or wireless
support structure, respectively, that is consistent with the City's Design
Guidelines and is substantially similar to the existing small cell facility
and/or wireless support structure, or the same size or smaller than the
existing small cell facility and/or wireless support structure and complies
with the requirements for Construction Permits as provided in this Chapter.
      (1)   For processing a Micro Wireless Permit, the City may charge a fee
of Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250.00) for each small cell facility and/or
wireless support structure. The City may adjust this charge ten percent (10%)
every five (5) years, rounded to the nearest Five Dollars ($5.00).
      (2)   The City shall grant or deny a Micro Wireless Permit in accordance
with any required timelines under law. If the City fails to approve or deny a
Micro Wireless Permit within the required time period, provided that the time
period is not otherwise tolled in accordance with the provisions of this
section, the Micro Wireless Permit shall be deemed granted upon the requesting
entity notifying the City that the time period for granting or denying the
request of consent has lapsed.
   (f)   Application Process. Requests that do not meet the requirements listed
on the Micro Wireless Permit Application or stated herein or in the City's
Design Guidelines shall be deemed incomplete or shall otherwise be denied by
the City.
      (1)   If a Micro Wireless Permit is deemed incomplete, the City shall
provide written notice to the applicant not later than thirty (30) calendar
days after receiving the application that clearly and specifically delineates
all missing documents or required information.
      (2)   Once the applicant submits the documents or information in response
to the City's notice of incompleteness, the time period for review shall resume
and the City shall grant, deny, or deem the Micro Wireless Permit to be
incomplete due to not providing the information identified in the original
notice of incompleteness.
      (3)   For a Micro Wireless Permit that is deemed incomplete for a second
or subsequent time, the City shall notify the applicant not later than ten (10)
days after receiving the supplementary application that the supplementary
application did not provide the information identified in the original notice
of incompleteness.
      (4)   The City shall continue to follow the process in this Section
1002.19(f) until such time that a complete Application is received from the
Applicant.
      (5)   If a Micro Wireless Permit is denied, the City shall provide, in
writing, its reasons for denying the request, supported by substantial,
competent evidence, and such information that the applicant may reasonably
request to obtain consent.
      (6)   Except in the case of a public utility subject to the jurisdiction
and recognized on the rolls of the PUCO or a cable operator possessing a valid
cable franchise awarded pursuant to the "Cable Communications Policy Act of
1984," 98 Stat. 2779, 47 USC 541, the City, for good cause shown, may withhold,
deny, or delay its consent to any person based upon the person's failure to
possess the financial, technical, and managerial resources necessary to protect
the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (g)   Application for Multiple Facilities or Support Structures. The City
shall permit a person seeking to construct, modify, collocate, or replace more
than one small cell facility or more than one wireless support structure within
the right-of-way to file a consolidated application for consent.
      (1)   No more than thirty (30) small cell facilities or thirty (30)
wireless support structures shall be proposed within a single application to
receive a single permit for the construction, modification, collocation, or
replacement of small cell facilities or wireless support structures in the
right-of-way.
      (2)   A single application may only address multiple small cell
facilities or wireless support structures if they each involve substantially
the same type of small cell facility and/or substantially the same type of
wireless support structure.
      (3)   The Director of Public Service may separately address Applications
for which incomplete information has been received or which are denied.
   (h)   Tolling of Time Limits. If the number of requests for consent is
likely to result in difficulty processing applications within the time limits
set forth in law due to the lack of resources of the City, then the City may
toll the time limits as follows:
      (1)   The time period for the City to grant or deny a Micro Wireless
Permit may be tolled for up to twenty-one (21) days for the first fifteen (15)
requests for consent for small cell facilities or wireless support structures
received by the City above the thresholds provided in the Table below within
any consecutive thirty (30) calendar day period:
         Population of City at the time that the
         Small Cell Facility or Wireless Support
         Structure request for consent is received:         Number of
Applications:
         30,000 persons or less                  15 applications or more
         30,001 to 40,000 persons                  20 applications or more
         40,001 to 50,000 persons                  25 applications or more
         50,001 to 60,000 persons                  30 applications or more
         60,001 to 100,000 persons                  60 applications or more
      (2)   For every additional fifteen (15) requests that the City receives
above the thresholds provided in the table in division (h)(1), above, the City
may toll the time period for those requests for up to fifteen (15) calendar
days in addition to the time period provided in this section.
      (3)   In no instance shall the City toll the time period for any small
cell facility or wireless support structure Micro Wireless Permit by more than
ninety (90) consecutive days.
      (4)   Upon request by the applicant, the City shall provide written
notice of the time limit for a small cell facility or wireless support
structure Micro Wireless Permit.
   (i)   Annual Fee for Collocation on City Structure. The total annual charge
to reimburse the City for the collocation of a small cell facility by an
operator to a wireless support structure owned by the City and located in the
right-of-way shall be Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00) per small cell facility.
The City may adjust this charge ten percent (10%) every five (5) years, rounded
to the nearest Five Dollars ($5.00).
   (j)   Permit Approval Term for Collocation. The City's approval term of a
collocation to a wireless support structure shall be for a period of not less
than ten (10) years, with a presumption of renewal for successive five (5) year
terms, unless otherwise terminated or not renewed for cause or by mutual
agreement between the operator and the City.
      (1)   An operator may remove its small cell facilities at any time
subject to applicable permit requirements and may stop paying annual charges or
fees established by law.
      (2)   If use of a small cell facility or wireless support structure is
discontinued, the owner shall submit written notice to the City to discontinue
use and the date when the use shall be discontinued. The owner shall promptly
remove the small cell facility or wireless support structure once its use has
been discontinued.
      (3)   If a small cell facility or wireless support structure is
abandoned, the City may remove the small cell facility or wireless support
structure at the owner's expense.
   (k)   Design Guidelines. The Public Service Director is authorized to
establish, implement, and amend, from time to time, Design Guidelines
regarding, among other things: the location of any ground-mounted small cell
facilities; the location of a small cell facility on a wireless support
structure; the appearance and concealment of small cell facilities, including
those relating to materials used for arranging, screening, or landscaping; and
the design and appearance of a wireless support structure, including any height
requirements adopted by the City.
      (1)   The City, as opposed to the construction of a new wireless support
structure in the right-of-way, shall prefer co-locating small cell facilities
on existing wireless support structures without increasing the height of the
wireless support structure by more than five feet (5'), including the antenna
and any associated shroud or concealment material.
      (2)   The City shall allow, consistent with law and for the purpose of
providing wireless service, collocation of a small cell facility by an operator
to a wireless support structure owned by the City and located in the right-of-
way, provided that the operator comply with the City's Design Guidelines and
any reasonable terms and conditions for such collocation that are adopted by
the City and consistent with the Design Guidelines and this Chapter.
         A.   The City may condition approval of the collocation on replacement
or modification of the wireless support structure at the operator's cost if the
City determines that replacement or modification is necessary for compliance
with its construction or safety standards.
         B.   A replacement or modification of the wireless support structure
shall conform to the applicable Design Guidelines and the City's applicable
specifications for the type of structure being replaced.
         C.   The City may retain ownership of a replacement wireless support
structure.
         D.   The City may require removal and relocation of a small cell
facility or wireless support structure, at the permittee's sole expense, in
order to accommodate construction of a public improvement project by the City.
      (3)   The City may propose an alternate location to the proposed location
of a new Wireless Support Structure that is within one hundred feet (100') of
the proposed location or within a distance that is equivalent to the width of
the right-of-way in or on which the new Wireless Support Structure is proposed,
whichever is greater, which the Operator shall use if it has the right to use
the alternate location on reasonable terms and conditions and the alternate
location does not impose technical limits or additional costs.
(Ord. 2022-46. Adopted 12/08/22; Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1002.22 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   (a)   City Does Not Accept Liability. By reason of the acceptance of an
application, the grant of a Permit or the issuance of a Certificate of
Registration, the City does not assume any liability:
      For injuries to persons, damage to property, or loss of service claims;
or
      For claims or penalties of any sort resulting from the installation,
presence, maintenance, or operation of facilities.
   (b)   Indemnification. By applying for and being issued a Certificate of
Registration with the City, a Provider is required, or by accepting a Permit, a
permittee is required to defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the City's
agents, elected officials, officers, employees, volunteers and subcontractors
from all costs, liabilities, claims, and suits for damages of any kind arising
out of the construction, presence, installation, maintenance, repair or
operation of its facilities, or out of any activity undertaken in or on a
rights-of-way, whether any act or omission complained of is authorized,
allowed, or prohibited by a Permit. A Provider or permittee shall not bring,
nor cause to be brought, any action, suit or other proceeding claiming damages,
or seeking any other relief against the City's agents, elected officials,
officers, employees, volunteers and subcontractors for any claim nor for any
award arising out of the presence, installation, maintenance or operation of
its facilities, or any activity undertaken in or near a right-of-way, whether
the act or omission complained of is authorized, allowed or prohibited by a
Permit. This section is not, as to third parties, a waiver of any defense or
immunity otherwise available to the Provider, permittee, or to the City, and
the Provider or permittee, in defending any action on behalf of the City, shall
be entitled to assert in any action every defense or immunity that the City
could assert on its own behalf. Any and all exercise of the above shall be
consistent with, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   To the fullest extent permitted by law, all Providers and
permittees shall, at their sole cost and expense, fully indemnify, defend and
hold harmless the City, its agents, elected officials, officers, employees,
volunteers and subcontractors from and against any and all lawsuits, claims
(including without limitation worker's compensation claims against the City or
others), causes of actions, actions, liability, and judgments for injury or
damages including, but not limited to, expenses for reasonable legal fees and
disbursements assumed by the City in connection therewith:
         A.   To persons or property, in any way arising out of or through the
acts or omissions of Provider or permittee, its subcontractors, agents or
employees attributable to the occupation by the Provider or permittee of the
rights-of-way, to which permittee's or Provider's negligence shall in any way
contribute, and regardless of whether the City's negligence or the negligence
of any other party shall have contributed to such claim, cause of action,
judgment, injury or damage.
         B.   Arising out of any claim for invasion of the right of privacy,
for defamation of person, firm or corporation, or the violation or infringement
of any copyright, trademark, trade name, service mark or patent or any other
right of any person, firm and corporation by the Provider or permittee, but
excluding claims arising out of or related to the City's actions.
         C.   Arising out of Provider's or permittee's failure to comply with
the provisions of any law applicable to Provider or permittee in its business
hereunder.
      (2)   The foregoing indemnification is conditioned upon the City:
         A.   Giving Provider or permittee prompt notice of any claim or the
commencement of any action, suit or proceeding for which indemnification is
sought;
         B.   Affording the Provider or permittee the opportunity to
participate in any compromise, settlement, or other resolution or disposition
of any claim or proceeding subject to indemnification; and
         C.   Cooperating in the defense of such claim and making available to
the Provider or permittee all pertinent information under the City's control.
      (3)   The City shall have the right to employ separate counsel in any
such action or proceeding and to participate in the investigation and defense
thereof, and the Provider or permittee shall pay all reasonable fees and
expenses of such separate counsel if employed.
(Ord. 2022-46. Adopted 12/08/22; Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1002.23 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (a)   Non-Exclusive Remedy. The remedies provided in this Chapter are not
exclusive or in lieu of other rights and remedies that the City may have at law
or in equity. The City is hereby authorized at any time to seek legal and
equitable relief for actual or threatened injury to the rights-of-way,
including damages to the rights-of-way, whether caused by a violation of any of
the provisions of this Chapter or other provisions of applicable law.
   (b)   Severability. If any section, division, subsection, sentence, clause,
phrase, or portion of this Chapter is for any reason held invalid or
unconstitutional by any court or administrative agency of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions thereof. If a regulatory body or a court of competent
jurisdiction should determine by a final, non-appealable order that any Permit,
right or any portions of this Chapter are illegal or unenforceable, then any
such permit or right granted or deemed to exist hereunder shall be considered
as a revocable Permit with a mutual right in either party to terminate without
cause upon giving sixty (60) calendar days written notice to the other. The
requirements and conditions of such a revocable Permit shall be the same
requirements and conditions as set forth in the Permit, right or registration,
respectively, except for conditions relating to the term of the Permit and the
right of termination. If a Permit or right shall be considered a revocable
Permit as provided herein, the permittee must acknowledge the authority of the
City to issue such revocable Permit and the power to revoke it.
   (c)   Reservation of Regulatory and Police Powers. The City by the granting
of a Permit, or by issuing a Certificate of Registration under this Chapter,
does not surrender or to any extent lose, waive, impair, or lessen the lawful
powers and rights, which it has now or may be hereafter vested in the City
under the Constitution and laws of the United States, State of Ohio, and under
the Charter of the City of Xenia to regulate the use of the rights-of-way. The
permittee by its acceptance of a Permit, or Provider by applying for and being
issued a Certificate of Registration, is deemed to acknowledge that all lawful
powers and rights, regulatory power, or police power, or otherwise as now are
or the same as may be from time to time vested in or reserved to the City,
shall be in full force and effect and subject to the exercise thereof by the
City at any time. A permittee or Provider is deemed to acknowledge that its
rights are subject to the regulatory and police powers of the City to adopt and
enforce general ordinances necessary to the safety and welfare of the public
and is deemed to agree to comply with all applicable general laws and
ordinances enacted by the City pursuant to such powers.
   (d)   Method of Service. Any notice or order of the Public Service Director
shall be deemed to be properly served if a copy thereof is:
      (1)   Delivered personally; or
      (2)   Successfully transmitted via facsimile transmission to the last
known fax number of the person to be served; or
      (3)   Left at the usual place of business of the person to whom it is to
be served upon and with someone who is eighteen (18) years of age or older; or
      (4)   Sent by certified, prepaid U.S. mail to the last known address; or
      (5)   If the notice is attempted to be served by certified, prepaid U.S.
mail and then returned showing that the letter was not delivered, or the
certified letter is not returned within fourteen (14) calendar days after the
date of mailing, then notice may be sent by regular, prepaid, first-class U.S.
mail; or
      (6)   If the notice is attempted to be served by regular, first class
U.S. mail, postage prepaid, and the letter is then returned showing that the
letter was not delivered or is not returned within fourteen (14) calendar days
after the date of mailing, then notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place
in or about the structure, building, premises or property affected by such
notice.
   (e)   Applies to all Providers. This Chapter shall apply to all Providers
and all permittees unless expressly exempted.
   (f)   Police Powers. All persons' rights are subject to the police powers of
the City to adopt and enforce ordinances necessary to the health, safety, and
welfare of the public. All persons shall comply with all applicable laws
enacted by the City pursuant to its police powers. In particular, all persons
shall comply with City zoning and other land use requirements pertaining to the
placement and specifications of facilities.
   (g)   Compliance. No person shall be relieved of its obligation to comply
with any of the provisions of this Chapter by reason of any failure of the City
to enforce prompt compliance.
   (h)   Foreclosure and Receivership.
      (1)   Upon the filing of any voluntary or involuntary petition under the
Bankruptcy Code by or against any Provider and/or permittee, or any action for
foreclosure or other judicial sale of the Provider and/or permittee facilities
located within the rights-of-way, the Provider and/or permittee shall so notify
the Public Service Director within fourteen (14) calendar days thereof and the
Provider and/or permittee's Certificate of Registration or Permit (as
applicable) shall be deemed void and of no further force and effect.
      (2)   The City shall have the right to revoke, pursuant to the provisions
of the Code, any Certificate of Registration or Permit granted pursuant to this
Chapter, subject to any applicable provisions of law, including the Bankruptcy
Code, one hundred twenty (120) calendar days after the appointment of a
receiver or trustee to take over and conduct the business of the Provider and/
or permittee, whether in receivership, reorganization, bankruptcy or other
action or proceeding, unless such receivership or trusteeship shall have been
vacated prior to the expiration of said one hundred twenty (120) calendar days
or unless:
         A.   Within one hundred twenty (120) calendar days after election or
appointment, such receiver or trustee shall have fully complied with all the
provisions of the relevant Certificate of Registration, any outstanding Permit,
this Chapter, and remedied all defaults thereunder; and
         B.   Said receiver or trustee, within said one hundred twenty (120)
calendar days, shall have executed an agreement, duly approved by a court
having jurisdiction over the facilities, whereby such receiver or trustee
assumes and agrees to be bound by each and every provision of the relevant
Certificate of Registration, Permit and this Chapter.
   (i)   Choice of Law and Forum. This Chapter and the terms and conditions of
any Certificate of Registration or Permit shall be construed and enforced in
accordance with the substantive laws of the City, State, and United States, in
that order. As a condition of the grant of any Permit or issuance of any
Certificate of Registration all disputes shall be resolved in a court of
competent jurisdiction in Greene County, Ohio.
   (j)   Force Majeure. In the event any person's performance of any of the
terms, conditions, or obligations required by this Chapter is prevented by a
cause or event not within such person's control, such inability to perform
shall be deemed excused and no penalties or sanctions shall be imposed as a
result thereof. For the purpose of this section, causes or events not within
the control of a Provider shall include, without limitation, acts of God,
strikes, sabotage, riots or civil disturbances, failure or loss of, explosions,
acts of public enemies, and natural disasters such as floods, earthquakes,
landslides, and fires.
   (k)   No Warranty. The City makes no representation or warranty regarding
its right to authorize the construction of facilities on any particular rights-
of-way. The burden and responsibility for making such determination shall be
upon the person installing facilities in the rights-of-way.
   (l)   Continuing Obligation and Holdover. In the event a Provider or
permittee continues to operate all or any part of the facilities after the
termination, lapse, or revocation of a Certificate of Registration, such
Provider or permittee shall continue to comply with all applicable provisions
of this Chapter and other laws throughout the period of such continued
operation, provided that any such continued operation shall in no way be
construed as a renewal or other extension of the Certificate of Registration,
nor as a limitation on the remedies, if any, available to the City as a result
of such continued operation after the term, including, but not limited to,
damages and restitution. Any conflict between the issuance of a Certificate of
Registration or of a Permit and any other present or future lawful exercise of
the City's regulatory or police powers shall be resolved in favor of the
latter.
   (m)   Appeals. All appeals provided for by this Chapter and any notification
to the City required by this Chapter shall be in writing and sent via certified
U.S. Mail to the Public Service Director as specified in this Chapter.
   (n)   City Standards. As part of City-required standards wherever rights-of-
way are under construction, if deemed advisable and practicable by the Public
Service Director, the City may install all such facilities deemed necessary to
accommodate future Provider needs. Any such installed facilities shall be City
property and may be conveyed to any person under such terms and conditions as
are deemed advisable by the City Council.
   (o)   Chapter Headings. Chapter headings are for convenience only and shall
not be used to interpret any portion of this Chapter.
(Ord. 2022-46. Adopted 12/08/22; Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1002.99 PENALTIES.
   In addition to any other penalties set forth in this Chapter and the remedy
of specific performance that may be enforced in a court of competent
jurisdiction, the following penalties shall apply: any person violating the
provisions of this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth (4th)
degree. Each day such violation continued shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 2022-46. Adopted 12/08/22; Ord. 2023-35. Adopted 12/14/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
TITLE FOUR - UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1010
Water Utility
1010.01   General Provisions
1010.02   Water Main Installations and Extensions
1010.03   Tap-in Fees
1010.04   Meters
1010.05   Usage Rates and Minimum Consumption Rates
1010.06   Inspections; Right of Entry
1010.07   Shut-Offs for Repairs or Testing
1010.08   Emergency Restrictions
1010.09   Protection of Water Utility System
1010.10   Backflow Prevention
1010.11   Bulk Water Program
1010.98   Severability
1010.99   Penalties
   CROSS REFERENCES
   Authority to Own and Operate Public Utility - see O. Const. Art. XVIII § 4
   Extraterritorial Customers - see S.U.&P.S.
CH. 1031
   Power to Require Water Connections - see ORC 729.06
   Powers of Municipal Corporations - see ORC 717.01
   Rules and Regulations, Authority to Make - see ORC 743.02
   Unpaid Water Fees, Assessments for - see ADMIN.
250.04
   Utility Funds - see ADMIN.
251.04
   Utility Billing - see S.U.&P.S.
CH. 1030
§ 1010.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (a)   General. The public water utility, the water system, and connections
to the system shall be regulated in accordance with the provisions of this
Chapter, any other applicable provisions of the Streets, Utilities & Public
Services Code, any other applicable provisions of the Xenia City Code, and any
applicable provisions of the Ohio Revised Code, Ohio Administrative Code, Ohio
Building Code, Ohio Fire Code, and any applicable federal laws.
   (b)   Rules and Regulations. The Public Service Director is hereby
authorized to promulgate rules and regulations regarding the construction of,
and materials used for, water mains, service lines, curb boxes, pipes,
hydrants, and other appurtenances or facilities; the use and conditions for use
of the City's public water utility and system and connections thereto; and any
regulations necessary to carry out the Public Service Director's duties under
this Chapter, the Xenia City Code, and any applicable federal or state law,
rule, or regulation. Such rules and regulations shall be known as the "Water
Utility Rules and Regulations," shall be made available to the public on the
City's website and shall be kept up to date.
(Statutory Reference: ORC 743.02)
   (c)   Use of Public Water Required. The owners of all buildings within the
City that are used, or are intended to be used, for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or any other purposes and which abut any street, alley,
or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the future be located a
public water main, are hereby required, at their expense, to install suitable
plumbing facilities therein and to connect such facilities directly with the
proper water main, in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter and the
Water Utility Rules and Regulations, within ninety (90) days after the date of
official notice from the City to do so; provided, however, that such public
water main is within three hundred feet (300') of the property line.
   (d)   Scope. Every person whose premises is served by a connection to the
water utility system, will be charged for the use of the City's water utility.
The water utility usage charges shall be applied to each and every premises
consuming water from the water utility system, and the charges shall be as
specified in this Chapter.
(Ord. 63-10; Adopted 02/14/63; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1010.02 WATER MAIN INSTALLATIONS AND EXTENSIONS.
   (a)   Approval.
      (1)   All water main installations and extensions proposed for connection
to the City's water utility that are to be constructed by a person other than
the City, when such installation or extension lies completely within the
corporate limits of the City, shall require the written approval of the City
Engineer and the City Manager.
      (2)   All water main installations and extensions proposed for connection
to the City's water utility that are to be constructed by a person other than
the City, when any part of such installation or extension lies outside of the
corporate limits of the City, shall require the approval of City Council, by
resolution.
   (b)   Utility Easements. No water main installed or extended shall be
connected to the City's water utility nor shall any water service be provided
without the person to whom approval for the installation or extension was
granted pursuant to division (a) of this section having first obtained and
recorded the necessary utility easements for said main installation or
extension at the person's own expense. Such utility easements shall be at least
fifteen feet (15') in width, unless otherwise approved by the Public Service
Director, and the language of such easements shall be approved by the City Law
Director before recording.
   (c)   Size of Mains; Materials. The size of the mains and the materials to
be used in all water main construction and extensions now or hereafter proposed
shall be as set forth in the Water Utility Rules and Regulations.
   (d)   Plan Review and Inspection Fee. The party requesting and providing for
the main installation or extension will be subject to the payment of a plan
review and inspection fee to cover the cost of reviewing the plans of the
proposed installation or extension and inspection of the water main
installation or extension. The plan review and inspection fee shall be as set
forth in the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code.
   (e)   City to Share in Cost of Certain Mains. Upon determination by the City
Engineer as to the sizes of water mains necessary to serve a subdivision or
undeveloped area, larger mains may be required by the City Engineer in order to
adequately supply a subsequently developed area. In such cases, the City shall
pay the difference in cost between the sizes necessary for the subdivision or
undeveloped area and the City-required larger mains. Where it is necessary to
extend a main through an undeveloped area, or an area already served, in order
to reach and serve a new subdivision or area to be developed, the City may pay
the cost or such portion of the cost of such water main as the City Engineer
may determine from the future customer potential thereof; however, in no case
above-mentioned shall the City participate in the cost of water mains eight
inches (8") in diameter or less, or in the cost of water mains connected to a
water system other than that of the City.
(Ord. 63-10. Adopted 02/14/63; Ord.92-27. Adopted 05/28/92; Ord. 2023-38.
Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/
22/24)
§ 1010.03 TAP-IN FEES.
   (a)   Tap-ins. No connection shall be made from individual properties to a
City water main without payment of the required tap-in fee. Such connections
shall be made and constructed in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter
and the Water Utility Rules and Regulations.
   (b)   Tap-In Fees.
      (1)   Tap-in fees for connection to the City's water utility and
inspection fees shall be as set forth in the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code.
      (2)   The fees set for tap-ins shall be based on the size of the required
water meter. The inspection fee and any meter fee shall be paid at the same
time as the tap-in fee.
      (3)   Tap-ins that are solely for fire suppression/fire sprinkler systems
shall not be charged a tap-in fee, but shall pay an inspection fee.
      (4)   Tap-ins made by extraterritorial customers shall be at the current
tap-in fee plus fifty percent (50%), in addition to the inspection fee and the
meter fee.
      (5)   All fees shall be paid in full before any work is performed.
   (c)   Waiver of Tap-In Fees for Economic Development. For the purpose of
encouraging new commercial and industrial development within the City, the
waiver of all or any portion of the tap-in fees required under this section for
economic development projects within the City may be granted as follows:
      (1)   For tap-in fees of $30,000 or less, the City Manager is hereby
authorized to approve the waiver of all or any portion of the tap-in fee, by
written administrative directive.
      (2)   For tap-in fees over $30,000, Council may approve the waiver of all
or any portion of the tap-in fee, by resolution.
      (3)   Waiver of a tap-in fee shall not include waiver of the required
plan review and inspection fee or meter fee.
(Ord. 80-28. Adopted 05/28/80; Ord. 06/72. Adopted 11/09/06; Ord. 08/04.
Adopted 01/10/08; Ord. 12-08; Adopted 03/22/12; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23;
Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1010.04 METERS.
   (a)   Water Meters Required. All properties that are served by the City's
water utility shall be required to have installed upon the outside of the
premises a water meter, in a location determined by the Public Service
Director, for the purpose of determining the amount of water consumed by the
property.
   (b)   Cost of Meters. A meter fee, which shall include the cost of the meter
and cost of installing the meter, shall be paid at the same time as the tap-in
fee. For a meter that is being installed without a tap-in fee required, the
meter fee shall be paid before water service is provided to the property. The
meter fee shall be as set forth in the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code.
   (c)   Testing of Meters. If a customer requests the Public Service
Department to test a meter outside of the Department's normal schedule for
testing, the customer shall pay a testing fee, as set forth in the City's Fee
Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code, prior to the test being performed. If
the testing reveals a problem or deficiency with the meter, the customer shall
be refunded the testing fee, in the form of a credit on the customer's utility
billing account, and the customer shall not be charged for replacement of the
meter. No refund of the testing fee shall be given if the testing reveals no
problems or deficiencies with the meter.
   (d)   Failure of Meter. If a meter has failed to register the amount of
water consumed, the monthly water consumption shall be estimated based on the
customer's prior usage during the same month of the preceding year or, if the
customer had no prior usage during the same month of the preceding year, by
taking an average of the customer's prior usage during the preceding three (3)
months or less.
   (e)   Damaged Meters or Antenna. Where a meter is damaged through the fault
of the customer, the customer shall pay a meter replacement fee as set forth in
the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code. If a meter antenna is damaged, the
customer shall pay a replacement fee, as set forth in the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code, beginning with the second time the
antenna must be replaced.
   (f)   Prohibitions. All meters installed by the City shall remain the
property of the City. No person shall damage, attempt to bypass or bypass,
attempt to turn on, or turn on a meter that has been disconnected by the City,
or otherwise tamper with any water meter. Any person found to have violated the
prohibitions of this division may be charged with criminal damaging. Further,
if it is found that the person took or used water when that person had been
disconnected by the City, or that the person took or used water by bypassing
the meter, or that the person attempted to falsify their water usage by
tampering with the meter, such person may also be charged with theft.
(Ord. 63-10. Adopted 02/14/63; Ord. 68-45. Adopted 12/12/68; Ord. 78-29.
Adopted 06/22/78; Ord. 93-44. Adopted 08/26/93; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23;
Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1010.05 USAGE RATES AND MINIMUM CONSUMPTION RATES.
   (a)   Usage Rates and Minimum Consumption Rates. The water usage rate and
minimum water consumption rate for all water utility services located within
the City, for the purposes of computing the monthly water service charge per
customer, shall be as set forth in the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code.
   (b)   Minimum Monthly Charge. A minimum charge based on the water usage rate
and minimum water consumption rate shall be billed for any water service which
is not ordered discontinued, even though no water service is used.
   (c)   Annual Increase.
      (1)   Beginning January 1, 2026, the water usage rate shall be subject to
an annual increase equal to the percentage obtained by averaging the national
inflation rates from the United States Labor Department, Bureau of Labor
Statistics, for the previous three (3) years. This increase shall be referred
to as the Cost of Living Adjustment (COLA). The new water usage rate will be
established annually by adding the COLA to the then current water usage rate.
The Finance Director is hereby authorized to update the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A of the City Government Code, to reflect the yearly COLA increase.
      (2)   The Finance Director may, no later than February 1st, recommend to
City Council to waive all or any part of the yearly COLA increase, and such
recommendation may be for one year or multiple years. Upon such recommendation
by the Finance Director, City Council may, by resolution, waive all or any part
of the proposed COLA increase for one year or multiple years.
      (3)   If City Council takes no action to waive all or any part of the
proposed COLA increase, in accordance with division (c)(2) of this section, the
yearly COLA increase shall be implemented by the Finance Director no later than
March 1st of that year.
   (d)   Provision of Water Utility Service; Billing. The provision of water
utility service to customers and the billing for such service shall be in
accordance with the provisions of this Chapter and Chapter 1030.
   (e)   Other Metered Usage. Water used from the City's water utility that
does not discharge into the City's sanitary sewer utility and that is provided
through a temporary meter, such as a portable hose bib meter or a hydrant
meter, shall be paid at the actual metered usage at the water usage rate set
forth in the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code, without consideration of the minimum
consumption rate. In addition, the user may be required to pay a deposit for
the temporary meter and/or a monthly rental fee, as set forth in Chapter 1030.
   (f)   Unmetered Sprinkler Systems. Customers whose premises have a fire
prevention sprinkler system that is unmetered shall pay a monthly fee for such
unmetered system, as set forth in the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code.
   (g)   Governmental Entities. The use of the water utility by, or the sale of
water to, a federal, state or local governmental entity may be in accordance
with rates, conditions and terms as outlined in a written contract executed
between the City and the governmental entity when such a contract is required
by the City.
(Ord. 80-28. Adopted 05/28/80; Ord. 95/73. Adopted 12/14/95; Ord. 04/20.
Adopted 05/13/04; Ord. 06/88. Adopted 12/28/06; Ord. 08/04. Adopted 01/10/08;
Ord. 09/86. Adopted 12/29/09; Ord. 12-08. Adopted 03/22/12; Ord. 2023-38.
Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/
22/24)
§ 1010.06 INSPECTIONS; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (a)   Right of Entry. The employees of the Public Service Department are
hereby authorized to enter, at reasonable hours, onto any property, or into any
building or structure supplied with water from the City's water utility in
order to make inspections of any water meter, or to shut off or turn off any
water meter, or to repair, maintain, or replace any water meter or any part of
the public water system as may be necessary, or for any other reasonable
purpose connected to the City's water utility.
   (b)   Shut-Off. If the employees of the Public Service Department are
improperly denied entry to any property, building or structure when required
under division (a) of this section, the water service to that property,
building, or structure may be disconnected when, in the opinion of the Public
Service Director, such disconnection is necessary for the safety or integrity
of the City's water utility. In such circumstances, the customer shall be
responsible for the payment of any reconnection fee, as set forth in the City's
Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code (see fees for Chapter 1030).
(Ord. 63-10. Adopted 02/14/63; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1010.07 SHUT-OFFS FOR REPAIRS OR TESTING.
   The City shall have the right to shut off service to one or more properties,
buildings, or structures when such shut-offs are necessary to make repairs, to
conduct testing, or when necessary to assure the safety or integrity of the
City's water utility. The City will make every effort to notify affected
customers at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to such shut-off, except in the
case of emergencies. In no case shall the City be liable to any customer for
any accident, damage, or claim that may result from such necessary shut-off.
(Ord. 63-10. Adopted 02/14/63; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1010.08 EMERGENCY RESTRICTIONS.
   (a)   Authority of the City Manager. When, for any reason, the supply of
water from the City's water utility is inadequate to meet the demand or
projected demand for water, including the maintenance of necessary water
reserves and projected reserves necessary for fire suppression activities, as
determined by the Fire & EMS Chief, the City Manager may declare, by
administrative directive, that the use of water by all users of the City's
water utility, for purposes not essential to the health, safety and welfare of
the residents of the City, is prohibited or restricted during specified hours
and/or days, or for a specified time period, or for a continuing time period
until notice is given that such uses are no longer prohibited and/or
restricted. Water uses not essential to the health, safety and welfare include,
but are not limited to, the watering of lawns and gardens, vehicle washing,
manufacturing facilities, cooling facilities, commercial laundries, and
commercial vehicle washing facilities. Restrictions shall be placed on any or
all nonessential water uses consistent with the severity of the situation, as
determined by the City Manager.
   (b)   Notice. Any prohibitions and/or restrictions declared by the City
Manager in accordance with division (a) of this section shall be published on
the City's website, any official City social media accounts, and shall be
provided to appropriate television and radio stations. Such publication shall
constitute official notice to all users of City water. The prohibitions and/or
restrictions on water usage shall remain in full force and effect until the
prohibitions and/or restrictions are declared lifted by the City Manager.
Notice of the lifting of restrictions shall be done by the same methods as
notice of their imposition.
   (c)   Prohibitions. No person, business, industry, or other user of the
City's water utility, including extraterritorial customers, shall use water in
violation of the prohibitions and/or restrictions established by the City
Manager in accordance with this section. Twenty-four (24) hours after notice
has been given in accordance with division (b) of this section, the City may
terminate water service to any person using water in violation of the published
prohibitions and/or restrictions. Such termination may continue until the use
is no longer prohibited and/or restricted. The City, including its agents and
employees, shall not be liable or responsible for any damage resulting from the
termination of water service, nor for any damage due to prohibitions and/or
restrictions placed on water usage by the City Manager.
(Ord. 88-81. Adopted 08/11/88; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1010.09 PROTECTION OF WATER UTILITY SYSTEM.
   (a)   Protection of Water Utility System. The City's water utility and
public water system shall be protected against backflow and siphonage, both
natural and induced. All equipment connected to the City's water utility system
that is capable of polluting or contaminating the system or any part thereof by
means of flow, pressure drop, pressure loss or induced vacuum, or by injection
because of any primary or auxiliary pumping system connected thereto, must be
isolated and contained by means of approved backflow devices or accepted
engineering practices. Water consumers may be required to utilize backflow
devices, as set forth in Section
1010.10 of this Chapter.
   (b)   Limitation on Connections. No person shall establish or permit to be
established, or maintain or permit to be maintained, any connection whereby a
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply, other than the regular public
water supply of the City's water utility system, may enter the supply or
distribution system of the City, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency
water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply shall have
been approved by the Public Service Director and by the Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency.
   (c)   Duty of Public Service Director. It shall be the duty of the Public
Service Director to cause surveys and investigations to be made of industrial
and other properties serviced by the City's water utility system where actual
or potential hazards to the system may exist. Such surveys and investigations
shall be made a matter of public record and shall be repeated as often as the
Public Service Director deems necessary.
   (d)   Right of Entry. The Public Service Director or his or her duly
authorized representative shall have the right to enter, at any reasonable
time, upon any property or premises served by a connection to the City's water
utility system for the purpose of inspecting the piping system or systems
thereof. On demand, the owner, lessee or occupant of any property so served
shall furnish to the Public Service Director any information which he or she
may request regarding the piping system or systems, or the water use on such
property. The refusal to provide such information, when demanded, shall, within
the discretion of the Public Service Director, be deemed evidence of the
presence of improper connections as provided in this section.
   (e)   Disconnection for Violations. The Public Service Director is hereby
authorized and directed to discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant
thereof, the water service to any property wherein any connection exists in
violation of the provisions of this Chapter and/or the Water Utility Rules and
Regulations is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as
he or she may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the
City's water utility system. Water service to such property shall not be
restored until such violations have been eliminated or corrected in compliance
with the provisions of this Chapter and/or the Water Utility Rules and
Regulations.
(Ord. 91-17. Adopted 04/25/91; Ord. 11-05. Adopted 01/27/11; Ord. 13-05.
Adopted 02/14/13; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/
08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1010.10 BACKFLOW PREVENTION.
   (a)   Authority of the Public Service Director. If, in the judgment of the
Public Service Director, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the City's water utility system, the Director will give
notice to the customer to install such an approved device. The customer, at his
or her expense, shall install such an approved device at a location and in a
manner approved by the Director and shall have inspections and tests made of
such approved devices, as required by the Director.
   (b)   When Required. Backflow prevention devices shall be required on all
residential irrigation lines without notice from the Public Service Director.
   (c)   Inspection Fees. All backflow devices that require testing by the Ohio
EPA shall provide proof of an annual inspection by a certified plumber or may
have the City Public Service Department perform the required testing, if such
testing is available from the Public Service Department. If the City performs
the required testing, the property owner shall pay the City an inspection fee,
as set forth in the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code.
   (d)   Disclaimer. Nothing in this section shall be construed to create, in
general or with respect to any particular customer or property, any obligation
for the Public Service Department to inspect a backflow prevention device or
advise any customer or property owner with respect to backflow protection, nor
any obligation or responsibility on the Public Service Department or the City
to require the installation and maintenance of a backflow prevention device.
Further, nothing in this section shall be construed to create, in general or
with respect to any particular customer or property, any liability on the City
for any claim for damages for water and/or sewer backup where the customer has
failed to install or maintain the required backflow prevention device.
(Ord. 63-10. Adopted 02/14/63; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1010.11 BULK WATER PROGRAM.
   (a)   Authority of the City Manager. The City Manager is hereby authorized
to establish, by administrative directive, a program for the sale of bulk
potable water. The City Manager shall establish rules and regulations for
participation in the bulk water program, which shall, at a minimum, require:
      (1)   All purchasers of bulk water to create a bulk operator account with
the City;
      (2)   A deposit of five hundred dollars ($500) at the opening of each
account;
      (3)   An annual fee of one hundred twenty dollars ($120), which shall be
prorated to the month when the account is opened; and
      (4)   Purchasers shall pay for bulk water purchased by the gallon,
rounded up to the nearest whole gallon, at the current usage rate per gallon,
plus fifty percent (50%).
   (b)   Authority of the Finance Director. The Finance Director is hereby
authorized to close any bulk operator account when the operator has not paid
the required annual fee within thirty (30) days of the date of the invoice from
the City or when any operator account has an outstanding balance of five
hundred dollars ($500) or more that is more than sixty (60) days past due. Upon
closing an account, the Finance Director shall refund the deposit to the
operator, minus any unpaid balance on the operator's account.
   (c)   Participation. The City Manager is hereby authorized to deny further
participation in the bulk water program to any operator whose account has been
closed due to nonpayment or who violates any of the rules or regulations
established for the program by the City Manager by administrative directive.
(Ord. 78-29. Adopted 06/22/78; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1010.98 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision, section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of this
Chapter is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such holding or decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining provisions of this Chapter.
(Ord. 63-10. Adopted 02/14/63; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1010.99 PENALTIES.
   (a)   Penalties. Whoever violates any of the provisions of this Chapter or
any rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code, the Ohio
Administrative Code, or the Water Utility Rules and Regulations, shall be
guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (b)   Damages. Whoever violates any of the provisions of this Chapter or any
rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code, the Ohio
Administrative Code, or the Water Utility Rules and Regulations shall be liable
to the City for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the City by reason of
such violation, in addition to the penalty provided in division (a) of this
section.
   (c)   Civil Action. The criminal penalties set forth in division (a) of this
section are not exclusive, and nothing shall prohibit the City from also
pursuing a civil action including, but not limited to, injunction, declaratory
judgment, or civil penalties against any person who violates any of the
provisions of this Chapter or any rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to
the Ohio Revised Code, Ohio Administrative Code, or the Water Utility Rules and
Regulations.
(Ord. 88-81. Adopted 08/11/88; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
CHAPTER 1015
Sanitary Sewer Utility
1015.01   General Provisions
1015.02   Sewer Main Installations and Extensions
1015.03   Tap-In Fees
1015.04   Usage Rates and Minimum Discharge Amounts
1015.05   Use of Sanitary Sewer
1015.06   Inspections; Right of Entry
1015.07   Shut-Offs for Repairs or Testing
1015.08   Rejection or Pretreatment
1015.09   Private Wastewater Disposal Systems
1015.10   Required Backflow Prevention
1015.11   Special Agreements
1015.12   Prohibitions   
1015.98   Severability
1015.99   Penalties
   CROSS REFERENCES
   Authority to Own and Operate Public Utility - see O. Const. Art. XVIII § 4
   Extraterritorial Customers - see S.U.&P.S.
CH. 1031
   Industrial Users; Extra-strength Surcharges - see S.U.&P.S.
CH. 1016
   Power to Require Sanitary Sewer Connections - see ORC 729.06
   Powers of Municipal Corporations - see ORC 717.01
   Rules and Regulations, Authority to Make - see ORC 729.51
   Unpaid Sanitary Sewer Fees, Assessments for - see ADMIN.
250.04
   Utility Billing - see S.U.&P.S.
CH. 1030
   Utility Funds - see ADMIN.
251.04
§ 1015.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (a)   General. The public sanitary sewer utility, the sanitary sewer system,
and connections to the system shall be regulated in accordance with the
provisions of this Chapter, any other applicable provisions of the Streets,
Utilities & Public Services Code, any other applicable provisions of the Xenia
City Code, and any applicable provisions of the Ohio Revised Code, Ohio
Administrative Code, Ohio Building Code, Ohio Fire Code, and any applicable
federal laws.
   (b)   Rules and Regulations. The Public Service Director is hereby
authorized to promulgate rules and regulations regarding the construction of
and materials used for sanitary mains, service lines, curb boxes, pipes, and
other appurtenances or facilities; the use and conditions for use of the City's
public sanitary sewer utility and system and connections thereto; and any
regulations necessary to carry out the Public Service Director's duties under
this Chapter, the Xenia City Code, and any applicable federal or state law,
rule, or regulation. Such rules and regulations shall be known as the "Sanitary
Sewer Utility Rules and Regulations," shall be made available to the public on
the City's website and shall be kept up to date.
   (c)   Use of Sanitary Sewer Required. The owners of all buildings within the
City that are used, or are intended to be used, for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or any other purposes and which abut any street, alley,
or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the future be located a
public sanitary sewer main, are hereby required, at their expense, to install
suitable plumbing facilities therein and to connect such facilities directly
with the proper sanitary sewer main, in accordance with the provisions of this
Chapter and the Sanitary Sewer Utility Rules and Regulations, within ninety
(90) days after the date of official notice from the City to do so; provided,
however, that such public sanitary sewer main is:
      (1)   Within one hundred feet (100') of the property line;
      (2)   Within three hundred feet (300') of the building to be served; and
      (3)   Able to be served by gravity flow.
   (d)   Scope. Every person whose premises are served by a connection to the
sanitary sewer utility system, which connection discharges sanitary wastewater,
industrial wastewater, cooling water or other liquids, either directly or
indirectly, into the sanitary sewer facilities under the jurisdiction of the
City will be charged for the use of the City's sanitary sewer utility. The
sanitary sewer utility usage charges shall be applied to each and every
premises discharging to the sanitary sewer utility system, and the charges
shall be as specified in this Chapter.
(Ord. 79-33. Adopted 06/14/79; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1015.02 SEWER MAIN INSTALLATIONS AND EXTENSIONS.
   (a)   Approval.
      (1)   All sanitary sewer main installations and extensions proposed for
connection to the City's sanitary sewer utility that are to be constructed by a
person other than the City, when such installation or extension lies completely
within the corporate limits of the City, shall require the written approval of
the City Engineer and the City Manager.
      (2)   All sanitary sewer main installations and extensions proposed for
connection to the City's sanitary sewer utility that are to be constructed by a
person other than the City, when any part of such installation or extension
lies outside of the corporate limits of the City, shall require the approval of
City Council, by resolution and, if applicable, the approval of the Greene
County Board of Commissioners pursuant to ORC 6117.01.
      (3)   The City Manager, or the City Council upon the recommendation of
the City Manager, may refuse to approve any installation or extension of, or
new connection to, the City's sanitary sewer utility when, in the opinion of
the City Engineer, there is insufficient available capacity at downstream
facilities, including treatment plant capacity. Capacity shall be determined on
the basis of design criteria previously approved or established by the Ohio
EPA.
   (b)   Utility Easements. No sanitary sewer main installed or extended shall
be connected to the City's sanitary sewer utility nor shall any sanitary sewer
service be provided without the person to whom approval for the installation or
extension was granted pursuant to division (a) of this section having first
obtained and recorded the necessary utility easements for said main
installation or extension at the person's own expense. Such utility easements
shall be at least fifteen feet (15') in width, unless otherwise approved by the
Public Service Director, and the language of such easements shall be approved
by the City Law Director before recording.
   (c)   Size of Mains; Materials. The size of the mains and the materials to
be used in all sanitary sewer main construction now or hereafter proposed shall
be as set forth in the Sanitary Sewer Utility Rules and Regulations.
   (d)   Plan Review and Inspection Fee. The party requesting and providing for
the sanitary sewer main installation or extension will be subject to the
payment of a plan review and inspection fee to cover the City's cost of
reviewing the plans of the proposed installation or extension and inspection of
the sanitary sewer main installation or extension. The plan review and
inspection fee shall be as set forth in the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code.
   (e)   City to Share in Cost of Certain Mains. Upon determination by the City
Engineer as to the sizes of sanitary sewer mains necessary to serve a
subdivision or undeveloped area, larger mains may be required by the City
Engineer in order to adequately supply a subsequently developed area. In such
cases, the City shall pay the difference in cost between the sizes necessary
for the subdivision or undeveloped area and the City-required larger mains.
Where it is necessary to extend a main through an undeveloped area, or an area
already served, in order to reach and serve a new subdivision or area to be
developed, the City may pay the cost or such portion of the cost of such
sanitary sewer main as the City Engineer may determine from the future customer
potential thereof; however, in no case above-mentioned shall the City
participate in the cost of sewer mains eight inches (8") in diameter or less,
or in the cost of sanitary sewer mains connected to a sanitary sewer system
other than that of the City.
(Ord. 79-33. Adopted 06/14/79; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1015.03 TAP-IN FEES.
   (a)   Tap-ins. No connection shall be made from individual properties to a
City sanitary sewer main without payment of the required tap-in fee. Such
connections shall be made and constructed in accordance with the provisions of
this Chapter and the Sanitary Sewer Utility Rules and Regulations.
   (b)   Tap-In Fees.
      (1)   Tap-in fees for connection to the City's sanitary sewer utility and
inspection fees shall be as set forth in the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code.
      (2)   The fees set for tap-ins shall be based on the size of the required
water meter. The inspection fee shall be paid at the same time as the tap-in
fee.
      (3)   Tap-ins made by extraterritorial customers shall be at the current
tap-in fee plus fifty percent (50%), in addition to the inspection fee.
      (4)   All fees shall be paid in full before any work is performed.
   (c)   Waiver of Tap-In Fees for Economic Development. For the purpose of
encouraging new commercial and industrial development within the City, the
waiver of all or any portion of the tap-in fees required under this section for
economic development projects within the City may be granted as follows:
      (1)   For tap-in fees of $30,000 or less, the City Manager is hereby
authorized to approve the waiver of all or any portion of the tap-in fee, by
written administrative directive.
      (2)   For tap-in fees over $30,000, Council may approve the waiver of all
or any portion of the tap-in fee, by resolution.
      (3)   Waiver of a tap-in fee shall not include waiver of the required
inspection fee or meter fee.
(Ord. 82-14. Adopted 03/25/82; Ord. 84-64. Adopted 11/20/84; Ord. 88-92.
Adopted 10/13/88; Ord. 95-58. Adopted 08/24/95; Ord. 00-35. Adopted 08/10/00;
Ord. 04-21. Adopted 05/13/04; Ord. 06-91. Adopted 12/28/06; Ord. 08-05. Adopted
01/10/08; Ord. 12-08. Adopted 03/22/12; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em.
Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1015.04 USAGE RATES AND MINIMUM DISCHARGE AMOUNTS.
   (a)   Usage Rates and Minimum Discharge Amounts. The sanitary sewer usage
rate and minimum discharge amount for all sanitary sewer utility services
located within the City, for the purposes of computing the monthly sanitary
sewer service charge per customer, shall be as set forth in the City's Fee
Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code.
   (b)   Minimum Monthly Charge. A minimum charge based on the sanitary sewer
usage rate and minimum discharge rate shall be billed for any sanitary sewer
service which is not ordered discontinued, even though no sanitary sewer
service is used.
   (c)   Annual Increase.
      (1)   Beginning January 1, 2026, the sanitary sewer usage rate shall be
subject to an annual increase equal to the percentage obtained by averaging the
national inflation rates from the United States Labor Department, Bureau of
Labor Statistics, for the previous three (3) years. This increase shall be
referred to as the Cost of Living Adjustment (COLA). The new sanitary sewer
usage rate will be established annually by adding the COLA to the then current
sanitary sewer usage rate. The Finance Director is hereby authorized to update
the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A of the City Government Code, to reflect the yearly COLA increase.
      (2)   The Finance Director may, no later than February 1st, recommend to
City Council the waiver of all or any part of the yearly COLA increase, and
such recommendation may be for one year or multiple years. Upon such
recommendation by the Finance Director, City Council may, by resolution, waive
all or any part of the proposed COLA increase for one year or multiple years.
      (3)   If City Council takes no action to waive all or any part of the
proposed COLA increase, in accordance with division (c)(2) of this section, the
yearly COLA increase shall be implemented by the Finance Director no later than
March 1st of that year.
   (d)   Provision of Sanitary Sewer Service; Billing. The delivery of sanitary
sewer service to customers and the billing for such service shall be in
accordance with the provisions of this Chapter and Chapter 1030.
   (e)   Meters.
      (1)   All properties that are served by the City's sanitary sewer utility
and the City's water utility shall be required to have installed upon the
outside of the premises a water meter, in a location determined by the Public
Service Director, for the purpose of determining the amount of sanitary sewer
service used by the property.
      (2)   If an installed water meter has failed to register the amount of
water consumed, the monthly sanitary sewer usage shall be estimated based on
the customer's prior usage during the same month of the preceding year or, if
the customer had no prior usage during the same month of the preceding year, by
taking an average of the customer's prior usage during the preceding three (3)
months or less.
      (3)   For properties that are not served by the City's water utility but
are served by City's sanitary sewer utility, such properties may be required by
the Public Service Director to install an approved sewer meter as a condition
for the provision of service.
   (f)   Governmental Entities. The use of the sanitary sewer utility by a
federal, state, or local governmental entity may be in accordance with rates,
conditions and terms as outlined in a written contract executed between the
City and the governmental entity when such a contract is required by the City.
(Ord. 82-14. Adopted 03/25/82; Ord. 95-74. Adopted 12/14/95; Ord. 99-35.
Adopted 08-12-99; Ord. 04-19. Adopted 05/13/04; Ord. 08-05. Adopted 01/10/08;
Ord. 12-08. Adopted 03/22/12 Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01.
Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1015.05 USE OF SANITARY SEWER.
   (a)   Prohibition of Unpolluted Water.
      (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged, either
directly or indirectly, any stormwater, surface water, ground water, roof
runoff, or subsurface drainage into the City's sanitary sewer system. Any such
connections shall be subject to immediate removal by the owner of the premises
or may be removed by the City in accordance with division (a)(3) of this
section.
      (2)   No sub-foundation building drains shall be permitted to connect to
the City's sanitary sewer system, and any such connections shall be subject to
immediate removal by the owner of the premises or may be removed by the City in
accordance with division (a)(3) of this section.
      (3)   Should the owner of such an illegally connected premises fail to
remove the connection within thirty (30) days after the date of official notice
to do so, the Public Service Director shall cause the connection to be removed
and the cost thereof shall be billed to the owner of the premises. If such cost
is not paid within sixty (60) days, the City shall certify such cost to the
Greene County Auditor as an assessment upon the property.
   (b)   Protection of Sanitary and Building Sewers During Construction. No
person constructing or repairing a sanitary sewer main or lateral shall leave
the same open, unsealed, or incomplete in such a fashion as to permit storm,
surface, or subsurface water to enter the City's sanitary sewer system.
   (c)   Obstructions in Sewers. No garbage or obstruction of any kind shall be
placed or thrown in any receiving basin or sewer, and any person so offending
shall be subject to penalty for each offense.
(Ord. 79-33. Adopted 06/04/79; Ord. 04-28. Adopted 07/08/04; Ord. 05-23.
Adopted 06/09/05; Ord. 10-42. Adopted 09/10/10; Ord. 15-41. Adopted 09/10/15;
Ord. 2020-20. Adopted 08/27/20; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1015.06 INSPECTIONS; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (a)   Right of Entry. The employees of the Public Service Department are
hereby authorized, at reasonable hours, to enter on any property, or into any
building or structure supplied with service from the City's sanitary sewer
utility in order to make inspections of any meter; to shut off or turn off any
service; to repair, maintain, or replace any meter or any part of the public
sanitary sewer system as may be necessary; to undertake any necessary or
required sampling or testing, or for any other reasonable purpose connected to
the City's sanitary sewer utility.
   (b)   Shut-Off. If the employees of the Public Service Department are
improperly denied entry to any property, building or structure when required
under division (a) of this section, the water service to that property,
building, or structure may be disconnected when, in the opinion of the Public
Service Director, such disconnection is necessary for the safety or integrity
of the City's sanitary sewer utility. In such circumstances, the customer shall
be responsible for the payment of any reconnection fee, as set forth in the
City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code (see Chapter 1030).
(Ord. 79-33; Adopted 06/14/79; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1015.07 SHUT-OFFS FOR REPAIRS OR TESTING.
   The City shall have the right to shut off service to one or more properties,
buildings, or structures when such shut-offs are necessary to make repairs, to
conduct testing, or when necessary to assure the safety or integrity of the
City's sanitary sewer utility. The City will make every effort to notify
affected customers at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to such shut-off,
except in the case of emergencies. In no case shall the City be liable to any
customer for any accident, damage, or claim that may result from such necessary
shut-off.
(Ord. 2023-28. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1015.08 REJECTION OR PRETREATMENT.
   (a)   Rejection. Where the character of wastewater from any facility,
building, structure or premises is such that it will damage the sanitary sewer
utility, mains, lift stations, or any part of the sanitary sewer system or is
such that it cannot be satisfactorily treated by the sanitary sewer utility, as
determined by the Public Service Director, the Director is hereby authorized
and granted the authority to compel the facility, building, structure or
premises to otherwise dispose of such wastewater and prevent it from entering
the City's sanitary sewer system.
   (b)   Pretreatment. Where the character of wastewater from any facility,
building, structure or premises is such that it imposes an unreasonable burden
upon the sanitary sewer utility, mains, lift stations, or any part of the
sanitary sewer system and such burden is greater than that imposed by normal
wastewater, as determined by the Public Service Director, the Director is
hereby authorized and granted the authority to compel the facility, building,
structure or premises to comply with the requirements of Chapter 1016.
(Ord. 82-14. Adopted 03/25/82; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1015.09 PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   When a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
Section 1015.01(c), the sewer for the premises, structure, or building shall be
connected to a private wastewater disposal system. Such system shall conform to
the Household Sewage Disposal Rules as contained in OAC Chapter 3701-29, and
rules of the Ohio EPA, and any permitting requirements of the Greene County
Health District.
(Ord. 79-33. Adopted 06/14/79; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1015.10 REQUIRED BACKFLOW PREVENTION.
   (a)   Backflow Prevention. An approved backflow prevention device shall be
installed on each sanitary sewer connection/service line, both existing and new
lines, to prevent damage caused by sanitary sewer flooding. The customer, at
his or her expense, shall install and maintain such an approved device at a
location and in a manner set forth in the Sanitary Sewer Utility Rules and
Regulations.
   (b)   Inspection Fees. All backflow devices that require testing by the Ohio
EPA shall provide proof of an annual inspection by a certified plumber or shall
have the City Public Service Department perform the required testing, if such
service is offered by the Public Service Department. If the City performs the
required testing, the property owner shall pay the City an inspection fee, as
set forth in the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code.
   (c)   Disclaimer. Nothing in this section shall be construed to create, in
general or with respect to any particular customer or property, any obligation
for the Public Service Department to inspect a backflow prevention device, nor
any obligation or responsibility on the Public Service Department or the City
to assure that such backflow prevention device has been installed and is being
maintained. Further, nothing in this section shall be construed to create, in
general or with respect to any particular customer or property, any liability
on the City for any claim for damages for sewer backup where the customer has
failed to install or maintain the required backflow prevention device.
(Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1015.11 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed to prevent any special
agreement or contract between the City and any industrial user whereby
industrial wastewater of unusual strength, character, or quantity may be
accepted by the City for treatment, subject to payment by the user for such
service.
(Ord. 82-14; Adopted 03/25/82; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1015.12 PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   Dumping. No person shall place or deposit, or permit to be placed or
deposited on public or private property within the City any human excrement or
other objectional waste that is required under EPA guidelines to be disposed of
in a sanitary sewer system.
   (b)   Unlawful Discharge. No person shall discharge into the City's
stormwater management system or natural outlet, creek, stream or other waterway
within the City any sewage or other polluted waters that is required under EPA
guidelines to be disposed of in a sanitary sewer system.
   (c)   Damaging or Tampering. No person shall maliciously, willfully, or
negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or otherwise tamper with
any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the City's sanitary
sewer utility.
(Ord. 79-33. Adopted 06/14/79; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1015.98 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision, section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of this
Chapter is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such holding or decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining provisions of this Chapter.
(Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1015.99 PENALTIES.
   (a)   Penalties. Whoever violates any of the provisions of this Chapter or
any rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code, Ohio
Administrative Code, or the Sanitary Sewer Utility Rules and Regulations, shall
be guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). A separate offense shall be deemed committed
each day during which or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (b)   Damages. Whoever violates any of the provisions of this Chapter or any
rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code, the Ohio
Administrative Code, or the Sanitary Sewer Rules and Regulations shall be
liable to the City for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the City by
reason of such violation, in addition to the penalty provided in division (a)
of this section.
   (c)   Civil Action. The criminal penalties set forth in division (a) of this
section are not exclusive, and nothing shall prohibit the City from also
pursuing a civil action including, but not limited to, injunction, declaratory
judgment, or civil penalties against any person who violates any of the
provisions of this Chapter or any rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to
the Ohio Revised Code, Ohio Administrative Code, or the Sanitary Sewer Utility
Rules and Regulations.
(Ord. 79-33. Adopted 06/14/79; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
CHAPTER 1016
Discharges into Wastewater Treatment Plant
1016.01   Purpose and Policy
1016.02   Administration
1016.03   Definitions
1016.04   Prohibitions and Limitations on Wastewater Discharges
1016.05   Control of Wastewater Discharges
1016.06   General Requirements
1016.07   Industrial Discharge Permit System
1016.08   Industrial Wastewater Monitoring and Reporting
1016.09   Fees; Extra Strength Surcharges
1016.10   Enforcement Procedures
1016.11   Penalty Provisions
1016.12   Savings Clause
   CROSS REFERENCES
   Authority to Own and Operate Public Utility - see O. Const. Art. XVIII § 4
   Extraterritorial Customers - see S.U.&P.S.
CH. 1031
   Power to Require Sanitary Sewer Connections - see ORC 729.06
   Powers of Municipal Corporations - see ORC 717.01; 715.40
   Rules and Regulations, Authority to Make - see ORC 729.51
   Unpaid Sanitary Sewer Fees, Assessments for - see ADMIN.
250.04
   Utility Billing - see S.U.&P.S.
CH. 1030
§ 1016.01 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (a)   Objectives. This Chapter of the Streets, Utilities, and Public
Services Code sets forth uniform requirements for users of the City's
wastewater collection system and the publicly owned treatment works, known
collectively as the Xenia Wastewater Treatment Plant ("XWWTP"), in compliance
with all applicable State and Federal laws, including the Clean Water Act (33
USC 1251 et seq.), and the General Pretreatment Regulations (40 CFR Part 403).
The objectives of this Chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the XWWTP that will
interfere with the operation of the XWWTP;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the XWWTP that will
pass through the XWWTP, inadequately treated, into receiving waters or
otherwise be incompatible with the XWWTP;
      (3)   To protect both XWWTP personnel who may be affected by wastewater
and sludge in the course of their employment and the general public;
      (4)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge
from the XWWTP;
      (5)   To provide for fees for excess strength of wastewater discharged to
the XWWTP; and
      (6)   To enable the XWWTP to comply with its NPDES Permit conditions,
sludge use and disposal requirements and any other Federal or State laws to
which the facility is subject.
   (b)   Applicability. This Chapter shall apply to all industrial and/or any
significant users of the XWWTP.
   (c)   Purpose. This Chapter authorizes the issuance of wastewater discharge
permits; authorizes monitoring, compliance, and enforcement activities;
establishes administrative review and enforcement procedures; requires
industrial user reporting; and provides for fees for excess strength of waste
discharged to the XWWTP.
(Ord. 2020-20. Adopted 08/27/20; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1016.02 ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the Public Service Director shall
administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this Chapter. Any powers
granted to, or duties imposed upon, the Public Service Director may be
designated by the Director to a duly authorized City employee.
(Ord. 2020-20. Adopted 08/27/20; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1016.03 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the following terms, as
used in this Chapter, shall have the meanings hereinafter designated:
   (a)   The Act. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
"Clean Water Act," and any amendments thereto (33 USC 1251 et seq.).
   (b)   Approval Authority. The State of Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
(Ohio EPA).
   (c)   Authorized or Duly Authorized Representative of the User.
      (1)   If the user is a corporation:
         A.   The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
         B.   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operation facilities, provided that the manager:
            (i)   Is authorized to make management decisions that govern the
operation of the regulated facility, including having the explicit or implicit
duty of making major capital-investment recommendations, and of initiating and
directing other comprehensive measures to assure long-term environmental
compliance with environmental laws and regulations;
            (ii)   Can ensure that the necessary systems are established or
that the necessary actions are taken to gather complete and accurate
information for control-mechanism requirements; and
            (iii)   Is assigned or delegated the authority to sign documents in
accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   A general partner or proprietor, if the industrial user submitting
the report is a partnership or sole proprietorship, respectively.
      (3)   A member or manager if the industrial user submitting the report is
a limited liability company.
      (4)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated in
division (c)(1), (c)(2) or (c)(3) of this section, if:
         A.   The authorization is made in writing by the individual described
in division (c)(1), (c)(2) or (c)(3) of this section;
         B.   The authorization specifies either an individual or a position
having responsibility for the overall operation of the facility from which the
industrial discharge originates, such as the position of plant manager or a
position of equivalent responsibility, or having overall responsibility for
environmental matters for the company; and
         C.   The written authorization is submitted to the control authority.
      (5)   If an authorization under division (c)(4) of this section is no
longer accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility
for the overall operation of the facility or overall responsibility for
environmental matters for the company, a new authorization satisfying the
requirements of division (c)(4) of this section shall be submitted to the
control authority prior to, or together with, any reports to be signed by an
authorized representative.
   (d)   Best Management Practices (BMPs). The schedules of activities,
prohibitions of practices, maintenance procedures and other management
practices to implement the prohibitions listed in OAC Section 3745-3-04. BMPs
also include treatment requirements, operating procedures, and practices to
control plant site-runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge, or waste disposal and/or
drainage from raw materials storage.
   (e)   Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20° C), expressed in terms of
concentration by weight per unit volume.
   (f)   Bypass. The intentional diversion of wastes from any portion of a
treatment or pretreatment facility.
   (g)   Categorical Industrial User. An industrial user subject to a
categorical pretreatment standard or categorical standard.
   (h)   Categorical Pretreatment Standards. Any standard, including national
categorical pretreatment standards, specifying quantities of concentrations of
pollutants or pollutant properties that may be discharged to a XWWTP by a new
or existing industrial user in specific industrial categories.
   (i)   CFR. The Code of Federal Regulations, and any amendments thereto.
   (j)   Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD). A measure of the oxygen required to
oxidize all compounds, both organic and inorganic, in water.
   (k)   City. The City of Xenia, Ohio.
   (l)   Composite Sample. A sample that is collected over time, formed either
by time-continuous sampling or by mixing discrete samples.
      (1)   The sample may be composited as a time-composite sample composed of
discrete sample aliquots collected in one container at constant-time intervals
providing representative samples irrespective of stream flow; or
      (2)   The same may be composited as a flow-proportional composite sample,
collected either as a constant sample volume at time intervals proportional to
stream flow or collected by increasing the volume of each aliquot as the flow
increases while maintaining a constant time interval between the aliquots.
   (m)   Control Authority. The City of Xenia, Ohio.
   (n)   Cooling Water.
      (1)   Uncontaminated or Non-Contact Cooling Water: Water used for cooling
purposes only that has no direct contact with any raw material, intermediate
product or final product and that does not contain a level of contaminants
detectably higher than that of the intake water.
      (2)   Contaminated or Contact Cooling Water: Water used for cooling
purposes only that may become contaminated either through the use of water
treatment chemicals used for corrosion inhibitors or biocides or by direct
contact with process materials and/or wastewater.
   (o)   Daily Maximum. The maximum allowable discharge of a pollutant during a
calendar day. Where daily maximum limitations are expressed in units of mass,
the daily discharge is the total mass discharged over the course of the day.
Where daily maximum limitations are expressed in terms of a concentration, the
daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant
concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.
   (p)   Director. The Public Service Director of the City of Xenia and/or his
designee.
   (q)   Domestic Wastewater. The liquid wastes resulting from the
noncommercial preparation, cooking and handling of food, or liquid wastes
containing human excrement and/or similar matter from the sanitary conveniences
of dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, and institutions.
   (r)   EPA.
      (1)   USEPA means the United States Environmental Protection Agency; and
      (2)   OEPA means the State of Ohio Environmental Protection Agency.
   (s)   Grab Sample. An individual sample collected in less than fifteen (15)
minutes, without regard for flow or time.
   (t)   Indirect Discharge. The introduction of pollutants into the XWWTP from
any nondomestic source.
   (u)   Industrial User. An institution, or a manufacturing, commercial or
industrial facility, or any other trade or business establishment discharging
non-domestic wastewater to the XWWTP.
   (v)   Industrial Wastewater. Any water that, during manufacturing or
processing, comes into direct contact with, or results from, the production or
use of any raw material, intermediate product, finished product, by-product or
waste product.
   (w)   Interference. A discharge that, along or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other courses, inhibits or disrupts the XWWTP, its
treatment processes or operations or its sludge processes use or disposal; or a
discharge that is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the XWWTP's
NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation
or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal.
   (x)   Local Limits. The specific discharge limits developed and enforced by
the control authority upon industrial or commercial facilities to implement the
general and specific discharge prohibitions listed in 40 CFR 403.5(a)(1) and
(b).
   (y)   Mid-Tier Categorical User. A significant industrial user subject to
categorical pretreatment standards under 40 CFR 403.6 and 40 CFR Chapter I,
Subchapter N, who the control authority determines is subject to a reduction in
the user's reporting requirement and the control authority's monitoring and
inspection requirements, upon satisfaction of the following conditions:
      (1)   The industrial user's total categorical wastewater flow does not
exceed any of the following:
         A.   One percent (1.0%) of the design dry-weather hydraulic capacity
of the XWWTP, or five thousand gallons (5000 gal.) per day, whichever is
smaller, as measured by a continuous-effluent-flow monitoring device unless the
industrial user discharges in batches;
         B.   One percent (0.01%) of the design dry-weather organic treatment
capacity of the XWWTP; or
         C.   One percent (0.01%) of the maximum allowable headworks-loading
for any pollutant regulated by the applicable categorical pretreatment
standards for which approved local limits were developed by the XWWTP;
      (2)   The industrial user has not been in significant noncompliance, as
defined in this Chapter, for any time in the past two (2) years; and
      (3)   The industrial user does not have daily flow rates, production
levels or pollutant levels which vary so significantly that decreasing the
reporting requirement would result in data that is not representative of
conditions occurring during the reporting period.
   (z)   Monthly Average. The arithmetic mean of all daily discharges during a
calendar month.
   (aa)   National Categorical Pretreatment Standard. A categorical
pretreatment standard promulgated by the USEPA Administrator, in accordance
with Section 307 of the Act, and established under 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter
N.
   (bb)   National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES). The program
for issuing, conditioning, and denying permits for the discharge of pollutants,
under the authority of Section 402 of the Act, into navigable waters of the
United States.
   (cc)   National Pretreatment Standard. Any regulation of the USEPA
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the USEPA Administrator,
in accordance with Sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act, that applies to
industrial users. This term includes prohibitive discharge limits established
pursuant to 40 CFR 403.5.
   (dd)   NPDES Permit. A permit issued to the XWWTP, as a POTW, pursuant to
Section 402 of the Act.
   (ee)   New Source. Any building, structure, facility, or installation from
which there is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which
began after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under Section
307 (c) of the Act that will be applicable to such source, if such standards
are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section; provided, however,
that one of the following three conditions are met:
      (1)   The construction occurs at a new site;
      (2)   The construction on an existing site totally replaces the process
or production equipment causing the discharge; or
      (3)   The construction is substantially independent of an existing source
at the same site.
New source dischargers are required to install and start up technology prior to
discharging to the XWWTP and to achieve compliance within the shortest time
feasible, not to exceed ninety (90) days after commencement of discharge.
   (ff)   Nonsignificant Categorical Industrial User. An industrial user
subject to 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, who the control authority determines
is a nonsignificant categorical industrial user rather than a significant
industrial user, upon finding that the industrial user does not discharge more
than one hundred gallons (100 gal.) per day of total categorical wastewater
(excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler blowdown wastewater) and if
the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The industrial user has consistently complied with all applicable
categorical pretreatment standards and requirements;
      (2)   The user submits an annual certification statement required in OAC
Section 3745-3-06(J) together with any additional information necessary to
support the certification statement; and
      (3)   The user never discharges any untreated concentrated wastewater.
   (gg)   OAC. The Ohio Administrative Code, and any amendments thereto.
   (hh)   ORC. The Ohio Revised Code, and any amendments thereto.
   (ii)   Pass-Through. A discharge which exits the XWWTP into waters of the
United States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction
with a discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of
any requirement of the XWWTP's NPDES permit, including an increase in the
magnitude or duration of a violation.
   (jj)   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen
ions in grams per liter of solution that is used as an expression of the acid
or alkaline base condition of a liquid measured on a scale from zero to
fourteen (0 to 14), where zero (0) is most acidic, fourteen (14) is most
alkaline, and seven (7) is neutral.
   (kk)   Pretreatment. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, discharging such wastewater
into the XWWTP.
   (ll)   Pretreatment Requirement. Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard imposed on
industrial users of the XWWTP.
   (mm)   Pretreatment Standards. Include prohibited discharge standards,
categorical pretreatment standards and/or local limits.
   (nn)   Prohibitive Discharge Standards. The prohibitive discharge limits
established pursuant to 40 CFR 403.5 and contained in Section
1016.04 of this Chapter.
   (oo)   Process Wastewater. Has the same meaning as industrial wastewater
(see division (v), above).
   (pp)   Significant Industrial User (SIU).
      (1)   All industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment standards;
or
      (2)   An industrial user that discharges an average of twenty-five
thousand gallons (25,000 gal.) per day or more of process wastewater to the
XWWTP; or contributes a process waste stream which makes up five percent (5%)
or more of the average dry-weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the XWWTP;
or has a reasonable potential, in the opinion of the Director, to adversely
affect the XWWTP's operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or
requirement, except that the Director may, at any time, on his own initiative
or in response to a petition received from an industrial user, determine that
such user should not be considered.
   (qq)   Significant Non-Compliance. A violation by a significant industrial
user that meets one (1) or more of the following criteria:
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which sixty-six percent (66%) or more of all of the measurements taken
for the same pollutant parameter at any permitted monitoring point during a six
(6) month period exceed, by any magnitude, a numeric pretreatment standard or
requirement, including instantaneous limits;
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here are those
in which thirty-three percent (33%) or more of all of the measurements taken
for the same pollutant parameter at any permitted monitoring point during a six
(6) month period equal or exceed the product of the numeric pretreatment
standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits multiplied by the
applicable TRC:
            TRC = 1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease
            TRC = 1.2 for all other pollutants except for pH;
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement, as
defined by OAC 3745-03-01, that the control authority determines has caused,
alone or in conjunction with other discharges, interference or pass-through,
including endangering the health of XWWTP personnel or the general public;
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to human health, welfare or to the environment, or that has resulted in the
XWWTP's exercise of emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days after the scheduled date,
a compliance schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction or
attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide, within forty-five (45) days after the due date,
required reports such as baseline monitoring reports, ninety (90) day
compliance reports, periodic self-monitoring reports and reports on compliance
with compliance schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report non-compliance; or
      (8)   Any other violation or group of violations, which may include a
violation of BMPs, that the Director determines will adversely affect the
operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
   (rr)   Slugload/Slug Discharge. Any discharge at a flow rate and/or
pollutant concentration which could cause a violation of the prohibited
discharge standards in Section 1016.04 of this Chapter. A slug discharge is any
discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature including, but not limited to, an
accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge which has a reasonable
potential to cause interference or pass-through, or in any other way violate
the XWWTP's regulations, local limits or permit conditions.
   (ss)   Surcharge. The assessment, in addition to other applicable charges,
which is levied on those persons and/or industrial users whose wastewater is
greater in strength than normal domestic sewage.
   (tt)   Suspended Solids.
      (1)   Solids that either float on the surface of or are in suspension in
water, wastewater or other liquids and which are largely removable by
laboratory filtering; and/or
      (2)   The quantity of material removed from wastewater in a laboratory
test, as prescribed in 40 CFR Part 136.
   (uu)   USC. The United States Code, and any amendments thereto.
   (vv)   User or Person. Any individual, firm, company, partnership,
corporation, association, group or society, including the State of Ohio and its
agencies, districts, commissions and political subdivisions.
   (ww)   Xenia Wastewater Treatment Plant (XWWTP). One or more publicly owned
treatment works (POTW), as defined by Section 212 of the Act, which is owned,
leased or contracted to operate by the City. This definition includes any
devices and/or systems used in the storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature. It also includes
sewers, pipes and other conveyances, if they convey wastewater to a publicly
owned treatment plant, and further includes the City's jurisdiction over the
discharges to and the discharges from the XWWTP.
(Ord. 2020-20. Adopted 08/27/20; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1016.04 PROHIBITIONS AND LIMITATIONS ON WASTEWATER DISCHARGES.
   (a)   General Prohibitions.
      (1)   No user shall introduce, or cause to be introduced, into the XWWTP
any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass-through or interference. These
general prohibitions apply to all users of the XWWTP, whether or not they are
subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any other Federal, State or
local pretreatment standard or requirement.
      (2)   No person shall discharge, convey, or permit, or allow to be
discharged or conveyed, to a public sewer any wastewater containing pollutants
of such character or quantity that will:
         A.   Not be susceptible to treatment or interfere with the process or
efficiency of the treatment system;
         B.   Violate pretreatment standards or requirements; or
         C.   Cause the XWWTP to violate its NPDES permit or applicable
receiving water standards.
   (b)   Specific Prohibitions. No user shall discharge or cause to be
introduced into the XWWTP any of the following:
      (1)   Pollutants that create a fire or explosion hazard in the XWWTP
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than one hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (140° F) or sixty degrees
Celsius (60° C) using the test method specified in 40 CFR 261.21;
      (2)   Pollutants that will cause corrosive structural damage to the
XWWTP, but in no case discharges with a pH lower than 6.0 or higher than 11.5;
      (3)   Solid or viscous pollutants in amounts that will cause obstruction
to the flow in the XWWTP and thereby result in interference;
      (4)   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.),
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration that will
cause interference with the XWWTP;
      (5)   Heat in amounts that will inhibit biological activity in the XWWTP
and result in interference, but in no case heat in such quantities that the
temperature at the XWWTP exceeds one hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (140° F)
or forty degrees Celsius (40° C);
      (6)   Discharges of petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil or
products of mineral-oil origin, if discharged in amounts than can cause pass-
through or interference;
      (7)   Pollutants that result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the XWWTP in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (8)   Any water or waste containing wax, fats, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l), or
containing substances that may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between thirty-two and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (32° - 150° F) or
between zero and sixty-five and one-half degrees Celsius (0° - 65.5° C);
      (9)   Noxious or malodorous solids, liquids, or gases which, either
singly or by interaction with other wastes, are capable of creating a public
nuisance or hazard to life, or are or may be sufficient to prevent entry into a
sewer for its maintenance and repair;
      (10)   Garbage that has not been ground or comminuted to such a degree
that all particles will be carried freely in suspension under flow conditions
normally prevailing in the public sewers, with no particle greater than one-
half inch (½") in any dimension;
      (11)   Wastewaters at a flow rate or containing such concentrations or
quantities of pollutants that exceeds, for any time period longer than fifteen
(15) minutes, more than five times (5x) the average twenty-four (24) hour
concentration, quantities, or flow during normal operation and that would cause
a treatment process upset and subsequent loss of treatment efficiency;
      (12)   Any toxic substances in amounts exceeding standards promulgated by
the Administrator of the USEPA, pursuant to Section 307(a) of the Act; any
chemical elements or compounds, phenols or other taste or odor-producing
substances; or any other substances which are not susceptible to treatment, or
that may interfere with the biological processes or efficiency of the XWWTP or
that will pass through the system including, but not limited to, cadmium,
chromium, copper, lead, nickel, and zinc;
      (13)   Any unpolluted water including, but not limited to, stormwater,
surface water, roof runoff and/or noncontact cooling water, that will increase
the hydraulic load on the XWWTP, unless otherwise specifically authorized by
the City;
      (14)   Wastes that impart color which cannot be removed by the treatment
process including, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions, and that consequently impart color to the XWWTP's effluent, thereby
violating the NPDES permit; or
      (15)   Discharges of trucked or hauled wastes, except at specific
locations and times as designated by the Director. Any removal of manhole lids
or other access to the sewer system for the purpose of discharging wastes at
times and/or locations other than those designated, or without the expressed
permission of the Director, shall be considered a violation and shall be
subject to enforcement action including fines and penalties allowed under this
Chapter.
   (c)   Exceptions. Nothing in this section shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the City and any user of the XWWTP
whereby wastewater of unusual strength or character is discharged into the
system; however, no agreement shall be made which violates any Federal or State
standards or requirements, including categorical pretreatment standards.
   (d)   Discharge Limitations.
      (1)   The approved pretreatment program for the XWWTP sets wastewater
discharge limitations for arsenic, cadmium, chromium, cyanide, copper, lead,
molybdenum, nickel, mercury, silver and zinc for significant industrial users
discharging to the City's sewer system. Such limits shall be specified in the
significant industrial user's wastewater discharge permit issued by the City.
      (2)   All other industrial users of the XWWTP may not discharge above
generally accepted domestic levels without receiving a wastewater discharge
permit from the City.
      (3)   Discharge permits shall impose maximum discharge-concentration
limits or mass-based limits where appropriate.
      (4)   Local requirements and limitations on discharges to the XWWTP shall
be met by all users subject to those standards in any instance in which they
are more stringent than Federal or State requirements and limitations.
      (5)   If the Director determines that the amount of water used by any
user is excessive or that the nature of the user's discharge to the XWWTP is
such that it requires extra treatment, the Director may impose additional
treatment requirements upon the user and said user may, in the sole discretion
of the Director, be subject to extra strength surcharges, as set forth in
Section
1016.09 of this Chapter.
   (e)   Standards.
      (1)   National categorical pretreatment standards, as promulgated by the
USEPA pursuant to the Act, shall be met by all industrial users who are subject
to such standards.
      (2)   State requirements and limitations on discharges to the XWWTP shall
be met by all users subject to those standards in any instance in which the
State requirements are more stringent than the Federal requirements and
limitations, or those in this Chapter or any other applicable ordinance.
(Ord. 2020-20. Adopted 08/27/20; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1016.05 CONTROL OF WASTEWATER DISCHARGES.
   (a)   City's Authority to Control Discharges. If wastewaters containing any
substances described in Section
1016.04 of this Chapter are discharged, or proposed to be discharged, into the
sewer system of the City or to any sewer system tributary thereto, the City
may:
      (1)   Prohibit the discharge of such wastewater;
      (2)   Require the user to make modifications that will reduce or
eliminate the discharge of such substance to achieve compliance with this
Chapter;
      (3)   Require pretreatment, including storage facilities or flow
equalization, necessary to reduce or eliminate the objectionable
characteristics or substances to achieve compliance with all categorical
pretreatment standards, local limits and prohibitions set out in Section
1016.04 of this Chapter;
      (4)   Require the user making, causing, or allowing the discharge to pay
any additional costs or expenses incurred for handling and treating excess
loads imposed on the XWWTP;
      (5)   Take any other remedial action as may be deemed desirable or
necessary to achieve the purposes of this Chapter; and/or
      (6)   Require the user responsible for the discharge or proposed
discharge to apply for and obtain a wastewater discharge permit authorizing and
limiting the discharge for specific pollutants.
   (b)   City Authority over Pretreatment or Flow Equalization.
      (1)   Where pretreatment or flow equalization prior to discharge into the
XWWTP is required, plans, specifications and other pertinent data or
information relating to such pretreatment or flow-control facilities shall
first be submitted to the City for review and approval. Such approval shall not
exempt the user from compliance with any other applicable code, ordinance,
rule, regulation, or order of any governmental authority. Any subsequent
alterations or additions to such pretreatment or flow-control facilities shall
not be made without due notice to and prior approval of the City.
      (2)   If pretreatment or flow equalization is required, such facilities
shall be maintained in good working order and operated as efficiently as
possible by the owner or operator at his or her own cost and expense, subject
to the requirements of these rules and regulations and all other applicable
codes, ordinances, and laws.
   (c)   Monitoring.
      (1)   The Director may require any user to provide, install and operate,
at the user's own expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling,
and flow measurement of the user's discharge to the City's sewer system. The
monitoring facility shall be situated on the user's premises and located so
that personnel will have unimpeded access at all times for inspection and
sample collection. If the facilities are locked, special arrangements shall be
made to allow access. The sampling and monitoring facilities shall meet the
City's requirements, and construction of such facilities shall not begin until
plans have been submitted to, and approved by, the City. The Director shall
also have the right to set up monitoring devices at the facilities. There shall
be ample room in or near such monitoring facilities to allow for additional
monitoring devices. The monitoring facilities, sampling and flow measuring
equipment must be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition by and at the expense of the user.
      (2)   Whenever the Director, in his sole discretion, deems it necessary,
an authorized representative of the City, upon presentation of identification,
may enter upon any property or premises at reasonable times for the purpose of
copying any records required to be kept under the provisions of this Chapter:
inspecting any processes or equipment where wastewater is generated and
discharged to the XWWTP; and/or sampling any discharge or wastewater to the
XWWTP.
   (d)   Protection Against Accidental Discharge/Slug Discharge. Each
industrial user shall provide, at its own cost and expense, protection from
accidental discharges of prohibited materials or other wastes regulated by this
Chapter. The Director shall evaluate whether each industrial user needs a
written accidental discharge/slug discharge control plan or other action to
control slug discharges. The Director may require any user to develop, submit
for approval, and implement such a plan or take such other action that may be
necessary to control slug discharges. An accidental discharge/slug discharge
control plan shall address, at a minimum, the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the Director and the XWWTP of
any accidental or slug discharge, as required by this Chapter; and
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge including, but are not limited to, inspection and maintenance of
storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and unloading
operations, control of plant site-runoff, worker training, building of
containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
   (e)   Duty to Notify Director. If, for any reason, a user does not comply
with, or will not be able to comply with, any prohibition or limitation in this
Chapter, the user responsible for such discharge shall immediately notify the
Director so that corrective action may be taken to protect the XWWTP. In
addition, a written report addressed to the Director detailing the exact date,
time and cause of the accidental discharge, and the duration, quantity, and
characteristics of the discharge, shall be filed by the responsible person
within five (5) days.
(Ord. 2020-20. Adopted 08/27/20; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1016.06 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Duty to Notify of Substantial Changes. All industrial users shall
promptly notify the Director, at least thirty (30) days in advance, of any
substantial changes in the volume or character of pollutants in their discharge
to the XWWTP, including the listed or characteristic hazardous wastes for which
the industrial user has submitted initial notification under 40 CFR 403.12(p).
   (b)   Prohibition Against Dilution. No industrial user shall increase the
use of process water or potable water or in any other way attempt to dilute a
discharge as a partial or complete substitution for adequate treatment in an
attempt to achieve compliance with a pretreatment standard or requirement.
   (c)   Notification of Problematic Discharges. All significant industrial
users shall notify the XWWTP immediately of all discharges that could cause
problems to the XWWTP, including any slug loads.
   (d)   Bypassing Pretreatment Facility Prohibited.
      (1)   All industrial users are prohibited from intentionally, recklessly,
or negligently bypassing any pretreatment facility.
      (2)   Pretreatment facilities are required to be operated at all times;
however, if an industrial user knows in advance of the need for a bypass due to
necessary repairs or maintenance, it must give prior notice to the Director and
XWWTP, at least ten (10) days before the date on which the bypass is to occur.
      (3)   In the case of an unanticipated/unplanned bypass, the industrial
user must notify the Director and XWWTP orally within twenty-four (24) hours of
becoming aware of the bypass. This twenty-four (24) hour notice must be
followed within five (5) days with a written description of the bypass, its
cause, duration and what has been done to rectify the situation or, if the
bypass has not been corrected, how long it is expected to continue.
(Ord. 2020-20. Adopted 08/27/20; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1016.07 INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGE PERMIT SYSTEM.
   (a)   Application for Wastewater Discharge Permits.
      (1)   All significant industrial users proposing to connect to, or
discharge into, any part of the XWWTP must first obtain a discharge permit from
the City, including the payment of an application fee, as set forth in the
City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code, and any other applicable fees.
      (2)   All existing significant industrial users connected to, or
discharging into, any part of the XWWTP must obtain a wastewater discharge
permit and pay any applicable fees within ninety (90) days from and after the
effective date of this Chapter.
      (3)   Permit Application: The Director may require the submission of all
or any of the following information as part of a permit application:
         A.   Identifying Information -
            (i)   The name and address of the facility, including the name of
the operator and owner; and
            (ii)   Contact information, description of activities, facilities
and plant production processes on the premises.
         B.   Environmental Permits - A list of any environmental control
permits held by or for the facility.
         C.   Description of Operations -
            (i)   A brief description of the nature, average rate of
production, including each product produced by type, amount, processes, and
rate of production, and standard industrial classifications of the operation(s)
carried out by the user. This description should include a schematic process
diagram that indicates points of discharge to the XWWTP from the regulated
processes;
            (ii)   Types of wastes generated and a list of all raw materials
and chemicals used or stored at the facility which are, or could accidentally
or intentionally be, discharged to the XWWTP;
            (iii)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation and
proposed or actual hours of operation;
            (iv)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and
maximum per day); and
            (v)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and
details to show all sewers, floor drains and appurtenances by size, location
and elevation, and all points of discharge.
         D.   Discharge Information - Information of the proposed or current
time and duration of all discharges.
         E.   Flow Measurement - Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the XWWTP from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula.
         F.   Measurement of Pollutants -
            (i)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process and any new categorically regulated processes for existing
sources;
            (ii)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature
and concentration and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the
Director, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process;
            (iii)   Instantaneous, daily maximum and long-term average
concentrations, or mass, where required, shall be reported; and
            (iv)   The sample shall be representative of daily operations and
shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures contained in 40 CFR 136, and
amendments thereto. Where the standard requires compliance with a BMP or
pollution prevention alternative, the user shall submit documentation as
required by the Director or the applicable standards to determine compliance
with the standard.
            (v)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set
out in Section
1016.08 of this Chapter.
         G.   Monitoring Information -
            (i)   The location for monitoring all wastes covered by the permit;
and
            (ii)   Any requests for a monitoring waiver, or a renewal of an
approved monitoring waiver, for a pollutant neither present nor expected to be
present in the discharge based on Section
1016.08 of this Chapter.
         H.   Other Information - Any other information as may be deemed
necessary by the Director to evaluate the permit application.
      (4)   After evaluation and acceptance of the data furnished, the Director
may issue a wastewater discharge permit subject to the terms and conditions
provided in divisions (b) and (c) of this section.
      (5)   Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and
will be returned to the user for revision.
   (b)   Wastewater Discharge Permit Contents. An individual wastewater
discharge permit shall include such conditions as are deemed reasonably
necessary by the Director to prevent pass-through or interference; to protect
the quality of the water body receiving the XWWTP's effluent; to protect worker
health and safety; to facilitate sludge management and disposal; and/or to
protect against damage to the XWWTP. Individual wastewater discharge permits
must contain:
      (1)   A statement that indicates the wastewater discharge permit issuance
date, expiration date and effective date;
      (2)   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is nontransferable
without prior notification to the Director, in accordance with division (e) of
this section, and provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator with a
copy of the existing wastewater discharge permit;
      (3)   Effluent limits, including BMPs, based on applicable pretreatment
standards;
      (4)   Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and record-
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants (or BMP) to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency and
sample type based on Federal, State, and local law;
      (5)   The process for seeking a waiver from monitoring for a pollutant
neither present nor expected to be present in the discharge in accordance with
Section
1016.08 of this Chapter;
      (6)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable
compliance schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance
beyond that required by applicable Federal, State, or local law;
      (7)   Requirements to control slug discharge, if determined by the
Director to be necessary; and
      (8)   Any grant of a monitoring waiver by the Director must be included
as a condition in the user's permit.
   (c)   Wastewater Discharge Permit Conditions. Wastewater discharge permits
shall be expressly subject to all provisions of this Chapter and all other
State and Federal laws and regulations, other local ordinances, and user
charges and fees established by the City. Wastewater discharge permits shall be
uniformly enforced in accordance with this Chapter, and/or applicable State and
Federal requirements, laws and regulations. Permit conditions may include, but
are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Limits on rate and time of discharge or requirements for flow
equalization;
      (2)   Requirements for installations of inspection and sampling
facilities and specifications for monitoring programs;
      (3)   Requirements for maintaining and submitting technical reports and
plant records relating to wastewater discharges;
      (4)   Limits on specific pollutants;
      (5)   Compliance schedules; and/or
      (6)   Other conditions determined by the Director, in his sole
discretion, to be necessary to assure the user's compliance with this Chapter
and/or other applicable state and federal laws, rules and regulations.
   (d)   Duration of Wastewater Discharge Permits. Permits shall be issued for
a specified time period, not to exceed five (5) years. A permit may be issued
for a period of less than one (1) year and may be stated to expire on a
specific date. The terms and conditions of the permit may be subject to
modification and change by the Director during the life of the permit, as
limitations or requirements are modified and changed. Any changes or new
conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for
compliance.
   (e)   Transfer of a Wastewater Discharge Permit. Permits may be reassigned
or transferred to a new owner and/or operator with prior approval of the
Director. The permittee must give at least thirty (30) days advance written
notice to the Director of the permittee's intent to reassign or transfer the
permit. The notice must include a written certification by the new owner/
operator which states that the new owner has no immediate intent to change the
facility's operations and processes, identifies the specific date on which the
transfer is to occur, and acknowledges full responsibility for complying with
the existing permit.
   (f)   Termination of Wastewater Discharge Permits. Wastewater discharge
permits may be terminated by the Director for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports;
      (2)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      (3)   Refusing to allow the Director, or his authorized representative,
timely access to the facility premises and records;
      (4)   Failure to meet effluent limitations and/or failure to comply with
all pretreatment requirements;
      (5)   Failure to pay fines;
      (6)   Failure to pay sewer charges; or
      (7)   Failure to meet compliance schedules.
(Ord. 2020-20. Adopted 08/27/20; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1016.08 INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER MONITORING AND REPORTING.
   (a)   Baseline Monitoring Report (BMR).
      (1)   Existing Users: Within one hundred eighty (180) days after the
effective date of a categorical pretreatment standard, existing industrial
users subject to such categorical pretreatment standards and currently
discharging to, or scheduled to discharge to, the XWWTP shall be required to
submit to the Director a BMR.
      (2)   New Sources: New sources and sources that become industrial users
after promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, shall be required to
submit to the Director a BMR at least ninety (90) days prior to commencement of
discharge. A new source shall also report the method of pretreatment it intends
to use to meet applicable categorical standards and shall give estimates of its
anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
      (3)   Required Information: A BMR shall contain all of the following
information:
         A.   All information required in divisions (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3)A.,
(a)(3)B., (a)(3)C.(i), and (a)(6) of Section 1016.07 of this Chapter.
         B.   Measurement of Pollutants -
            (i)   The user shall provide the information required in divisions
(a)(7)A. through (a)(7)D. of Section 1016.07 of this Chapter.
            (ii)   The user shall take a minimum of one (1) representative
sample to compile that data necessary to comply with the requirements of
division (a)(3)B. of this section.
            (iii)   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from
pretreatment facilities, if such exist, or immediately downstream from the
regulated process if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed
with the regulated wastewater prior to pretreatment, the user should measure
the flows and concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula in 40 CFR 403.6(e) to evaluate compliance with the pretreatment
standards. Where an alternate concentration or mass limit has been calculated,
in accordance with 40 CFR 403.6(e), this adjusted limit along with supporting
data shall be submitted to the Director.
            (iv)   The Director may allow the submission of a BMR that utilizes
only historical data, but only if the data provides information sufficient to
determine the need for industrial pretreatment measures.
            (v)   The BMR shall indicate the time, date and place of sampling
and methods of analysis, and shall certify that such sampling and analysis is
representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant discharges to the
XWWTP.
         C.   Compliance Certification - A statement, reviewed by the user's
authorized representative and certified by a qualified professional, indicating
whether pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance and/or additional pretreatment is
required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
         D.   Compliance Schedule - If additional pretreatment and/or operation
and maintenance will be required to meet the pretreatment standards, the
shortest schedule by which the user will provide such additional pretreatment
and/or operation and maintenance must be provided. The completion date in this
schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for the
applicable pretreatment standard.
      (4)   Signature and Report Certification: All BMRs must be certified in
accordance with division (d)(4) of this section and shall be signed by an
authorized representative of the industrial user, in accordance with division
(d)(3) of this section.
   (b)   Ninety-Day Compliance Report. Within ninety (90) days following the
date for final compliance with applicable categorical pretreatment standards
or, in the case of a new source, following commencement of the introduction of
wastewater into the XWWTP, any industrial user subject to the pretreatment
standards and requirements shall submit to the Director a report containing the
information described in both Section
1016.07(a)(6) of this Chapter and (a)(3)B. of this section. All ninety (90) day
compliance reports must be certified, in accordance with division (d)(4) of
this section and shall be signed by an authorized representative of the
industrial user, in accordance with division (d)(3) of this section.
   (c)   Periodic Compliance Reports (PCR).
      (1)   Any user subject to a pretreatment standard or requirement shall
periodically submit to the Director a report indicating the nature and
concentration of pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment
standards or requirements and the estimated average and maximum daily flows for
the reporting period. In cases where the pretreatment standard requires
compliance with a BMP, the user must submit documentation, required by the
Director or by the pretreatment standard, necessary to determine the compliance
status of the user. Such reports shall be submitted according to the frequency
prescribed in the industrial user's wastewater discharge permit. PCRs must be
certified, in accordance with division (d)(4) of this section and shall be
signed by an authorized representative of the industrial user, in accordance
with division (d)(3) of this section.
      (2)   If an industrial user monitors any pollutant more frequently than
required by the City, the results of this monitoring shall be included in PCR.
   (d)   Requirements Applicable to All Reports.
      (1)   The reports required by this section shall be based upon data
obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis performed during the period
covered by the report, which data is representative of conditions occurring
during the reporting period.
      (2)   All sampling and analyses shall be performed in accordance with
procedures contained in 40 CFR Part 136 and amendments thereto.
      (3)   All reports required under this section shall be signed by an
authorized representative or a duly authorized representative of the user.
      (4)   Certification: All reports and applications required to be filed
under this section shall contain, and be signed under, the following
certification statement:
I certify, under penalty of law, that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for known violations.
   (e)   Duty to Report Violations Found During Sampling. If sampling performed
by an industrial user indicates a violation, the user shall notify the Director
within twenty-four (24) hours of becoming aware of the violation. The
industrial user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the
results of the repeat analysis to the Director within thirty (30) days after
becoming aware of the violation. The industrial user is not required to
resample if:
      (1)   The Director, or his authorized representative, samples the
wastewater discharge of the industrial user at least once per month; or
      (2)   The Director, or his authorized representative, performs sampling
at the industrial user's facility(ies) between the time when the user performs
its initial sampling and the time when the user receives the results of this
sampling.
   (f)   Records.
      (1)   All industrial users who discharge, or propose to discharge,
wastewater to the XWWTP shall maintain such records of production and related
factors, effluent flows and pollutant amounts or concentrations as are
necessary to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this Chapter and
any applicable State or Federal pretreatment standards or requirements.
      (2)   All industrial users shall retain and preserve, for no less than
three (3) years, any records, books, documents, memoranda, reports,
correspondence and/or any and all summaries thereof, relating to monitoring
sampling and laboratory analyses made by, or on behalf of, an industrial user
in connection with its discharge.
      (3)   All records pertaining to materials that are subject to
administrative adjustment or any other enforcement or litigation activities
brought by the City pursuant to this Chapter shall be retained and preserved by
the user until all enforcement activities have been concluded and all periods
of limitation with respect to any and all appeals have expired.
      (4)   Such records shall be made available upon request by the Director
or his authorized representative.
   (g)   Monitoring.
      (1)   The owner or operator of any premises or facility discharging
industrial wastes into the system may be required to install, at his/her/its
own cost and expense, suitable facilities to obtain accurate samples of
wastewater flow into the XWWTP. Such facilities shall be maintained in proper
working order and kept safe at all times.
      (2)   When more than one (1) user can discharge into a common sewer, the
Director may require installation of separate monitoring facilities for each
user. When there is a significant difference in wastewater constituents and
characteristics produced by different operations of a single user, the Director
may require that separate monitoring facilities be installed for each separate
discharge.
      (3)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the monitoring
facilities shall be constructed in accordance with City requirements and all
applicable construction on standards and specifications.
   (h)   Monitoring Waiver.
      (1)   The Director may authorize an industrial user subject to a
categorical pretreatment standard to forego sampling of a pollutant regulated
by a categorical pretreatment standard if the industrial user has demonstrated,
through sampling and other technical factors, that the pollutant is neither
present nor expected to be present in the discharge, or is present only at
background levels from intake water and without any increase in the pollutant
due to activities of the industrial user (40 CFR 403.12(e)(2)). This
authorization is subject to all of the following conditions:
         A.   The waiver may be authorized where a pollutant is determined to
be present solely due to sanitary wastewater discharged from the facility,
provided that the sanitary wastewater is not regulated by an applicable
categorical standard and otherwise includes no process wastewater.
         B.   The monitoring waiver is valid only for the duration of the
effective period of the individual wastewater discharge permit, but in no case
longer than five (5) years. The user must submit a new request for the waiver
before the waiver can be granted for each subsequent individual wastewater
discharge permit.
         C.   In making a demonstration that a pollutant is not present, the
industrial user must provide data from at least one (1) sampling of the
facility's process wastewater prior to any treatment present at the facility
that is representative of all wastewater from all processes.
         D.   Non-detectable sample results may be used only as a demonstration
that a pollutant is not present if the EPA-approved method from 40 CFR Part 136
with the lowest minimum detection level for that pollutant was used in the
analysis.
         E.   The request for a monitoring waiver must be signed in accordance
with division (d)(3) of this section.
      (2)   Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the Director must be included
as a condition in the user's wastewater discharge permit. The reasons
supporting the waiver, and any information submitted by the user in its request
for the waiver, must be maintained by the Director for three (3) years after
expiration of the waiver.
      (3)   Upon approval of the monitoring waiver and revision of the user's
wastewater discharge permit by the Director, the industrial user must certify
each report, in accordance with division (d)(4) of this section, that there has
been no increase in the pollutant in its waste stream due to activities of the
industrial user.
      (4)   In the event that a waived pollutant is found to be present or is
expected to be present because of changes that occur in the user's operations,
the user must immediately notify the Director and must comply with the
monitoring requirements or other more frequent monitoring requirements imposed
by the Director.
      (5)   This provision does not supersede certification processes and
requirements established in categorical pretreatment standards, except as
otherwise specified in the categorical pretreatment standard.
(Ord. 2020-20. Adopted 08/27/20; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1016.09 FEES; EXTRA STRENGTH SURCHARGES.
   (a)   Authority to Adopt Fees. The City may adopt charges and fees in
connection with this Chapter, which may include:
      (1)   Fees for reimbursement or costs for setting up and administering
the pretreatment program;
      (2)   Fees for monitoring, inspection, and surveillance procedure
necessary for proper implementation of the pretreatment program;
      (3)   Fees for filing a waste discharge permit application;
      (4)   Surcharges for high strength or unusual wastewater discharges;
      (5)   Tap-in-fees; and/or
      (6)   Flow charges.
   (b)   Extra Strength Surcharges.
      (1)   Extra strength surcharges shall be determined on the basis of the
following constituents of the wastewater that are in excess of normal strength
wastewater:
         A.   200 mg/l BOD5 (biochemical oxygen demand);
         B.   250 mg/l TSS (total suspended solids); and
         C.   20 mg/l NH3-N (ammonia nitrogen).
      (2)   When any or all of the above constituents in the wastewater
accepted for admission into the City's sanitary sewer system exceed the limits
set forth in division (b)(1) of this section, the amount of the treatment
surcharge to be paid will be based upon the cost per pound of removing the
excess quantity of each such constituent.
      (3)   Extra strength surcharges are hereby established as set forth in
the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code.
      (4)   In addition to the extra strength surcharge, an additional amount
will be charged to offset the costs to the City of collecting, testing, and
processing the results of the required samples, if it is found that extra
strength wastewater has been produced by a user of the City's sanitary sewer
system.
(Ord. 92-18. Adopted 03/12/92; Ord. 12-08. Adopted 02/22/12; Ord. 15-29.
Adopted 07/23/15; Ord. 2020-20. Adopted 08/27/20; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/
23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1016.10 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (a)   Authority of the Director.
      (1)   Whenever the Director finds that any user has violated or is
violating this Chapter, or any pretreatment standard, limitation or
requirement, the Director may serve upon such user a written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time, not to exceed thirty
(30) days, for the satisfactory correction thereof.
      (2)   If a violation is not corrected by timely compliance, the Director
may issue an administrative order requiring any person who causes or allows an
unauthorized discharge to show cause before the Director why sewer service
should not be terminated.
      (3)   The Director may issue a notice to the industrial user responsible
for a discharge that violates any requirement of this Chapter stating that the
sewer service shall be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities,
devices or other related appurtenances have been installed or existing
treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances are properly
operated.
   (b)   Compliance Schedule.
      (1)   When, in the opinion of the Director, it becomes necessary for
industrial users to install technology or provide additional operation and
maintenance to meet any condition of this Chapter or applicable administrative
order, the Director may require the development of the shortest schedule by
which the industrial user will provide this additional technology or operation
and maintenance.
      (2)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events. Under no
circumstances shall any increment exceed nine (9) months.
      (3)   Not later than fourteen (14) days following each date in the
schedule and the final date for compliance, the industrial user shall submit a
progress report to the Director including, at a minimum, whether it has
complied with the increment or progress to be met on such date and, if not, the
date on which it expects to comply with the increment of progress, the reason
for delay and the steps being taken to return to the schedule established.
   (c)   Suspension of Service and Discharge Permits. The Director may, for
good cause shown, suspend the wastewater treatment service and the wastewater
discharge permit of a user when it appears to the Director that an actual or
threatened discharge presents an imminent or substantial danger to the health
or welfare of persons, the environment or the XWWTP, or interferes with or
threatens to interfere with the operation or performance of the XWWTP. Any user
notified of the suspension of wastewater treatment services or their wastewater
discharge permit shall immediately cease all discharges. In the event a user
fails to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the Director
shall take such steps as deemed necessary, including severance of the sewer
connection.
   (d)   Revocation of Permit. The Director may revoke the wastewater discharge
permit of any user who violates any condition of this Chapter or of its permit,
or an order of the Director or a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (e)   Annual Publication. Annually, the City shall publish a list of all
significant industrial users who, at any time in the previous twelve (12)
months, were in significant non-compliance with applicable pretreatment
requirements. This publication shall be made in the largest daily local
newspaper.
   (f)   Legal Action. Any discharge in violation of the substantive provisions
of this Chapter or an order of the Director shall be considered a public
nuisance. If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes
into the XWWTP contrary to the substantive provisions of this Chapter or any
order of the Director, the Director may commence an action for appropriate
legal and/or equitable relief in the Common Pleas Court of Greene County.
   (g)   Injunctive Relief. Whenever an industrial user has violated or
continues to violate this Chapter or of its wastewater discharge permit, or any
order of the Director or a court of competent jurisdiction, the Director may
petition the court for the issuance of a preliminary or permanent injunction or
both (as may be appropriate) to restrain or compel of the industrial user.
   (h)   Appeals. Any person adversely affected by a decision or order of the
Director under this Chapter may appeal such decision or order to the Greene
County Court of Common Pleas under ORC Chapter 2506.
(Ord. 2020-20. Adopted 08/27/20; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1016.11 PENALTY PROVISIONS.
   (a)   Civil Penalties. Any user who is found to have violated any provision
of this Chapter or of its wastewater discharge permit, or any order of the
Director or a court of competent jurisdiction, shall be subject to the
imposition of a civil penalty of up to one thousand dollars ($1,000) per
violation. Each day on which a violation occurs or continues shall be deemed a
separate and distinct violation. In addition to the penalties provided herein,
the City may recover reasonable attorney's fees, court costs, court reporter's
fees and other expenses of litigation from the user.
   (b)   Criminal Penalties. Any user who intentionally or willfully violates
any provisions of this Chapter or of its wastewater discharge permit, or any
order of the Director or a court of competent jurisdiction, or any user who
allows a violation to continue after becoming aware of the violation shall be
punishable, upon conviction, by a criminal penalty of up to one thousand
dollars ($1,000) per day, per violation, and not more than six (6) months in
jail.
   (c)   Falsifying Information. Any user or duly-authorized representative of
the user who knowingly makes any false statement, representation or
certification on or of any application, record, report, plan or document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to this Chapter; the industrial user's
wastewater discharge permit; or any order of the Director or a court of
competent jurisdiction, or who falsifies, tampers with or knowingly renders
inaccurate any monitoring device or method, shall be punishable, upon
conviction by a criminal penalty of up to one thousand dollars ($1,000) per
day, per violation, and not more than six (6) months in jail.
   (d)   Administrative Penalties.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other section of this Chapter, any user who is
found to have violated any provision of this Chapter, or any permits and/or
orders issued hereunder, shall be fined an amount up to one thousand dollars
($1,000) per violation. Each day on which a violation or non-compliance occurs
shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense.
      (2)   In determining the amount of an administrative fine, the Director
shall consider the magnitude and severity of the violation, the history of past
violations, the economic advantage gained by the violator for causing or
allowing the violation to occur and affirmative actions taken by the violator
to comply with the provisions of this Chapter.
      (3)   Such fines may be added to the industrial user's sewer service
bill. The City shall have the same collection remedies that are available to
collect other charges.
      (4)   Any person assessed an administrative fine may appeal the action by
filing a written notice of appeal with the City Council within ten (10) days of
being notified of the fine. The notice of appeal shall include the name,
address and telephone number of the appellant, the date and any other pertinent
documentation describing the basis for the appeal. The notice of appeal shall
be filed with the Director by certified mail. The City Council shall consider
the appeal and convene a hearing on the matter within thirty (30) days of
receiving the notice of appeal. Any person who fails to file a notice of appeal
within ten (10) days of receipt of the notice of the administrative fine shall
be deemed to have agreed to the action taken.
(Ord. 2020-20. Adopted 08/27/20; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1016.12 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   If any provision, paragraph, word, section, or article of this Chapter is
invalidated by any court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions,
paragraphs, words, sections, and articles shall not be affected and shall
continue in full force and effect.
(Ord. 2020-20. Adopted 08/27/20; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
CHAPTER 1020
Stormwater Management Utility
1020.01   Establishment
1020.02   Definitions
1020.03   Stormwater User Fees
1020.04   Schedule of Monthly Fees
1020.05   Surcharge for Curbs and Gutters
1020.06   Nonresidential Fee Credits
1020.07   Connections to System
1020.08   Rules and Regulations
1020.09   Appeals
1020.10   Disclaimer of Liability
1020.98   Severability
1020.99   Penalties
   CROSS REFERENCES
   Authority to Own and Operate Public Utility - see O. Const. Art. XVIII § 4
   Authority to Establish Storm Sewer - ORC 717.01; 729.11
   Illicit Discharges - see S.U.&P.S.
CH. 1021
   Unpaid Stormwater Management Fees, Assessments for - see ADMIN.
250.04
   Utility Billing - see S.U.&P.S.
CH. 1030
   Utility Funds - see ADMIN.
251.04
§ 1020.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (a)   Creation. The stormwater management utility is hereby established to
provide for the safe and efficient capture and conveyance of stormwater runoff
to protect the public health, safety and welfare of the City, as well as public
and private property.
   (b)   Purpose. The stormwater management utility shall provide for effective
management and financing of a stormwater system within the City and may include
the following:
      (1)   Administration, operation, maintenance and inspection of existing
stormwater management system and activities that protect and maintain the
stormwater management system including, but not limited to, leaf collection;
street sweeping; catch basin cleaning, repair, and replacement; curb cleaning,
replacement, and repair, where such curbs direct stormwater to the stormwater
management system; and creek bank repair and stabilization;
      (2)   The establishment and implementation of a master plan for the
stormwater management utility, including the design, coordination,
construction, management, operation, maintenance, and improvement and extension
of the stormwater management system;
      (3)   Regulation and inspection of new or proposed stormwater management
facilities, and encouragement and facilitation of urban water management
techniques, including the use of best management practices for detention or
retention of stormwater runoff, minimization of the need to construct storm
sewers, and the enhancement of the environment;
      (4)   Education, regulation, inspection, and enforcement regarding the
use of the stormwater management system; and
      (5)   Establishment of user fees for each lot or parcel, or in cases
where a single use occupies multiple lots or parcels, establishment of user
fees for each use, in the City to fund the activities of the stormwater
management utility.
(Ord. 04-39. Adopted 09/23/04; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1020.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
   (a)   Billing Period. The stormwater management utility service period
identified on the utility bill. Each account shall be billed monthly or semi-
annually in arrears of the stormwater management utility service period. A
developed lot, parcel or use that receives City water, sewer or other utility
service shall be billed monthly in arrears of the stormwater management utility
service. A developed lot, parcel or use that does not receive water, sewer or
other utility service may be billed monthly or semi-annually in arrears of the
stormwater management utility service.
   (b)   Bonds. Revenue bonds, notes, loans or any other debt obligations
issued or incurred to finance the costs of construction for any part of the
stormwater management system.
   (c)   Calendar Year. The twelve-month period commencing on the first day of
January of any year.
   (d)   Construction Costs. Costs reasonably incurred in connection with
providing capital improvements to the stormwater management system, or any
portion thereof, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Acquisition of all property, real or personal, and any interests in
connection therewith, including rights-of-way and easements therefor;
      (2)   Physical construction, installation and testing, including the
costs of labor, services, materials, supplies and construction services used in
connection therewith;
      (3)   Architectural, engineering, inspection, legal and other
professional services;
      (4)   Insurance premiums taken out and maintained during construction, to
the extent the same are not paid for by the construction contractor;
      (5)   Any costs incurred in the bidding or letting of a contract for
construction, installation, maintenance, repair or improvement of the system or
any portion thereof;
      (6)   Expenses incurred by the City, or on its behalf or with its
approval, in seeking to enforce any remedy against any contractor;
      (7)   Principal and interest on any bonds issued to finance construction,
installation, maintenance, repair or improvement of the system or any portion
thereof; and/or
      (8)   Miscellaneous expenses incidental thereto.
   (e)   Debt Service. With respect to any particular calendar year and any
particular series of bonds, an amount equal to the sum of all interest payable
on such bonds during such calendar year, plus any principal installments of
such bonds during such calendar year.
   (f)   Developed Lot, Parcel, or Use. Any lot, parcel, or use other than an
undeveloped lot or parcel.
   (g)   Equivalent Residential Unit (ERU). The statistical average horizontal
impervious area of all residentially-developed lots and parcels, per
residential unit, located within the City, as established by City Council.
   (h)   ERU Rate. A stormwater user fee charged on each ERU, as established by
City Council.
   (i)   Exempt Property.
      (1)   Rights-of-way, streets, alleys, parking facilities, parks,
sidewalks, facilities, or any other property owned by the City.
      (2)   Land that is used solely for agricultural purposes that does not
contain any structures and/or impervious surfaces.
      (3)   Exempt property may also include, upon a determination by City
Council, by resolution, any federal, state, county, or municipal government
owned property where stormwater runoff on the property is otherwise controlled
through a self-contained system that does not contribute to the City's
stormwater management system.
   (j)   Extension and Replacement. The costs of extensions, additions and
capital improvements to, or the removal and replacement of capital assets of,
or purchasing and installing new equipment for, the stormwater management
system, including land acquisitions for the system and any costs related
thereto, paying for extraordinary maintenance and repair including the costs of
construction, or any other expenses which are not the cost of operation and
maintenance or debt service.
   (k)   Impervious Area. The number of square feet of hard-surfaced areas that
either prevent or retard the entry of water into the soil mantle as it is
entered under natural conditions on undisturbed lots or parcels, and/or cause
water to run off the surface in greater quantities or at an increased rate of
flow from that present under natural conditions on undisturbed lots or parcels
including, but not limited to, roofs, roof extensions, patios, porches,
driveways, sidewalks, pavement and athletic courts. Gravel surfaces shall not
be included as a part of the impervious area calculation for nonresidential
lots or parcels.
   (l)   Nonresidential Lot, Parcel, or Use. A developed lot, parcel, or use
that is not utilized or intended for residential units including commercial,
industrial, institutional, or governmental, and/or multi-family residential
(i.e., three-family or greater). Nonresidential Lot, Parcel, or Use includes
vacant improved nonresidential lots, parcels, or uses. Residential condominium
developments shall also be considered nonresidential.
   (m)   Operations and Maintenance. The current expenses, paid or accrued, of
operation, maintenance and current repair of the stormwater management system,
as calculated in accordance with sound accounting practices, including, but not
limited to, insurance premiums; administrative expenses; labor; executive
compensation; costs of materials, supplies and labor used for current
operations; costs associated with educational programs and materials; costs
associated with regulation of, inspection of and enforcement of regulations
related to the system; and charges for the accumulation of appropriate reserves
for current expenses not annually incurred, but which may reasonably be
expected to be incurred in accordance with sound accounting practices.
   (n)   Residential Unit. A single-family detached home or two-family duplex
used for, or intended for use as, residential living. Residential Unit does not
include a structure that includes more than two (2) independent dwelling units
or dwelling units for more than two (2) families.
   (o)   Residential Lot, Parcel, or Use. A developed lot, parcel or use that
utilized or intended for residential units. Residential Lot, Parcel, or Use
includes vacant improved residential lots, parcels, or uses.
   (p)   Revenues. All rates, fees, assessments, rentals or other charges or
income received by the Stormwater Fund in connection with the management and
operation of the stormwater management system, including amounts received from
the investment of deposit of moneys in any fund or account and any amounts
contributed by the City, all as calculated in accordance with sound accounting
practices.
   (q)   Stormwater User Fee. A fee to fund and support the administration,
operation, maintenance, design, construction, repair, extension, improvement,
replacement, regulation, inspection and regulation of the system, and education
and enforcement regarding the use of the system, and any costs associated
therewith or incidental thereto.
   (r)   Stormwater Management Utility or Stormwater Management System
("System"). The City's existing stormwater management system/stormwater sewer
system and its facilities, and all improvements thereto, which conserves water;
controls discharges necessitated by rainfall events; incorporates methods to
collect, convey, store, absorb, inhibit, treat, use, or reuse stormwater to
prevent or reduce flooding, over-drainage, environmental degradation and water
pollution or otherwise that may affect the quality and quantity of discharge
from such system.
   (s)   Undeveloped Lot or Parcel. A lot or parcel that has not been altered
from its natural state by dredging, filling, removal of trees and vegetation,
or other activities that have disturbed or altered the topography or soils on
the lot or parcel. The determination of whether a lot or parcel is undeveloped
shall be made by the City, in its sole discretion, and may be based upon the
land use code assigned to the lot or parcel by the Greene County Auditor.
   (t)   Use. Use means a residential or nonresidential use that sits upon
multiple contiguous lots or parcels.
   (u)   User Fee District. The area and all lots and parcels that lie within
the corporate limits of the City of Xenia.
   (v)   Vacant Improved Lot, Parcel, or Use. An unoccupied, developed lot,
parcel, or use that contains impervious area.
(Ord. 04-39; Adopted 09/23/04; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1020.03 STORMWATER USER FEES.
   (a)   Intent.
      (1)   It is the intent of City Council to establish a uniform schedule of
rates and fees for the services and use of the facilities of the stormwater
management utility by every lot, parcel, or use within the City's corporate
limits.
      (2)   Stormwater user rates and fees will be based on the extent to which
runoff from each lot, parcel, or use creates the need for the stormwater
management utility; operation and maintenance costs of the stormwater
management utility; debt service costs; and construction costs, including
current and future capital improvements to the stormwater management utility.
   (b)   Application. Subject to the provisions of this Chapter, each and every
residential lot, parcel, or use; nonresidential lot, parcel, or use; and
undeveloped lot or parcel, other than exempt property, within the corporate
limits of the City, and the owners and occupants thereof, shall have imposed
upon them a monthly stormwater user fee, unless otherwise provided in this
Chapter.
   (c)   Joint and Several Liability. In the event the owner and occupants of a
particular commercial or industrial lot, parcel or use are not the same, the
liability for each the owner and the occupant for the stormwater user fee
attributable to that lot, parcel or use shall be joint and several.
   (d)   Service Charge. The stormwater user fee shall be a monthly or a
regular interval service charge and shall be determined in accordance with
Section
1020.04, the provisions of this Chapter, and the ERU and the ERU rate, which
shall be established and may be changed from time to time by City Council. The
minimum service charge for any improved lot, parcel or use shall be equal to
one (1) ERU, unless otherwise provided in this Chapter. The established rates
and fees established by this Chapter shall be paid in accordance with this
Chapter and Chapter 1030.
   (e)   Change in Applicable Fee. The monthly billing for the stormwater user
fee per lot, parcel or use shall be updated by the Accounts Receivable &
Billing Division, as necessary, based on the change in use, the development of
a lot, parcel, or use or additions to the impervious areas on any lot, parcel,
or use.
(Ord. 04/39. Adopted 09/23/04; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1020.04 SCHEDULE OF MONTHLY FEES.
   (a)   Establishment of the ERU and the ERU rate. The City Council, upon the
recommendation of the City Manager, shall establish the value of an ERU, equal
to the number of square feet of measured impervious surface area and equal to
the statistical average amount of horizontal impervious area of residential
units within the City, and shall establish a flat fee for the ERU rate in the
City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code.
   (b)   Establishment of Residential Fees. The City Council, upon the
recommendation of the City Manager, shall establish a flat monthly fee for the
stormwater user fee per residential lot, parcel, or use in the City's Fee
Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code. This flat fee recognizes that the
contribution to runoff from most residential lots, parcels, or uses is similar
and it would, therefore, be excessive and unnecessarily expensive to determine
precisely the square footage of impervious areas on each residential lot or
parcel within the City.
   (c)   Undeveloped Lots or Parcels. Non-exempt lots or parcels of 0.1 acres
or more that are undeveloped shall be assessed a monthly stormwater user fee.
The monthly fee shall be a flat fee based on calculations regarding typical
runoff from an average residential lot or parcel and the statistical
distribution of undeveloped lots or parcel based upon acreage citywide.
   (d)   Nonresidential Fees. For all non-exempt nonresidential lots or parcels
or other land not covered by division (c) of this section, the rate of the
monthly stormwater user fee shall be computed based on the total impervious
area, in square feet, of the lot, parcel, or use divided by the area of an ERU
to determine the number of ERUs on the lot, parcel, or use, times the monthly
rate established for an ERU. ERU calculations shall be rounded to the nearest
whole number.
   (e)   Annual Increase.
      (1)   Beginning January 1, 2026, the established monthly residential
stormwater user fee and the monthly ERU rate shall be subject to an annual
increase equal to the percentage obtained by averaging the national inflation
rates from the United States Labor Department, Bureau of Labor Statistics, for
the previous three (3) years. This increase shall be referred to as the Cost of
Living Adjustment (COLA). The new monthly residential stormwater user fee and
new monthly ERU rate will be established annually by adding the COLA to the
existing monthly residential stormwater user fee and the monthly ERU rate. The
Finance Director is hereby authorized to update the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A of the City Government Code, to reflect the yearly COLA increase.
      (2)   The Finance Director may, no later than February 1st, recommend to
City Council the waiver of all or any part of the yearly COLA increase, and
such recommendation may be for one year or multiple years. Upon such
recommendation by the Finance Director, City Council may, by resolution, waive
all or any part of the proposed COLA increase for one year or multiple years.
      (3)   If City Council takes no action to waive all or any part of the
proposed COLA increase, in accordance with division (e)(2) of this section, the
yearly COLA increase shall be implemented by the Finance Director no later than
March 1st of that year.
(Ord. 06-87. Adopted 12/28/06; Ord. 12-08. Adopted 03/22/12; Ord. 2022-44.
Adopted 11/22/22; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/
08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1020.05 SURCHARGE FOR CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   (a)   Surcharge. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter, there
is hereby imposed a monthly curb and gutter surcharge per utility billing
account to be collected with the Stormwater User Fee in accordance with Chapter
1030. Such surcharge shall be in an amount established by City Council in the
City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code. At least every five (5) years, City
Council shall review the rate of the curb and gutter surcharge and determine
whether to continue said surcharge and if so, the appropriate rate of the
surcharge.
   (b)   Purpose. All surcharges imposed and collected pursuant to this section
shall be placed in a separate cost center in the Stormwater Fund and shall be
used for the maintenance, repair and replacement of curbs and gutters within
the City.
   (c)   Surplus Funds. If, at any time, Council finds there are surplus funds
in said curb and gutter cost center, such surplus may be transferred to the
General Fund in an amount equal to any amounts previously transferred from the
General Fund to help fund curb and gutter repair and/or replacement within the
City.
(Ord. 04-39. Adopted 09/23/04; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1020.06 NONRESIDENTIAL FEE CREDITS.
   An owner of a nonresidential lot, parcel, or use may be eligible for credits
against their monthly stormwater user fee for implementing stormwater quantity
and quality controls, as set forth in the Stormwater Management Rules and
Regulations promulgated by the City Manager in accordance with Section
1020.08.
(Ord. 04-39; Adopted 09/23/04; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1020.07 CONNECTIONS TO SYSTEM.
   (a)   Requirements. Every new development, whether residential or
nonresidential, shall be provided with a stormwater sewer, retention and/or
detention system capable of handling storm waters flowing onto the lot, parcel,
or use from other areas as well as storm water from the lot, parcel, or use
itself. Such system shall be subject to the requirements of this Chapter, the
Stormwater Management Rules and Regulations, and the approval of the City
Engineer.
   (b) Plan Review. Plans for all new connections or major alterations to
existing connections, as the same is defined in the Stormwater Management Rules
and Regulations, shall be submitted to the City Engineer for review and
approval prior to any construction work. When new connections or major
alterations are a part of plans submitted with a zoning application to the
City, no separate submittal shall be necessary.
   (c)   Plan Review and Inspection Fee. Every submittal of plans made in
accordance with division (b) of this section, when such submittal is not part
of a zoning application submitted to the City, shall be accompanied by a plan
review and inspection fee, as set forth in the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code.
   (d)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect to, or to make major
alterations to existing connections to, the stormwater management system
without first obtaining prior approval from the City Engineer.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect any stormwater
drainage to the City's sanitary sewer utility or to connect any sanitary sewer
to the City's stormwater management utility.
(Ord. 04-39. Adopted 09/23/04; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1020.08 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Manager, or at his direction, the City Engineer, shall make and
enforce such rules and regulations as may be necessary for the safe, economical
and efficient management and protection of the stormwater management system;
for the construction and use of the stormwater management system and
facilities; for connections to the stormwater system; and for the regulation,
collection, rebating and refunding of fees or surcharges; provided, however,
that such rules and regulations are not in conflict with any provisions of this
Chapter or other City ordinance. Such rules and regulations shall be known as
the "Stormwater Management Utility Rules and Regulations," shall be made
available to the public on the City's website and shall be kept up to date.
(Ord. 04-39. Adopted 09/23/04; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1020.09 APPEALS.
   (a)   Right of Appeal. Any person disagreeing with the initial calculation
or recalculation of the stormwater user fee applicable to his or her lot,
parcel, or use, as provided in this Chapter, may appeal such calculation to the
City Engineer. Any appeal must be filed in writing with the City Engineer
within thirty (30) days of the issuance of the Accounts Receivable & Billing
Division's determination of the initial calculation or recalculation.
   (b)   Contents of Appeal. The written appeal shall include a survey showing
residential units, total lot, parcel, or use area, impervious area or
nonresidential developed area, drainage structures, drainage patterns, and any
features that contain, retain and/or detain storm runoff on the lot, parcel, or
use and diminishes the quantity of stormwater handled by the City's stormwater
management system, as appropriate. The City Engineer may request additional
information from the appealing party if he or she finds additional information
is needed to make his or her decision.
   (c)   City Engineer's Decision. Based upon the information provided by the
Accounts Receivable & Billing Division and the appealing party, the City
Engineer shall issue a written decision within sixty (60) days and shall mail a
copy of the same, by certified mail, to the appealing party.
   (d)   Appeal to the Public Service Director. If the appealing party believes
he or she is adversely affected by the decision of the City Engineer, the
appealing party may request a review by the Public Service Director by filing a
written request for the same with the Director within ten (10) days of date of
issuance of the City Engineer's decision. Such request must state, with
specificity, why the appealing party believes the City Engineer's decision is
incorrect. The Public Service Director shall review the record presented and
enter a decision within thirty (30) days. The Public Service Director may
request additional information from either party.
   (e)   Appeal to City Manager. If the appealing party believes he or she is
adversely affected by the decision of the Public Service Director, the
appealing party may request a review by the City Manager by filing a written
request for the same with the City Manager within ten (10) days of date of
issuance of the Public Service Director's decision. Such request must state,
with specificity, why the appealing party believes the Public Service
Director's decision is incorrect. The City Manager shall review the record
presented and enter a decision within sixty (60) days. The City Manager may
request additional information from either party.
(Ord. 04-39. Adopted 09/23/04; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1020.10 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   Floods from stormwater runoff may occasionally occur that exceed the
capacity of the stormwater management system or facilities constructed,
operated or maintained by the City through funds made available under this
Chapter. This Chapter does not imply that the lot, parcel or use subject to the
fees and/or surcharges established herein will always be free from stormwater
flooding or flood damage, or that the stormwater management system or
facilities capable of handling all storm events can be cost effectively
constructed, operated or maintained. Nothing in this Chapter shall create any
liability on the part of, or any cause of action against, the City or any
officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that may result from storms or
the runoff therefrom, nor does this Chapter purport to reduce or negate the
need or necessity for any party to obtain flood insurance.
(Ord. 04-39. Adopted 09/23/04; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1020.98 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision, section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of this
Chapter is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such holding or decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining provisions of this Chapter.
(Ord. 06-87. Adopted 12/28/06; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1020.99 PENALTIES.
   (a)   Penalties. Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision
of this Chapter, or any rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to the Ohio
Revised Rode, Ohio Administrative Code, or the Stormwater Management Utility
Rules and Regulations, shall be guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor and
subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500). Each and every day the violation continues shall
be deemed a separate offense.
   (b)   Damages. Whoever violates any of the provisions of this Chapter or any
rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code, the Ohio
Administrative Code, or the Stormwater Management Utility Rules and Regulations
shall be liable to the City for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the
City by reason of such violation, in addition to the penalties provided in
division (a) of this section.
   (c)   Civil Action. The criminal penalties set forth in division (a) of this
section are not exclusive, and nothing shall prohibit the City from also
pursuing a civil action including, but not limited to, injunction, declaratory
judgment, or civil penalties against any person who violates any of the
provisions of this Chapter or any rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to
the Ohio Revised Code, the Ohio Administrative Code, or the Stormwater
Management Utility Rules and Regulations.
(Ord. 04-39. Adopted 09/23/04; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
CHAPTER 1021
Illicit Discharge and Illegal Connection Control
1021.01   Purpose and Scope
1021.02   Applicability
1021.03   Definitions
1021.04   No Waiver of Liability
1021.05   Conflicts; Severability; Nuisances and Responsibility
1021.06   Responsibility for Administration
1021.07   Discharge and Connection Prohibitions
1021.08   Monitoring of Illicit Discharges and Illegal Connections
1021.09   Enforcement and Penalties
1021.10   Penalties not Exclusive
   CROSS REFERENCES
   Stormwater Management Utility - see S.U.&P.S.
CH. 1020
§ 1021.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of these regulations is to provide for the
health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the City of Xenia through
the regulation of illicit discharges to the municipal stormwater sewer system
(MS4). These regulations establish methods for controlling the introduction of
pollutants into the stormwater system in order to comply with requirements of
the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit process, as
required by the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (Ohio EPA).
   (b)   Scope. The objectives of these regulations are to prohibit illicit
discharges and illegal connections to the MS4 and to establish legal authority
to carry out inspections, monitoring procedures and enforcement actions
necessary to ensure compliance with these regulations.
(Ord. 2020-24. Adopted 09/10/20; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1021.02 APPLICABILITY.
   These regulations shall apply to all residential, commercial, industrial
and/or institutional facilities responsible for discharges to the MS4 and any
other lands within the corporate limits of the City of Xenia that discharge to
the MS4; excepting those discharges generated by activities detailed in Section
1021.07(a)(1) to (a)(3) of this Chapter.
(Ord. 2020-24. Adopted 09/10/20; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1021.03 DEFINITIONS.
   The words and terms used in this Chapter, unless otherwise expressly stated,
shall have the following meaning:
   (a)   Best Management Practices (BMPs). Schedules of activities,
prohibitions of practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution
prevention and educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other
management practices to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants to
stormwater. BMPs also include treatment practices and operating procedures and
practices to control site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal,
or drainage from raw material storage.
   (b)   City or Community. The City of Xenia, Ohio, its officers, employees,
designated representatives, boards and commissions.
   (c)   CFR. The Code of Federal Regulations and any amendments thereto.
   (d)   Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The United States EPA and/or
the State of Ohio EPA, or any duly authorized official of said agencies.
   (e)   Floatable Material. In general, this term means any foreign matter
that may float or remain suspended in the water column and includes, but is not
limited to, plastic, aluminum cans, wood products, bottles, and paper products.
   (f)   Hazardous Material. Any material including any substance, waste or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration or physical,
chemical or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety, property
or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   (g)   Illicit Discharge. As defined in 40 CFR 122.26 (b)(2), illicit
discharge means any discharge to an MS4 that is not composed entirely of
stormwater; except for those discharges to an MS4 pursuant to a NPDES permit or
as otherwise noted in Section
1021.07 of this Chapter.
   (h)   Illegal Connection. Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or
subsurface, that allows an illicit discharge to enter the MS4.
   (i)   Municipal (Separate) Stormwater Sewer System (MS4). As defined in 40
CFR 122.26(b)(8), a municipal separate stormwater sewer system means a
conveyance or system of conveyances, including roads with drainage systems,
municipal street, catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, man-made channels or
storm drains that is:
      (1)   Owned or operated by a state, city, town, borough, county, parish,
district, municipality, township, district, association or other public body
that was created by, or pursuant to, state law and that has jurisdiction over
sewage and/or industrial wastes, including special districts under state law
such as a sewer district or similar entity, or a Native American tribe or an
authorized Native American tribal organization, or a designated and approved
management agency under Section 208 of the Clean Water Act that discharge to
waters of the United States;
      (2)   Designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater;
      (3)   Not a combined sewer; and
      (4)   Not part of a Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW), as defined in
40 CFR 122.2.
   (j)   National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Storm Water
Discharge Permit. A permit issued by the EPA, or by a state under authority
delegated pursuant to 33 USC 1342(b), that authorizes the discharge of
pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable to
an individual, group or general area-wide basis.
   (k)   Off-Lot Discharging Home Sewage Treatment System. A system designed to
treat home sewage on-site and discharge treated wastewater effluent off of the
property into a stormwater or surface water conveyance or system.
   (l)   Owner/Operator. Any individual, agent, firm, association,
organization, corporation, or partnership or other entity recognized by law
that alone, jointly, or severally with others:
      (1)   Has legal or equitable title to any premises, building, structure,
dwelling or dwelling unit, with or without accompanying actual possession
thereof; or
      (2)   Has charge, care or control of any premises, building, structure,
dwelling or dwelling unit, as agent of the owner or as executor, administrator,
trustee or guardian of the estate of the beneficial owner.
The person(s) shown on the records of the Greene County Recorder to be the
owner(s) of a particular property shall be presumed to be the person(s) in
control of that property.
   (m)   Pollutant. Anything that causes or contributes to pollution.
Pollutants may include, but are not limited to, paints, varnishes, solvents,
oil and other automotive fluids, non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes, yard
wastes, refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter or other discarded or abandoned
objects, floatable materials, pesticides, herbicides, fertilizers, hazardous
materials, wastes, sewage, dissolved and particulate metals, animal wastes,
residues that result from constructing a structure and noxious or offensive
matter of any kind.
   (n)   Premises. A lot, plot or parcel of land with its appurtenances,
building, dwellings and/or structures thereon, and including any yards.
   (o)   Stormwater. Any surface flow, runoff and/or drainage consisting
entirely of water from any form of natural precipitation that results from such
precipitation.
   (p)   USC. The United States Code and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   (q)   Wastewater. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of a
source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions.
(Ord. 2020-24. Adopted 09/10/20; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1021.04 NO WAIVER OF LIABILITY.
   Compliance with the provisions of this Chapter shall not relieve any person
from responsibility for damage to any persons or property otherwise imposed by
law. The provisions of this Chapter are promulgated to promote the health,
safety, and welfare of the public and are not designed for the benefit of any
individual or for the benefit of any particular parcel of property.
(Ord. 2020-24. Adopted 09/10/20; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1021.05 CONFLICTS; SEVERABILITY; NUISANCES AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   (a)   Conflicts. Where this Chapter is in conflict with other provisions of
law or ordinance, the most restrictive provisions, as determined by the City,
shall prevail.
   (b)   Severability. If any clause, section or provision of this Chapter is
declared invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
validity of the remainder shall not be affected thereby.
   (c)   Nuisances. This Chapter shall not be construed as authorizing any
Owner/Operator to maintain a nuisance on their property, and compliance with
the provisions of this Chapter shall not be a defense in any action to abate
such nuisance.
   (d)   Owner/Operator Responsibility. Failure of the City to observe or
recognize hazardous or unsightly conditions, or to recommend corrective
measures, shall not relieve the Owner/Operator from the responsibility for the
condition or damage resulting therefrom and shall not result in the City, its
officers, employees or agents being responsible for any condition or damage
resulting therefrom.
(Ord. 2020-24. Adopted 09/10/20; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1021.06 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The City shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
Chapter. The City may contract with Greene County Public Health or other
outside agency to conduct inspections, monitor, and assist with enforcement
actions.
(Ord. 2020-24. Adopted 09/10/20; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1021.07 DISCHARGE AND CONNECTION PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   Prohibition of Illicit Discharges. No Owner/Operator shall discharge,
or cause to be discharged, any illicit discharge into the City's MS4. The
commencement, conduct or continuance of any illicit discharge to the MS4 is
prohibited; except as herein described:
      (1)   Waterline flushing; landscape irrigation; diverted stream flows;
rising ground waters; uncontaminated ground water infiltration; uncontaminated
pumped ground water; discharges from potable water sources; foundation drains;
air conditioning condensate; irrigation water; springs; water from crawl space
pumps; footing drains; lawn watering; individual residential car washing; flows
from riparian habitats and wetlands; dechlorinated swimming pool discharges;
street wash water; and discharges or flows from firefighting activities. These
discharges are exempt until such time as they are determined by the City to be
significant contributors of pollutants to the MS4.
      (2)   Discharges specified, in writing, by the City as being necessary to
protect public health and safety.
      (3)   Discharges from off-lot discharging home sewage treatment systems
permitted by Greene County Public Health for the purpose of discharging treated
sewage effluent in accordance with Ohio Administrative Code (OAC) 3701-29-02
(6), until such time as the Ohio EPA issues an NPDES permitting mechanism for
residential one-, two- or three-family dwellings. These discharges are exempt
unless such discharges are deemed to be creating a public health nuisance by
Greene County Public Health.
      (4)   In compliance with the City's Stormwater Management Regulations,
discharges from all off-lot discharging home sewage treatment systems must
either be eliminated or have coverage under an appropriate NPDES permit, issued
and approved by the Ohio EPA. When such permit coverage is available,
discharges from off-lot discharging home sewage treatment systems will no
longer be exempt from the requirements of this Chapter.
   (b)   Prohibition of Illegal Connections. The construction, use,
maintenance, or continued existence of illegal connections to the MS4 is
prohibited. This prohibition expressly includes, but is not limited to, illegal
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection. An Owner/Operator is considered to be in violation of this
regulation if the Owner/Operator connects a line conveying illicit discharges
to the MS4 or allows such connection to continue.
(Ord. 2020-24. Adopted 09/10/20; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1021.08 MONITORING OF ILLICIT DISCHARGES AND ILLEGAL CONNECTIONS.
   (a)   Establishment of an Illicit Discharge and Illegal Connection
Monitoring Program. The City shall establish a program to detect and eliminate
illicit discharges and illegal connections to the MS4. This Program shall
include the mapping of the MS4 (including MS4 outfalls and home sewage
treatment systems); the routine inspection of storm water outfalls to the MS4,
and the systematic investigation of potential residential, commercial,
industrial and institutional facilities for the sources of any dry-weather
flows found as the result of these inspections.
   (b)   Inspection of Residential, Commercial, Industrial or Institutional
Facilities.
      (1)   The City shall be permitted to enter and inspect facilities subject
to this Chapter as often as may be necessary, at reasonable times and upon
reasonable notice to the Owner/Operator, to determine compliance with this
Chapter. This right of entry shall be subject to constitutional restrictions on
unreasonable searches and seizures. If entry is refused or not obtained, the
City is authorized to pursue recourse as provided by law including, but not
limited to, seeking an administrative search warrant, injunctive relief and/or
criminal remedies.
      (2)   The City shall have the right to set up at facilities subject to
this Chapter such devices as are necessary to conduct monitoring and/or
sampling of the facility's stormwater discharge, as determined by the City.
      (3)   The City shall have the right to require the facility's Owner/
Operator to install sampling and/or monitoring equipment as the City deems
necessary. This sampling and/or monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all
times in safe and proper operating condition by the Owner/Operator at the
Owner/Operator's expense. All devices used to measure stormwater flow and
quality shall be calibrated by the City to ensure their accuracy.
      (4)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and reasonable
access to the facility to be inspected and/or monitored shall be promptly
removed by the facility's Owner/Operator at the written or oral request of the
City and shall not be replaced. The cost of clearing such access shall be borne
by the facility Owner/Operator.
      (5)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the City access to a facility
subject to this Chapter for the purposes of illicit discharge inspection may be
a violation of this Chapter, subject to any penalties provided herein.
      (6)   Any costs associated with these inspections shall be assessed to
the facility Owner/Operator. If such costs are not paid within thirty (30) days
of the date of the invoice sent to the Owner/Operator, the City may cause a
lien to be placed upon the property of the facility.
(Ord. 2020-24. Adopted 09/10/20; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1021.09 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   (a)   Notice of Violation and Correction Order.
      (1)   When the City finds that a premises is in violation of any
provision of this Chapter, or that an Owner/Operator has violated any provision
of this Chapter or has failed to meet any requirement of this Chapter, the City
may order compliance by written Notice of Violation and/or Correction Order.
Such notice must specify the violation and shall be hand delivered and/or sent
by certified mail to the Owner/Operator of the premises. Such Notice and/or
Order may require the following actions:
         A.   The performance of monitoring, analyses and reporting;
         B.   The elimination of illicit discharges or illegal connections;
         C.   The "cease and desist" of any violation discharges, practices or
operations;
         D.   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property; and/or
         E.   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
      (2)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property
is required, the Correction Order shall set forth a deadline within which such
remediation or restoration must be completed. Said Order shall further advise
that should the Owner/Operator fail to remediate and/or restore within the
established deadline, legal action for enforcement may be initiated.
      (3)   Any Owner/Operator receiving Notice of Violation and/or Correction
Order must meet compliance standards within the time established in the Notice
of Violation and/or Correction Order.
   (b)   Appeals. Any Owner/Operator who is adversely affected by the issuance
of a Notice of Violation and/or Correction Order under this Chapter may appeal
to City Council. Such appeal shall be in writing and shall be filed with the
Public Service Director within twenty (20) days of the issuance of the Notice
of Violation and Correction Order.
   (c)   Prosecution of Violations. Upon the failure of any Owner/Operator to
comply with a Notice of Violation and Correction Order, or upon a violation of
any section of this Chapter, the City may institute the appropriate proceeding,
whether in law or in equity, to penalize, restrain, correct or abate such
violation.
   (d)   Penalties. Unless otherwise provided in this Chapter, the penalties
for failure to comply with a Notice of Violation and Correction Order, and/or
for a violation of this Chapter shall be as follows:
      (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an unclassified
misdemeanor, and in addition to any other penalties allowed by law, the Court
shall fine the person as follows:
         A.   On a first offense, not less than twenty-five dollars ($25);
         B.   On a second offense within one (1) year, not less than fifty
dollars ($50);
         C.   On a third offense within one (1) year, not less than one hundred
dollars ($100);
         D.   On a fourth offense within one (1) year, not less than two
hundred dollars ($200);
         E.   On a fifth offense within one (1) year, not less than four
hundred dollars ($400);
         F.   On a sixth offense within two (2) years, not less than six
hundred dollars ($600);
         G.   On a seventh offense within two (2) years, not less than eight
hundred dollars ($800);
         H.   On an eighth offense or higher within two (2) years, not less
than one thousand dollars ($1,000).
      (2)   Each day the violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. The application of the penalties herein described shall not prevent
the abatement of prohibited conditions.
(Ord. 2020-24. Adopted 09/10/20; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1021.10 PENALTIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The penalties provided in this Chapter are not exclusive of any other
remedies available under any applicable Federal, State, or local law, and it is
within the discretion of the City to seek cumulative remedies. If an Owner/
Operator has violated or continues to violate this Chapter, the City may
institute an appropriate action, whether in law or in equity, to restrain,
correct or abate a violation, or petition for an injunction, to any court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2020-24. Adopted 09/10/20; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
CHAPTER 1025
Solid Waste Collection & Sanitation Utility
1025.01   Purpose; Rules and Regulations
1025.02   Definitions
1025.03   Solid Waste Collection
1025.04   Solid Waste Collection Fees
1025.05   Sanitation Surcharge
1025.06   Weekly Collection
1025.07   Special Collection
1025.08   Removal of Excess Waste
1025.09   Prohibitions
1025.10   Trash Picking
1025.11   Construction Waste and Debris
1025.12   Hauling and Transport Services
1025.98   Severability
1025.99   Penalties
   CROSS REFERENCES
   Authority to Own and Operate Public Utility - see O. Const. Art. XVIII § 4
   Authority to Provide Refuse Disposal - ORC 715.43
   Illicit Discharges - see S.U.&P.S.
CH. 1021
   Unpaid Fees, Assessments for - see ADMIN.
250.04
   Utility Billing - see S.U.&P.S.
CH. 1030
   Utility Funds - see ADMIN.
251.04
§ 1025.01 PURPOSE; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Purpose. It is hereby declared that the purpose of this Chapter is to
achieve and maintain sanitary and satisfactory methods for the preparation,
collection, and disposal of solid waste and recyclables within the City, and to
provide for the maintenance of public and private property in a clean, orderly
and sanitary condition for the peace, health and safety of the community.
   (b)   Rules and Regulations. The City Manager is hereby authorized to make
such rules and regulations as from time to time appear to him or her to be
necessary to carry out the purposes of this Chapter including, but not limited
to, required types of containers, how residential waste and/or recyclables are
to be prepared for collection, requirements for subscribing businesses to use
the City's solid waste collection utility, and regulations for storage,
collection and disposal of multi-family, commercial and industrial waste by the
owner or occupant of the property where such waste is produced. Such rules and
regulations shall be known as the "Sanitation Rules and Regulations," shall be
made available to the public on the City's website, and shall be kept up to
date.
(Ord. 89-86. Adopted 12/28/89; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1025.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
   (a)   Apartment Building or Multi-Family Residence. A building designed for
or used exclusively for residence purposes and containing more than four (4)
independent dwelling units. Beginning January 1, 2026, a building designed for
or used exclusively for residence purposes and containing more than three (3)
independent dwelling units. The determination of multi-family may be based on
the land use code assigned to the property by Greene County.
   (b)   Bag or Bags. Plastic sacks designed to store refuse with sufficient
wall strength to maintain physical integrity when lifted by the top.
   (c)   Bulky Waste. Appliances, such as stoves, refrigerators, water tanks,
washing machines and dryers, furniture, mattresses, large TVs, rugs and carpet,
and other similar large items with weights or volumes greater than those
allowed for containers. "Bulky Waste" does not include construction debris,
dead animals, and/or hazardous waste.
   (d)   Bundle. Tree, shrub and/or brush trimmings securely tied together to
form an easily handled package not exceeding four feet (4') in length and/or
wooden boxes or cardboard boxes broken down and tied together, and/or
newspapers or magazines tied together.
   (e)   City. The City of Xenia, Ohio, and those administrative officers and
officials authorized to enforce the provisions of this Chapter.
   (f)   Collector. Any owner of a refuse collection and transportation
business or vehicle (e.g., a garbage truck) that is licensed to collect and
dispose of solid waste and refuse.
   (g)   Commercial Use. Commercial uses include the following:
      (1)   General commercial activity, whether public or private, that
includes, but is not limited to, the sale or storage of goods and/or the
provision of professional or personal services such as offices, institutional
uses, public buildings, stores, theaters, markets, restaurants, and hotels.
      (2)   High density residential structures, such as apartment buildings,
tenement houses, rooming houses, and multi-family dwellings, but not including
multi-family that consists of stand-alone condominium units.
      (3)   All industrial uses.
   (h)   Commercial Waste. All waste material resulting from the operation of a
commercial enterprise.
   (i)   Construction Debris. Waste building materials resulting from
construction, remodeling, repair or demolition operation.
   (j)   Container or Cart. A receptacle for solid waste constructed of
plastic, metal or fiberglass, having handles of adequate strength for lifting
and having a tight-fitting lid capable of preventing entrance into the
container by vermin. The mouth of a container shall have a diameter greater
than or equal to that of the base.
   (k)   Contractor. The person, corporation or partnership performing weekly
residential solid waste collection and disposal under contract with the City.
   (l)   Dead Animals. Animals or portions thereof equal to or greater than ten
pounds in weight that have expired from any cause, except those slaughtered or
killed for human use or consumption.
   (m)   Disposal Site. A refuse depository including, but not limited to,
sanitary landfills, transfer stations, incinerators, and waste processing/
separation centers licensed, permitted or approved by all governmental bodies
and agencies having jurisdiction and requiring such licenses, permits or
approvals to receive refuse and dead animals for processing or final disposal.
   (n)   Hazardous Waste. Waste, in any amount, which is defined, characterized
or designated as hazardous by the United States Environmental Protection Agency
(USEPA) or appropriate state agency (OEPA) by or pursuant to federal or state
law, or waste, in any amount, which is regulated under federal or state law.
   (o)   Industrial Waste. All waste material resulting from the operation of
an industrial enterprise, excluding garbage, kitchen rubbish and waste liquids
or solids resulting from industrial processes.
   (p)   Residential Waste. Residential waste includes:
      (1)   Kitchen Rubbish - All types of food containers and wrappings,
including tin cans, bottles, jars, broken glass, crockery, paper and wood boxes
and small metal objects and plastic objects.
      (2)   Household Rubbish - All types of household materials to be
discarded, such as newspapers, tires, magazines, books, wrappings, cartons,
boxes, ashes, excelsior, rags, clothing, wallpaper, leather objects, sweepings
and small household appliances.
      (3)   Yard Rubbish - Materials such as grass clippings, weeds, leaves,
plants, wood shavings, sawdust, garden trash, clippings from hedges and shrubs,
tree branches, roots and stumps less than two inches (2") in diameter.
   (q)   Person. Any individual, householder, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, company or organization of any kind.
   (r)   Recyclable Materials or Recyclables. Materials which can be
rejuvenated or reconstituted for reuse, such as: aluminum cans and articles,
bimetal cans, glass containers, plastic beverage containers, paper, newspaper,
cardboard and similar materials.
   (s)   Residential Unit. When a structure contains more than one (1)
independent dwelling intended for residential use, each independent dwelling
within the structure shall be deemed a residential unit.
   (t)   Residential Use. A structure within the corporate limits of the City
containing three (3) or fewer residential units. A residential use shall be
deemed occupied when water and sanitary sewer services are being supplied
thereto. For condominium developments, whether consisting of stand-alone single
dwellings or multi-unit dwellings, each independent dwelling unit may be billed
separately.
   (u)   Rubbish. All other solid waste materials not otherwise defined herein
including rocks, sod, dirt, earth, sand, brick, stone, wood, tree branches,
roots and stumps in excess of two inches (2") in diameter, scrap, abandoned
automobiles and similar materials, drums, barrels and boxes. An automobile
shall be considered abandoned unless it is properly registered and unless
current and valid license plates are exhibited thereon.
(Ord. 89-86. Adopted 12/28/89; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1025.03 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION.
   (a)   Authority of City. City Council may contract for the collection and
disposal of residential waste, recyclables, and/or bulky waste for all
properties being used as residential uses and for subscribing businesses within
the City. All nonresidential establishments within the City that have been
specifically excluded from the solid waste collection contract shall make their
own contracts with a licensed individual, corporation, or company for the
collection of their solid waste.
   (b)   Residential Uses. All properties within the City that are residential
uses, as defined in this Chapter, are hereby required to use the City's solid
waste collection service, whether provided directly by the City or by a
Contractor pursuant to a contract with the City for such services, and shall
comply with the provisions of this Chapter and the Sanitation Rules and
Regulations regarding solid waste collection.
   (c)   Nonresidential Uses. All properties within the City that are used for
multi-family, commercial, industrial, institutional, governmental, or any use
other than a residential use, as defined in this Chapter, shall be provided
with solid waste collection service by the owner or occupant of the property,
at his or her own expense. It shall be the responsibility of the owner or
occupant of such properties to arrange for the collection of all solid waste
produced at the property, and the collection method shall be in accordance with
the Sanitation Rules and Regulations, the rules and regulations of Greene
County Public Health, and the Ohio EPA.
(Ord. 89-86. Adopted 09/23/89; Ord. 16-32. Adopted 06/23/16; Ord. 17-23.
Adopted 05/11/17; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/
08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1025.04 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION FEES.
   (a)   Collection Fees. The monthly fees per residential unit for solid waste
collection, which shall be paid in advance, shall be equal to the solid waste
collection prices in the City's contract for solid waste collection and
disposal with the Contractor. The Finance Director is hereby authorized to
update annually the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code, to reflect the monthly fee per contract
year.
   (b)   Provision of Collection Service; Billing. The delivery of solid waste
collection service to customers and the billing for such service shall be in
accordance with the provisions of this Chapter and Chapter 1030.
   (c)   Container/Cart Fee. The fee for the cost of replacing a customer's
cart or for providing additional carts to a customer shall be equal to the cart
prices in the City's contract for solid waste collection and disposal with the
Contractor. The Finance Director is hereby authorized to update, as needed, the
City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code, to reflect any changes in the
contracted cart prices.
(Ord. 92-55. Adopted 11/24/92; Ord. 06-73. Adopted 11/09/06; Ord. 06-92.
Adopted 12/28/06; Ord. 12-08. Adopted 03/22/12; Ord. 17-23. Adopted 05/11/17;
Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1025.05 SANITATION SURCHARGE.
   (a)   Surcharge. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter, there
is hereby imposed a monthly sanitation surcharge per active utility billing
account for all residential and nonresidential uses, to be collected monthly.
Such surcharge shall be in an amount established by City Council in the City's
Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code.
   (b)   Purpose. All surcharges imposed and collected shall be used for
sanitation items that benefit the City as a whole including, but not limited
to, landfill monitoring and maintenance, abatement of nuisances, and the
securing and/or demolition of dilapidated or unsafe structures.
   (c)   Annual Increase.
      (1)   Beginning January 1, 2026, the sanitation surcharge shall be
subject to an annual increase equal to the percentage obtained by averaging the
national inflation rates from the United States Labor Department, Bureau of
Labor Statistics, for the previous three (3) years. This increase shall be
referred to as the Cost of Living Adjustment (COLA). The new sanitation
surcharge will be established annually by adding the COLA to the existing
sanitation surcharge rate. The Finance Director is hereby authorized to update
the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A of the City Government Code, to reflect the yearly COLA increase.
      (2)   The Finance Director may, no later than February 1st, recommend to
City Council the waiver of all or any part of the yearly COLA increase, and
such recommendation may be for one year or multiple years. Upon such
recommendation by the Finance Director, City Council may, by resolution, waive
all or any part of the proposed COLA increase for one year or multiple years.
      (3)   If City Council takes no action to waive all or any part of the
proposed COLA increase, in accordance with division (c)(2) of this section, the
yearly COLA increase shall be implemented by the Finance Director no later than
March 1st of that year.
   (d)   Joint and Several Liability. In the event the owner and occupants of a
particular commercial or industrial property are not the same, the liability
for each owner and occupant for the sanitation surcharge attributable to that
property shall be joint and several.
(Ord. 89-86. Adopted 09/23/89; Ord. 16-32. Adopted 06/23/16; Ord. 2023-38.
Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/
22/24)
§ 1025.06 WEEKLY COLLECTION.
   (a)   Weekly Solid Waste Collection. Customers of the City's solid waste
collection service shall receive weekly solid waste collection and recycling
services and may receive bulky household collection monthly. Bulky waste shall
be picked up as a part of the collection service, on the schedule and frequency
set forth in the contract for solid waste collection and disposal services
between the City and the Contractor.
   (b)   Carry Out Service. The City shall ensure that all contracts for solid
waste collection require the Contractor to provide special carry-out services
for handicapped and/or elderly customers. The provision of such special service
shall not be automatic. The City Manager shall establish in the Sanitation
Rules and Regulations a process for customers to apply for this special service
and a method for maintaining and providing to the Contractor a current list of
the addresses to which such service should be provided.
(Ord. 89-86. Adopted 12/28/89; Ord. 16-32. Adopted 06/23/16; Ord. 17-23.
Adopted 05/11/17; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/
08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1025.07 SPECIAL COLLECTION.
   (a)   Scheduled Special Collection. Special collection will be made for
customers of the City's solid waste collection service in need of removal of
bulky waste beyond that provided as a part of the weekly solid waste
collection. Such customers shall schedule pickup with the Accounts Receivable &
Billing Division and shall pay a fee per item as set forth in the City's Fee
Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code, which may be added to the customer's
utility bill. All items should be prepared and set at the curb in an
appropriate manner. Standards for the appropriate preparation of items shall be
set forth in the Sanitation Rules and Regulations. If items are set at the curb
and are not appropriately prepared in accordance with the Sanitation Rules and
Regulations, the items may be collected but the customer may be charged the
higher, unscheduled special collection fee per item.
   (b)   Unscheduled Special Collection. Bulk items left at the curb or street
in violation of the prohibition contained in Section 1025.09(a)(1) or that are
not appropriately prepared for collection in accordance with the Sanitation
Rules and Regulations may be removed by the City and shall be deemed an
unscheduled special collection. The customer shall pay a fee per item as set
forth in the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code, which may be added to the customer's
utility bill.
(Ord. 89-86. Adopted 12/28/89; Ord. 16-32. Adopted 06/23/16; Ord. 17-23.
Adopted 05/11/17; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/
08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1025.08 REMOVAL OF EXCESS WASTE.
   (a)   Prior Arrangement with Contractor. In instances where certain
properties have solid waste in excess of the normal pickup, the customer is
required to coordinate, in advance, removal of such waste directly with the
Contractor, and the Contractor shall be entitled to charge an additional fee
for such service. Said fee shall not exceed the per hopper rate set forth in
the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code. The customer and Contractor shall
arrange for the direct payment of said additional fee directly to the
Contractor. If said fee is not paid within thirty (30) days, the Contractor
shall forward the necessary paperwork to the City, who shall collect the fee as
other solid waste collection fees are collected, in accordance with Chapter
1030. In addition, an administrative fee, as set forth in the City's Fee
Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code, shall be added to the fee.
   (b)   Failure to Make Prior Arrangements. In cases where the customer or
property owner has not made prior coordination with the Contractor for the
removal of excess solid waste, the following procedures shall be followed:
      (1)   The Contractor shall notify the City Manager, or his or her
designee, of the address and volume where such excess solid waste is located.
The City Manager, or his or her designee, shall inspect said address and shall,
in his or her sole discretion, make the determination as to whether the volume
of solid waste is excessive. If the City Manager, or his or her designee,
determines the volume of solid waste is not excessive, the Contractor shall
remove the solid waste at no additional cost to the customer or the City.
      (2)   If the City Manager, or his or her designee, in his or her sole
discretion finds that the volume of solid waste is excessive, the City shall
notify the property owner of the same and shall give the property owner forty-
eight (48) hours to remove the excess waste. If the property owner contacts the
Contractor, the Contractor shall have the right to charge the property owner an
additional fee for this service. Said fee shall not exceed the per hopper rate
set forth in the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code. The property owner and Contractor shall
arrange for the direct payment of said additional fees directly to the
Contractor. If said fee is not paid within thirty (30) days, the Contractor
shall forward the necessary paperwork to the City, who shall collect the fee as
other solid waste collection fees are collected, in accordance with Chapter
1030. In addition, an administrative fee, as set forth in the City's Fee
Schedule,
Appendix A of the City Government Code, shall be added to the fee.
   (c)   Failure of Property Owner to Remove Excess Waste. If the property
owner fails to remove the excess waste, as required under division (b) of this
section, the City shall authorize the Contractor to do so, and shall bill the
property owner for all costs associated therewith. The Contractor shall forward
the necessary paperwork to the City, who shall collect the fee as other solid
waste collection costs are collected, in accordance with Chapter 1030. In
addition, an administrative fee, as set forth in the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A of the City Government Code, shall be added to the fee.
   (d)   Exception. This section shall not apply during any City-announced
"clean-up" period.
(Ord. 89-86. Adopted 12/28/89; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1025.09 PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   Prohibitions. No person shall violate any of the following
prohibitions:
      (1)   No solid waste container or cart shall be left at the curb or place
of collection before noon on the day prior to the user's scheduled weekly
collection or past noon on the day after the user's weekly collection has
occurred.
      (2)   No construction waste, hazardous waste, dead animals, commercial
waste, industrial waste, and/or rubbish shall be placed in any residential
waste container or cart.
      (3)   Bulky waste shall not be placed for collection or in any public
right-of-way before 12:00 p.m. of the day prior to the customer's scheduled
collection.
      (4)   Containers and bulky waste placed for collection shall not placed
in such a way as to obstruct or damage the right-of-way, block or obstruct a
sidewalk, in the street, or in any manner that creates a safety hazard.
      (5)   No person shall upset or scatter any solid waste container, and no
person shall deface, mutilate, destroy, or damage a City-provided solid waste
container or the solid waste container of another.
   (b)   Unlawful Deposits; Burying or Burning.
      (1)   No person shall deposit, or cause to be deposited, any solid waste,
rubbish, refuse or garbage in any alley or other public place, or upon any
private property, whether owned by such person or not, within the City, unless
it is in a proper container for collection. Any unauthorized accumulation of
solid waste, rubbish, refuse or garbage on any premises is hereby declared to
be a nuisance. This division (b)(1) does not prohibit composting, if such
composting is done in a contained manner that prevents the blowing or
scattering of waste around the property of the property owner, onto the
property of others, or onto any public property or public street, and is done
in such a manner as to prevent noxious odors.
      (2)   No person shall throw or deposit any solid waste, rubbish, refuse
or garbage in any stream or other body of water.
      (3)   The burying of solid waste, refuse, or garbage within the City is
expressly prohibited; provided, however, that this division (b)(3) does not
prohibit the burying of compost or of rocks, sod, dirt, earth, sand, tree
branches, roots, stumps or similar types of yard waste.
      (4)   The burning of solid waste, rubbish, refuse, garbage, or any
putrescible substance within the City is expressly prohibited.
(Ord. 89-86. Adopted 12/28/89; Ord. 16-32. Adopted 06/23/16; Ord. 2023-38.
Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/
22/24)
§ 1025.10 TRASH PICKING.
   (a)   Prohibitions. hen waste or recyclables have been set out for
collection, except for law enforcement officers, no person who is not the owner
or lessee of the premises shall open any closed waste or trash receptacle,
cart, can, bin or bag for the purpose of picking through or removing any item
from said closed receptacle, cart, can, bin or bag, nor shall any item be
removed from a recycling bin or container.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates this section is guilty of an unclassified
misdemeanor, and in addition to any other penalties allowed by law, the Court
shall fine the person as follows:
      (1)    On a first offense, not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00);
      (2)   On a second offense within one year, not less than fifty dollars
($50.00);
      (3)   On a third offense within one year, not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00);
      (4)   On a fourth offense within one year, not less than two hundred
dollars ($200.00);
      (5)   On a fifth offense within one year, not less than four hundred
dollars ($400.00);
      (6)   On a sixth offense within two years, not less than six hundred
dollars ($600.00);
      (7)   On a seventh offense within two years, not less than eight hundred
dollars ($800.00);
      (8)   On an eighth offense or higher within two years, not less than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
(Ord. 89-86. Adopted 12/28/89; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1025.11 CONSTRUCTION WASTE AND DEBRIS.
   It is the responsibility of the property owner or person performing the
construction work on behalf of the owner, to provide for the proper storage,
collection, and disposal of all construction waste. The property owner, or
person performing the work during construction or renovation, shall maintain an
adequate container or dumpster for the disposal and storage of all waste
generated by the construction work.
(Ord. 89-86. Adopted 12/28/89; Ord. 16-32. Adopted 06/23/16; Ord. 2023-38.
Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/
22/24)
§ 1025.12 HAULING AND TRANSPORT SERVICES.
   (a)   Licensing; Registering. Any individual, corporation, or company
performing solid waste collection and/or hauling services in the City must be
properly licensed, insured, and shall be registered with Greene County
Environmental Services.
   (b)   Requirements. All individuals, corporations, or companies performing
solid waste collection and/or hauling services within the City shall comply
with the following requirements:
      (1)   Employees of the collector or hauler shall return containers and
carts to a location inside the property line where the collection is made, with
lids in place. In no case shall containers and carts be placed in the street
after collection.
      (2)   Collection and transportation of all residential solid waste shall
be by leakproof enclosed truck equipped with a compaction device. Salvage
materials and yard rubbish may be transported in trucks or vans, provided they
are equipped with a cover.
      (3)   All vehicles and other equipment used for the collection and
removal of waste shall be kept neat, clean, sanitary, and in good repair.
(Ord. 89-86. Adopted 12/28/89; Ord. 16-32. Adopted 06/23/16; Ord. 2023-38.
Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/
22/24)
§ 1025.98 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision, section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of this
Chapter is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such holding or decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining provisions of this Chapter.
(Ord. 89-86. Adopted 12/28/89; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1025.99 PENALTIES.
   (a)   Penalties. Whoever violates any of the provisions of this Chapter for
which a penalty is not otherwise provided, or violates any rule or regulation
promulgated pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code, Ohio Administrative Code, or the
Sanitation Rules and Regulations shall be guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor
and shall be fined not less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during which or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
   (b)   Damages. Whoever violates any of the provisions of this Chapter or any
rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code, the Ohio
Administrative Code, or the Sanitation Rules and Regulations shall be liable to
the City for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the City by reason of
such violation, in addition to the penalty provided in division (a) of this
section.
   (c)   Civil Action. The criminal penalties set forth in division (a) of this
section are not exclusive, and nothing shall prohibit the City from also
pursuing a civil action including, but not limited to, injunction, declaratory
judgment, or civil penalties against any person who violates any of the
provisions of this Chapter or any rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to
the Ohio Revised Code, Ohio Administrative Code, or the Sanitation Rules and
Regulations.
(Ord. 89-86. Adopted 12/28/89; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
CHAPTER 1030
Utility Billing
1030.01   Consolidated Monthly Utility Bill
1030.02   Utility Account Application Requirements
1030.03   Payments
1030.04   Penalties, Late Fees, and Denial of Utility Service
1030.05   Tax Liens
1030.06   Collection of Delinquent Accounts
1030.07   Adjustments
1030.08   Temporary Meters
1030.09   Billing Disputes
1030.10   Utility Billing Rules and Regulations
1030.11   Utility Billing Chargebacks
   CROSS REFERENCES
   Authority to Own and Operate Public Utility - see O. Const. Art. XVIII § 4
   Bulk Water Program - see S.U.&P.S.
1010.11
   City Council Authority to Set Utility Rates - see
CHTR. 4.01 E.
   Curb & Gutter Surcharge - see S.U.&P.S.
1020.05
   Extra Strength Surcharges - see S.U.&P.S.
1016.09
   Extraterritorial Customers - see S.U.&P.S.
CH. 1031
   Sanitary Sewer Usage Rates & Minimum Discharge Amounts - see S.U.&P.S.
1015.04
   Sanitation Surcharge - see S.U.&P.S.
1025.05
   Solid Waste Collection Fees - see S.U.&P.S.
1025.04
   Stormwater Management Utility Monthly Fees - see S.U.&P.S.
1020.04
   Unpaid Utility Fees, Assessments for - see ADMIN.
250.04
   Utility Billing by Accounts Receivable & Billing Division - see ADMIN.
CH. 253
   Utility Funds - see ADMIN.
251.04
   Water Usage & Minimum Consumption Rates - see S.U.&P.S.
1010.05
§ 1030.01 CONSOLIDATED MONTHLY UTILITY BILL.
   (a)   Consolidated Monthly Utility Bill. The Accounts Receivable & Billing
Division shall send each customer of any one or more City utility a
consolidated monthly utility bill that shall include the following fees (as
applicable to the customer's use of the City's utilities):
      (1)   The minimum monthly water utility fee and any other applicable fees
under
Chapter 1010;
      (2)   The minimum monthly sanitary sewer utility fee and any other
applicable fees under
Chapter 1015;
      (3)   Extra strength surcharges and any other applicable fees under
Chapter 1016;
      (4)   The monthly stormwater user fee, curb and gutter surcharge, and any
other applicable fees under
Chapter 1020;
      (5)   The minimum monthly solid waste collection fee, sanitation
surcharge, and any other applicable fees under
Chapter 1025;
      (6)   For extraterritorial customers, the applicable water utility fee
and/or sanitary sewer utility fee, plus fifty percent (50%), as set forth in
Chapter 1031.
   (b)   Stormwater User Fees for Lots, Parcels, or Uses not Receiving Other
City Utilities. Lots, parcels or uses not utilizing any other existing City's
utilities may be billed monthly or quarterly in arrears, at the discretion of
the Finance Director. All such bills for Stormwater User Fees shall be rendered
monthly or quarterly by the Accounts Receivable & Billing Division and shall be
placed in the Stormwater Fund.
   (c)   Surcharges. Every utility account shall be billed for the monthly curb
and gutter surcharge (Section
1020.05) and the monthly sanitation surcharge (Section
1025.05). In accordance with division (b) of this section, for utility accounts
that are only being billed for stormwater user fees and for no other City
utilities, the Finance Director is authorized to bill the required surcharges
at the same time and in the same manner as the stormwater user fees.
   (d)   Monthly Readings. Meters shall be read monthly. For large multi-family
residential, commercial, and industrial customers, the frequency of meter
reading may be more frequent, as determined by the Public Service Director,
because of actual or anticipated water consumption.
(Ord. 84-35. Adopted 07/12/84; Ord. 06-86. Adopted 12/28/06; Ord. 07-65.
Adopted 12-27/07; Ord. 08-52. Adopted 08/14/08; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23;
Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1030.02 UTILITY ACCOUNT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Utility Account Holder.
      (1)   Residential Uses - Application for City water utility service,
sanitary sewer utility service, and/or sanitation service for all residential
uses shall be made by the owner of the property in the property owner's own
name; provided, however, that when the property is owned by a condominium
association, there shall be individual utility accounts for each dwelling unit.
Beginning March 1, 2024, no utility account for any residential use shall be
permitted in the name of a lessee or tenant and all existing utility accounts
in the name of a lessee or tenant shall be transferred to the name of the
property owner.
      (2)   Nonresidential Uses - Application for City water utility service,
sanitary sewer utility service, and/or solid waste collection service for all
nonresidential uses shall be made by the owner of the property or may be made
by the occupant or tenant of the property upon the written permission of the
property owner.
   (b)   Utility Account Application. All applications for any City utility
service shall be made to the City's Accounts Receivable & Billing Division upon
the forms prescribed by the Finance Director.
   (c)   Deposits. The Finance Director is hereby authorized to establish and
may require, as a part of the Utility Billing Rules and Regulations, security
deposits for any utility account. If such security deposits are established by
the Finance Director, such deposits shall be placed in a separate cost center
and used for no other purpose than to offset unpaid utility bills or shall be
returned to the depositor upon cessation of services, after deduction of any
unpaid utility bill balance. The posting of a security deposit and the use of
the deposit to offset unpaid utility amounts shall not relieve the depositor of
any liability for amounts due in excess of the security deposit. No interest
shall be paid on any security deposit.
(Ord. 84-25. Adopted 07/12/84; Ord. 06-86. Adopted 12/28/06; Ord. 08-52.
Adopted 08/14/08; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/
08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1030.03 PAYMENTS.
   (a)   Monthly Payments. The monthly consolidated utility bills authorized
pursuant to this Chapter shall be paid on or before the due date indicated on
such bill, which date shall not be less than fifteen (15) days from the date of
billing. The due date for all monthly utility bills, and for those accounts
paid quarterly, as authorized by divisions (b) and (c) of Section
1030.01, shall be established by the Finance Director and set forth in the
Utility Billing Rules and Regulations.
   (b)   Returned Items Handling Fee.
      (1)   There is hereby established a returned item handling fee, as set
forth in the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code. Said returned item fee shall be added
to the customer's utility bill as a handling charge when a check or automated
clearing house (ACH) transaction submitted as payment for a utility bill is not
honored for any reason by the bank on which it is drawn. The Finance Director
may recommend adjustments to said returned item fee to the City Council as
needed.
      (2)   If the payment that was returned was made to avoid disconnection or
to be reconnected, water utility and/or sanitary sewer utility services shall
be disconnected immediately. The returned item handling fee must be paid, in
addition to the full amount of the returned payment in order for services to be
reconnected.
   (c)   Extension of Time to Pay Utility Bill. The Finance Director is hereby
authorized to grant an extension of time for the full payment of a utility
bill, not to exceed forty-five (45) calendar days from the due date, in cases
of indigency, poor relief and similar conditions. Such extensions may be
granted per utility account but no more than two (2) extensions shall be
granted to the same account per calendar year. Any such extensions shall be
granted in accordance with the Utility Billing Rules and Regulations.
(Ord. 84-35. Adopted 07/12/84; Ord. 89-78. Adopted 11/21/89; Ord. 06-12.
Adopted 01/26/06; Ord. 08-52. Adopted 08/14/08; Ord. 09-79. Adopted 11/24/09;
Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1030.04 PENALTIES, LATE FEES, AND DENIAL OF UTILITY SERVICE.
   (a)   Unpaid Utility Bills. Any utility bill not paid on or before the due
date shall be assessed a five percent (5%) penalty. If the bill remains unpaid
thirty (30) days from the due date, a late charge of five percent (5%) shall be
added for each month or portion of a month that the amount due remains
outstanding. For any bill outstanding for more than thirty (30) days after the
due date, a disconnection notice shall be sent to the customer indicating that
the utility service may be disconnected, without further notice, until the
outstanding amount is paid in full.
   (b)   Denial of Service; Disconnection/Reconnection Fee. As of March 1,
2024, water service and or sanitary service may be denied to any lot, parcel,
or property and existing service may be disconnected for indebtedness until any
delinquent utility billing amounts are paid in full. This division shall apply
regardless of whether there has been a change in ownership or possession of the
lot, parcel or property or, for commercial and industrial tenants, a change in
the name under which the account is carried. In addition, the customer shall
pay a disconnection/reconnection fee, as set forth in the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code, prior to the restoration of service.
   (c)   Transfer of Accounts. No utility account shall be transferred into
another person's name, nor transferred to a different service address, when
there are delinquent amounts outstanding on said account. Such delinquent
amounts shall be paid in full before the Accounts Receivable & Billing Division
shall make any requested transfer.
   (d)   Penalties and Late Fees. All collected penalties and late fees shall
be receipted by the Finance Director into the Water Fund, the Sewer Fund, the
Stormwater Fund, and/or the Sanitation Fund, based on the pro rata portion of
unpaid water utility, sanitary sewer utility, stormwater management utility,
and solid waste and sanitation fees or surcharges upon which the penalties and/
or late fees were levied.
   (e)   Multiple Disconnections. At any lot, parcel or property where there
have been three (3) or more disconnections pursuant to division (b) hereof in a
rolling twelve (12) month period, when the utility billing account has been and
remains in the name of the same customer, the City shall install an automatic
disconnection service valve that will allow the customer's service to be
remotely disconnected in the case of further delinquencies. The cost of the
valve, any necessary accessory equipment or materials, monthly service fees,
and the cost of installation shall be billed to the customer at the amount set
forth in the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code. In addition, the Finance Director may
require a deposit, as set forth in the Utility Billing Rules and Regulations,
before reconnection for any customer whose utility billing account has been
disconnected twice or more in a rolling twelve-month period.
(1964 Code § 911.05; Ord. 84-35. Adopted 07/12/84; Ord. 92-17. Adopted 03/12/
92; Ord. 93-40. Adopted 07/22/93; Ord. 06-12. Adopted 01/26/06; Ord. 06-86.
Adopted 12/28/06; Ord. 07-65. Adopted 12/27/07; Ord. 08-52. Adopted 08/14/08;
Ord. 09-04. Adopted 02/12/09; Ord. 2021-04. Adopted 02/11/21; Ord. 2022-44.
Adopted 11/22/22; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/
08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1030.05 TAX LIENS.
   When delinquent bills for the provision of City utilities remain unpaid, the
Finance Director may certify such unpaid amounts to the County Auditor, in
accordance with Section
250.04 of the City Government Code, for such unpaid amounts to be placed as a
tax lien upon the property. Any amounts so certified to the County Auditor
shall be a lien upon the property that received the utility or utilities until
paid.
(Ord. 84-35. Adopted 07/12/84; Ord. 06-12. Adopted 01/26/06; Ord. 08-52.
Adopted 08/14/08; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/
08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1030.06 COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   (a)   Other Actions at Law. The City may collect, by action in law, from any
property owner or commercial or industrial tenant who is liable for any
delinquent utility payments.
   (b)   Collection Agencies. The City may contract with any debt collection
agency or the Ohio Attorney General's Office to act on behalf of the City to
collect any delinquent utility accounts sent to the collection agency or the
Ohio Attorney General's Office by the Finance Director or his or her designee.
Such contract shall provide for the payment of a reasonable collection fee to
the agency and shall set forth the terms and conditions under which collections
shall be made and paid to the City. A debt collection fee, in the amount set
forth in the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code, shall be added to every account that is
sent to a debt collection agency to offset the costs of the collection fees.
   (c)   Limitation. No delinquent amount that has been certified to the County
Auditor for placement upon the property as a tax lien shall be sent for
collection to a debt collection agency nor pursued through another action at
law.
(Ord. 84-35. Adopted 07/12/84; Ord. 08-52. Adopted 08/14/08; Ord. 08-87.
Adopted 12/30-08; Ord. 15-60. Adopted 11/24/15; Ord. 2023-38; Adopted 12/28/23;
Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1030.07 ADJUSTMENTS.
   (a)   Adjustments for Billing Errors. Subject to the provisions of division
(b) of this section, the Accounts Receivable Manager and Finance Director are
hereby authorized to make adjustments to utility bills for billing errors such
as incorrect meter readings or incorrect service starting and/or ending dates;
provided, however, that any requests for adjustments must be submitted by the
customer within ninety (90) days of the due date on the utility bill for which
the customer is requesting the adjustment. The process for requesting and
reviewing billing adjustments due to errors shall be set forth in the Utility
Billing Rules and Regulations.
   (b)   Water Adjustments. The City has established and maintains a real-time
digital water meter monitoring system ("customer service portal") accessible by
all utility customers through the internet. If accurate consumption data is
available via the customer service portal, any adjustment requested pursuant to
division (a) of this section shall only be considered if the customer has
enrolled in leak and high usage notification through the portal. No more than
two (2) water meter read adjustments in a rolling twelve (12) month period
shall be granted. A maximum of three (3) months of water consumption may be
written off by the Finance Director in that same rolling twelve (12) month
period.
   (c)   Adjustments for Water Consumed Through a Temporary Meter. Customers
desiring adjustments to their sanitary sewer user fees for water consumption at
their property that does not result in discharge into the City sanitary sewer
system (e.g., filling of swimming pools) must, prior to such water consumption,
arrange for the rental of a portable hose bib meter through the Accounts
Receivable & Billing Division in accordance with the provisions of Section
1030.08(a) of this Chapter.
(Ord. 07-65. Adopted 12/27/07; Ord. 08-52. Adopted 08/14/08; Ord. 15-60.
Adopted 11/24/15; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/
08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1030.08 TEMPORARY METERS.
   (a)   Hose Bib Meter Rental.
      (1)   At the time of pick up and rental of a temporary hose bib meter,
the customer shall be required to make a deposit, in the amount set forth in
the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code. Hose bib meters shall be rented at the
rental fee established in the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code, shall not be prorated, and shall be
deducted from the customer's deposit.
      (2)   Upon the return of the hose bib meter to the Accounts Receivable &
Billing Division, the customer's deposit, minus the monthly rent, shall be
returned to the customer by crediting the customer's utility billing account.
If the customer does not have a utility billing account, the customer's
deposit, minus the monthly rent, shall be returned by check, sent to the
customer within thirty (30) days of return of the hose bib meter.
      (3)   If the hose bib meter is not returned to the Accounts Receivable &
Billing Division within six (6) months from the first day of rental, or if the
meter is returned damaged or unusable, the customer's deposit shall be retained
and no amount of the deposit shall be refunded. In addition, the customer shall
be not be eligible for any adjustment pursuant to Section
1030.07(c) to his or her sanitary sewer utility charges.
   (b)   Hydrant Meters.
      (1)   Construction contractors desiring to use City water through a fire
hydrant during a construction project must provide a certified hydrant meter
with a backflow prevention device prior to the use of such water. All
contractors shall be required to make application, on the form provided by the
Accounts Receivable & Billing Division, for the use of a hydrant meter.
      (2)   The contractor shall be required to make a deposit and pay an
installation and removal fee, in the amounts set forth in the City's Fee
Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code, at the time of application. The
Accounts Receivable & Billing Division will schedule the installation and
removal of the contractor-provided hydrant meter with the Public Service
Department. Only employees of the City's Public Service Department shall be
permitted to install or remove a hydrant meter.
      (3)   The contractor's deposit shall be applied to the contractor's bill
for water consumption, and any remaining deposit shall be returned by check,
sent to the contractor within thirty (30) days of final billing. If the
contractor's deposit is not sufficient to cover the bill for water consumption,
the Accounts Receivable & Billing Division shall send a bill for the remaining
due balance to the contractor at the address provided on the application.
      (4)   Any contractor who installs or removes its own meter may be denied
the use of City water through a City fire hydrant in the future, and the
contractor shall be liable to the City for any damages caused to the City's
hydrant.
(Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1030.09 BILLING DISPUTES.
   (a)   Request for Adjustments. All requests for billing adjustments shall
first be presented to the Accounts Receivable Manager for review and
consideration. If the request for adjustment is denied by the Accounts
Receivable Manager, the customer may submit a formal, written dispute to the
Finance Director within ten (10) days of the Accounts Receivable Manager's
denial. The Finance Director shall make a determination on the dispute within
thirty (30) days of submittal of the dispute.
   (b)   Appeals. Any denial of a dispute by the Finance Director may be
appealed by the customer to the Utility Billing Appeals Committee, in writing,
within thirty (30) days of issuance of the Finance Director's determination.
The Committee shall consist of the Public Service Director, the City Manager
and the Chair of City Council's Public Service & Utilities Committee.
   (c)   Process and Procedures. The Finance Director shall establish, as a
part of the Utility Billing Rules and Regulations, processes and procedures
providing a fair and reasonable opportunity for the resolution of any customer
billing disputes in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1030.10 UTILITY BILLING RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Finance Director is hereby authorized and directed to establish rules
and regulations as required under this Chapter, or as may be necessary to carry
out the purposes of this Chapter or any provision of the Streets, Utilities,
and Public Services Code, and to assure the orderly and efficient
administration of utility billing and the proper handling and resolution of any
requests for adjustments or any billing disputes. Such rules and regulations
shall be known as the "Utility Billing Rules and Regulations," shall be made
available to the public on the City's website, and shall be kept up to date.
(Ord. 07-65. Adopted 12/27/07; Ord. 08-52. Adopted 08/14/08; Ord. 15-60.
Adopted 11/24/15; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/
08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1030.11 UTILITY BILLING CHARGEBACKS.
   (a)   Chargebacks. Costs recorded in the Utility Billing Internal Service
Fund shall be charged to City funds as follows:
      (1)   Water Fund - thirty percent (30%).
      (2)   Sewer Fund - thirty percent (30%).
      (3)   Sanitation Fund - thirty percent (30%).
      (4)   Stormwater Fund - ten percent (10%).
(Ord. 14-44. Adopted 10/09/14; Ord. 15-60. Adopted 11/24/15; Ord. 22-44.
Adopted 11/22/22; Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/
08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
CHAPTER 1031
Extraterritorial Customers
1031.01   Purpose
1031.02   Annexation Prior to Provision of Service
1031.03   New Extraterritorial Connections
1031.04   Extraterritorial Service Agreements
1031.05   User Fees or Charges
1031.06   Cancellation of Service
§ 1031.01 PURPOSE.
   To encourage reasonable and planned growth of the City and the greater Xenia
community, or to remediate a public health matter, or to encourage
extraterritorial development that will benefit the City, the City may extend
its municipal utilities including, but not limited to, water, sewer, or storm
sewer, outside of the City of Xenia, subject to the provisions contained in
this Chapter.
(Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1031.02 ANNEXATION PRIOR TO PROVISION OF SERVICE.
   Council hereby affirms, as a general policy, the practice of requiring
annexation prior to the tap-in of any of its municipal utilities and/or the
provision of any of its municipal utilities including, but not limited to,
water, sewer, or storm sewer. Said policy shall be subject to the exceptions
outlined in this Chapter.
(Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1031.03 NEW EXTRATERRITORIAL CONNECTIONS.
   (a)   City Policy. It is hereby determined to be the policy of the City that
all new connections to the City's municipal utilities by owners of
extraterritorial property (i.e., property outside the corporate limits of the
City) who cannot annex prior to the tap-in to a municipal utility shall only be
provided utility service(s) when the new connection meets the requirements of
division (b) of this section.
   (b)   Conditions. The property owner requesting the provision of the City's
municipal utilities to the owner's extraterritorial property shall comply with
the following conditions prior to the provision of utility services:
      (1)   The property owner shall execute an extraterritorial service
agreement with the City, in accordance with Section 1031.04, prior to any tap-
in or the provision of any utility service;
      (2)   The property owner shall pay any required tap-in fee and/or meter
fee prior to any tap-in or the provision of any utility service;
      (3)   The property owner's development or use of the property shall
comply with the zoning regulations of the political subdivision who has
jurisdiction over the property;
      (4)   The installation and construction of all laterals and the tap-in to
all City mains by the property owner shall comply with all City laws, rules and
regulations regarding the municipal utility or utilities being accessed; and
      (5)   The installation and construction of all laterals and the tap-in to
all City mains by the property owner shall comply with all applicable OEPA
regulations regarding the municipal utility or utilities being accessed.
(Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1031.04 EXTRATERRITORIAL SERVICE AGREEMENTS.
   (a)   Annexation. All extraterritorial service agreements shall require the
property owner, and the owner's heirs, assigns, or successors, to agree to
annex the extraterritorial property to the City when the property becomes
contiguous to the City, if annexation is requested by the City.
   (b)   Single-Family Residential. The City Manager is hereby authorized to
approve or deny any request for the provision of City utility service(s) to an
extraterritorial property with a single-family home where the lateral to the
City's water main is one inch (1") or less and/or the lateral to the City's
sanitary sewer main is four inches (4") or less. If the City Manager approves
such request, the City Manager is further authorized to execute the required
extraterritorial service agreement with the property owner. Such agreement
shall be subject to the conditions of this Chapter and shall be upon such terms
and conditions as are approved by the City Law Director.
   (c)   Other Uses. For all nonresidential uses, residential developments
(e.g., subdivisions), multi-family residential, or other residential use not
subject to division (b) of this section, the request for the provision of City
utility service(s) to an extraterritorial property or properties must be
approved by City Council, by resolution. If approved, the City Manager shall
execute the required extraterritorial service agreement with the property
owner. Such agreement shall be subject to the conditions of this Chapter and
shall be upon such terms and conditions as are approved by the Law Director.
   (d)   Denial of Services. Any refusal by the property owner to execute the
required extraterritorial service agreement shall be grounds for denial of the
provision of City utility service(s) to the owner's extraterritorial property.
(Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1031.05 USER FEES OR CHARGES.
   All extraterritorial users of any City utility, both existing users and
future users, shall pay for any provided City utility service(s) at a rate that
is equal to the utility usage rate paid by customers within the City, plus
fifty percent (50%).
(Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1031.06 CANCELLATION OF SERVICE.
   Any violation of the terms and conditions of the extraterritorial service
agreement by a extraterritorial property owner, including the refusal to
petition for annexation if requested by the City, shall be cause for
termination of the provision of the City's municipal utilities to the property.
(Ord. 2023-38. Adopted 12/28/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
TITLE SIX - OTHER PUBLIC SERVICES
CHAPTER 1040
Parks
1040.01   Park Rules and Regulations
1040.02   Vehicles in Parks
1040.03   Use of Trails and Paths
1040.04   Drones
1040.05   Rentals
1040.06   Special Event Permits
1040.97   Definitions
1040.98   Enforcement
1040.99   Penalties
   CROSS REFERENCES
   (Alcohol) Consumption in Motor Vehicle Prohibited - see GEN. OFF.
612.04
   Animal Owner Liable for Damages to Public Property - see GEN. OFF.
618.19
   Authority of City Manager - see ADMIN.
219.02
   Criminal Damaging - see GEN. OFF.
642.03
   Criminal Mischief - see GEN. OFF.
642.04
   Destruction of Shrubs or Trees - see GEN. OFF
642.08
   Disorderly Conduct - see GEN. OFF
648.04
   Failure to Disperse - see GEN. OFF
648.02
   Hunting - see GEN. OFF.
618.11
   Littering and Deposit of Garbage - see GEN. OFF.
660.03
   Minors Curfew - see GEN. OFF.
648.10
   Open (Alcohol) Container Prohibited - see GEN. OFF.
612.07
   Trespass - see GEN. OFF.
642.05
   Xenia Recreation and Events Commission - see ADMIN.
CH. 284
§ 1040.01 PARK RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The following rules and regulations govern the use of City-owned parks and
park property and are in addition to all local, state, and federal laws:
   (a)   Alcohol. No person shall bring into or onto park property, or
otherwise have in his or her possession, any kind of intoxicating liquor, wine,
or beer. This prohibition does not apply to alcohol sold at a special event for
which permission has been granted as a part of the special event permit, as
provided in Section
1040.06 of this Chapter.
   (b)   Animals.
      (1)   Domestic pets are permitted on park property if they are leashed
(on a leash no more than eight feet (8') long) and properly controlled at all
times, except that dogs may be permitted off-leash in designated areas.
      (2)   Nondomestic animals including, but not limited to, horses, cattle,
goats, swine, and fowl are not permitted within or on park property.
      (3)   No person shall release any domestic, wild, or exotic animal within
the confines of a park, or release any fish into water without the permission
of the City.
      (4)   No person shall molest, pursue or in any way harm or otherwise
disturb any deer, bird, waterfowl, squirrel, or other wildlife within a park or
on park property.
   (c)   Boating or Use of Floatation Devices. No person shall place or use any
boat, skiff or other vessel, or use any flotation device in the waters of any
park except in designated areas or when such use is approved as a part of a
special event permit issued pursuant to Section 1040.06 of this Chapter. This
provision does not apply to battery-operated or remote-controlled boats or
similar-type toys.
   (d)   Camping. No person shall camp or otherwise establish or maintain
temporary lodging or sleeping places within a park except when such camping is
secondary to a special event for which a permit has been issued pursuant to
Section
1040.06 of this Chapter and such camping has been approved by the City Manager
as a part of the permit. In no case shall camping or temporary lodging be
permitted for more than two (2) consecutive days.
   (e)   Concerts. No person or musical group shall hold any form of musical
entertainment within or on park property without a special event permit, as
provided in Section
1040.06 of this Chapter. This provision does not apply to concerts or musical
entertainment sponsored by the City.
   (f)   Curfew. No person shall be permitted to be in any public park after
closing time, unless he or she is participating in an activity authorized by
the City pursuant to a special event permit or at a City-sponsored event.
Further, no juvenile shall be permitted in any park at any time that would
violate any juvenile curfew established by the City, unless the juvenile is
participating in an activity authorized by the City pursuant to a special event
permit or at a City-sponsored event.
   (g)   Disorderly Conduct. Loud, boisterous, threatening, insulting, or
indecent language or other disorderly conduct or behavior, or any act tending
to cause a breach of the public peace or annoyance or alarm to the public, is
prohibited on or within park property.
   (h)   Fires. No person shall light, make, or use any fire within or on any
park property; except that barbecue and charcoal grilling shall be permitted in
designated areas. No person shall dump hot ashes from grilling onto the ground
or in any trash receptacle.
   (i)   Fishing.
      (1)   Rod fishing is permitted in park waters only where posted that
fishing is permitted.
      (2)   In all instances fishing by the use of hooks left unattended,
traps, spears, gigs, nets, firearms, bows and arrows, weapons, or any device
other than a fishing rod is prohibited.
      (3)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to close the waters in any
City park to fishing when such closure is deemed to be necessary by the City
Manager, in his or her sole discretion.
   (j)   Flags, Banners or Other Signs. No person, except during an event for
which a special event permit has been issued in accordance with Section
1040.06 of this Chapter, shall display any banner, flag, sign or other device
advertising any goods or services for sale on or within any park property.
   (k)   Firearms, Archery Equipment, and Explosives.
      (1)   No person, except authorized law enforcement officials, shall
discharge any firearm of any description, air or gas gun, or any other missile
or projectile-throwing device, or the ammunition therefor, within or on park
property without the express written consent of the Public Safety Director.
      (2)   No person shall release an arrow or any other projectile from any
bow, crossbow, longbow, or other device within or on park property.
      (3)   No person shall employ or cause to be discharged any tear gas
device, stink bomb, smoke generator or other device releasing a substance which
is harmful or offensive to persons, animals, wildlife or plants, or which tends
to interfere with the use or enjoyment of others on or within any park
property.
   (l)   Fireworks. No person shall possess, use, or discharge any fireworks or
explosives on or within park property. This prohibition does not apply to
fireworks displays sponsored by the City or that have been authorized by a
special event permit in accordance with Section 1040.06 of this Chapter.
   (m)   Hours of Operation.
      (1)   The operating hours of all City parks, unless posted otherwise,
shall be from sunrise to sunset. No person shall be in any park before sunrise
or after sunset, except when attending a City-sponsored event or other event or
activity which has been authorized by a special event permit in accordance with
Section
1040.06 of this Chapter.
      (2)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to close any park, or part
thereof, when necessary for public safety, to protect park property, or when an
emergency requires the same.
   (n)   Hunting; Trapping; Gigging.
      (1)   No person shall hunt, pursue with dogs, trap, harm, or in any other
way molest any bird, waterfowl, or animal, whether wild or domestic, found
within or adjacent to the park, nor tamper with or molest any bird or waterfowl
nest, nor tamper with or take the eggs or fledglings of any bird or waterfowl
in, upon or within the confines of any park or park property.
      (2)   No person shall set or place any trap upon any park property that
poses a risk to or the possibility of entrapping any bird, waterfowl, or
animal, whether wild or domestic, entering or leaving the park.
      (3)   No person shall engage in frog gigging within or upon any park
property or the waters within any park.
   (o)   Littering or Dumping.
      (1)   No person shall dump, place, drop, or leave in any park or on any
park property any trash, debris, refuse, or other litter other than in
receptacles provided for that purpose.
      (2)   No person shall dump, release, or spill any hazardous material or
dangerous chemical onto any park property or the water in any park.
      (3)   No person shall bring any trash, refuse, junk, sewage, or any
noxious substance for the purpose of dumping or discarding the same within the
park.
   (p)   Radios; Noise-Making Devices.
      (1)   Radios, stereos and the like shall not be operated in any park at a
volume that is excessively loud or disturbing to other park users, except when
such radio, stereo or the like is being played during a City-sponsored event or
other event or activity for which a special event permit has been issued, in
accordance with Section
1040.06 of this Chapter.
      (2)   Toy sirens, bull horns, air horns, or other noise-making devices
are prohibited in all parks.
   (q)   Sales. No person shall sell or display anything for sale within or on
park property, or on any sidewalk bounding a park. This prohibition does not
apply to sales or concessions being done during a City-sponsored event or other
event or activity for which a special event permit has been issued, in
accordance with Section
1040.06 of this Chapter.
   (r)   Signs. Signs posted by the City for specific purposes within or on any
park property shall be considered a park rule or regulation, and any violation
of any prohibition on such signs shall be subject to the penalties provided in
Section
1040.99 of this Chapter. Only signs posted by the City shall be permitted in
the City's parks.
   (s)   Skating and Sledding. No person shall walk, skate, coast or glide on
the ice on any water within a park unless there is posted signage permitting
such activity. Sledding is permitted on park property unless otherwise posted.
Skating or sledding within or on any park property is done at the person's own
risk, and the City makes no guarantee or promise that such activity is
inherently safe or without risk.
   (t)   Swimming and Wading. Swimming and/or wading in the waters of any park
is prohibited.
(Ord. 91-14. Adopted 03/14/91; Ord. 2019-22. Adopted 11/26/19; Ord. 2023-33.
Adopted 11/21/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/
22/24)
§ 1040.02 VEHICLES IN PARKS.
   (a)   Use of Park Roadways; Speed Limits. Motor vehicles may be driven
within or on park property only on the roadways provided, and no person shall
drive any motor vehicle upon the grass or otherwise off the roadway unless the
same has been approved as a part of a City-sponsored event or other event or
activity for which a special event permit has been issued, in accordance with
Section
1040.06 of this Chapter. Unless otherwise posted, the speed limit in all parks
shall be ten miles per hour (10 mph).
   (b)   Yielding to Pedestrians and Emergency Vehicles. All vehicular traffic
within any park shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians. All vehicular
traffic shall yield to any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle.
   (c)   Use of Park Property.
      (1)   No person shall give, receive, or participate in compensated driver
training within or upon park property.
      (2)   No person shall store, wash, wax, change the oil, or otherwise
perform maintenance on any motor vehicle within or upon park property.
   (d)   Go-Karts, ATVs, and Snow Mobiles. No person shall operate within or
upon park property any go-kart, all-terrain vehicle (ATV), buggy, snowmobile,
or similar type of vehicle.
   (e)   Low-Speed Micromobility Devices, Skateboards, Bicycles, and
Hoverboards.
      (1)   Low-speed micromobility devices, skateboards, and hoverboards shall
be permitted in City parks unless otherwise posted. Low speed micromobility
devices, skateboards and hoverboards shall not be used in parking areas and
shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians on all sidewalks and paths in the
parks.
      (2)   Bicycles shall be permitted in City parks unless otherwise posted.
Bicycles shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles in parking areas and
shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians on all sidewalks and paths in the
parks, except those set aside exclusively for the use of bicycles.
      (3)   Motorized and electric bicycles shall not be permitted upon any
sidewalk or path in any City park and shall yield the right-of-way to all
vehicles in parking areas.
   (f)   Motorcycles and Motorbikes. Motorcycles and motorbikes are permitted
upon park roadways only as a means of conveyance to and from park property.
Racing or "off-roading" of motorcycles, motorbikes, or other similar vehicles
is prohibited.
   (g)   Parking. Parking of vehicles is permitted in designated areas only. No
person shall leave a vehicle in a park overnight, except in cases of emergency.
Any vehicle left in a park for forty-eight (48) hours or longer without
notification to the City's Chief of Police of the reasons for leaving such
vehicle may be impounded or towed by the City's Police Division, in accordance
with Section
454.03 of the City's Traffic Code.
(Ord. 91-14. Adopted 03/14/91; Ord. 2023-33. Adopted 11/21/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1040.03 USE OF TRAILS AND PATHS.
   (a)   Specific Uses. Trails and paths may only be used for their posted
purposes. On multi-use or shared-use trails or paths, pedestrians shall walk
single file to allow other users on permitted vehicles to safely pass them. Any
person on a permitted vehicle passing another person traveling in the same
direction along any trail shall announce his or her intention to pass before
doing so. No person shall pass another in a manner which endangers himself or
herself or other trail users.
   (b)   Posted Signs; Right-of-Way. No person shall fail to obey any posted
signs or signals on any trail. Pedestrians shall have the right-of-way, and
cross traffic shall have the right-of-way at intersections.
   (c)   Horseback Riding. Horseback riding is prohibited in all parks and on
all trails, unless the trail is designated as an equestrian trail.
   (d)   Vehicles.
      (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle, snowmobile, all-purpose
vehicle, motorcycle (including autocycle, cab-enclosed motorcycle, and motor-
driven cycle or scooter), motorized bicycle or moped, class 3 electric bicycle,
or personal delivery device upon any trail or path, as set forth in Traffic
Code Sections
444.09 -
444.11.
      (2)   The use of bicycles, class one electric bicycles, class two
electric bicycles, electric personal assistive mobility devices, low-speed
micromobility devices, and motorized wheelchairs on trails or paths shall be as
provided in Traffic Code Sections
444.09 -
444.11.
   (e)   Camping. Camping or sleeping along the trails is not permitted.
(Ord. 1991-14. Adopted 03/14/91; Ord. 2023-33. Adopted 11/21/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1040.04 DRONES.
   (a)   Special Events. No drone shall be used in any City park during any
City-sponsored community event, other community event, or special event without
the prior permission of the City Manager.
   (b)   Prohibitions. No person shall operate any drone in any City park in a
manner that poses a danger to persons or property, or in any manner that
disturbs or interferes with the use of the park by others.
(Ord. 2023-33. Adopted 11/21/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1040.05 RENTALS.
   (a)   Authority of the City Manager. Persons desiring to use the shelters or
athletic fields in any City park shall first file a reservation with the City
Manager's office and shall pay the established fee. The City Manager is hereby
authorized to approve all rentals and the scheduling of the same.
   (b)   Rentals.
      (1)   Shelters - Shelters must be reserved for use and shall be booked on
a first-come, first-served basis.
      (2)   Athletic Fields - Athletic fields within the City parks can be
rented by groups or individuals for a fee, to be established by the City
Manager. Any group or individual renting an athletic field shall also be
required to execute a facilities agreement with the City.
   (c)   Display of Permit or Rental Receipt. It shall be the duty of every
person claiming to have a valid rental for any park facility to produce and
exhibit such permit or proof of valid rental upon the request of any authorized
person who desires to inspect the same.
   (d)   Compliance with Rules and Regulations. All rentals approved in
accordance with this section shall be subject to the Park Rules and Regulations
contained in Section
1040.01. The person(s) to whom such permit or rental is issued shall be bound
by the Park Rules and Regulations as fully as if the same were set forth in
such permit or rental and the person(s) in whose name(s) the rental was made
shall be liable for any loss, damage or injury caused by his/her (their) use of
park property.
(Ord. 2023-33. Adopted 11/21/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1040.06 SPECIAL EVENT PERMITS.
   (a)   When Required. Any person or nonprofit organization that wishes to
conduct or hold a special event or assemblage that is expected to include more
than twenty-five (25) persons and that is either not-for-profit and is open to
the general public without charge, or that is not-for-profit and is by
invitation only without charge, within any municipal park, facility or other
public space, including streets or rights-of-way, must first make application
for a special event permit from the City Manager.
   (b)   Permit Applications. Applications for such permits shall be made on
such forms as may be prescribed and shall contain such information as is
reasonably necessary to make a fair determination of whether a permit should be
issued. Applications for special event permits will be considered by the City
Manager, or his designee, only if the following conditions are met at the time
of application filing:
      (1)   The application must be filed not less than sixty (60) days before
the date of the special event;
      (2)   The application shall contain all information required therein and
shall be signed by the person or person authorized to do so on behalf of the
organization. The applicant shall also submit any supplemental information
deemed necessary by the City Manager;
      (3)   Each application must be accompanied by an application fee, as set
forth in the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code.
   (c)   Consideration of Applications. Consideration of applications for
special events will be made in the order they are received. Events requested
for the same day and time at the same or similar location will be granted on a
first-come, first-served basis. Scheduling preference may be given to long-
standing community festivals with recognized annual dates.
   (d)   Denial or Revocation. A special event permit may be refused, canceled
or revoked by the City Manager for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   The time, place, size, location or conduct of the special event
would create a significant public safety hazard, would unreasonably interfere
with the movement of police vehicles, firefighting equipment, or emergency
medical services to other areas of the City, or would unreasonably interfere
with the public convenience and safe use of a municipal park, facility and
other public spaces;
      (2)   Adequate policing of the special event would require such a number
of police officers so to as to deny normal police protection to other areas of
the City;
      (3)   The applicant fails to secure any additional permits for operations
or activities related to the special event including, but not limited to,
public health permits, temporary occupancy permits, or permits for temporary
structures;
      (4)   The special event would unreasonably interfere with another special
event for which a permit has already been issued or would, because of another
special event permit that has already been issued, cause a violation of
divisions (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section;
      (5)   The information contained in the application is found to be false,
misleading or incomplete in any material detail;
      (6)   An emergency including, but not limited to, a fire, flood, severe
weather, riot or storm would prevent the proper or safe conduct of the special
event; and/or
      (7)   The applicant has been found guilty of any violation of this
section within the prior two (2) years.
   (e)   Conditions. In issuing a special event permit, the City Manager may
limit or prescribe conditions he or she deems reasonable or necessary
including, but not limited to, the hours or times the event may be conducted,
the locations or portions thereof at which such events may be held or
conducted, and safety and security requirements for the special event.
   (f)   Facilities Agreement Required. Before a special event permit is
formally issued, the applicant shall be required to execute a facilities' use
agreement with the City whereby the applicant agrees to:
      (1)   Indemnify and hold harmless the City, its employees, agents,
servants, boards and commissions from any and all liability arising from or
connected with the special event and the participants of the special event;
      (2)   Reimburse the City for any costs incurred by the City if the
applicant fails to leave the City property in a clean and orderly fashion, free
of all debris and litter;
      (3)   Reimburse the City for any costs incurred by the City if the City's
Police Division or Fire & EMS Division are called to the special event in
response to the applicant's misuse of the City property.
   (g)   Alcohol. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section
1040.06(d) of this Chapter, the applicant may be permitted to sell or serve
alcohol at its special event, but only if the applicant has obtained the
necessary permit from the Ohio Division of Liquor Control and only upon the
approval, by procedural motion, of the City Council, which approval shall be
within the sole discretion of the City Council and upon any conditions and
limitations set forth by the City Council.
(Ord. 11-06. Adopted 01/27/11; Ord. 18-22. Adopted 07/26/18; Ord. 2023-33.
Adopted 11/21/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/
22/24)
§ 1040.97 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
   (a)    "Bicycle," "electric bicycle," and "motorized bicycle" shall have the
same meaning as ORC 4511.01.
   (b)   "Designated area" means an area in a park designated for certain
activities, as indicated by posted signage.
   (c)   "Emergency Vehicle" shall have the same meaning as ORC 4511.01(D).
   (d)    "Low-speed micromobility device" shall have the same meaning as ORC
4511.01(WWW).
   (e)    "Motor Vehicle" shall have the same meaning as ORC 4511.01(B).
   (f)    "Motorcycle" shall have the same meaning as ORC 4511.01(C).
   (g)    "Park" and "park property" include playgrounds or any City-owned land
that is open to the public.
   (h)   "Public Safety Vehicle" shall have the same meaning as ORC 4511.01(E).
   (i)    "Shared Use Path" shall have the same meaning as ORC 4511.01(PPP).
   (j)    "Vehicle" shall have the same meaning as ORC 4511.01(A).
   (k)    "Waters" means any lake, pond, stream, creek, or other water feature,
whether still or moving.
(Ord. 2023-33. Adopted 11/21/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1040.98 ENFORCEMENT.
   (a)   The provisions of this Chapter may be enforced by a law enforcement
officer, as defined in Section
606.01 of the General Offenses Code. All fines collected for any violation of
this Chapter shall be paid into the General Fund of the City of Xenia.
   (b)   All other statutes, codes and ordinances that are appropriate within
this jurisdiction apply.
(Ord. 1991-14. Adopted 03/14/91; Ord. 2011-06. Adopted 01/27/11; Ord. 2023-33.
Adopted 11/21/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/
22/24)
§ 1040.99 PENALTIES.
   (a)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise herein provided, whoever violates any of the
provisions of Sections
1040.01,
1040.02,
1040.03, or
1040.04 of this Chapter shall be guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor and
shall be fined no less than fifty dollars ($50) nor more than one hundred fifty
dollars ($150).
      (2)   Whoever violates Section
1040.03(d) of this Chapter shall be charged and fined in accordance with
Traffic Code Sections
444.09,
444.10, or
444.11.
      (3)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of Sections
1040.05 or
1040.06 of this Chapter shall be guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor and
shall be fined no less than fifty dollars ($50) nor more than one hundred fifty
dollars ($150). In addition, if the failure to make the necessary reservation
under Section
1040.05 or to secure the necessary permit under Section
1040.06 results in or necessitates a response or manpower from the City's
Police Division, Fire & EMS Division, or Public Service Department, the Court
shall order the offender to pay the City restitution for the same.
   (b)   Restitution. Where a violation of any of the provisions of this
Chapter results in damage or injury to any City property, facility or employee,
the Court shall order the offender to pay restitution for the same.
   (c)   Trespass. Nothing in this Chapter shall be interpreted to prevent the
City from trespassing any person from any park, in accordance with ORC Section
2911.21.
(Ord. 1991-14. Adopted 03/14/91; Ord. 2023-33. Adopted 11/21/23; Em. Ord. 2024-
01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
CHAPTER 1041
Street Banner Programs
1041.01   Street Pole Banner Sponsorship Program
1041.02   Over-the-Street Banner Program
   CROSS REFERENCES
   Authority of City Manager - see ADMIN.
219.02
   Care, Supervision, and Control of Streets - see ORC 723.01
§ 1041.01 STREET POLE BANNER SPONSORSHIP PROGRAM.
   (a)   Purposes. The purposes of the Street Pole Banner Sponsorship Program
are:
      (1)   To promote community events and the City in general through the
installation of properly designed and installed banners on street poles;
      (2)   To complement the aesthetic appearance of the City by introducing
color, a sense of excitement, and community feel through colorful and properly
designed banners; and
      (3)   To allow individuals and organizations to participate in the
financing of this program through sponsorship.
   (b)   Duties of the City Manager. The City Manager is hereby authorized and
directed to establish an administrative process, policies, guidelines, and fees
to implement and carry out the Street Pole Banner Sponsorship Program
consistent with the purposes of such Program. The City Manager is hereby
authorized to establish such fees in the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A of the City Government Code.
(Ord. 09-55. Adopted 08/27/09; Ord. 17-41. Adopted 10/12/17; Ord. 18-23.
Adopted 08/09/18; Ord. 2023-33. Adopted 11/21/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/
08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1041.02 OVER-THE-STREET BANNER PROGRAM.
   (a)   Purposes. The purposes of the Over-the-Street Banner Program are:
      (1)   To allow the promotion of community-wide events and events open to
the public, which are hosted or sponsored by registered charities, nonprofits
or governmental entities, through the installation of properly designed and
installed over-the-street banners;
      (2)   To allow registered charities, nonprofits, educational agencies or
governmental entities to display or promote messages regarding the mission or
function or said agencies or entities through the installation of properly
designed and installed over-the-street banners; and
      (3)   To assure that the City and its taxpayers are protected by
requiring at least one million dollars in insurance coverage and/or
indemnification from the applicant whose banner is approved and installed by
the City.
   (b)   Duties of the City Manager. The City Manager is hereby authorized and
directed to establish an administrative process, policies, guidelines, and fees
to implement and carry out the Over-the-Street Banner Program consistent with
the purposes of such Program. The City Manager is hereby authorized to
establish such fees in the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A of the City Government Code.
(Ord. 09-55. Adopted 08/27/09; Ord. 17-41. Adopted 10/12/17; Ord. 18-23.
Adopted 08/09/18; Ord. 2023-33. Adopted 11/21/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/
08/24; Ord. 2024-02. Adopted 02/22/24)
CHAPTER 1042
Community Events, Parades and Assemblies
1042.01   Permit Required
1042.02   Permit Application
1042.03   Denial or Cancellation of Permit
1042.04   Conditions
1042.99   Penalties
   CROSS REFERENCES
   Authority of City Manager - see ADMIN.
219.02
   Care, Supervision, and Control of Streets - see ORC 723.01
   Disorderly Conduct (Impeding Traffic) - see GEN. OFF
648.04
   Failure to Disperse - see GEN. OFF
648.02
§ 1042.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, group of persons, or organization shall conduct or participate in
any parade, procession (other than a funeral procession), assembly, block
party, or other community event upon any street or highway, or block off any
street or right-of-way, without first obtaining a community event permit from
the City Manager.
(Ord. 2023-33. Adopted 11/21/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1042.02 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (a)   Requirements. Applications for community event permits shall be made
on such forms as may be prescribed by the City Manager and shall contain such
information as he or she finds is reasonably necessary to make a fair
determination of whether such permit should be issued. The application shall be
accompanied by a permit fee, as set forth in the City's Fee Schedule,
Appendix A to the City Government Code.
   (b)   Application Submittal. Applications shall be filed not less than
thirty (30) calendar days before the time intended for such parade, procession,
assembly, block party, or other community event; provided, however, that when
the parade, procession, assembly or other event is for the sole purpose of
exercising the participants' right of free speech, the City Manager may approve
the filing of an application not less than five (5) business days prior to the
parade, procession, assembly, or other event.
(Ord. 2023-33. Adopted 11/21/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1042.03 DENIAL OR CANCELLATION OF PERMIT.
   (a)   Denial of Permit. A request for a community event permit may be
refused or denied by the City Manager for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   The time, place, size, conduct, route, location, or assembly area
of the parade, procession, assembly, block party, or other community event
would unreasonably interfere with the public convenience and safe use of
streets and rights-of-way.
      (2)   The adequate policing or traffic direction of the route, location,
or assembly area of the parade, procession, assembly, block party, or other
community event would require such a number of police officers so as to deny
normal police protection to any other area of the City.
      (3)   The route, location, or assembly area of the parade, procession,
assembly, block party, or other community event would unreasonably interfere
with the movement of police vehicles, firefighting equipment, or emergency
medical services to any other area of the City.
      (4)   The time, place, size, conduct, route, location, or assembly area
of the parade, procession, assembly, block party, or other community event
would unreasonably interfere with another parade, procession, assembly, block
party, or other community event for which a permit has already been issued.
      (5)   The time, place, size, conduct, route, location, or assembly area
of the parade, procession, assembly, block party, or other community event
would, because of a permit which has already been issued, cause a violation of
divisions (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section.
      (6)   The City is unable to provide sufficient and proper staffing to
provide any needed personnel at the time of the parade, procession, assembly,
block party, or other community event.
      (7)   The information contained in the application is found to be false,
misleading, or incomplete in any material detail.
      (8)   An emergency including, but not limited to, a fire, storm, flood,
severe weather, or riot would prevent the proper or safe conduct of the parade,
procession, assembly, block party, or other community event.
      (9)   The applicant(s) has been found guilty of a violation of this
Chapter within the prior two (2) years.
   (b)   Cancellation of Permit. If, after having issued a community event
permit, the City Manager finds that the conditions or facts upon which he or
she relied in issuing the permit have materially changed, the City Manager is
hereby authorized to cancel the issued permit.
   (c)   No Cause of Action. No person shall have any recourse against the City
because their request for a community event permit was denied in accordance
with division (a) hereof, or because a community event a permit was cancelled
in accordance with division (b) hereof.
(Ord. 2023-33. Adopted 11/21/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1042.04 CONDITIONS.
   In issuing a community event permit, the City Manager may limit or prescribe
conditions he deems reasonable or necessary including, but not limited to, the
hours or times, the place or location, the route, and the streets, highways, or
portions thereof which may be used or occupied by the parade, procession,
assembly, block party, or other community event.
(Ord. 2023-33. Adopted 11/21/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
§ 1042.99 PENALTIES.
   (a)   Holding Event without Permit. Whoever violates Section
1042.01 of this Chapter by holding a parade, procession, assembly, block party,
or other community event without the required permit is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender
previously has been convicted of or pled guilty to the same violation, whoever
violates Section
1042.01 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (b)   Violation of Conditions. Whoever violates any of the conditions of a
permit prescribed pursuant to Section
1042.04 of this Chapter shall be guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor and
shall be fined no less than fifty dollars ($50) nor more than one hundred fifty
dollars ($150).
   (c)   Restitution.
      (1)   Where a violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter or a
violation of any of the conditions of a permit prescribed pursuant to Section
1042.04 of this Chapter results in or necessitates a response or manpower from
the City's Police Division, Fire & EMS Division, or Public Service Department,
the Court shall order the offender to pay the City restitution for the same.
      (2)   Where a violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter or a
violation of any of the conditions of a permit prescribed pursuant to Section
1042.04 of this Chapter results in damage or injury to any City property,
facility or employee, the Court shall order the offender to pay restitution for
the same.
(Ord. 2023-33. Adopted 11/21/23; Em. Ord. 2024-01. Adopted 02/08/24; Ord. 2024-
02. Adopted 02/22/24)
CHAPTER 1043
Public Trees
1043.01   Purpose
1043.02   Definitions
1043.03   Authority of Public Service Department
1043.04   Planting and Removal of Public Trees
1043.05   Approved Tree Species List; Prohibitions
1043.06   Public Tree Spacing Standards
1043.07   Protection of Public Trees
1043.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this Chapter to provide recommended standards and
guidelines regarding the care of trees on property owned or controlled by the
City, which are hereby determined to be a public good, and to assign authority
over public trees, provide guidance for planting, maintaining, and/or removing
trees from public street rights-of-way and other public spaces.
(Ord. 2024-41. Adopted 12/23/24)
1043.02 DEFINITIONS.
The words and terms used in this Chapter, unless otherwise expressly stated,
shall have the following meanings:
   (a)   Person. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, or organization of any kind, including utility companies.
   (b)   Public Spaces. Any City-owned property that is open to the public for
use as a park, trail, or other public space, excluding public street right-of-
way.
   (c)   Public Street Right-of-Way. The entire width of the right-of-way of a
public street, including the paved portion of the street or alley, any tree
lawn area, and sidewalk if present.
   (d)   Public Tree. All trees now or hereafter growing upon any public street
right-of-way or within or upon a public space.
   (e)   Shrub. A low growing woody plant with one or several perennial main
stems producing branches, shoots, or multiple stems from or near the base of
the plant and incapable of being pruned to provide at least six feet of clear
branchless trunk within five years of planting.
   (f)   Tree. A tall growing woody plant with one of more perennial main stems
or trunk which develops branches from the aerial section of the stem rather
than from the base; capable of being pruned to at least six feet of clear
branchless trunk below the crown within five years of planting.
   (g)   Tree lawn. That part of a public street right-of-way lying between the
property line and the portion of the street used for vehicular traffic. On
improved streets, the tree lawn is typically the space between the street curb
and the sidewalk.
   (h)   Tree Topping. The severe cutting back of limbs to stubs of three
inches (3") or more in diameter within the tree's crown to such a degree as to
remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
(Ord. 2024-41. Adopted 12/23/24)
1043.03 AUTHORITY OF PUBLIC SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
   The City's Public Service Department shall be responsible for the care of
all trees on City-owned property. The City's Public Service Department, or any
other person(s) or entity authorized by the Public Service Director, shall have
the authority to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees and shrubs growing in
or upon all public street rights-of-way, public spaces and any other property
owned by the City. This shall include the removal of any trees or part thereof
that may threaten a City water or sewer line.
(Ord. 2024-41. Adopted 12/23/24)
1043.04 PLANTING AND REMOVAL OF PUBLIC TREES.
   No person other than a designee of the Director of Public Service, or a
subdivider pursuant to a Major Subdivision Plat as described in Part Twelve -
Land Development Code, shall plant or remove a public tree without first
obtaining approval from the Public Service Director.
(Ord. 2024-41. Adopted 12/23/24)
1043.05 APPROVED TREE SPECIES LIST; PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   Tree Species List. A list of the species of trees approved for
planting as public trees shall be kept on file at the Public Service Department
and may be made available on the City's website. The Public Service Director
may request a recommended list of tree species from the Xenia Recreation and
Events Commission's Tree Committee.
   (b)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No tree species other than those on the list approved by the Public
Service Director may be planted as a public tree without the permission of the
Public Service Director.
      (2)   No tree or shrub included on the Ohio invasive plant species list
by the Ohio Department of Natural Sources shall be planted as a public tree.
(Ord. 2024-41. Adopted 12/23/24)
1043.06 PUBLIC TREE SPACING STANDARDS.
   (a)   Spacing Standards. Unless otherwise provided in the City's Land
Development Code, no public tree should be planted if the center of its tree
trunk is less than the minimum distances from other objects as specified below:
      (1)   At least forty feet (40') from another tree, unless the tree is
planted by the Public Service Department in a park or other public space in
which closer spacing is necessary for screening or other purposes.
      (2)   At least four feet (4') from a bike path, driveway, curb, edge of
public street pavement, or water or gas shutoff valve. The Public Service
Director may reduce this requirement to as little as two feet (2') if it
determines that the proposed tree species will not interfere with the bike
path, driveway, curb, edge of public street pavement, or water or gas shutoff
valve.
      (3)   At least thirty-five feet (35') from the nearest intersection of
the extension of curb lines, or in the absence of curbs, the nearest
intersection of the extension of roadway pavement lines, for the purpose of
maintaining adequate traffic sight distance.
      (4)   At least ten feet (10') from fire hydrants.
      (5)   At least fifteen feet (15') from overhead utility lines, unless the
proposed tree species' expected height at maturity is twenty feet (20') or
less.
      (6)   An adequate vertical and/or horizontal distance from underground
utilities, as determined by the Public Service Director, so as to avoid root
interference with said utilities.
   (b)   Authority of Public Service Director. Whenever any tree or shrub shall
be planted or set out in conflict with the provisions of this section, the
Public Service Director is hereby authorized to cause removal of the same.
(Ord. 2024-41. Adopted 12/23/24)
1043.07 PROTECTION OF PUBLIC TREES.
   (a)   Abuse or Mutilation of Public Trees. Unless specifically authorized,
in writing, by the Public Service Director, no person shall intentionally
damage, cut, carve, nor transplant any public tree; nor attach any rope, wire,
nails, advertising posters or other contrivance to any tree or shrub; nor allow
any gaseous liquid or solid substance that is harmful to trees to come in
contact with a public tree; nor set fire or permit a fire to burn near a public
tree when the heat thereof will injure any portion of the public tree.
   (b)   Tree Topping. As a normal practice, no person shall top any public
tree. Public trees that have been severely damaged by storms or other causes,
or certain trees under utility wires or other obstruction where other pruning
practices are impractical may be exempted from this section, in the sole
discretion of the Public Service Director.
(Ord. 2024-41. Adopted 12/23/24)
PART TWELVE - LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE
   EDITOR’S NOTE: The Land Development Code, consisting of Chapters 1218, 1220,
1222, 1224, 1226, 1228, 1230, 1232, 1234, 1236, 1238, 1240, 1242, and 1244, as
set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ordinance 16-26, passed June 9, 2016,
amended by Ordinance 2018-04, passed February 8, 2018, Ordinance 2019-21,
passed November 14, 2019, Ordinance 2022-04, passed February 24, 2022,
Ordinance 2022-29, passed August 25, 2022, Ordinance 2023-13, passed June 22,
2023, and Ordinance 2023-18, passed July 13, 2023 is hereby adopted and made a
part of this code, the same as if set forth in full herein.
Land Development Code: http://www.ci.xenia.oh.us/DocumentCenter/View/2529
PART FOURTEEN - BUILDING AND HOUSING CODE
         TITLE TWO – BUILDING STANDARDS
            
Chapter 1402. Ohio Building Code
            
Chapter 1404. Residential Code
            
Chapter 1406. Administration
         TITLE FOUR – MISCELLANEOUS BUILDING REGULATIONS
            
Chapter 1474. Numbering of Buildings
         TITLE SIX – PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
            
Chapter 1488. Definitions
            
Chapter 1490. Property Maintenance Code
            Chapter 1492. Registration of Vacant Commercial and Industrial
Buildings
TITLE TWO: BUILDING STANDARDS
CHAPTER 1402
Ohio Building Code
1402.01   Adoption
1402.02   Compliance
1402.03   Enforcement
1402.04   Permits and Fees
1402.05   Conflicts of Laws
1402.06   Separability
1402.99   Penalties; Remedies
   CROSS REFERENCES
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Adoption of Technical Codes by Reference - CHTR. §
5.09
   Authority to Make Regulations - ORC 3781.01
   Building Division - see ADMIN.
Ch. 234
   Chief Building Official - ADMIN. §
234.02
   Enforcement - ORC 3781.03
   Ohio Building Code - OAC Ch. 4101:1
1402.01 ADOPTION.
   Pursuant to Section
5.09 of the City Charter, there is hereby adopted by the City, and incorporated
by reference as if set out at length herein, the Ohio Building Code, 2017
edition (hereinafter "OBC" or "Building Code"), promulgated by the Ohio Board
of Building Standards, and contained in Chapter 4101:1 of the Ohio
Administrative Code, and any subsequent revisions or amendments thereto, which
are hereby adopted for incorporation by reference.
(Ord. 79-48. Adopted 07/26/79; Ord. 2022-51. Adopted 01/12/23)
1402.02 COMPLIANCE.
   (a)   General Prohibitions.
      (1)   No owners, officers, member of a board or committee, or other
person shall construct, erect, build or equip an opera house, hall, theater,
church, schoolhouse, college, academy, seminary any building or structure to
which the OBC is applicable, or make any addition thereto or alteration
thereof, except in the case of repairs or maintenance without affecting the
construction, sanitation, safety or any other vital feature of such building or
structure, without complying with the provisions of this chapter, the OBC, ORC
Chapters 3781. and 3791. or the rules or regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
      (2)   No architect, engineer, builder, plumber, carpenter, mason,
contractor, subcontractor, foreman or employee shall violate or assist in the
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, the OBC, ORC Chapters 3781.
and 3791. or the rules or regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
(ORC 3791.01)
   (b)   Prohibition Against Failure to Obey Official Orders.
      (1)   No owner or person having the control as an officer or member of a
board or committee or otherwise of any building or structure to which the OBC
is applicable shall fail to obey any lawful order issued by the State Fire
Marshal, boards of health of city and general health districts, the City's
Chief Building Official, or the Superintendent of Industrial Compliance in the
Ohio Department of Commerce pursuant to the OBC, ORC Chapters 3781. and 3791.
or rules or regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
(ORC 3791.02)
      (2)   No architect, engineer, builder, plumber, carpenter, mason,
contractor, subcontractor, foreman, or employee shall violate or assist in the
violation of any lawful order issued by the State Fire Marshal, boards of
health of city and general health districts, the City's Chief Building
Official, or the Superintendent of Industrial Compliance in the Ohio Department
of Commerce pursuant to the OBC, ORC Chapters 3781. and 3791. or the rules and
regulations adopted pursuant thereto or of any order issued thereunder.
(ORC 3791.03)
   (c)   Submission of Plans and Necessity of Approval. No owner or any other
person shall begin with the construction, erection, or manufacture, or proceed
with the construction, erection, alteration, or equipment of any building or
structure, including industrialized units, to which the OBC is applicable
without complying with the provisions of this chapter, the OBC, ORC 3781. and
3791. and the rules or regulation adopted pursuant thereto, as applicable, and
the plan and specification submission and processing requirements of the City
and/or the OBC and until plans or drawings, specifications and data have been
approved or the industrialized unit has been inspected at the point of origin.
(ORC 3791.04)
   (d)   Noncompliance as Public Nuisance. The construction, alteration,
erection, and repair of buildings, including industrialized units, and the
materials and devices of any kind used in connection with them and the heating
and ventilating of them and the plumbing and electric wiring in them shall
conform to the OBC, State statutes or the rules adopted and promulgated by the
Ohio Board of Building Standards, and to the provisions of the Xenia City Code
that are not inconsistent therewith. Any building, structure, or part thereof
that is constructed, erected, altered, manufactured, or repaired not in
accordance with the OBC, state statutes or with the rules of the Ohio Board of
Building Standards, and any building, structure or part thereof in which there
is installed, altered, or repaired any fixture, device, and material, or
plumbing, heating, or ventilation system, or electrical wiring not in
accordance with the OBC, state statutes or rules of the Ohio Board of Building
Standards is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
(ORC 3781.11(C))
   (e)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section, when such violation
is detrimental to the health, safety, or welfare of any person, is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         (ORC 3791.99)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section shall be fined not
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000).
         (ORC 3791.02; 3791.03)
      (3)   Whoever violates division (c) of this section shall be fined not
more than five hundred dollars ($500).
(ORC 3791.04) (Ord. 2022-51. Adopted 01/12/23)
1402.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   (a)   Enforcement Official. The Chief Building Official and the City's
Building Division shall enforce the provisions of the OBC.
(Ord. 79-48. Adopted 07/26/79; Ord. 2022-51. Adopted 01/12/23)
   (b)   Notice of Violations; Adjudication or Stop Work Orders. When the Chief
Building Official denies any approval or takes action in response to findings
of noncompliance with the provisions of the OBC, the provisions of this
chapter, ORC Chapters 3781. or 3791. or any rules or regulations adopted
pursuant thereto, such action shall be initiated by issuing an adjudication
order, in compliance with OAC 4101:1-1-01, Section 109, prior to the City
seeking any remedy, whether civil or criminal.
(OAC 4101:1-1-01, Section 109.1)
(Ord. 2022-51. Adopted 01/12/23)
1402.04 PERMITS AND FEES.
   The City Council shall prescribe fees to be paid by persons, political
subdivisions, or any department, agency, board, commission, or institution of
the state, for the acceptance, review and approval of plans and specifications
pursuant to the OBC, for the making of inspections pursuant to the OBC, and/or
for the issuance of any required permits or certificates of occupancy. No
permit for the construction, alteration, or repair of any building or
structure, nor any certificate of occupancy, shall be issued by the Chief
Building Official until all required fees have been paid.
(Statutory reference: ORC 3781.102)
(Ord. 79-48. Adopted 07/26/79; Ord. 2022-51. Adopted 01/12/23)
1402.05 CONFLICTS OF LAWS.
   (a)   OBBC Rules. The rules of the Ohio Board of Building Standards,
including the OBC, shall supersede and govern any order, standard, or rule of
the Division of Industrial Compliance in the Ohio Department of Commerce,
Division of the State Fire Marshal, the department of health, and counties and
townships, in all cases where such orders, standards, or rules are in conflict
with the rules of the Board, except that rules adopted and orders issued by the
State Fire Marshal pursuant to ORC Chapter 3743. prevail in the event of a
conflict.
(ORC 3781.11(B))
   (b)   Stricter Standard Prevails. In all other cases of conflict between the
OBC and any other City ordinance or technical code adopted thereby, the more
restrictive provision shall govern.
(Ord. 2022-51. Adopted 01/12/23)
1402.06 SEPARABILITY.
   The invalidity of any section or provision of this chapter or of the OBC
herein adopted shall not invalidate any other section or provision thereof.
(Ord. 2022-51. Adopted 01/12/23)
1402.99 PENALTIES; REMEDIES.
   (a)   Penalties. Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter or
the Building Code adopted herein for which a penalty is not otherwise provided,
or fails to comply with any lawful order issued pursuant thereto, is guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than five hundred dollars ($500) nor
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000) or imprisoned not more than six (6)
months, or both. Each day during which noncompliance or a violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (b)   Abatement Action. The City may institute proceedings to abate the
nuisance of failure to cease work after receipt of an adjudication order as
referred to in Section 1420.03(b).
   (c)   Injunction. For any violation of Section 1420.02(d) of this chapter,
the City may institute proceedings pursuant to ORC Chapter 3767. to enjoin the
public nuisance.
(Ord. 97-17. Adopted 05/08/97; Ord. 2022-51. Adopted 01/12/23)
CHAPTER 1404
Residential Code
1404.01   Adoption
1404.02   Compliance
1404.03   Enforcement
1404.04   Permits and Fees
1404.05   Conflicts of Laws
1404.06   Separability
1404.99   Penalties; Remedies
   CROSS REFERENCES
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Adoption of Technical Codes by Reference - CHTR. §
5.09
   Authority to Make Regulations - ORC 3781.01
   Building Division - see ADMIN.
Ch. 234
   Chief Building Official - ADMIN. §
234.02
   Enforcement - ORC 3781.03
   Residential Code of Ohio - OAC Ch. 4101:8
1404.01 ADOPTION.
   Pursuant to Section
5.09 of the City Charter, there is hereby adopted by the City, and incorporated
by reference as if set out at length herein, the Residential Code of Ohio for
One-, Two-, and Three-Family Dwellings, 2019 edition (hereinafter "RCO" or
"Residential Code"), promulgated by the Ohio Board of Building Standards, and
contained in Chapter 4101:8 of the Ohio Administrative Code, and any subsequent
revisions or amendments thereto, which are hereby adopted for incorporation by
reference.
(Ord. 97-54. Adopted 11/13/97; Ord. 2022-51. Adopted 01/12/23)
1404.02 COMPLIANCE.
   (a)   Prohibition Against Failure to Obey Official Orders.
      (1)   No owner, or person having the control as an officer or member of a
board or committee or otherwise of any building or structure to which the OBC
is applicable shall fail to obey any lawful order issued by the State Fire
Marshal, boards of health of city and general health districts, the City's
Chief Building Official, or the Superintendent of Industrial Compliance in the
Ohio Department of Commerce pursuant to the RCO, ORC Chapters 3781. and 3791.
or rules or regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
(ORC 3791.02)
      (2)   No architect, engineer, builder, plumber, carpenter, mason,
contractor, subcontractor, foreman, or employee shall violate or assist in the
violation of any lawful order issued by the State Fire Marshal, boards of
health of city and general health districts, the City's Chief Building
Official, or the Superintendent of Industrial Compliance in the Ohio Department
of Commerce pursuant to the RCO, ORC Chapters 3781. and 3791. or the rules and
regulations adopted pursuant thereto or of any order issued thereunder.
(ORC 3791.03)
   (b)   Submission of Plans and Necessity of Approval. No owner or any other
person shall begin with the construction, erection, or manufacture, or proceed
with the construction, erection, alteration, or equipment of any residential
building or structure to which the RCO is applicable without complying with the
provisions of this chapter, the RCO, ORC 3781. and 3791. and the rules or
regulation adopted pursuant thereto, as applicable, and the plan and
specification submission and processing requirements of the City and/or the RCO
and until plans or drawings, specifications and data have been approved or the
industrialized unit has been inspected at the point of origin. (ORC 3791.04)
   (c)   Noncompliance as Public Nuisance. The construction, alteration,
erection, and repair of residential buildings and the materials and devices of
any kind used in connection with them and the heating and ventilating of them
and the plumbing and electric wiring in them shall conform to the RCO, state
statutes or the rules adopted and promulgated by the Ohio Board of Building
Standards, and to the provisions of the Xenia City Code that are not
inconsistent therewith. Any residential building, structure, or part thereof
that is constructed, erected, altered, manufactured, or repaired not in
accordance with the RCO, state statutes or with the rules of the Ohio Board of
Building Standards, and any building, structure or part thereof in which there
is installed, altered, or repaired any fixture, device, and material, or
plumbing, heating, or ventilation system, or electrical wiring not in
accordance with the RCO, state statutes or rules of the Ohio Board of Building
Standards is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
(ORC 3781.11(C))
   (d)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section shall be fined not
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000).
         (ORC 3791.02; 3791.03)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section shall be fined not
more than five hundred dollars ($500).
         (ORC 3791.04)
(Ord. 97-54. Adopted 11/13/97; Ord. 2022-51. Adopted 01/12/23)
1404.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   (a)   Enforcement Official. The Chief Building Official and the City's
Building Division shall enforce the provisions of the RCO.
   (b)   Notice of Violations; Adjudication or Stop Work Orders. When the Chief
Building Official denies any approval or takes action in response to findings
of noncompliance with the provisions of the RCO, the provisions of this
Chapter, ORC Chapters 3781. or 3791. or any rules or regulations adopted
pursuant thereto, such action shall be initiated by issuing an adjudication
order, in compliance with OAC 4101:8-1-01, Section 109, prior to the City
seeking any remedy, whether civil or criminal.
(OAC 4101:8-1-01, Section 109.1)
(Ord. 97-54. Adopted 11/13/97; Ord. 2022-51. Adopted 01/12/23)
1404.04 PERMITS AND FEES.
   The City Council shall prescribe fees to be paid by persons, political
subdivisions, or any department, agency, board, commission, or institution of
the state, for the acceptance, review and approval of plans and specifications
pursuant to the RCO, for the making of inspections pursuant to the RCO, and/or
for the issuance of any required permits or certificates of occupancy. No
permit for the construction, alteration, or repair of any building or
structure, nor any certificate of occupancy, shall be issued by the Chief
Building Official until all required fees have been paid.
(Statutory reference: ORC 3781.102)
(Ord. 97-54. Adopted 11/13/97; Ord. 2022-51. Adopted 01/12/23)
1404.05 CONFLICTS OF LAWS.
   (a)   OBBS Rules. The rules of the Ohio Board of Building Standards,
including the RCO, shall supersede and govern any order, standard, or rule of
the Division of Industrial Compliance in the Ohio Department of Commerce,
Division of the State Fire Marshal, the department of health, and counties and
townships, in all cases where such orders, standards, or rules are in conflict
with the rules of the Board, except that rules adopted and orders issued by the
State Fire Marshal pursuant to ORC Chapter 3743. prevail in the event of a
conflict.
(ORC 3781.11(B))
   (b)   Stricter Standard Prevails. In all other cases of conflict between the
RCO and any other City ordinance or technical code adopted thereby, the more
restrictive provision shall govern.
(Ord. 97-54. Adopted 11/13/97; Ord. 2022-51. Adopted 01/12/23)
1404.06 SEPARABILITY.
   The invalidity of any section or provision of this chapter or of the RCO
herein adopted shall not invalidate any other section or provision thereof.
(Ord. 97-54. Adopted 11/13/97; Ord. 2022-51. Adopted 01/12/23)
1404.99 PENALTIES; REMEDIES.
   (a)   Penalties. Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter or
the Building Code adopted herein for which a penalty is not otherwise provided
or fails to comply with any lawful order issued pursuant thereto is guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250)
nor more than five hundred dollars ($500) or imprisoned not more than three (3)
months, or both. Each day during which noncompliance or a violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (b)   Abatement Action. The City may institute proceedings to abate the
nuisance of failure to cease work after receipt of an adjudication order as
referred to in Section 1420.03(b).
   (c)   Injunction. For any violation of Section
1404.02(c) of this chapter, the City may institute proceedings pursuant to ORC
Chapter 3767. to enjoin the public nuisance.
(Ord. 97-54. Adopted 11/13/97; Ord. 2022-51. Adopted 01/12/23)
CHAPTER 1406
Administration
1406.01   Building Division
1406.02   Other Codes
1406.03   Permits and Fees
   CROSS REFERENCES
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Adoption of Technical Codes by Reference - CHTR. §
5.09
   Authority to Make Regulations - ORC 3781.01
   Building Division - see ADMIN.
Ch. 234
   Chief Building Official - ADMIN. §
234.02
   Enforcement - ORC 3781.03
   Ohio Building Code - OAC Ch. 4101:1
   Residential Code of Ohio - OAC Ch. 4101:8
1406.01 BUILDING DIVISION.
   The City's Building Division, through the Chief Building Official and other
duly authorized inspectors, shall enforce the provisions of the City's building
and housing codes, including the provisions of the OBC and the RCO and any
other codes adopted by reference in the OBC and RCO.
(Ord. 2022-51. Adopted 01/12/23)
1406.02 OTHER CODES.
   In accordance with Section
5.09 of the City Charter, there is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference
any technical codes adopted by reference in the OBC or RCO including, but not
limited to:
      (1)   Ohio Energy Code (2017 edition) as referenced and modified in the
OBC and/or RCO (OAC 4101:1-13);
      (2)   Ohio Mechanical Code (2017 edition) as referenced and modified in
the OBC and/or RCO (OAC 4101:2);
      (3)   Ohio Boiler and Pressure Vessel Rules, as referenced and modified
in the OBC and/or RCO (OAC 4101:4);
      (4)   Ohio Elevator Code, as referenced and modified in the OBC and/or
RCO (OAC 4101:5);
      (5)   Ohio Plumbing Code (2017 edition) as referenced and modified in the
OBC and/or RCO (OAC 4101:3);
      (6)   National Electrical Code (2017 edition) as referenced and modified
in the OBC and/or RCO;
and any subsequent revisions or amendments thereto, which are hereby adopted
for incorporation by reference.
(Ord. 2022-51. Adopted 01/12/23)
1406.03 PERMITS AND FEES.
   (a)   Administrative Fees. The City Council may prescribe administrative
fees for inspections other than those required under the OBC or RCO and may set
fees for any permit not specified in the OBC or RCO but required under this
Part Fourteen - Building and Housing Codes. No such permit shall be issued
until all required fees have been paid.
(Ord. 2022-51. Adopted 01/12/23)
   (b)   Plumbing Permits and Fees. Permit and inspection fees associated with
plumbing shall be in accordance with the fees set by the Greene County Public
Health District, unless otherwise specified by City Council.
(Ord. 2022-51. Adopted 01/12/23)
TITLE FOUR – MISCELLANEOUS BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1474:
NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS
Section
1474.01   Definitions.
1474.02   Numbering required.
1474.03   Authority of City Engineer to assign numbers.
1474.04   Method of assigning numbers.
1474.05   Placing of numbers.
1474.06   Removing or defacing numbers; failure to place assigned numbers.
1474.99   Penalty.
   CROSS REFERENCES
   Power to regulate building numbering - see Ohio R.C. 715.26
§ 1474.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and/or phrases used in this section are defined in
Chapter 1438, § 1438.01.
   ALLEY NAME
   AXIS STREETS
   BASE STREETS
   CITY ALLEY
   CITY BLOCK
   CITY ENGINEER
   CITY STREET
   HOUSE NUMBER
   ORDINATE or ORDINATE DISTANCE
   ORDINATE NUMBER
   SPECIAL STREET
   STANDARD STREET
   STREET INTERSECTION
   STREET NAME
   UNIT OF MEASUREMENT
(Ord. 62-36, passed 9-13-1962)
§ 1474.02 NUMBERING REQUIRED.
    All buildings, residences, apartment units, offices, business shops and
manufacturing establishments in the city shall be renumbered according to the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 62-36, passed 9-13-1962)
§ 1474.03 AUTHORITY OF CITY ENGINEER TO ASSIGN NUMBERS.
   The City Engineer shall assign numbers to all existing buildings,
residences, apartment units, offices, business shops and manufacturing
establishments and shall notify the owners or the occupants thereof of such
numbers so assigned. Public utilities operating within the city and the United
States Post Office shall be furnished a list of the numbers so assigned within
the city. Numbers of buildings and other structures or units hereafter erected
on any vacant land shall be assigned by the City Engineer, upon request from
the owner or occupant. The City Engineer shall keep a file of the assigned
numbers, which file shall be open to inspection under the supervision of the
City Engineer.
(Ord. 62-36, passed 9-13-1962)
 § 1474.04 METHOD OF ASSIGNING NUMBERS.
   The method of assigning numbers by the City Engineer shall be as follows:
   (a)   The unit of measurement for house numbers shall be ten feet;
   (b)   The axis streets shall be North and South Detroit Streets, and East
and West Main Streets, with the ordinate distance being zero at their
centerlines;
   (c)   The ordinate for all base streets shall be obtained by measuring the
distance, on an accurate map, from the appropriate axis street to the base
street centerline. In some cases involving special streets, the ordinate at the
base street may be zero, if so determined by the City Engineer and recorded in
his or her files as such;
   (d)   On all standard streets, the house numbers shall be even numbers on
the north and west sides of the street, and odd numbers on the south and east
sides of the street. On special streets, the City Engineer shall determine
which sides of the streets shall have even and odd numbers, and in cases of a
curved or circular street, the numbers shall remain even or odd on the right or
left side of the street, as traveled from the base street;
   (e)   Each building shall use the house number calculated from the ordinate
number, and, in cases where there are two or more entrances for separate living
units or offices in one building, there shall be two or more numbers for the
building;
   (f)   Upstairs apartments or offices and rear buildings may be designated by
adding one-half to the house number obtained from the appropriate ordinate
number; and
   (g)   To obtain even house numbers, the ordinate number for the specific
entrance shall be divided by five. To obtain odd house numbers, the even number
shall be calculated and then one shall be added to such even number.
(Ord. 62-36, passed 9-13-1962)
§ 1474.05 PLACING OF NUMBERS.
   Owners or contracting tenants of any building shall, prior to 2-1-1963,
cause the number or numbers so assigned to be placed and continuously
maintained in a conspicuous place or places on the front of or the entrance to
the building, with figures not less than three inches in height. If a building
has more than one numbered entrance, the numbers shall be so placed as to
indicate the numbered entrance. If the building is located so that entrance
numbers on the building are not clearly visible from the street, a duplicate
number shall be placed near the street to indicate the existence of such
entrance.
(Ord. 62-36, passed 9-13-1962)
§ 1474.06 REMOVING OR DEFACING NUMBERS; FAILURE TO PLACE ASSIGNED NUMBERS.
   No person shall remove, alter or deface any number properly assigned and
placed on or near a building, or place or retain on any building any number
other than the one duly assigned by the City Engineer under the provisions of
this chapter, or fail or refuse to place on a building the number so assigned
under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 62-36, passed 9-13-1962)
§ 1474.99 PENALTY.
    Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor
more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) or imprisoned not more than 30
days, or both, for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
each day during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
In addition, the violator shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the
case.
(Ord. 97-17, passed 5-8-1997)
TITLE SIX: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
CHAPTER 1488:
DEFINITIONS
Section
1488.01   Definitions.
§ 1488.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of these Codified Ordinances, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   ANCHORED. Secured in a manner that provides positive connection.
   APPROVED. Approved by the code official.
   AUTHORIZED AGENT. A person that resides within Greene County, Ohio, or a
contiguous county, who shall be authorized in writing by the owner or person in
control of a vacant commercial or industrial building to be responsible for the
security and maintenance of the building and property, who shall have access to
the building and property and who shall be available at all times during
business and non-business hours in the case that an emergency occurs requiring
immediate response and/or to make immediate repairs.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building which is partly or completely below
grade.
   BATHROOM. A room containing plumbing fixtures including a bathtub or shower.
   BEDROOM. Any room or space used or intended to be used for sleeping purposes
in either a dwelling or sleeping unit.
   BUILDING CODE. The latest edition of the Ohio Building Code (OBC), as
adopted in § 1420.01.
   CODE OFFICIAL. The official who is charged with the administration and
enforcement of this code, or any duly authorized representative.
   COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL BUILDING. Any structure or part thereof, that is
used, or designed to be used for any private manufacturing, industrial, or
commercial business purposes whether or not legally zoned for such use.
   CONDEMN. To adjudge unfit for occupancy.
   DETACHED. When a structural element is physically disconnected from another
and that connection is necessary to provide a positive connection.
   DETERIORATION. To weaken, disintegrate, corrode, rust or decay and lose
effectiveness.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   EASEMENT. That portion of land or property reserved for present or future
use by a person or agency other than the legal fee owner(s) of the property.
The easement shall be permitted to be for use under, on or above a said lot or
lots.
   EQUIPMENT SUPPORT. Those structural members or assemblies of members or
manufactured elements, including braces, frames, lugs, snuggers, hangers or
saddles, that transmit gravity load, lateral load and operating load between
the equipment and the structure.
   EVIDENCE OF VACANCY. Any condition that on its own or combined with other
conditions present would lead a reasonable person to believe the building is
vacant. Such conditions include, but are not limited to, no or significantly
below standard utility usage, overgrown and/or dead vegetation, accumulation of
newspapers, circulars, flyers and/or mail, accumulation of trash, junk, and/or
debris, broken or boarded up windows, abandoned vehicles, automobile parts or
materials, the absence of window coverings, such as curtains, blinds, and/or
shutters, the absence of furnishings and/or personal items consistent with
habitation or occupation, statement(s) by neighboring property owners, delivery
persons, U.S. Postal Service employees, and/or governmental employee(s) that
the building is vacant.
   EXTERIOR PROPERTY. The open space on the premises and on adjoining property
under the control of owners or operators of such premises.
   FIRE CODE. Part Sixteen of the City of Xenia's Codified Ordinances.
   GARBAGE. The animal or vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   GUARD. A building component or a system of building components located at or
near the open sides of elevated walking surfaces that minimizes the possibility
of a fall from the walking surface to a lower level.
   HABITABLE SPACE. Space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating or
cooking. Bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls, storage or utility spaces,
and similar areas are not considered habitable spaces.
   HOUSEKEEPING UNIT. A room or group of rooms forming a single habitable space
equipped and intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating which
does not contain, within such a unit, a toilet, lavatory and bathtub or shower.
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which could cause serious or life-threatening
injury or death at any time.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or contiguous to, a structure or premises
of insects, rats, vermin or other pests.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle which cannot be driven upon the public
streets for reason including but not limited to being unlicensed, wrecked,
abandoned, in a state of disrepair, or incapable of being moved under its own
power.
   KEY BOX. A secure device with a lock operable only by a fire department
master key, and containing building entry keys and other keys that may be
required for access in an emergency.
   LABELED. Equipment, materials or products to which have been affixed a
label, seal, symbol or other identifying mark of a nationally recognized
testing laboratory, inspection agency or other organization concerned with
product evaluation that maintains periodic inspection of the production of the
above-labeled items and whose labeling indicates either that the equipment,
material or product meets identified standards or has been tested and found
suitable for a specified purpose.
   LET FOR OCCUPANCY or LET. To permit, provide or offer possession or
occupancy of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, building, premise or
structure by a person who is or is not the legal owner of record thereof,
pursuant to a written or unwritten lease, agreement or license, or pursuant to
a recorded or unrecorded agreement of contract for the sale of land.
   NEGLECT. The lack of proper maintenance for a building or structure.
   OCCUPANCY. The purpose for which a building or portion thereof is utilized
or occupied.
   OCCUPANT. Any individual living or sleeping in a building, or having
possession of a space within a building.
   OPENABLE AREA. That part of a window, skylight or door which is available
for unobstructed ventilation and which opens directly to the outdoors.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a structure or
premises which is let or offered for occupancy.
   OWNER. 
      (1)   Any person, agent, operator, firm or corporation having a legal or
equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official records of the
state, county or municipality as holding title to the property; or otherwise
having control of the property, including the guardian of the estate of any
such person, and the executor or administrator of the estate of such person if
ordered to take possession of real property by a court.
      (2)   Any person who, alone, or jointly or severally with others, shall
have the legal or equitable title to a property, and shall include executors,
administrators, trustees or guardians of the estate of the owner, and any
purchaser or assignee under a certificate of sale pursuant to a mortgage
foreclosure as evidenced by the signature of the judge upon the confirmation of
sale, whether or not the deed has been filed with the Greene County Recorder's
Office. The term OWNER shall also include partnerships, corporations, and other
unincorporated associations. Any individual owner, regardless of whether he or
she shares ownership responsibility with any other person, any general partner
of a partnership, and any officer of a corporation or unincorporated
association, shall have direct and personal responsibility and liability for
compliance with the provision of this chapter.
   PERSON.
      (1)   As applied to
Chapter 1490, an individual, corporation, partnership or any other group acting
as a unit.
      (2)   As applied to Chapter 1492, An individual, partnership,
association, syndicate, company, firm, trust, corporation, government
corporation, department, bureau, agency, or any entity recognized by law.
   PERSON IN CONTROL. The owner of the property; a mortgagee or vendee in
possession; a receiver; an executor; a trustee; and any person, public or
private entity, lessee or holder of a lesser estate in the property, and/or its
duly authorized agent(s), with the authority to bring a building or property
into compliance with the provisions of this chapter, including but not limited
to any mortgagee that has filed an action in foreclosure on the particular
property at issue, based on breach or default of a mortgage agreement, until
title to the property is transferred to a third party.
   PEST ELIMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that serve as their food or water; by other approved pest elimination
methods.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, easement or public way, including
any structures thereon.
   PROPERTY. Not only the vacant commercial or industrial building and other
structures of any kind or nature located on the lot, but also the entire parcel
of land surrounding the vacant commercial or industrial building, including,
but not limited to, fences, walkways, walls, and appurtenances.
   PUBLIC WAY. Any street, alley or similar parcel of land essentially
unobstructed from the ground to the sky, which is deeded, dedicated or
otherwise permanently appropriated to the public for public use.
   ROOMING HOUSE. A building arranged or occupied for lodging, with or without
meals, for compensation and not occupied as a one- or two-family dwelling.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
occupied or intended to be occupied for sleeping or living, but not for cooking
purposes.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage; the
term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and other
combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber,
leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter,
glass, crockery and dust and other similar materials.
   SLEEPING UNIT. A room or space in which people sleep, which can also include
permanent provisions for living, eating and either sanitation or kitchen
facilities, but not both. Such rooms and spaces that are also part of a
dwelling unit are not sleeping units.
   STRICT LIABILITY OFFENSE. An offense in which the prosecution in a legal
proceeding is not required to prove criminal intent as a part of its case. It
is enough to prove that the defendant either did an act which was prohibited,
or failed to do an act which the defendant was legally required to do.
   STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed or a portion thereof.
   TENANT. A person, corporation, partnership or group, whether or not the
legal owner of record, occupying a building or portion thereof as a unit.
   TOILET ROOM. A room containing a water closet or urinal but not a bathtub or
shower.
   ULTIMATE DEFORMATION. The deformation at which failure occurs and which
shall be deemed to occur if the sustainable load reduces to 80 percent or less
of the maximum strength.
   VACANT COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL BUILDING. A commercial or industrial
building that is not occupied by its owner, lessee or other person in lawful
possession, or at which substantially all lawful manufacturing, industrial or
commercial business operations and/or occupancy has ceased.
   VENTILATION. The natural or mechanical process of supplying conditioned or
unconditioned air to, or removing such air from, any space.
   WORKMANLIKE. Executed in a skilled manner; e.g., generally plumb, level,
square, in line, undamaged and without marring adjacent work.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a structure.
(Am. Ord. 14-10, passed 2-13-2014; Am. Ord. 14-11, passed 2-13-2014)
CHAPTER 1490:
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
   This Code contains substantial copyrighted material from the 2012
International Property Maintenance Code which is proprietary to and copyrighted
by International Code Council, Inc. The information copyrighted by the
International Code Council, Inc., has been obtained and reproduced with
permission. The acronym “ICC” and the ICC logo are trademarks and service marks
of ICC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. www.iccsafe.org
Section
1490.01   Scope and administration.
1490.02   Definitions.
1490.03   General requirements.
1490.04   Light, ventilation and occupancy limitations.
1490.05   Plumbing facilities and fixture requirements.
1490.06   Mechanical and electrical requirements.
1490.07   Fire safety requirements.
1490.08   Referenced standards.
   CROSS REFERENCES
   Adoption of technical codes by reference - see CHTR. §
5.08; Ohio R.C. 731.231
   Discrimination in housing - see GEN. OFF.
620.05 et seq.
   Intimidation in connection with housing - see GEN. OFF.
636.23
   Housing Officer - see B.R. & T.
886.04
   Community Reinvestment Area Housing Council - see B.R. & T.
886.07
   OBOA One, Two and Three Family Dwelling Code - see B. & H. Ch. 1422
§ 1490.01 SCOPE AND ADMINISTRATION.
   (a)   Section 101 General.
      (1)   101.1 Title. This chapter shall be known as the City of Xenia
Property Maintenance Code, hereinafter referred to as “this code.” The 2012
edition of the International Property Maintenance Code, second printing, as
published by the International Code Council, Inc. is used as the basis of this
code as is incorporated fully except as modified herein.
      (2)   101.2 Scope. The provisions of this code shall apply to all
existing residential and nonresidential structures and all existing premises
and constitute minimum requirements and standards for premises, structures,
equipment and facilities for light, ventilation, space, heating, sanitation,
protection from the elements, life safety, safety from fire and other hazards,
and for safe and sanitary maintenance; the responsibility of owners, operators
and occupants; the occupancy of existing structures and premises, and for
administration, enforcement and penalties.
      (3)   101.3 Intent. This code shall be construed to secure its expressed
intent, which is to ensure public health, safety and welfare insofar as they
are affected by the continued occupancy and maintenance of structures
and premises. Existing structures and premises that do not comply with these
provisions shall be altered or repaired to provide a minimum level of health
and safety as required herein.
      (4)   101.4 Severability. If a section, subsection, sentence, clause or
phrase of this code is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this code.
   (b)   Section 102 Applicability.
      (1)   102.1 General. Where there is a conflict between a general
requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall govern.
Where differences occur between provisions of this code and the referenced
standards, the provisions of this code shall apply. Where, in a specific case,
different sections of this code specify different requirements, the most
restrictive shall govern.
      (2)   102.2 Maintenance. Equipment, systems, devices and safeguards
required by this code or a previous regulation or code under which the
structure or premises was constructed, altered or repaired shall be maintained
in good working order. No owner, operator or occupant shall cause any service,
facility, equipment or utility which is required under this section to be
removed from or shut off from or discontinued for any occupied dwelling, except
for such temporary interruption as necessary while repairs or alterations are
in progress. The requirements of this code are not intended to provide the
basis for removal or abrogation of fire protection and safety systems and
devices in existing structures. Except as otherwise specified herein, the owner
or the owner's designated agent shall be responsible for the maintenance of
buildings, structures and premises.
      (3)   102.3 Application of other codes. Repairs, additions or alterations
to a structure, or changes of occupancy, shall be done in accordance with the
procedures and provisions of the Ohio Building Code, International Energy
Conservation Code, Ohio Fire Code, International Fuel Gas Code, Ohio Mechanical
Code, Residential Code of Ohio, Ohio Plumbing Code and NFPA 70. Nothing in this
code shall be construed to cancel, modify or set aside any provision of the
City of Xenia Zoning Code.
      (4)   102.4 Existing remedies. The provisions in this code shall not be
construed to abolish or impair existing remedies of the jurisdiction or its
officers or agencies relating to the removal or demolition of any structure
which is dangerous, unsafe and insanitary.
      (5)   102.5 Workmanship. Repairs, maintenance work, alterations or
installations which are caused directly or indirectly by the enforcement of
this code shall be executed and installed in a workmanlike manner and installed
in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
      (6)   102.6 Historic buildings. The provisions of this code shall not be
mandatory for existing buildings or structures designated as historic buildings
when such buildings or structures are judged by the code official to be safe
and in the public interest of health, safety and welfare.
      (7)   102.7 Referenced codes and standards. The codes and standards
referenced in this code shall be those that are listed in § 1490.08 and
considered part of the requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of
each such reference and as further regulated in Sections 102.7.1 and 102.7.2.
Exception: Where enforcement of a code provision would violate the conditions
of the listing of the equipment or appliance, the conditions of the listing
shall apply.
         A.   102.7.1 Conflicts. Where conflicts occur between provisions of
this code and the referenced standards, the provisions of this code shall
apply.
         B.   102.7.2 Provisions in referenced codes and standards. Where the
extent of the reference to a referenced code or standard includes subject
matter that is within the scope of this code, the provisions of this code, as
applicable, shall take precedence over the provisions in the referenced code or
standard.
      (8)   102.8 Requirements not covered by code. Requirements necessary for
the strength, stability or proper operation of an existing fixture, structure
or equipment, or for the public safety, health and general welfare, not
specifically covered by this code, shall be determined by the code official.
      (9)   102.9 Application of references. References to chapter or section
numbers, or to provisions not specifically identified by number, shall be
construed to refer to such chapter, section or provision of this code.
      (10)   102.10 Other laws. The provisions of this code shall not be deemed
to nullify any provisions of local, state or federal law.
   (c)   Section 103 Division of Property Maintenance Enforcement.
      (1)   103.1 General. The Code Enforcement Officer shall assume the duties
of the code official as identified in this chapter.
      (2)   103.2 Liability. The code official, member of the board of appeals
or employee charged with the enforcement of this code, while acting for the
jurisdiction, in good faith and without malice in the discharge of the duties
required by this code or other pertinent law or ordinance, shall not thereby be
rendered liable personally, and is hereby relieved from all personal liability
for any damage accruing to persons or property as a result of an act or by
reason of an act or omission in the discharge of official duties. Any suit
instituted against any officer or employee because of an act performed by that
officer or employee in the lawful discharge of duties and under the provisions
of this code shall be defended by the legal representative of the jurisdiction
until the final termination of the proceedings. The code official or any
subordinate shall not be liable for costs in an action, suit or proceeding that
is instituted in pursuance of the provisions of this code.
      (3)   103.3 Fees. The fees for activities and services performed by the
department in carrying out its responsibilities under this code shall be as
indicated in Part Two - Title Fourteen, Chapter 298 of these Codified
Ordinances.
   (d)   Section 104 Duties and Powers of the Code Official.
      (1)   104.1 General. The code official is hereby authorized and directed
to enforce the provisions of this code. The code official shall have the
authority to render interpretations of this code and to adopt policies and
procedures in order to clarify the application of its provisions. Such
interpretations, policies and procedures shall be in compliance with the intent
and purpose of this code. Such policies and procedures shall not have the
effect of waiving requirements specifically provided for in this code.
      (2)   104.2 Inspections. The code official shall make all of the required
inspections, or shall accept reports of inspection by approved agencies or
individuals. All reports of such inspections shall be in writing and be
certified by a responsible officer of such approved agency or by the
responsible individual. The code official
is authorized to engage such expert opinion as deemed necessary to report upon
unusual technical issues that arise, subject to the approval of the appointing
authority.
      (3)   104.3 Right of entry. Where it is necessary to make an inspection
to enforce the provisions of this code, or whenever the code official has
reasonable cause to believe that there exists in a structure or upon a premises
a condition in violation of this code, the code official is authorized to enter
the structure or premises at reasonable times to inspect or perform the duties
imposed by this code, provided that if such structure or premises is occupied
the code official shall present credentials to the occupant and request entry.
If such structure or premises is unoccupied, the code official shall first make
a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person having charge or
control of the structure or premises and request entry. If entry is refused,
the code official shall have recourse to the remedies provided by law to secure
entry.
      (4)   104.4 Identification. The code official shall carry proper
identification when inspecting structures or premises in the performance of
duties under this code.
      (5)   104.5 Notices and orders. The code official shall issue all
necessary notices or orders to ensure compliance with this code.
      (6)   104.6 Department records. The code official shall keep official
records of all business and activities of Property Maintenance Code
enforcement. Such records shall be retained in the official records for the
period required for retention of public records.
   (e)   Section 105 Approval.
      (1)   105.1 Modifications. Whenever there are practical difficulties
involved in carrying out the provisions of this code, the code official shall
have the authority to grant modifications for individual cases upon application
of the owner or owner's representative, provided the code official shall first
find that special individual reason makes the strict letter of this code
impractical and the modification is in compliance with the intent and purpose
of this code and that such modification does not lessen health, life and fire
safety requirements. The details of action granting modifications shall be
recorded and entered in the department files.
      (2)   105.2 Alternative materials, methods and equipment. The provisions
of this code are not intended to prevent the installation of any material or to
prohibit any method of construction not specifically prescribed by this code,
provided that any such alternative has been approved. An alternative material
or method of construction shall be approved where the code official finds that
the proposed design is satisfactory and complies with the intent of the
provisions of this code, and that the material, method or work offered is, for
the purpose intended, at least the equivalent of that prescribed in this code
in quality, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability and safety.
      (3)   105.3 Required testing. Whenever there is insufficient evidence of
compliance with the provisions of this code, or evidence that a material or
method does not conform to the requirements of this code, or in order to
substantiate claims for alternative materials or methods, the code official
shall have the authority to require tests to be made as evidence of compliance
at no expense to the jurisdiction.
         A.   105.3.1 Test methods. Test methods shall be as specified in this
code or by other recognized test standards. In the absence of recognized and
accepted test methods, the code official shall be permitted to approve
appropriate testing procedures performed by an approved agency.
         B.   105.3.2 Test reports. Reports of tests shall be retained by the
code official for the period required for retention of public records.
      (4)   105.4 Used material and equipment. The use of used materials which
meet the requirements of this code for new materials is permitted. Materials,
equipment and devices shall not be reused unless such elements are in good
repair or have been reconditioned and tested when necessary, placed in good and
proper working condition and approved by the code official.
      (5)   105.5 Approved materials and equipment. Materials, equipment and
devices approved by the code official shall be constructed and installed in
accordance with such approval.
      (6)   105.6 Research reports. Supporting data, where necessary to assist
in the approval of materials or assemblies not specifically provided for in
this code, shall consist of valid research reports from approved sources.
   (f)   Section 106 Violations.
      (1)   106.1 Unlawful acts. It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or
corporation to be in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of
this code.
      (2)   106.2 Notice of violation. The code official shall serve a notice
of violation or order in accordance with Section 107.
      (3)   106.3 Enforcement actions. Any person failing to comply with a
notice of violation or order served in accordance with Section 107 shall be
subject to enforcement actions as described herein.
         A.   106.3.1 Abatement of violation. Where specified in other sections
of this code, the code official or any duly authorized employee of the
jurisdiction or contractor hired by the jurisdiction shall be authorized to
enter upon the property in violation and abate the violation and charge the
costs thereof to the person responsible for the violation.
         B.   106.3.2 Re-inspection fee. The code official shall be authorized
to assess a re-inspection fee to the person responsible for the violation. The
re-inspection fee shall be in Part Two - Title Fourteen, Chapter 298 of these
Codified Ordinances and shall be based upon the jurisdiction's administrative
costs associated with inspections and abatement activities which occur after
the compliance deadline specified in the notice of violation.
         C.   106.3.3 Assessment. Upon completion of the abatement and/or re-
inspection, the code official shall send a statement of abatement costs and/or
re-inspection fees to the person responsible for the violation utilizing a
method of service consistent with Section 107.3. This statement shall include a
demand for payment of the statement amount within thirty (30) days from the
date of the statement. If payment of the statement is not made within thirty
(30) days from the date of the statement, the Director of Finance shall prepare
a written return with a statement of the abatement costs and/or re- inspection
fees and a proper description of the premises. Such
written return shall be certified by the Director to the County Auditor for
collection the same as other taxes and assessments are collected.
         D.   106.3.4 Prosecution of violation. If actions pursuant to Sections
106.3.1 through 106.3.3 fail to result in compliance with the notice of
violation, the code official shall institute the appropriate proceeding at law
or in equity to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or to require the
removal or termination of the unlawful occupancy of the structure in violation
of the provisions of this code or of the order or direction made pursuant
thereto. Any action taken by the authority having jurisdiction on such premises
shall be charged against the real estate upon which the structure is located
and shall be a lien upon such real estate.
      (4)   106.4 Violation penalties. Any person who shall violate a provision
of this code, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements
thereof, is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Each day that a
violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate
offense.
      (5)   106.5 Effect of penalties on abatement of violation. The imposition
of the penalties herein prescribed shall not preclude the legal officer of the
jurisdiction from instituting appropriate action to restrain, correct or abate
a violation, or to prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure or
premises, or to stop an illegal act, conduct, business or utilization of the
building, structure or premises.
   (g)   Section 107 Notices and Orders.
      (1)   107.1 Notice to person responsible. Whenever the code official
determines that there has been a violation of this code or has grounds to
believe that a violation has occurred, notice shall be given in the manner
prescribed in Sections 107.2 and 107.3 to the person responsible for the
violation as specified in this code. Notices for condemnation procedures shall
also comply with Section 108.3.
      (2)   107.2 Form. Such notice prescribed in Section 107.1 shall be in
accordance with all of the following:
         A.   Be in writing.
         B.   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification.
         C.   Include a statement of the violation or violations and why the
notice is being issued.
         D.   Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time to make the
repairs and improvements required to bring the dwelling unit or structure into
compliance with the provisions of this code.
         E.   Inform the property owner of the right to appeal.
         F.   Include a statement of the right to file a lien in accordance
with Section 106.3.
      (3)   107.3 Method of service. Such notice shall be deemed to be properly
served if a copy thereof is:
         A.   Delivered personally;
         B.   Sent by certified or first-class mail addressed to the last known
address; or
         C.   If the notice is returned showing that the letter was not
delivered, a copy thereof shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about
the structure affected by such notice.
      (4)   107.4 Unauthorized tampering. Signs, tags or seals posted or
affixed by the code official shall not be mutilated, destroyed or tampered
with, or removed without authorization from the code official.
      (5)   107.5 Penalties. Penalties for noncompliance with orders and
notices shall be as set forth in Section 106.4.
      (6)   107.6 Transfer of ownership. It shall be unlawful for the owner of
any dwelling unit or structure who has received a compliance order or upon whom
a notice of violation has been served to sell, transfer, mortgage, lease or
otherwise dispose of such dwelling unit or structure to another until the
provisions of the compliance order or notice of violation have been complied
with, or until such owner shall first furnish the grantee, transferee,
mortgagee or lessee a true copy of any compliance order or notice of violation
issued by the code official and shall furnish to the code official a signed and
notarized statement from the grantee, transferee, mortgagee or lessee,
acknowledging the receipt of such compliance order or notice of violation and
fully accepting the responsibility without condition for making the corrections
or repairs required by such compliance order or notice of violation.
   (h)   Section 108 Unsafe Structures and Equipment.
      (1)   108.1 General. When a structure or equipment is found by the code
official to be unsafe, or when a structure is found unfit for human occupancy,
or is found unlawful, such structure shall be condemned pursuant to the
provisions of this code.
         A.   108.1.1 Unsafe structures. An unsafe structure is one that is
found to be dangerous to the life, health, property or safety of the public or
the occupants of the structure by not providing minimum safeguards to protect
or warn occupants in the event of fire, or because such structure contains
unsafe equipment or is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe or
of such faulty construction or unstable foundation, that partial or complete
collapse is possible.
         B.   108.1.2 Unsafe equipment. Unsafe equipment includes any boiler,
heating equipment, elevator, moving stairway, electrical wiring or device,
flammable liquid containers or other equipment on the premises or within the
structure which is in such disrepair or condition that such equipment is a
hazard to life, health, property or safety of the public or occupants of the
premises or structure.
         C.   108.1.3 Structure unfit for human occupancy. A structure is unfit
for human occupancy whenever the code official finds that such structure is
unsafe, unlawful or, because of the degree to which the structure is in
disrepair or lacks maintenance, is insanitary, vermin or rat infested, contains
filth and contamination, or lacks ventilation, illumination, sanitary or
heating facilities or other essential equipment required by this code, or
because the location of the structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants of
the structure or to the public.
         D.   108.1.4 Unlawful structure. An unlawful structure is one found in
whole or in part to be occupied by more persons than permitted under this code,
or was erected, altered or occupied contrary to law.
         E.   108.1.5 Dangerous structure or premises. For the purpose of this
code, any structure or premises that has any or all of the conditions or
defects described below shall be considered dangerous:
            1.   The walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway, exit
or other means of egress is so warped, worn loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as
to not provide safe and adequate means of egress.
            2.   Any portion of a building, structure or appurtenance that has
been damaged by fire, earthquake, wind, flood, deterioration, neglect,
abandonment, vandalism or by any other cause to such an extent that it is
likely to partially or completely collapse, or to become detached or dislodged.
            3.   The building or structure, or part of the building or
structure, because of dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction,
the removal or movement of some portion of the ground necessary for the
support, or for any other reason, is likely to partially or completely
collapse, or some portion of the foundation or underpinning of the building or
structure is likely to fail or give way.
            4.   The building or structure, or any portion thereof, is clearly
unsafe for its use and occupancy.
            5.   The building or structure is neglected, damaged, dilapidated,
unsecured or abandoned so as to become an attractive nuisance to children who
might play in the building or structure to their danger, becomes a harbor for
vagrants, criminals or immoral persons, or enables persons to resort to the
building or structure for committing a nuisance or an unlawful act.
            6.   Any building or structure has been constructed, exists or is
maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition applicable
to such building or structure provided by the approved building or fire code of
the jurisdiction, or of any law or ordinance to such an extent as to present
either a substantial risk of fire, building collapse or any other threat to
life and safety.
            7.   A building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, ventilation,
mechanical or plumbing system, or otherwise, is determined by the code official
to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such a condition that is
likely to cause sickness or disease.
            8.   Any building or structure, because of a lack of sufficient or
proper fire-resistance-rated construction, fire protection systems, electrical
system, fuel connections, mechanical system, plumbing system or other cause, is
determined by the code official to be a threat to life or health.
            9.   Any portion of a building remains on a site after the
demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever any building
or structure is abandoned so as to constitute such building or portion thereof
as an attractive nuisance or hazard to the public.
      (2)   108.2 Closing of vacant structures. If the structure is vacant and
unfit for human habitation and occupancy, and is not in danger of structural
collapse, the code official is authorized to post a placard of condemnation on
the premises and order the structure closed up so as not to be an attractive
nuisance. Upon failure of the owner to close up the premises within the time
specified in the order, the code official shall cause the premises to be closed
and secured through any public agency or by contract pursuant to Section
106.3.1.
         A.   108.2.1 Authority to disconnect service utilities. The code
official shall have the authority to authorize disconnection of utility service
to the building, structure or system regulated by this code and the referenced
codes and standards set forth in Section 102.7 in case of emergency where
necessary to eliminate an immediate hazard to life or property or when such
utility connection has been made without approval. The code official shall
notify the serving utility and, whenever possible, the owner and occupant of
the building, structure or service system of the decision to disconnect prior
to taking such action. If not notified prior to disconnection the owner or
occupant of the building structure or service system shall be notified in
writing as soon as practical thereafter.
      (3)   108.3 Notice. Whenever the code official has condemned a structure
or equipment under the provisions of this section, notice shall be posted in a
conspicuous place in or about the structure affected by such notice and served
on the owner or the person or persons responsible for the structure or
equipment in accordance with Section 107.3. If the notice pertains to
equipment, it shall also be placed on the condemned equipment. The notice shall
be in the form prescribed in Section 107.2.
      (4)   108.4 Placarding. Upon failure of the owner or person responsible
to comply with the notice provisions within the time given, the code official
shall post on the premises or on defective equipment a placard bearing the word
“Condemned” and a statement of the penalties provided for occupying the
premises, operating the equipment or removing the placard.
         A.   108.4.1 Placard removal. The code official shall remove the
condemnation placard whenever the defect or defects upon which the condemnation
and placarding action were based have been eliminated. Any person who defaces
or removes a condemnation placard without the approval of the code official
shall be subject to the penalties provided by this code.
      (5)   108.5 Prohibited occupancy. Any occupied structure condemned and
placarded by the code official shall be vacated as ordered by the code
official. Any person who shall occupy a placarded premises or shall operate
placarded equipment, and any owner or any person responsible for the premises
who shall let anyone occupy a placarded premises or operate placarded equipment
shall be liable for the penalties provided by this code.
      (6)   108.6 Abatement methods. The owner, operator or occupant of a
building, premises or equipment deemed unsafe by the code official shall abate
or cause to be abated or corrected such unsafe conditions either by repair,
rehabilitation, demolition or other approved corrective action.
      (7)   108.7 Record. The code official shall cause a report to be filed on
an unsafe condition. The report shall state the occupancy of the structure and
the nature of the unsafe condition.
   (i)   Section 109 Emergency Measures.
      (1)   109.1 Imminent danger. When, in the opinion of the code official,
there is imminent danger of failure or collapse of a building or structure
which endangers life, or when any structure or part of a structure has fallen
and life is endangered by the occupation of the structure, or when there is
actual or potential danger to the building occupants or those in the proximity
of any structure because of explosives, explosive fumes or vapors or the
presence of toxic fumes, gases or materials, or operation of defective or
dangerous equipment, the code official is hereby authorized and empowered to
order and require the occupants to vacate the premises
forthwith. The code official shall cause to be posted at each entrance to such
structure a notice reading as follows: “This Structure Is Unsafe and Its
Occupancy Has Been Prohibited by the Code Official.” It shall be unlawful for
any person to enter such structure except for the purpose of securing the
structure, making the required repairs, removing the hazardous condition or of
demolishing the same.
      (2)   109.2 Temporary safeguards. Notwithstanding other provisions of
this code, whenever, in the opinion of the code official, there is imminent
danger due to an unsafe condition, the code official shall order the necessary
work to be done, including the boarding up of openings, to render such
structure temporarily safe whether or not the legal procedure herein described
has been instituted; and shall cause such other action to be taken as the code
official deems necessary to meet such emergency.
      (3)   109.3 Closing streets. When necessary for public safety, the code
official shall temporarily close structures and close, or order the authority
having jurisdiction to close, sidewalks, streets, public ways and places
adjacent to unsafe structures, and prohibit the same from being utilized.
      (4)   109.4 Emergency repairs. For the purposes of this section, the code
official shall employ the necessary labor and materials to perform the required
work as expeditiously as possible.
      (5)   109.5 Costs of emergency repairs. Costs incurred in the performance
of emergency work shall be paid by the jurisdiction. The legal counsel of the
jurisdiction shall institute appropriate action against the owner of the
premises where the unsafe structure is or was located for the recovery of such
costs.
      (6)   109.6 Hearing. Any person ordered to take emergency measures shall
comply with such order forthwith. Any affected person shall thereafter, upon
petition directed to the Appeals Board, be afforded a hearing as described in
this code.
   (j)   Section 110 Demolition.
      (1)   110.1 General. The code official shall order the owner of any
premises upon which is located any structure, which in the code official
judgment after review is so deteriorated or dilapidated or has become so out of
repair as to be dangerous, unsafe, insanitary or otherwise unfit for human
habitation or occupancy, and such that it is unreasonable to repair the
structure, to demolish and remove such structure; or if such structure is
capable of being made safe by repairs, to repair and make safe and sanitary, or
to board up and hold for future repair or to demolish and remove at the owner's
option; or where there has been a cessation of normal construction of any
structure for a period of more than two years, the code official shall order
the owner to demolish and remove such structure, or board up until future
repair. Boarding the building up for future repair shall not extend beyond one
year, unless approved by the building official.
      (2)   110.2 Notices and orders. All notices and orders shall comply with
Section 107.
      (3)   110.3 Failure to comply. If the owner of a premises fails to comply
with a demolition order within the time prescribed, the code official shall
cause the structure to be demolished and removed, either through an available
public agency or by contract or arrangement with private persons, pursuant to
Section 106.3.1.
      (4)   110.4 Salvage materials. When any structure has been ordered
demolished and removed, the governing body or other designated officer under
said contract or arrangement aforesaid shall have the right to
sell the salvage and valuable materials at the highest price obtainable. The
net proceeds of such sale, after deducting the expenses of such demolition and
removal, shall be promptly remitted with a report of such sale or transaction,
including the items of expense and the amounts deducted, for the person who is
entitled thereto, subject to any order of a court. If such a surplus does not
remain to be turned over, the report shall so state.
   (k)   Section 111 Means Of Appeal.
      (1)   111.1 Application for appeal. Any person directly affected by a
decision of the code official or a notice or order issued under this code shall
have the right to appeal to the Board of Zoning Appeals, provided that a
written application for appeal is filed within 20 days after the day the
decision, notice or order was served. An application for appeal shall be based
on a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted
thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do
not fully apply, or the requirements of this code are adequately satisfied by
other means.
   (l)   Section 112 Stop Work Order.
      (1)   112.1 Authority. Whenever the code official finds any work
regulated by this code being performed in a manner contrary to the provisions
of this code or in a dangerous or unsafe manner, the code official is
authorized to issue a stop work order.
      (2)   112.2 Issuance. A stop work order shall be in writing and shall be
given to the owner of the property, to the owner's agent, or to the person
doing the work. Upon issuance of a stop work order, the cited work shall
immediately cease. The stop work order shall state the reason for the order and
the conditions under which the cited work is authorized to resume.
      (3)   112.3 Emergencies. Where an emergency exists, the code official
shall not be required to give a written notice prior to stopping the work.
      (4)   112.4 Failure to comply. Any person who shall continue any work
after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that
person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall
be liable to a fine of not less than [AMOUNT] dollars or more than [AMOUNT]
dollars.
(Ord. 14-10, passed 2-13-2014; Am. Ord. 14-37, passed 9-25-2014)
§ 1490.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   Section 201 General.
      (1)   201.1 Scope. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms
shall, for the purposes of this code, have the meanings shown in this chapter.
      (2)   201.2 Interchangeability. Words stated in the present tense include
the future; words stated in the masculine gender include the feminine and
neuter; the singular number includes the plural and the plural, the singular.
      (3)   201.3 Terms defined in other codes. Where terms are not defined in
this code and are defined in the Ohio Building Code, International Energy
Conservation Code, Ohio Fire Code, International Fuel Gas Code,
Ohio Mechanical Code, Residential Code of Ohio, Ohio Plumbing Code, City of
Xenia Zoning Code and NFPA 70, such terms shall have the meanings ascribed to
them as stated in those codes.
      (4)   201.4 Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined through the
methods authorized by this section, such terms shall have ordinarily accepted
meanings such as the context implies.
      (5)   201.5 Parts. Whenever the words “dwelling unit,” “dwelling,”
“premises,” “building,” “rooming house,” “rooming unit,” “housekeeping unit” or
“story” are stated in this code, they shall be construed as though they were
followed by the words “or any part thereof.”
   (b)   Section 202 General Definitions. The following words and/or phrases
used in this section are defined in Chapter 1488, §
1488.01.
      ANCHORED
      APPROVED
      BASEMENT
      BATHROOM
      BEDROOM
      CODE OFFICIAL
      CONDEMN
      DETACHED
      DETERIORATION
      DWELLING UNIT
      EASEMENT
      EQUIPMENT SUPPORT
      EXTERIOR PROPERTY 
      GARBAGE
      GUARD
      HABITABLE SPACE
      HOUSEKEEPING UNIT
      IMMINENT DANGER
      INFESTATION
      INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE
      LABELED
      LET FOR OCCUPANCY or LET
      NEGLECT
      OCCUPANCY
      OCCUPANT
      OPENABLE AREA
      OPERATOR
      OWNER
      PERSON
      PEST ELIMINATION
      PREMISES
      PUBLIC WAY
      ROOMING HOUSE
      ROOMING UNIT
      RUBBISH
      SLEEPING UNIT
      STRICT LIABILITY OFFENSE
      STRUCTURE
      TENANT
      TOILET ROOM
      ULTIMATE DEFORMATION
      VENTILATION
      WORKMANLIKE
      YARD
(Ord. 14-10, passed 2-13-2014)
§ 1490.03 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Section 301 General.
      (1)   301.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the
minimum conditions and the responsibilities of persons for maintenance of
structures, equipment and exterior property.
      (2)   301.2 Responsibility. The owner of the premises shall maintain the
structures and exterior property in compliance with these requirements, except
as otherwise provided for in this code. A person shall not occupy as owner-
occupant or permit another person to occupy premises which are not in a
sanitary and safe condition and which do not comply with the requirements of
this chapter. Occupants of a dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit
are responsible for keeping in a clean, sanitary and safe condition that part
of the dwelling unit, rooming unit, housekeeping unit or premises which they
occupy and control.
      (3)   301.3 Vacant structures and land. All vacant structures and
premises thereof or vacant land shall be maintained in a clean, safe, secure
and sanitary condition as provided herein so as not to cause a blighting
problem or adversely affect the public health or safety.
   (b)   Section 302 Exterior Property Areas.
      (1)   302.1 Sanitation. All exterior property and premises shall be
maintained in a clean, safe and sanitary condition. The occupant shall keep
that part of the exterior property which such occupant occupies or controls in
a clean and sanitary condition.
      (2)   302.2 Grading and drainage. All premises shall be graded and
maintained to prevent the erosion of soil and to prevent the accumulation of
stagnant water thereon, or within any structure located thereon. Exception:
Approved retention areas and reservoirs.
      (3)   302.3 Sidewalks and driveways. All sidewalks, walkways, stairs,
driveways, parking spaces and similar areas shall be kept in a proper state of
repair, and maintained free from hazardous conditions.
      (4)   Vegetation. Vegetation on all premises and exterior property shall
be maintained as follows:
         A.   Grass and Weeds: All premises and exterior property, whether
residential, nonresidential, commercial or industrial, and whether occupied or
vacant, on parcels of land less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet in area
shall be maintained free from grass, weeds or plant growth in excess of ten
inches (10"); provided, however, that for all vacant lots or parcels of land
ten thousand (10,000) square feet or more in area, this division (b)(4)A. shall
apply only to a fifty foot (50') setback from developed areas. All other
portions of such vacant parcels must be mowed on at least two (2) occasions
every calendar year, with the first mowing to occur on or before April 30 and
the second mowing to occur in September, on or before September 30. All noxious
weeds, as defined by OAC 901:5-37-01, shall be prohibited.
         B.   Trees, Plants and Shrubs: All trees, plants or shrubs that
overhang a public street or sidewalk shall be trimmed to a height of at least
eight feet (8') above the sidewalk and thirteen feet (13') above the street.
Any tree, shrub or part thereof which, as a result of death, decay, breaking,
placement or neglect, is a hazard or endangers any person, animal or property,
or causes a blighting effect on the neighborhood, shall be trimmed or removed.
         C.   Annual Notice: The Code Official shall cause annual notice to be
published, no later than April 1st of each year, in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county notifying City residents and property owners of the
requirements of this division (b)(4). Such notice shall also be posted on the
City's website.
         D.   Notice of Violation: When the Code Official determines that a
premises or property is in violation of this division (b)(4)A. or B. of this
section, he shall serve a written notice of violation upon the owner of the
premises or property, in the manner provided by Section
1490.01(g) of this Code. If the address of the owner is unknown, it is
sufficient to serve the owner by posting the notice in a conspicuous place in
or about the premises or property. Only one (1) written notice is required per
calendar year per lot, parcel, premises or property under this division (b)(4).
If, after a written notice has been served in accordance with division (b)(4)D.
of this section, the Code Official determines that a subsequent violation has
occurred, the City may proceed with the remedy set forth in division (b)(4)G.
of this section.
         E.   Failure to Comply: No owner shall fail to comply with the notice
provided for in division (b)(4)D. of this section.
         F.   Prima-Facie Violation: It is a prima-facie violation of this
division (b)(4)A. if grass or weeds in excess of ten inches (10") exist upon
any premises, parcel or lot of less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet, or
upon a vacant premises, parcel or lot of more than ten thousand (10,000) square
feet within the required fifty-foot (50') setback between April 1st and
November 1st.
         G.   Abatement of Violation: Upon failure of the owner to comply with
a notice of violation, the Code Official may cause such weeds, grass, trees,
plants, shrubs and/or other vegetation to be cut and removed. The costs
incurred by the City to cut said weeds, grass, trees, plants, shrubs and/or
other vegetation, including the cost to serve notice, shall be charged to the
owner, together with an administrative fee of one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00). An invoice for such costs and fee shall be served upon the owner in
accordance with the notice provisions of Section
1490.01(g) of this Code. If the invoice is not paid by the owner within the
time stated on such invoice, the City's Finance Director is hereby authorized
and directed to certify the unpaid amount, together with a fifty dollar
($50.00) penalty, to the Greene County Auditor for placement upon the tax
duplicate, to be collected as other taxes are collected for return to the City.
         H.   Penalties: The procedure outlined in division (b)(4)G. of this
section shall be the exclusive remedy of a violation of this division (b)(4).
            (Ord. 14-10. Passed 02/13/14; Ord. 16-19. Passed 04/28/16; Ord.
2019-05. Passed 03/14/19)
      (5)   302.5 Rodent harborage. All structures and exterior property shall
be kept free from rodent harborage and infestation. Where rodents are found,
they shall be promptly exterminated by approved processes which will not be
injurious to human health. After pest elimination, proper precautions shall be
taken to eliminate rodent harborage and prevent reinfestation.
      (6)   302.6 Exhaust vents. Pipes, ducts, conductors, fans or blowers
shall not discharge gases, steam, vapor, hot air, grease, smoke, odors or other
gaseous or particulate wastes directly upon abutting or adjacent public or
private property or that of another tenant.
      (7)   302.7 Accessory structures. All accessory structures, including
detached garages, fences and walls, shall be maintained structurally sound and
in good repair.
      (8)   302.8 Motor vehicles. Except as provided for in other regulations,
motor vehicles on private property shall be subject to the following standards:
         A.   302.8.1 Inoperable or unlicensed vehicles, vehicle repair. No
inoperable or unlicensed motor vehicle shall be parked, kept or stored on any
premises, and no vehicle shall at any time be in a state of major disassembly,
disrepair, or in the process of being stripped or dismantled. Painting of
vehicles is prohibited unless conducted inside an approved spray booth.
Exception: An inoperable or unlicensed vehicle or a vehicle undergoing major
overhaul, including body work, is permitted within a building so as not to be
visible from the street or neighboring properties if the vehicle is titled to
the owner or resident of the premises. Major overhaul or body work shall not be
performed between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., and as required by all
other laws, and no sounds shall be louder than can be heard and/or felt from 50
feet away.
         B.   302.8.2 Removal of vehicle. Upon failure of the person
responsible to comply with the notice of violation of Section 302.8.1, the code
official shall cause the vehicle to be removed through the Chief of Police
pursuant to Section 106.3.1.
      (9)   302.9 Defacement of property. No person shall willfully or wantonly
damage, mutilate or deface any exterior surface of any structure or building on
any private or public property by placing thereon any marking, carving or
graffiti. It shall be the responsibility of the owner to restore said surface
to an approved state of maintenance and repair.
   (c)   Section 303 Swimming Pools, Spas And Hot Tubs.
      (1)   303.1 Swimming pools. Swimming pools shall be maintained in a clean
and sanitary condition, and in good repair.
      (2)   303.2 Enclosures. Private swimming pools, hot tubs and spas,
containing water more than 24 inches (610 mm) in depth shall be completely
surrounded by a fence or barrier at least 48 inches (1219 mm) in height above
the finished ground level measured on the side of the barrier away from the
pool. Gates and doors in such barriers shall be self-closing and self-latching.
Where the self-latching device is a minimum of 54 inches (1372 mm) above the
bottom of the gate, the release mechanism shall be located on the pool side of
the gate. Self-closing and self-latching gates shall be maintained such that
the gate will positively close and latch when released from an open position of
six inches (152 mm) from the gatepost. No existing pool enclosure shall be
removed, replaced or changed in a manner that reduces its effectiveness as a
safety barrier. Exception: Spas or hot tubs with a safety cover that complies
with ASTM F 1346 shall be exempt from the provisions of this section.
   (d)   Section 304 Exterior Structure.
      (1)   304.1 General. The exterior of a structure shall be maintained in
good repair, structurally sound and sanitary so as not to pose a threat to the
public health, safety or welfare.
      (2)   304.2 Protective treatment. All exterior surfaces, including but
not limited to, doors, door and window frames, cornices, porches, trim,
balconies, decks and fences, shall be maintained in good condition. Exterior
wood surfaces, other than decay-resistant woods, shall be protected from the
elements and decay by painting or other protective covering or treatment.
Peeling, flaking and chipped paint shall be eliminated and surfaces repainted.
All siding and masonry joints, as well as those between the building envelope
and the perimeter of windows, doors and skylights, shall be maintained weather
resistant and water tight. All metal surfaces subject to rust or corrosion
shall be coated to inhibit such rust and corrosion, and all surfaces with rust
or corrosion shall be stabilized and coated to inhibit future rust and
corrosion. Oxidation stains shall be removed from exterior surfaces. Surfaces
designed for stabilization by oxidation are exempt from this requirement.
      (3)   304.3 Premises identification. Buildings shall have approved
address numbers placed in a position to be plainly legible and visible from the
street or road fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast with their
background. Address numbers shall be Arabic numerals or alphabet letters.
Numbers shall be a minimum of four inches (102 mm) in height with a minimum
stroke width of 0.5 inch (12.7 mm).
      (4)   304.4 Structural members. All structural members shall be
maintained free from deterioration, and shall be capable of safely supporting
the imposed dead and live loads.
      (5)   304.5 Foundation walls. All foundation walls shall be maintained
plumb and free from open cracks and breaks and shall be kept in such condition
so as to prevent the entry of rodents and other pests.
      (6)   304.6 Exterior walls. All exterior walls shall be free from holes,
breaks, and loose or rotting materials; and maintained weatherproof and
properly surface coated where required to prevent deterioration.
      (7)   304.7 Roofs and drainage. The roof and flashing shall be sound,
tight and not have defects that admit rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to
prevent dampness or deterioration in the walls or interior portion of the
structure. Roof drains, gutters and downspouts shall be maintained in good
repair and free from obstructions. Roof water shall not be discharged in a
manner that creates a public nuisance.
      (8)   304.8 Decorative features. All cornices, belt courses, corbels,
terra cotta trim, wall facings and similar decorative features shall be
maintained in good repair with proper anchorage and in a safe condition.
      (9)   304.9 Overhang extensions. All overhang extensions including, but
not limited to canopies, marquees, signs, metal awnings, fire escapes,
standpipes and exhaust ducts shall be maintained in good repair and be properly
anchored so as to be kept in a sound condition. When required, all exposed
surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from the elements and against
decay or rust by periodic application of weather-coating materials, such as
paint or similar surface treatment.
      (10)   304.10 Stairways, decks, porches and balconies. Every exterior
stairway, deck, porch and balcony, and all appurtenances attached thereto,
shall be maintained structurally sound, in good repair, with proper anchorage
and capable of supporting the imposed loads.
      (11)   304.11 Chimneys and towers. All chimneys, cooling towers, smoke
stacks, and similar appurtenances shall be maintained structurally safe and
sound, and in good repair. All exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be
protected from the elements and against decay or rust by periodic application
of weather-coating materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment.
      (12)   304.12 Handrails and guards. Every handrail and guard shall be
firmly fastened and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and shall be
maintained in good condition.
      (13)   304.13 Window, skylight and door frames. Every window, skylight,
door and frame shall be kept in sound condition, good repair and weather tight.
         A.   304.13.1 Glazing. All glazing materials shall be maintained free
from cracks and holes.
         B.   304.13.2 Openable windows. Every window, other than a fixed
window, shall be easily openable and capable of being held in position by
window hardware.
      (14)   304.14 Insect screens. During the period from April 1 to October
1, every door, window and other outside opening required for ventilation of
habitable rooms, food preparation areas, food service areas or any areas where
products to be included or utilized in food for human consumption are
processed, manufactured, packaged or stored shall be supplied with approved
tightly fitting screens of minimum 16 mesh per inch (16 mesh per 25 mm), and
every screen door used for insect control shall have a self-closing device in
good working condition. Exception: Screens shall not be required where other
approved means, such as air curtains or insect repellent fans, are employed.
      (15)   304.15 Doors. All exterior doors, door assemblies, operator
systems if provided, and hardware shall be maintained in good condition. Locks
at all entrances to dwelling units and sleeping units shall tightly secure the
door. Locks on means of egress doors shall be in accordance with Section 702.3.
      (16)   304.16 Basement hatchways. Every basement hatchway shall be
maintained to prevent the entrance of rodents, rain and surface drainage water.
      (17)   304.17 Guards for basement windows. Every basement window that is
openable shall be supplied with rodent shields, storm windows or other approved
protection against the entry of rodents.
      (18)   304.18 Building security. Doors, windows or hatchways for dwelling
units, room units or housekeeping units shall be provided with devices designed
to provide security for the occupants and property within.
         A.   304.18.1 Doors. Doors providing access to a dwelling unit,
rooming unit or housekeeping unit that is rented, leased or let shall be
equipped with a deadbolt lock designed to be readily openable from the side
from which egress is to be made without the need for keys, special knowledge or
effort and shall have a minimum lock throw of one inch (25 mm). Such deadbolt
locks shall be installed according to the manufacturer's specifications and
maintained in good working order. For the purpose of this section, a sliding
bolt shall not be considered an acceptable deadbolt lock.
         B.   304.18.2 Windows. Operable windows located in whole or in part
within six feet (1828 mm) above ground level or a walking surface below that
provide access to a dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit that is
rented, leased or let shall be equipped with a window sash locking device.
         C.   304.18.3 Basement hatchways. Basement hatchways that provide
access to a dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit that is rented,
leased or let shall be equipped with devices that secure the units from
unauthorized entry.
      (19)   304.19 Gates. All exterior gates, gate assemblies, operator
systems if provided, and hardware shall be maintained in good condition.
Latches at all entrances shall tightly secure the gates.
   (e)   Section 305 Interior Structure. 
      (1)   305.1 General. The interior of a structure and equipment therein
shall be maintained in good repair, structurally sound and in a sanitary
condition. Occupants shall keep that part of the structure which they occupy or
control in a clean and sanitary condition. Every owner of a structure
containing a rooming house, housekeeping units, a hotel, a dormitory, two or
more dwelling units or two or more nonresidential occupancies, shall maintain,
in a clean and sanitary condition, the shared or public areas of the structure
and exterior property.
      (2)   305.2 Structural members. All structural members shall be
maintained structurally sound, and be capable of supporting the imposed loads.
      (3)   305.3 Interior surfaces. All interior surfaces, including windows
and doors, shall be maintained in good, clean and sanitary condition. Peeling,
chipping, flaking or abraded paint shall be repaired, removed or covered.
Cracked or loose plaster, decayed wood and other defective surface conditions
shall be corrected.
      (4)   305.4 Stairs and walking surfaces. Every stair, ramp, landing,
balcony, porch, deck or other walking surface shall be maintained in sound
condition and good repair.
      (5)   305.5 Handrails and guards. Every handrail and guard shall be
firmly fastened and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and shall be
maintained in good condition.
      (6)   305.6 Interior doors. Every interior door shall fit reasonably well
within its frame and shall be capable of being opened and closed by being
properly and securely attached to jambs, headers or tracks as intended by the
manufacturer of the attachment hardware.
   (f)   Section 306 Component Serviceability.
      (1)   306.1 General. The components of a structure and equipment therein
shall be maintained in good repair, structurally sound and in a sanitary
condition.
         A.   306.1.1 Unsafe conditions. Where any of the following conditions
cause the component or system to be beyond its limit state, the component or
system shall be determined as unsafe and shall be repaired or replaced to
comply with the International Building Code as required for existing buildings:
            1.   Soils that have been subjected to any of the following
conditions:
               a.   Collapse of footing or foundation system;
               b.   Damage to footing, foundation, concrete or other structural
element due to soil expansion;
               c.   Adverse effects to the design strength of footing,
foundation, concrete or other structural element due to a chemical reaction
from the soil;
               d.   Inadequate soil as determined by a geotechnical
investigation;
               e.   Where the allowable bearing capacity of the soil is in
doubt; or
               f.   Adverse effects to the footing, foundation, concrete or
other structural element due to the ground water table.
            2.   Concrete that has been subjected to any of the following
conditions:
               a.   Deterioration;
               b.   Ultimate deformation;
               c.   Fractures;
               d.   Fissures;
               e.   Spalling;
               f.   Exposed reinforcement; or
               g.   Detached, dislodged or failing connections.
            3.   Aluminum that has been subjected to any of the following
conditions:
               a.   Deterioration;
               b.   Corrosion;
               c.   Elastic deformation;
               d.   Ultimate deformation;
               e.   Stress or strain cracks;
               f.   Joint fatigue; or
               g.   Detached, dislodged or failing connections.
            4.   Masonry that has been subjected to any of the following
conditions:
               a.   Deterioration;
               b.   Ultimate deformation;
               c.   Fractures in masonry or mortar joints;
               d.   Fissures in masonry or mortar joints;
               e.   Spalling;
               f.   Exposed reinforcement; or
               g.   Detached, dislodged or failing connections.
            5.   Steel that has been subjected to any of the following
conditions:
               a.   Deterioration;
               b.   Elastic deformation;
               c.   Ultimate deformation;
               d.   Metal fatigue; or
               e.   Detached, dislodged or failing connections.
            6.   Wood that has been subjected to any of the following
conditions:
               a.   Ultimate deformation;
               b.   Deterioration;
               c.   Damage from insects, rodents and other vermin;
               d.   Fire damage beyond charring;
               e.   Significant splits and checks;
               f.   Horizontal shear cracks;
               g.   Vertical shear cracks;
               h.   Inadequate support;
               i.   Detached, dislodged or failing connections; or
               j.   Excessive cutting and notching.
               k.   Exceptions: When substantiated otherwise by an approved
method; demolition of unsafe conditions shall be permitted when approved by the
code official.
   (g)   Section 308 Rubbish and Garbage.
      (1)   308.1 Accumulation of rubbish or garbage. All exterior property and
premises, and the interior of every structure, shall be free from any
accumulation of rubbish or garbage.
      (2)   308.2 Disposal of rubbish. Every occupant of a structure shall
dispose of all rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by placing such rubbish
in approved containers.
         A.   308.2.1 Rubbish storage facilities. The owner of every occupied
premises shall supply approved covered containers for rubbish, and the owner of
the premises shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
         B.   308.2.2 Refrigerators. Refrigerators and similar equipment not in
operation shall not be discarded, abandoned or stored on premises without first
removing the doors.
      (3)   308.3 Disposal of garbage. Every occupant of a structure shall
dispose of garbage in a clean and sanitary manner by placing such garbage in an
approved garbage disposal facility or approved garbage containers.
         A.   308.3.1 Garbage facilities. The owner of every dwelling shall
supply one of the following: an approved mechanical food waste grinder in each
dwelling unit; an approved incinerator unit in the structure available to the
occupants in each dwelling unit; or an approved leakproof, covered, outside
garbage container.
         B.   308.3.2 Containers. The operator of every establishment producing
garbage shall provide, and at all times cause to be utilized, approved
leakproof containers provided with close- fitting covers for the storage of
such materials until removed from the premises for disposal.
      (4)   308.4 A notice of violation of Section
1490.03(g) shall conform to Section
1490.01(g) with the exception that the notice of violation may be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises affected by such notice, without sending the
notice by mail. Upon failure of the owner or agent having charge of a property
to comply with a notice of violation pursuant to Section
1490.03(g), the code official may pursue abatement pursuant to Section
1490.01(f)3.A.
   (h)   Section 309 Pest Elimination. 
      (1)   309.1 Infestation. All structures shall be kept free from insect
and rodent infestation. All structures in which insects or rodents are found
shall be promptly exterminated by approved processes that will not be injurious
to human health. After pest elimination, proper precautions shall be taken to
prevent reinfestation.
      (2)   309.2 Owner. The owner of any structure shall be responsible for
pest elimination within the structure prior to renting or leasing the
structure.
      (3)   309.3 Single occupant. The occupant of a one-family dwelling or of
a single-tenant nonresidential structure shall be responsible for pest
elimination on the premises.
      (4)   309.4 Multiple occupancy. The owner of a structure containing two
or more dwelling units, a multiple occupancy, a rooming house or a
nonresidential structure shall be responsible for pest elimination in the
public or shared areas of the structure and exterior property. If infestation
is caused by failure of an occupant to prevent such infestation in the area
occupied, the occupant and owner shall be responsible for pest elimination.
      (5)   309.5 Occupant. The occupant of any structure shall be responsible
for the continued rodent and pest-free condition of the structure. Exception:
Where the infestations are caused by defects in the structure, the owner shall
be responsible for pest elimination.
(Ord. 14-10, passed 2-13-2014; Am. Ord. 16-19, passed 4-28-2016)
§ 1490.04 LIGHT, VENTILATION AND OCCUPANCY LIMITATIONS.
   (a)   Section 401 General.
      (1)   401.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the
minimum conditions and standards for light, ventilation and space for occupying
a structure.
      (2)   401.2 Responsibility. The owner of the structure shall provide and
maintain light, ventilation and space conditions in compliance with these
requirements. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant, or permit another
person to occupy, any premises that do not comply with the requirements of this
chapter.
      (3)   401.3 Alternative devices. In lieu of the means for natural light
and ventilation herein prescribed, artificial light or mechanical ventilation
complying with the Ohio Building Code or Residential Code of Ohio shall be
permitted.
   (b)   Section 402 Light. 
      (1)   402.1 Habitable spaces. Every habitable space shall have at least
one window of approved size facing directly to the outdoors or to a court. The
minimum total glazed area for every habitable space shall be 8 percent of the
floor area of such room. Wherever walls or other portions of a structure face a
window of any room and such obstructions are located less than three feet (914
mm) from the window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the
room, such window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors nor to a
court and shall not be included as contributing to the required minimum total
window area for the room. Exception: Where natural light for rooms or spaces
without exterior glazing areas is provided through an adjoining room, the
unobstructed opening to the adjoining room shall be at least 8 percent of the
floor area of the interior room or space, but a minimum of 25 square feet (2.33
m2). The exterior glazing area shall be based on the total floor area being
served.
      (2)   402.2 Common halls and stairways. Every common hall and stairway in
residential occupancies, other than in one- and two-family dwellings, shall be
lighted at all times with at least a 60-watt standard incandescent light bulb
for each 200 square feet (19 m2) of floor area or equivalent illumination,
provided that the spacing between lights shall not be greater than 30 feet
(9144 mm). In other than residential occupancies, means of egress, including
exterior means of egress, stairways shall be illuminated at all times the
building space served by the means of egress is occupied with a minimum of one
footcandle (11 lux) at floors, landings and treads.
      (3)   402.3 Other spaces. All other spaces shall be provided with natural
or artificial light sufficient to permit the maintenance of sanitary
conditions, and the safe occupancy of the space and utilization of the
appliances, equipment and fixtures.
   (c)   Section 403 Ventilation.
      (1)   403.1 Habitable spaces. Every habitable space shall have at least
one openable window. The total openable area of the window in every room shall
be equal to at least 45 percent of the minimum glazed area required in Section
402.1. Exception: Where rooms and spaces without openings to the outdoors are
ventilated through an adjoining room, the unobstructed opening to the adjoining
room shall be at least 8 percent of the floor area of the interior room or
space, but a minimum of 25 square feet (2.33 m2). The ventilation openings to
the outdoors shall be based on a total floor area being ventilated.
      (2)   403.2 Bathrooms and toilet rooms. Every bathroom and toilet room
shall comply with the ventilation requirements for habitable spaces as required
by Section 403.1, except that a window shall not be required in such spaces
equipped with a mechanical ventilation system. Air exhausted by a mechanical
ventilation system from a bathroom or toilet room shall discharge to the
outdoors and shall not be recirculated.
      (3)   403.3 Cooking facilities. Unless approved through the certificate
of occupancy, cooking shall not be permitted in any rooming unit or dormitory
unit, and a cooking facility or appliance shall not be permitted to be present
in the rooming unit or dormitory unit. Exceptions: Where specifically approved
in writing by the code official; devices such as coffee pots and microwave
ovens shall not be considered cooking appliances.
      (4)   403.4 Process ventilation. Where injurious, toxic, irritating or
noxious fumes, gases, dusts or mists are generated, a local exhaust ventilation
system shall be provided to remove the contaminating agent at the source. Air
shall be exhausted to the exterior and not be recirculated to any space.
      (5)   403.5 Clothes dryer exhaust. Clothes dryer exhaust systems shall be
independent of all other systems and shall be exhausted outside the structure
in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. Exception: Listed and
labeled condensing (ductless) clothes dryers.
   (d)   Section 404 Occupancy Limitations.
      (1)   404.1 Privacy. Dwelling units, hotel units, housekeeping units,
rooming units and dormitory units shall be arranged to provide privacy and be
separate from other adjoining spaces.
      (2)   404.2 Minimum room widths. A habitable room, other than a kitchen,
shall be a minimum of seven feet (2134 mm) in any plan dimension. Kitchens
shall have a minimum clear passageway of three feet (914 mm) between
counterfronts and appliances or counterfronts and walls.
      (3)   404.3 Minimum ceiling heights. Habitable spaces, hallways,
corridors, laundry areas, bathrooms, toilet rooms and habitable basement areas
shall have a minimum clear ceiling height of seven feet (2134 mm). Exceptions:
         A.   In one- and two-family dwellings, beams or girders spaced a
minimum of four feet (1219 mm) on center and projecting a maximum of six inches
(152 mm) below the required ceiling height.
         B.   Basement rooms in one- and two-family dwellings occupied
exclusively for laundry, study or recreation purposes, having a minimum ceiling
height of six feet eight inches (2033 mm) with a minimum clear height of six
feet four inches (1932 mm) under beams, girders, ducts and similar
obstructions.
         C.   Rooms occupied exclusively for sleeping, study or similar
purposes and having a sloped ceiling over all or part of the room, with a
minimum clear ceiling height of seven feet (2134 mm) over a minimum of one-
third of the required minimum floor area. In calculating the floor area of such
rooms, only those portions of the floor area with a minimum clear ceiling
height of five feet (1524 mm) shall be included.
      (4)   404.4 Bedroom and living room requirements. Every bedroom and
living room shall comply with the requirements of Sections 404.4.1 through
404.4.5.
         A.   404.4.1 Room area. Every living room shall contain at least 120
square feet (11.2 m2) and every bedroom shall contain a minimum of 70 square
feet (6.5 m2) and every bedroom occupied by more than one person shall contain
a minimum of 50 square feet (4.6 m2) of floor area for each occupant thereof.
         B.   404.4.2 Access from bedrooms. Bedrooms shall not constitute the
only means of access to other bedrooms or habitable spaces and shall not serve
as the only means of egress from other habitable spaces. Exception: Units that
contain fewer than two bedrooms.
         C.   404.4.3 Water closet accessibility. Every bedroom shall have
access to at least one water closet and one lavatory without passing through
another bedroom. Every bedroom in a dwelling unit shall have access to at least
one water closet and lavatory located in the same story as the bedroom or an
adjacent story.
         D.   404.4.4 Prohibited occupancy. Kitchens and nonhabitable spaces
shall not be used for sleeping purposes.
         E.   404.4.5 Other requirements. Bedrooms shall comply with the
applicable provisions of this code including, but not limited to, the light,
ventilation, room area, ceiling height and room width requirements of this
chapter; the plumbing facilities and water-heating facilities requirements of
Chapter 5; the heating facilities and electrical receptacle requirements of
Chapter 6; and the smoke detector and emergency escape requirements of Chapter
7.
      (5)   404.5 Overcrowding. Dwelling units shall not be occupied by more
occupants than permitted by the minimum area requirements of Table 404.5.
 
TABLE 404.5 MINIMUM AREA REQUIREMENTS
                Minimum Area in Square Feet
Space           1-2 occupants  3-5 occupants 6 or more occupants
Living rooma, b 120            120           150
Dining rooma, b No requirement 80            100
Bedrooms           Shall comply with Section 404.4.1
 
   For SI:   1 square foot = 0.093 m2.
   a.   See Section 404.5.2 for combined living room/dining room spaces.
   b.   See Section 404.5.1 for limitations on determining the minimum
occupancy area for sleeping purposes.
         A.   404.5.1 Sleeping area. The minimum occupancy area required by
Table 404.5 shall not be included as a sleeping area in determining the minimum
occupancy area for sleeping purposes. All sleeping areas shall comply with
Section 404.4.
         B.   404.5.2 Combined spaces. Combined living room and dining room
spaces shall comply with the requirements of Table 404.5 if the total area is
equal to that required for separate rooms and if the space is located so as to
function as a combination living room/dining room.
      (6)   404.6 Efficiency unit. Nothing in this section shall prohibit an
efficiency living unit from meeting the following requirements:
         A.   A unit occupied by not more than one occupant shall have a
minimum clear floor area of 120 square feet (11.2 m2). A unit occupied by not
more than two occupants shall have a minimum clear floor area of 220 square
feet (20.4 m2). A unit occupied by three occupants shall have a minimum clear
floor area of 320 square feet (29.7 m2). These required areas shall be
exclusive of the areas required by Items 2 and 3.
         B.   The unit shall be provided with a kitchen sink, cooking appliance
and refrigeration facilities, each having a minimum clear working space of 30
inches (762 mm) in front. Light and ventilation conforming to this code shall
be provided.
         C.   The unit shall be provided with a separate bathroom containing a
water closet, lavatory and bathtub or shower.
         D.   The maximum number of occupants shall be three.
      (7)   404.7 Food preparation. All spaces to be occupied for food
preparation purposes shall contain suitable space and equipment to store,
prepare and serve foods in a sanitary manner. There shall be adequate
facilities and services for the sanitary disposal of food wastes and refuse,
including facilities for temporary storage.
(Ord. 14-10, passed 2-13-2014)
§ 1490.05 PLUMBING FACILITIES AND FIXTURE REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Section 501 General.
      (1)   501.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the
minimum plumbing systems, facilities and plumbing fixtures to be provided.
      (2)   501.2 Responsibility. The owner of the structure shall provide and
maintain such plumbing facilities and plumbing fixtures in compliance with
these requirements. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit
another person to occupy any structure or premises which does not comply with
the requirements of this chapter.
   (b)   Section 502 Required Facilities.
      (1)   502.1 Dwelling units. Every dwelling unit shall contain its own
bathtub or shower, lavatory, water closet and kitchen sink which shall be
maintained in a sanitary, safe working condition. The lavatory shall be placed
in the same room as the water closet or located in close proximity to the door
leading directly into the room in which such water closet is located. A kitchen
sink shall not be used as a substitute for the required lavatory.
      (2)   502.2 Rooming houses. At least one water closet, lavatory and
bathtub or shower shall be supplied for each four rooming units.
      (3)   502.3 Hotels. Where private water closets, lavatories and baths are
not provided, one water closet, one lavatory and one bathtub or shower having
access from a public hallway shall be provided for each ten occupants.
      (4)   502.4 Employees' facilities. A minimum of one water closet, one
lavatory and one drinking facility shall be available to employees.
         A.   502.4.1 Drinking facilities. Drinking facilities shall be a
drinking fountain, water cooler, bottled water cooler or disposable cups next
to a sink or water dispenser. Drinking facilities shall not be located in
toilet rooms or bathrooms.
      (5)   502.5 Public toilet facilities. Public toilet facilities shall be
maintained in a safe sanitary and working condition in accordance with the Ohio
Plumbing Code. Except for periodic maintenance or cleaning, public access and
use shall be provided to the toilet facilities at all times during occupancy of
the premises.
   (c)   Section 503 Toilet Rooms.
      (1)   503.1 Privacy. Toilet rooms and bathrooms shall provide privacy and
shall not constitute the only passageway to a hall or other space, or to the
exterior. A door and interior locking device shall be provided for all common
or shared bathrooms and toilet rooms in a multiple dwelling.
      (2)   503.2 Location. Toilet rooms and bathrooms serving hotel units,
rooming units or dormitory units or housekeeping units, shall have access by
traversing a maximum of one flight of stairs and shall have access from a
common hall or passageway.
      (3)   503.3 Location of employee toilet facilities. Toilet facilities
shall have access from within the employees' working area. The required toilet
facilities shall be located a maximum of one story above or below the
employees' working area and the path of travel to such facilities shall not
exceed a distance of 500 feet (152 m). Employee facilities shall either be
separate facilities or combined employee and public facilities. Exception:
Facilities that are required for employees in storage structures or kiosks,
which are located in adjacent structures under the same ownership, lease or
control, shall not exceed a travel distance of 500 feet (152 m) from the
employees' regular working area to the facilities.
      (4)   503.4 Floor surface. In other than dwelling units, every toilet
room floor shall be maintained to be a smooth, hard, nonabsorbent surface to
permit such floor to be easily kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (d)   Section 504 Plumbing Systems and Fixtures.
      (1)   504.1 General. All plumbing fixtures shall be properly installed
and maintained in working order, and shall be kept free from obstructions,
leaks and defects and be capable of performing the function for which such
plumbing fixtures are designed. All plumbing fixtures shall be maintained in a
safe, sanitary and functional condition.
      (2)   504.2 Fixture clearances. Plumbing fixtures shall have adequate
clearances for usage and cleaning.
      (3)   504.3 Plumbing system hazards. Where it is found that a plumbing
system in a structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants or the structure by
reason of inadequate service, inadequate venting, cross-connection,
backsiphonage, improper installation, deterioration or damage or for similar
reasons, the code official shall require the defects to be corrected to
eliminate the hazard.
   (e)   Section 505 Water System.
      (1)   505.1 General. Every sink, lavatory, bathtub or shower, drinking
fountain, water closet or other plumbing fixture shall be properly connected to
either a public water system or to an approved private water system. All
kitchen sinks, lavatories, laundry facilities, bathtubs and showers shall be
supplied with hot or tempered and cold running water in accordance with the
Ohio Plumbing Code.
      (2)   505.2 Contamination. The water supply shall be maintained free from
contamination, and all water inlets for plumbing fixtures shall be located
above the flood-level rim of the fixture. Shampoo basin faucets, janitor sink
faucets and other hose bibs or faucets to which hoses are attached and left in
place, shall be protected by an approved atmospheric-type vacuum breaker or an
approved permanently attached hose connection vacuum breaker.
      (3)   505.3 Supply. The water supply system shall be installed and
maintained to provide a supply of water to plumbing fixtures, devices and
appurtenances in sufficient volume and at pressures adequate to enable the
fixtures to function properly, safely, and free from defects and leaks.
      (4)   505.4 Water heating facilities. Water heating facilities shall be
properly installed, maintained and capable of providing an adequate amount of
water to be drawn at every required sink, lavatory, bathtub, shower and laundry
facility at a minimum temperature of 110°F (43°C). A gas-burning water heater
shall not be located in any bathroom, toilet room, bedroom or other occupied
room normally kept closed, unless adequate combustion air is provided. An
approved combination temperature and pressure-relief valve and relief valve
discharge pipe shall be properly installed and maintained on water heaters.
   (f)   Section 506 Sanitary Drainage System.
      (1)   506.1 General. All plumbing fixtures shall be properly connected to
either a public sewer system or to an approved private sewage disposal system.
      (2)   506.2 Maintenance. Every plumbing stack, vent, waste and sewer line
shall function properly and be kept free from obstructions, leaks and defects.
      (3)   506.3 Grease interceptors. Grease interceptors and automatic grease
removal devices shall be maintained in accordance with this code and the
manufacturer's installation instructions. Grease interceptors and automatic
grease removal devices shall be regularly serviced and cleaned to prevent the
discharge of oil, grease, and other substances harmful or hazardous to the
building drainage system, the public sewer, the private sewage disposal system
or the sewage treatment plant or processes. All records of maintenance,
cleaning and repairs shall be available for inspection by the code official.
   (g)   Section 507 Storm Drainage
      (1)   507.1 General. Drainage of roofs and paved areas, yards and courts,
and other open areas on the premises shall not be discharged in a manner that
creates a public nuisance.
(Ord. 14-10, passed 2-13-2014)
§ 1490.06 MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Section 601 General.
      (1)   601.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the
minimum mechanical and electrical facilities and equipment to be provided.
      (2)   601.2 Responsibility. The owner of the structure shall provide and
maintain mechanical and electrical facilities and equipment in compliance with
these requirements. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit
another person to occupy any premises which does not comply with the
requirements of this chapter.
   (b)   Section 602 Heating Facilities.
      (1)   602.1 Facilities required. Heating facilities shall be provided in
structures as required by this section.
      (2)   602.2 Residential occupancies. Dwellings shall be provided with
heating facilities capable of maintaining a room temperature of 68°F (20°C) in
all habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms based on a winter outdoor
design temperature of four degrees Fahrenheit. Cooking appliances shall not be
used, nor shall portable unvented fuel-burning space heaters be used, as a
means to provide required heating.
      (3)   602.3 Heat supply. Every owner and operator of any building who
rents, leases or lets one or more dwelling units or sleeping units on terms,
either expressed or implied, to furnish heat to the occupants thereof shall
supply heat during the period from October 30 to April 1 to maintain a minimum
temperature of 68°F (20°C) in all habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms.
Exception: When the outdoor temperature is below the winter outdoor design
temperature specified in Section 602.2, maintenance of the minimum room
temperature shall not be required provided that the heating system is operating
at its full design capacity.
      (4)   602.4 Occupiable work spaces. Indoor occupiable work spaces shall
be supplied with heat during the period from October 30 to April 1 to maintain
a minimum temperature of 65°F (18°C) during the period the spaces are occupied.
Exceptions:
         A.   Processing, storage and operation areas that require cooling or
special temperature conditions.
         B.   Areas in which persons are primarily engaged in vigorous physical
activities
      (5)   602.5 Room temperature measurement. The required room temperatures
shall be measured three feet (914 mm) above the floor near the center of the
room and two feet (610 mm) inward from the center of each exterior wall.
   (c)   Section 603 Mechanical Equipment.
      (1)   603.1 Mechanical appliances. All mechanical appliances, fireplaces,
solid fuel- burning appliances, cooking appliances and water heating appliances
shall be properly installed and maintained in a safe working condition, and
shall be capable of performing the intended function.
      (2)   603.2 Removal of combustion products. All fuel-burning equipment
and appliances shall be connected to an approved chimney or vent. Exception:
Fuel-burning equipment and appliances which are labeled for unvented operation.
      (3)   603.3 Clearances. All required clearances to combustible materials
shall be maintained.
      (4)   603.4 Safety controls. All safety controls for fuel-burning
equipment shall be maintained in effective operation.
      (5)   603.5 Combustion air. A supply of air for complete combustion of
the fuel and for ventilation of the space containing the fuel-burning equipment
shall be provided for the fuel-burning equipment.
      (6)   603.6 Energy conservation devices. Devices intended to reduce fuel
consumption by attachment to a fuel-burning appliance, to the fuel supply line
thereto, or to the vent outlet or vent piping therefrom, shall not be installed
unless labeled for such purpose and the installation is specifically approved.
   (d)   Section 604 Electrical Facilities.
      (1)   604.1 Facilities required. Every occupied building shall be
provided with an electrical system in compliance with the requirements of this
section and Section 605.
      (2)   604.2 Service. The size and usage of appliances and equipment shall
serve as a basis for determining the need for additional facilities in
accordance with NFPA 70. Dwelling units shall be served by a three-wire, 120/
240 volt, single-phase electrical service having a minimum rating of 60
amperes.
      (3)   604.3 Electrical system hazards. Where it is found that the
electrical system in a structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants or the
structure by reason of inadequate service, improper fusing, insufficient
receptacle and lighting outlets, improper wiring or installation, deterioration
or damage, or for similar reasons, the code official shall require the defects
to be corrected to eliminate the hazard.
   (e)   Section 605 Electrical Equipment.
      (1)   605.1 Installation. All electrical equipment, wiring and appliances
shall be properly installed and maintained in a safe and approved manner.
      (2)   605.2 Receptacles. Every habitable space in a dwelling shall
contain at least two separate and remote receptacle outlets. Every laundry area
shall contain at least one grounded-type receptacle or a receptacle with a
ground fault circuit interrupter. Every bathroom shall contain at least one
receptacle. Any new bathroom receptacle outlet shall have ground fault circuit
interrupter protection. All receptacle outlets shall have the appropriate
faceplate cover for the location.
      (3)   605.3 Luminaires. Every public hall, interior stairway, toilet
room, kitchen, bathroom, laundry room, boiler room and furnace room shall
contain at least one electric luminaire. Pool and spa luminaries over 15 V
shall have ground fault circuit interrupter protection.
      (4)   605.4 Wiring. Flexible cords shall not be used for permanent
wiring, or for running through doors, windows, or cabinets, or concealed within
walls, floors, or ceilings.
   (f)   Section 606 Elevators, Escalators and Dumbwaiters.
      (1)   606.1 General. Elevators, dumbwaiters and escalators shall be
maintained in compliance with ASME A17.1. The most current certificate of
inspection shall be on display at all times within the elevator or attached to
the escalator or dumbwaiter, be available for public inspection in the office
of the building operator or be posted in a publicly conspicuous location
approved by the code official. The inspection and tests shall be performed at
not less than the periodic intervals listed in ASME A17.1, Appendix N, except
where otherwise specified by the authority having jurisdiction.
      (2)   606.2 Elevators. In buildings equipped with passenger elevators, at
least one elevator shall be maintained in operation at all times when the
building is occupied. Exception: Buildings equipped with only one elevator
shall be permitted to have the elevator temporarily out of service for testing
or servicing.
   (g)   Section 607 Duct Systems.
      (1)   607.1 General. Duct systems shall be maintained free of
obstructions and shall be capable of performing the required function.
(Ord. 14-10, passed 2-13-2014)
§ 1490.07 FIRE SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Section 701 General.
      (1)   701.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the
minimum conditions and standards for fire safety relating to structures and
exterior premises, including fire safety facilities and equipment to be
provided.
      (2)   701.2 Responsibility. The owner of the premises shall provide and
maintain such fire safety facilities and equipment in compliance with these
requirements. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another
person to occupy any premises that do not comply with the requirements of this
chapter.
   (b)   Means of Egress.
      (1)   702.1 General. A safe, continuous and unobstructed path of travel
shall be provided from any point in a building or structure to the public way.
Means of egress shall comply with the Ohio Fire Code.
      (2)   702.2 Aisles. The required width of aisles in accordance with the
Ohio Fire Code shall be unobstructed.
      (3)   702.3 Locked doors. All means of egress doors shall be readily
openable from the side from which egress is to be made without the need for
keys, special knowledge or effort, except where the door hardware conforms to
that permitted by the Ohio Building Code.
      (4)   702.4 Emergency escape openings. Required emergency escape openings
shall be maintained in accordance with the code in effect at the time of
construction, and the following. Required emergency escape and rescue openings
shall be operational from the inside of the room without the use of keys or
tools. Bars, grilles, grates or similar devices are permitted to be placed over
emergency escape and rescue openings provided the minimum net clear opening
size complies with the code that was in effect at the time of construction and
such devices shall be releasable or removable from the inside without the use
of a key, tool or force greater than that which is required for normal
operation of the escape and rescue opening.
   (c)   Section 703 Fire-Resistance Ratings.
      (1)   703.1 Fire-resistance-rated assemblies. The required fire-
resistance rating of fire- resistance-rated walls, fire stops, shaft
enclosures, partitions and floors shall be maintained.
      (2)   703.2 Opening protectives. Required opening protectives shall be
maintained in an operative condition. All fire and smokestop doors shall be
maintained in operable condition. Fire doors and smoke barrier doors shall not
be blocked or obstructed or otherwise made inoperable.
   (d)   Section 704 Fire Protection Systems.
      (1)   704.1 General. All systems, devices and equipment to detect a fire,
actuate an alarm, or suppress or control a fire or any combination thereof
shall be maintained in an operable condition at all times in accordance with
the Ohio Fire Code.
         A.   704.1.1 Automatic sprinkler systems. Inspection, testing and
maintenance of automatic sprinkler systems shall be in accordance with NFPA 25.
      (2)   704.2 Smoke alarms. Single- or multiple-station smoke alarms shall
be installed and maintained in Group R or I-1 occupancies, regardless of
occupant load at all of the following locations:
         A.   On the ceiling or wall outside of each separate sleeping area in
the immediate vicinity of bedrooms.
         B.   In each room used for sleeping purposes.
         C.   In each story within a dwelling unit, including basements and
cellars but not including crawl spaces and uninhabitable attics. In dwellings
or dwelling units with split levels and without an intervening door between the
adjacent levels, a smoke alarm installed on the upper level shall suffice for
the adjacent lower level provided that the lower level is less than one full
story below the upper level.
         D.   Single- or multiple-station smoke alarms shall be installed in
other groups in accordance with the Ohio Fire Code.
      (3)   704.3 Power source. In Group R or I-1 occupancies, single-station
smoke alarms shall receive their primary power from the building wiring
provided that such wiring is served from a commercial source and shall be
equipped with a battery backup. Smoke alarms shall emit a signal when the
batteries are low. Wiring shall be permanent and without a disconnecting switch
other than as required for overcurrent protection. Exception: Smoke alarms are
permitted to be solely battery operated in buildings where no construction is
taking place, buildings that are not served from a commercial power source and
in existing areas of buildings undergoing alterations or repairs that do not
result in the removal of interior wall or ceiling finishes exposing the
structure, unless there is an attic, crawl space or basement available which
could provide access for building wiring without the removal of interior
finishes.
      (4)   704.4 Interconnection. Where more than one smoke alarm is required
to be installed within an individual dwelling unit in Group R or I-
1 occupancies, the smoke alarms shall be interconnected in such a manner that
the activation of one alarm will activate all of the alarms in the individual
unit. Physical interconnection of smoke alarms shall not be required where
listed wireless alarms are installed and all alarms sound upon activation of
one alarm. The alarm shall be clearly audible in all bedrooms over background
noise levels with all intervening doors closed. Exceptions:
         A.   Interconnection is not required in buildings which are not
undergoing alterations, repairs or construction of any kind.
         B.   Smoke alarms in existing areas are not required to be
interconnected where alterations or repairs do not result in the removal of
interior wall or ceiling finishes exposing the structure, unless there is an
attic, crawl space or basement available which could provide access for
interconnection without the removal of interior finishes.
(Ord. 14-10, passed 2-13-2014)
§ 1490.08 REFERENCED STANDARDS.
   (a)   This chapter lists the standards that are referenced in various
sections of this document. The standards are listed herein by the promulgating
agency of the standard, the standard identification, the effective date and
title and the section or sections of this document that reference the standard.
The application of the referenced standards shall be as specified in Section
102.7.
                          American Society of
ASME                      Mechanical Engineers
                          Three Park Avenue
                          New York, NY 10016-5990
Standard reference number Title                      Referenced in code section
                                                     number
A17.1/CSA B44-2007        Safety Code for Elevators  606.1
                          and Escalators
                          ASTM International
ASTM                      100 Barr Harbor Drive
                          West Conshohocken, PA
                          19428-2959
Standard reference number Title                      Referenced in code section
                                                     number
                          Performance Specifications
                          for Safety Covers and
F 1346-91 (2003)          Labeling Requirements for  303.2
                          all Covers for Swimming
                          Pools, Spas and Hot Tubs
                          International Code Council
ICC                       500 New Jersey Avenue, NW
                          6th Floor
                          Washington, DC 20001
Standard reference number Title                      Referenced in code section
                                                     number
IFGC-12                   International Fuel Gas     102.3, 201.3
                          Code
Local Codes
                          Title                      Referenced in code section
                                                     number
                          Ohio Building Code         102.3, 201.3, 401.3, 702.3
                          Ohio Fire Code             102.3, 201.3, 702.1,
                                                     702.2, 704.1, 704.2
                          Ohio Mechanical Code       102.3, 201.3
                          Ohio Plumbing Code         102.3, 201.3, 502.5, 505.1
                          Residential Code of Ohio   102.3, 201.3, 401.3
                          City of Xenia Zoning Code  102.3, 201.3
                          National Fire Protection
NFPA                      Association
                          1 Batterymarch Park
                          Quincy, MA 02269
Standard reference number Title                      Referenced in code section
                                                     number
                          Inspection, Testing and
25-11                     Maintenance of Water-Based 704.1.1
                          Fire Protection Systems
70-11                     National Electrical Code   102.3, 201.3, 604.2
 
(Ord. 14-10, passed 2-13-2014)
PART SIXTEEN - FIRE CODE
            
Chap. 1602.   Fire Code
            
Chap. 1604.   Inspections; Required Identifications
CHAPTER 1602: FIRE CODE
1602.01   Adoption
1602.02   Purpose
1602.03   Application
1602.04   Fire Safety Inspectors
1602.05   Remedies for Dangerous Conditions
1602.06   Citations
1602.07   Injunctive Relief; Order to Vacate
1602.08   Demolition or Repair
1602.09   Prohibitions
1602.10   Fire Watch; Excessive False Alarms
1602.11   Fee and Cost Schedule
1602.12   Conflict of Law
 
1602.99   Penalties
   CROSS REFERENCES
      See sectional histories for similar State law
      Adoption of Technical Codes - see CHTR. §
5.09
      Fire & EMS Division - see ADMIN.
Ch. 242
      Fireworks - see GEN. OFF.
678.03; ORC Ch. 3743
      Investigation of Fires - see ORC 737.27
      Public Safety Director - see ADMIN.
Ch. 240
      Right to Examine Buildings and Premises - see ORC 3737.14
      State Fire Marshal - see ORC Ch. 3737
§ 1602.01 ADOPTION.
   Pursuant to Section
5.09 of the City Charter, there is hereby adopted by and for the City, and
incorporated by reference as if set out at length herein, the Ohio Fire Code,
as adopted by the State of Ohio Fire Marshal, effective December 15, 2017, and
any subsequent revisions thereto, as published in OAC Chapter 1301:7-7, save
and except such portions thereof as may be hereinafter amended or deleted. Such
Code shall be known as the "City Fire Code," the "Ohio Fire Code" or the "Fire
Code."
(Ord. 13-40. Adopted 07/25/13; Ord. 2020-03. Adopted 02/27/20)
§ 1602.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Fire Code, as adopted herein, is to prescribe minimum
standards and regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property
from fire or explosion.
(Ord. 13-40. Adopted 07/25/13; Ord. 2020-03. Adopted 02/27/20)
§ 1602.03 APPLICATION.
   The Fire Code, as adopted herein, applies to the use of all lands and
properties within the City and such other lands or properties owned by the City
which are situated outside the City's corporate limits.
(Ord. 2020-03. Adopted 02/27/20)
§ 1602.04 FIRE SAFETY INSPECTORS.
   (a)   Fire Safety Inspectors. No person shall serve as a Fire Safety
Inspector for the City's Fire & EMS Division unless that person has received a
certificate issued under former ORC 3303.07 or ORC 4765.55 evidencing that
person's satisfactory completion of a fire safety inspection training program.
Statutory reference: ORC 3737.34
   (b)   Impersonating Fire Safety Inspector. No person who is not a certified
fire safety inspector shall act as such or hold that person's self out to be
such, unless prior to commencing any inspection function, that person discloses
the purpose for which the person is making such inspection and the fact that
the person is not employed by the City's Fire & EMS Division, and that the
person is not acting in an official capacity for any governmental subdivision
or agency.
Statutory reference: ORC 3737.64
(Ord. 13-40. Adopted 07/25/13; Ord. 2020-03. Adopted 02/27/20)
§ 1602.05 REMEDIES FOR DANGEROUS CONDITIONS.
   (a)   Dilapidated or Unsafe Structures. If a City Fire Safety Inspector,
upon an examination or inspection, finds a building or other structure, which
for want of proper repair, by reason of age and dilapidated condition,
defective or poorly installed electrical wiring and equipment, defective
chimneys, gas connections, or heating apparatus, or for any other reason, is
especially liable to fire or endangers life or other buildings or property,
such officer shall issue a citation and order such building or structure to be
repaired, torn down, demolished, or materials removed, and all dangerous
conditions remedied.
   (b)   Combustible or Explosive Materials. If a City Fire Safety Inspector
finds in any building or upon any premises any combustible or explosive
material, rubbish, rags, waste, oils, gasoline, or inflammable conditions of
any kind, which are especially dangerous to the safety of persons or such
building, premises, or property, such officer shall issue a citation and order
such materials removed or conditions remedied.
   (c)   Flammable or Combustible Liquids. If a City Fire Safety Inspector
finds that any building, structure, tank, container, or vehicle used for the
storage, handling, or transportation of flammable or combustible liquids, or of
liquefied petroleum gas, or the pumps, piping, valves, wiring, and materials
used in connection therewith, are especially dangerous to the safety of persons
or such building, structure, tank, container, or vehicle, such officer shall
issue a citation and order such condition remedied.
   (d)   Enforcement. A City Fire Safety Inspector may proceed, on a citation
issued under this section, to seek enforcement by use of the procedures
established by Section 1602.06 of this Chapter.
Statutory Reference: ORC 3737.41
(Ord. 2020-03. Adopted 02/27/20)
§ 1602.06 CITATIONS.
   (a)   Citations.
      (1)   If, upon inspection or investigation, a City Fire Safety Inspector
believes that the Fire Code or an associated order has been violated, such
officer shall, with reasonable promptness, issue a citation to the responsible
person. Each citation shall be in writing and shall describe with particularity
the nature of the violation, including a reference to the provision of the Fire
Code or associated order alleged to have been violated. In addition, the
citation shall fix a reasonable time for the abatement of the violation. When
the citation is issued by a City Fire Safety Inspector, a copy of the citation
shall be furnished to the State Fire Marshal.
      (2)   A City Fire Safety Inspector may issue a notice in lieu of a
citation, in accordance with the procedures for issuance of such notice
prescribed by the State Fire Marshal, with respect to de minimis violations
that have no direct or immediate relationship to safety or health.
      (3)   Each citation issued under this section, or a copy or copies of the
citation, shall be prominently posted by the responsible person, as prescribed
in the Fire Code, at or near each place a violation referred to in the citation
occurs.
Statutory reference: ORC 3737.42
   (b)   Hearing on Citation; Appeal.
      (1)   If, after an inspection or investigation, a City Fire Safety
Inspector issues a citation under Section
1602.05 or division (a) of this section, the City's Fire & EMS Division shall,
within a reasonable time after such inspection or investigation and in
accordance with ORC Chapter 119., notify the responsible person of the citation
and penalty, if any, proposed to be assessed under division (c) of this
section, and of the responsible person's right to appeal the citation and
penalty, under ORC Chapter 119., to the State Board of Building Appeals within
thirty (30) days after receipt of the notice.
      (2)   If the responsible person is aggrieved by an order of the State
Board of Building Appeals, the person may appeal to the Greene County Court of
Common Pleas within thirty (30) days after the Board renders its decision.
Statutory reference: ORC 3737.43
   (c)   Civil Penalties.
      (1)   Any person who has received a citation for a serious violation of
the Fire Code or any order issued pursuant to such Code shall be assessed a
civil penalty of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000) for each such
violation.
      (2)   Any person who has received a citation for a violation of the Fire
Code or any order issued pursuant to it, and such violation is specifically
determined not to be of a serious nature, may be assessed a civil penalty of
not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000) for each such violation.
      (3)   Any person who fails to correct a violation for which a citation
has been issued within the period permitted for its correction, may be assessed
a civil penalty of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000) for each day
during which such failure or violation continues.
      (4)   Any person who violates any of the posting requirements prescribed
in division (a)(3) of this section shall be assessed a civil penalty of not
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000) for each violation.
Statutory Reference: ORC 3737.51(B) - (E)
   (d)   Penalty Considerations.
      (1)   Due consideration to the appropriateness of the penalty with
respect to the gravity of the violation, the good faith of the person being
charged, and the history of previous violations shall be given whenever a
penalty is assessed under this Chapter.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, a "serious violation" shall be
considered to exist if there is a substantial probability that an occurrence
causing death or serious physical harm to persons could result from a condition
which exists or from one or more practices, means, methods, operations, or
processes that have been adopted or are in use, unless the person did not and
could not, with the exercise of reasonable diligence, know of the presence of
the violation.
      (3)   Civil penalties imposed by this Chapter shall be paid to the City's
Public Safety Fund for the use of the City's Fire & EMS Division. Such
penalties may be recovered in a civil action in the name of the City brought in
the Xenia Municipal Court or the Greene County Court of Common Pleas.
Statutory reference: ORC 3737.51(F) - (H)
(Ord. 2020-03. Adopted 02/27/20; Ord. 2022-44. Adopted 11/22/22)
§ 1602.07 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF; ORDER TO VACATE.
   (a)   Jurisdiction.
      (1)   The Greene County Court of Common Pleas shall have jurisdiction,
upon a complaint filed by a City Fire Safety Inspector, to restrain,
immediately or before the imminence of such danger can be eliminated through
the enforcement proceedings otherwise provided in this Chapter, any condition
or practices in any building or upon any premises which violate the Fire Code
and are such that a fire or explosion hazard exists that could reasonably be
expected to cause death or serious physical harm. Any order issued under this
section may require such steps be taken as may be necessary to avoid, correct,
or remove such imminent danger.
      (2)   Upon the filing of any such complaint, the Court has jurisdiction
to grant such injunctive relief or temporary restraining order pending the
outcome of an enforcement proceeding pursuant to this Chapter or ORC Chapter
3737.
   (b)   Order to Vacate. Whenever a City Fire Safety Inspector concludes that
conditions or practices described in division (a)(1) of this section exist in
any building or on any premises, such official shall inform the owner,
operator, lessees, occupants, and other affected persons of the danger and that
such officer is seeking relief. If necessary to preserve life, a City Fire
Safety Inspector, if authorized by the Fire Marshal or his deputy, may orally
order the building or premises vacated immediately. Such an order shall remain
in effect for not more than twenty-four (24) hours. In addition, the officer
making the order shall post written notice in conspicuous places on the
building or premises.
   (c)   Mandamus. If a City Fire Safety Inspector arbitrarily or capriciously
fails to seek relief under this section, any person who may be injured by
reason of such failure may bring an action against such officer in the Greene
County Court of Common Pleas for a writ of mandamus to compel the City Fire
Safety Inspector to seek such relief.
Statutory reference: ORC 3737.44
(Ord. 2020-03. Adopted 02/27/20)
§ 1602.08 DEMOLITION OR REPAIR.
   (a)   Court Order. If any responsible person fails to comply with an order
of a City Fire Safety Inspector as finally affirmed or modified by the State
Board of Building Appeals under Section 1602.06 of this Chapter, within the
time fixed in the order, then the City Fire Safety Inspector may file a
complaint in the Greene County Court of Common Pleas for a court order
authorizing the City Fire Safety Inspector to cause the building, structure, or
premises to be repaired or demolished, materials to be removed, and all
dangerous conditions to be remedied, if such was the mandate of the order as
affirmed or modified by the State Board of Building Appeals, at the expense of
the responsible person.
   (b)   Expenses. If the responsible person, within thirty (30) days
thereafter, fails, neglects, or refuses to pay the expense that would be
incurred in enforcing the order of the Greene County Court of Common Pleas
under this section, the Court shall order that the real estate upon which the
building, structure, or premises is or was situated be sold pursuant to ORC
Chapter 2329., except as otherwise provided in this section. The proceeds of
the sale shall be credited to the City's Public Safety Fund for use by the
City's Fire & EMS Division. The City shall use the proceeds of the sale to
cause the repair or demolition of any building, structure, or premises, the
removal of materials, or the remedy of all dangerous conditions unless the
purchaser of the real estate enters into an agreement with the Court to perform
the repair, demolition, removal, or remedy within a time period acceptable to
the Court. No bid of a prospective purchaser shall be acceptable which is
insufficient to pay the expense that the City would incur.
   (c)   Excess Funds. If the amount received from the sale exceeds the expense
that the City would incur, the Court shall direct the payment of the surplus
first to those parties with encumbrances, mortgages, or liens on the real
estate in order of their priority, and then to the responsible person or into
the Court for its use and benefit.
Statutory reference: ORC 3737.45
(Ord. 2020-03. Adopted 02/27/20; Ord. 2022-44. Adopted 11/22/22)
§ 1602.09 PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   Fire Code Violations. No person shall knowingly violate any provision
of the Fire Code or any order made pursuant to it.
Statutory reference: ORC 3737.51(A)
   (b)   Posting Notice of Arson Laws. The owner, operator or lessee of any
transient residential building shall post the provisions of ORC 2909.02 and
2909.03 in a conspicuous place in each room occupied by guests in such
building. The owner, operator or lessee of any nontransient residential
building, institution, school or place of assembly shall post the provisions of
such sections in conspicuous places upon such premises. No person shall fail to
comply with this section.
Statutory reference: ORC 3737.61
   (c)   Negligent Burning. No person shall set, kindle, or cause to be set or
kindled any fire which, through that person's negligence, spreads beyond its
immediate confines to any structure, field or wood lot.
Statutory reference: ORC 3737.62
   (d)   Alarm of Unfriendly Fire.
      (1)   The owner, operator or lessee, an employee of any owner, operator
or lessee, an occupant, and any person in direct control of any building
regulated under the City's Building Code, upon the discovery of an unfriendly
fire, or upon receiving information that there is an unfriendly fire on the
premises, shall immediately and with all reasonable dispatch and diligence,
call or otherwise notify the City's Fire & EMS Division concerning the fire and
shall spread an alarm immediately to all occupants of the building.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, "unfriendly fire" means a fire of
a destructive nature as distinguished from a controlled fire intended for a
beneficial purpose.
      (3)   No person shall fail to comply with this section.
Statutory reference: ORC 3737.63
   (e)   Standards for Equipment.
      (1)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, or use any fire protection or
firefighting equipment that does not meet the minimum standards established by
the Fire Marshal in the Fire Code.
      (2)   Except for public and private mobile fire trucks, no person shall
service, test, repair or install for profit any fire protection or firefighting
equipment without a certificate issued by the Fire Marshal.
Statutory Reference: ORC 3737.65(A) - (B)
   (f)   Persons Entitled to be Known as Firefighters. No person shall claim to
the public to be or act as a firefighter, volunteer firefighter, member of a
fire department, chief of a fire department, or fire prevention officer unless
the person is recognized as a firefighter, volunteer firefighter, member of a
fire department, member of a private fire company, chief of a fire department,
or fire prevention officer by the Fire Marshal or has received a certificate
issued under former ORC 3303.07 or ORC 4765.55 evidencing satisfactory
completion of a firefighter training program and has been appointed by the
governing board of a firefighting agency or, in the case of a volunteer
firefighter, receives such a certificate within one (1) year after appointment
by the governing board of a firefighting agency.
Statutory Reference: ORC 3735.66
(Ord. 2020-03. Adopted 02/27/20)
§ 1602.10 FIRE WATCH; EXCESSIVE FALSE ALARMS.
   (a)   Reporting Inoperable Fire Alarm or Fire Suppression System. Any owner,
occupant, or responsible person in control of any occupancy covered by the Fire
Code or other provision in this Chapter that requires a fire alarm or fire
suppression system, shall report any condition limiting or rendering the system
inoperable to the City's Fire & EMS Division.
   (b)   Fire Watch.
      (1)   The Fire & EMS Chief or City Fire Safety Inspector may require a
Fire Watch in accordance with this section.
      (2)   A Fire Watch may be conducted by a responsible person in control of
the occupancy, or by the City's Fire & EMS Division personnel, as determined by
the Fire & EMS Chief or City Fire Safety Inspector. A Fire Watch by the City's
Fire & EMS Division personnel should only be ordered if the Fire & EMS Chief or
City Fire Safety Inspector determines that the hazard to life is substantial.
      (3)   A Fire Watch will be conducted in accordance with the direction of
the Fire & EMS Chief or City Fire Safety Inspector.
   (c)   Excessive False Alarms.
      (1)   If a fire alarm system that the owner, occupant, or responsible
person in control of any occupancy knows or should have reasonable cause to
know is defective or suffering from other deficiencies that produce false
alarms, and such system produces four (4) or more false alarms in any six-month
consecutive period, the owner, occupant, or responsible person in control of
any occupancy may be charged with the costs of the City's Fire & EMS Division
responding to such false alarms, per response, beginning with the fourth such
occurrence within a six-month consecutive period.
      (2)   After the second such false alarm within a six-month consecutive
period, written notice of that fact shall be given, by regular mail, to the
owner, occupant, or responsible person in control of any occupancy by the City
with an appropriate warning that additional false alarms may be subject to
reimbursement for the cost of the Fire & EMS Division's response to such false
alarms, per response, beginning with the fourth such false alarm in any six-
month consecutive period.
   (d)   Costs. Costs associated with a Fire Watch by the City's Fire & EMS
Division personnel pursuant to this Section and/or costs associated with
excessive false alarms will be assessed to the responsible person in accordance
with the Fee Schedule established pursuant to Section
1602.11 of this Chapter.
(Ord. 13-40. Adopted 07/25/13; Ord. 91-49. Adopted 09/12/91; Ord 2020-03.
Adopted 02/27/20)
§ 1602.11 FEE AND COST SCHEDULE.
   The Public Safety Director, in consultation with the Fire & EMS Chief, is
hereby authorized and directed to establish and publish a fee and cost
schedule, by Administrative Directive, for permits issued by the City's Fire &
EMS Division pursuant to the Fire Code and for the imposition, collection or
reimbursement of any costs imposed under this Chapter. The Public Safety
Director shall periodically review and adjust such fees as needed. All fees and
costs collected shall be placed in the City's Public Safety Fund for use by the
City's Fire & EMS Division.
(Ord. 06-62. Adopted 09/28/06; Ord. 10-24. Adopted 06/10/10; Ord. 2020-03.
Adopted 02/27/20)
§ 1602.12 CONFLICT OF LAW.
   (a)   Ohio Board of Building Standards. The rules of the Ohio Board of
Building Standards shall supersede and govern any order, standard, or rule of
the Division of State Fire Marshal or of this City in all cases where such
orders, standards, or rules are in conflict with the rules of the Ohio Board of
Building Standards, except that rules adopted and orders issued by the Fire
Marshal pursuant to ORC 3743 prevail in the event of a conflict.
Statutory reference: ORC 3781.11(B)
   (b)   Other Conflicts. In all other cases of conflict between the Fire Code
and any other City ordinance or technical code adopted thereby, the stricter
standard shall control.
(Ord. 2020-03. Adopted 02/27/20)
§ 1602.99 PENALTIES.
   (a)   Whoever violates Section
1602.04(b) or Section
1602.09(c) of this Chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (b)   Except as a violation of ORC 2923.17 involves subject matter covered
by the Fire Code and except as such a violation is covered by division (f) of
this section, whoever violates Section
1602.09(a) of this Chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (c)   Whoever violates Section
1602.09(b) of this Chapter is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
   (d)   Whoever violates Section
1602.09(d) or (e) of this Chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
   (e)   Whoever violates Section
1602.09(f) of this Chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
Statutory reference: ORC 3737.99
   (f)   Whoever violates Section
1602.10(a) or (b) is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor, and in addition to
any other penalties allowed by law, the Court shall fine the person not less
than one hundred dollars ($100) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000).
(Ord. 2020-03. Adopted 02/27/20)
CHAPTER 1604: INSPECTIONS; REQUIRED IDENTIFICATIONS
1604.01   Inspections; Right of Entry.
1604.02   Self-Inspection Program.
1604.08   Premises Identification.
1604.09   Large Building/Complex Identification.
1604.10   Sprinkler/Standpipe Identification.
   CROSS REFERENCES
      See sectional histories for similar State law
      Fire & EMS Division - see ADMIN.
Ch. 242
      Investigation of Fires - see ORC 737.27
      Ohio Fire Code - see OAC Ch. 1301:7-7
      Right to Examine Buildings and Premises - see ORC 3737.14
      State Fire Marshal - see ORC Ch. 3737
§ 1604.01 INSPECTIONS; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (a)   Inspections. The Fire & EMS Chief, his designee, and/or a City Fire
Safety Inspector are authorized and directed to make inspections to determine
the condition of all buildings and/or structures located within the City in
order to perform the duty of safeguarding the health, safety and welfare of the
occupants of buildings and/or structures and the general public, as outlined in
the Fire Code or as otherwise required under
Chapter 1602 or
1604 of this Title Sixteen.
   (b)   Right of Entry. The owner or occupant of every commercial or
industrial building or structure, or person in charge thereof, shall give the
Fire & EMS Chief, his designee, and/or a City Fire Safety Inspector free access
thereto, at any time during normal working hours, for the purpose of such
inspection, examination or survey upon presentation of proper identification.
   (c)   Administrative Search Warrant. If any owner or occupant of a
commercial or industrial building or structure, or the authorized agent
thereof, refuses to permit free access or entry into such building or structure
or any part thereof, to which an inspection authorized by the Fire Code or by
this Chapter, is sought to be made, the Fire & EMS Chief, his designee, and/or
City Fire Safety Inspector shall petition and obtain a warrant to inspect or an
order from a court of competent jurisdiction directing compliance with the
inspection requirements of the Fire Code or of this Chapter.
   (d)   Repairs. Every occupancy of a commercial or industrial building or
structure shall give the owner of such building or structure, or the authorized
agent(s) or employee(s) thereof, access to any part of such building or
structure, or the premises thereof, at any time during normal working hours,
for the purpose of making such repairs or alterations as are determined
necessary to effect compliance with this Code or with any lawful rule or
regulation adopted or order issued pursuant to this Code.
(Ord. 2020-03. Adopted 02/27/20)
§ 1604.02 SELF-INSPECTION PROGRAM.
   The Public Safety Director, in consultation with the Fire & EMS Chief, is
hereby authorized to establish, by Administrative Directive, a program for
offices and smaller commercial and industrial use buildings and structures
whereby the owners or occupants of such buildings or structures may self-
inspect regarding any inspection requirements of the Fire Code and report the
results of such inspections to the City's Fire & EMS Division, on forms
provided by the Fire & EMS Division on an annual basis. Any such program
established shall include guidelines and requirements for the Fire & EMS
Division to perform audits on such submitted reports. Any such program
established may also include fees to cover the administrative costs to the
City's Fire & EMS Division of administering the program.
(Ord. 2020-03. Adopted 02/27/20)
§ 1604.08 PREMISES IDENTIFICATION.
   New and existing buildings shall have approved address numbers, building
numbers or approved building identification placed in a position that is
plainly legible and visible from the street or road fronting the property.
These numbers shall contrast with their background. Address numbers shall be
Arabic numbers or alphabetical letters. Numbers shall be a minimum of four
inches (4"/101.6 mm) high with a minimum stroke width of one-half inch (0.5"/
12.7 mm). Where access is by means of a private road and the building cannot be
viewed from the public way, monument, pole or other sign or means shall be used
to identify the structure.
Source: Ohio Fire Code Section 505.1
(Ord. 2020-03. Adopted 02/27/20)
§ 1604.09 LARGE BUILDING/COMPLEX IDENTIFICATION.
   In addition to the requirements of the Fire Code, for large buildings or
complexes, whether or not such structures contain multiple tenants, the City
Fire Safety Inspector may require that exterior windows and doors be labeled to
help facilitate building identification. These numbers/letters shall contrast
with their background and shall be of sufficient size, as approved by the
City's Fire Safety Inspector.
(Ord. 13-40. Adopted 07/25/13; Ord. 2020-03. Adopted 02/27/20)
§ 1604.10 SPRINKLER/STANDPIPE IDENTIFICATION.
   (a)   New Systems. Upon the installation, repair, or alteration of a fire
suppression system requiring the issuance of a permit, the owner, occupant or
person responsible for such work will post a complete copy of the final
approved plans at the work site in a protective/mounted shield at a location
approved by the City's Fire Safety Inspector.
   (b)   Riser Identification. Sprinkler and/or standpipe systems containing
more than one (1) riser will have the risers/zones marked on the riser in a
location approved by the City's Fire Safety Inspector.
   (c)   Tags. A tag shall be used to indicate that a system, or portion
thereof, has been removed from service. The tag shall be posted at each Fire &
EMS Division connection, system control valve, fire alarm control unit, fire
alarm annunciator and fire command center, indicating which system, or part
thereof, has been removed from service. The City's Fire Safety Inspector shall
specify where the tag is to be placed.
(Ord. 13-40. Adopted 07/25/13; Ord. 2020-03. Adopted 02/27/20)
TABLE OF SPECIAL LEGISLATION
   EDITOR’S NOTE: The Codified Ordinances of Xenia comprises all ordinances and
resolutions of a general and permanent nature.  The provisions of such general
and permanent ordinances and resolutions are set forth in full in the Codified
Ordinances.
   References must be made frequently to many special ordinances and
resolutions, particularly those relating to property, such as easements,
vacations, dedications, plat approvals, acquisitions, disposals, leases, etc. 
In the following Tables A through G, all such ordinances and resolutions
enacted since January 1, 1985, are listed. Tables H and I list all such
ordinances and resolutions enacted since 1869.  These tables list ordinances
and resolutions chronologically by subject and include both a citation to and a
brief description of each ordinance and resolution.
      Table
         
TABLE A.   PUBLIC UTILITIES
         
TABLE B.   EASEMENTS
         
TABLE C.   VACATING OF STREETS AND ALLEYS
         
TABLE D.   DEDICATION AND PLAT APPROVAL
         
TABLE E.   ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF REAL PROPERTY
            
TABLE F.   LEASE OR USE OF REAL PROPERTY
         
TABLE G.   STREET GRADE LEVELS AND CHANGE OF STREET NAME
         
TABLE H.   ANNEXATION AND DETACHMENT OF TERRITORY
         
TABLE I.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
         
TABLE J.   CHANGES TO TRAFFIC CONTROL MAP
TABLE A: PUBLIC UTILITIES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.      Date Passed Description
85-2          1-10-1985   Fixing public lighting rates of Dayton Power & Light
                          Co. for 24 months.
85-13         3-28-1985   Granting a renewal franchise to Continental
                          Cablevision of Ohio, Inc.
86-117        12-29-1986  Fixing public lighting rates of Dayton Power & Light
                          Co. for 12 months.
89-75         11-21-1989  Granting a gas franchise to the Dayton Power & Light
                          Co. for 5 years.
89-76         11-21-1989  Granting an electricity franchise to the Dayton Power
                          & Light Co. for 5 years.
89-77         11-21-1989  Fixing public lighting rates of Dayton Power & Light
                          Co. for 4 years.
                          Renewing a franchise with Continental Cablevision of
90-22         5-10-1990   Ohio, Inc., to operate and maintain a cable system in
                          the city.
Res. 93-P     8-26-1993   Authorizing contract with Dayton Power & Light Co.
                          for public lighting service for 48 months.
                          To Continental Cablevision of Ohio, Inc., to
97-3          1-9-1997    construct, erect, maintain, upgrade and operate a
                          cable system in the city.
                          Authorizing contract with Dayton Power & Light Co.
Res. 97-P     12-23-1997  for electric lighting services on public grounds and
                          streets for 60 months.
                          Authorizing transfer of control of cable television
Res. 99-G     6-10-1999   franchise from MediaOne of Ohio, Inc., to Time Warner
                          Entertainment Co., L.P., dba Time Warner Cable.
                          Authorizing contract with Dayton Power & Light Energy
Res. 01-C     2-22-2001   Resources Inc. for electric lighting services on
                          public grounds and streets for a period of 72 months.
                          Authorizing a one-year extension to the existing
Res. 07-D     3-8-2007    cable franchise agreement between the City of Xenia
                          and Time Warner Cable.
Res. 09-U     9-10-2009   Authorizing an agreement with AT&T Ohio for the
                          installation of utility cabinets for U-verse service.
                          Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract
                          with DPL Energy (DPLE) for street lighting services
Res. 11-C     2-10-2011   for use on public grounds and streets in the City of
                          Xenia, Ohio for a period of five years commencing
                          January 1, 2011 and expiring on December 31, 2015.
12-25         5-24-2012   Waiving competitive bidding and authorizing the City
                          Manager to sign a contract for the use of I-Net.
                          Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an
Res. 12-V     9-13-2012   extension of the electric generation supply agreement
                          with DPL Energy Resources for the period from January
                          1, 2013 to December 31, 2013.
                          Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an
13-24         4-25-2013   agreement for electric generation supply with a
                          competitive retail electric service provider.
                          Authorizing all actions necessary to effect an
13-35         6-27-2013   electric aggregation program pursuant to R.C. §
                          4928.20.
                          Authorizing the adoption of an Electric Power
Res. 14-V     4-24-2014   Aggregation Plan of Operation and Governance for the
                          City.
15-51         11-24-2015  Waiving competitive bidding for the purchase of I-Net
                          services with MVECA.
                          Authorizing execution of a full service lighting
Res. 15-KK    12-10-2015  agreement with Miami Valley Lighting for five years,
                          with a five-year additional option.
                          Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an
16-10         3-24-2016   agreement for electric generation supply with a
                          competitive retail electric service provider.
                          Declaring it necessary to establish Street Lighting
Res. 17-G     3-23-2017   District No. 1 by providing electricity to the street
                          lighting system within certain street areas within
                          the Sterling Green Crossing Section One Subdivision.
17-47         11-9-2017   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract
                          for the purchase of I-Net services with MVECA.
                          Authorizing amendments to the City of Xenia's
Res. 2018-A   1-25-2018   Electric Power Aggregation Plan of Operation and
                          Governance.
Res. 2018-C   2-8-2018    Adopting the City of Xenia's Natural Gas Aggregation
                          Plan of Operation and Governance.
                          Establishing Street Lighting District # 2 within the
                          Sterling Green Crossing Subdivision and declaring the
Res. 2018-G   3-8-2018    necessity of improving city streets and public ways
                          within Street Lighting District #2 by the lighting
                          thereof for the years 2019 - 2022..
                          Determining to proceed with the improvement of city
2018-11       4-26-2018   streets and public ways by the lighting thereof
                          within Street Lighting District #2 for the years
                          2019-2022.
                          Establishing Street Lighting District # 3 within the
                          Sterling Green Crossing Subdivision and declaring the
Res. 2019-E   3-28-2019   necessity of improving city streets and public ways
                          within Street Lighting District #3 by the lighting
                          thereof for the years 2020 - 2022.
                          Determining to proceed with the improvement of city
2019-09       5-9-2019    streets and public ways by the lighting thereof
                          within Street Lighting District #3 for the years
                          2020-2022.
                          Determining to proceed with the improvement of city
2020-11       5-14-2020   streets and public ways by the lighting thereof
                          within street lighting District #4 for the years
                          2021-2022.
                          Determining to proceed with the improvement of city
2020-15       6-25-2020   streets and public ways by the lighting thereof
                          within street lighting District #5 for the years
                          2021-2022.
                          Establishing street lighting District #4 within the
                          Greene Way Subdivision Section 2 Replat and declaring
2020-E        3-12-2020   the necessity of improving city streets and public
                          ways within street lighting District #4 by the
                          lighting thereof for the years 2021-2022.
                          Establishing street lighting District #5 within the
                          Sterling Green Crossing Phase Four Subdivision and
2020-F        3-26-2020   declaring the necessity of improving city streets and
                          public ways within street lighting District #5 by the
                          lighting thereof for the years 2021-2022.
                          Establishing street lighting District #1 (Sterling
                          Green Crossing Subdivision) and declaring the
2022-M        3-24-2022   necessity of improving city streets and public ways
                          within street lighting District #1 by the lighting
                          thereof for the years 2023 - 2027.
                          Establishing street lighting District #2 (Greene Way
                          Subdivision, Section 2) and declaring the necessity
2022-N        3-24-2022   of improving city streets and public ways within
                          street lighting District #2 by the lighting thereof
                          for the years 2023 - 2027.
                          Establishing street lighting District #3 (Summer
                          Brooke South Subdivision) and declaring the necessity
2022-KK       6-23-2022   of improving city streets and public ways within
                          street lighting District #3 by the lighting thereof
                          for the years 2023 - 2027.
                          Determining to proceed with the improvement of city
2022-15       6-25-2022   streets and public ways by the lighting thereof
                          within street lighting District #1 (Sterling Green
                          Crossing Subdivision) for the years 2023-2027.
                          Determining to proceed with the improvement of city
2022-16       6-25-2022   streets and public ways by the lighting thereof
                          within street lighting District #2 (Greene Way
                          Subdivision, Section 2) for the years 2023-2027.
                          Determining to proceed with the improvement of city
2022-34       10-22-2022  streets and public ways by the lighting thereof
                          within street lighting District #3 (Summer Brooke
                          South Subdivision) for the years 2023-2027.
                          Levying assessments for the improvement of city
2023-07       4-13-2023   streets and public ways by the lighting thereof
                          within street lighting District #3 (Summer Brooke
                          South Subdivision) for the years 2023-2027.
                          Determining to proceed with the improvement of city
2023-16       6-8-2023    streets and public ways by the lighting thereof
                          within street lighting District #4 (Edenbridge
                          Subdivision) for the years 2024-2027.
                          Levying assessments for the improvement of city
2023-20       7-27-2023   streets and public ways by the lighting thereof
                          within street lighting District #4 (Edenbridge
                          Subdivision) for the years 2024-2027.
                          Establishing street lighting District #4 (Edenbridge
                          Subdivision) and declaring the necessity of improving
Res. 2023-017 3-23-2023   city streets and public ways within street lighting
                          District #4 by the lighting thereof for the years
                          2024-2027.
                          Authorizing the execution of an infrastructure
Res. 2023-037 7-13-2023   development agreement with Central State University
                          for the extension of, and connection to, a city
                          extraterritorial sanitary sewer main.
                          Amending the electric aggregation program plan of
Res. 2024-023 4-11-2024   operation and governance and amending the natural gas
                          aggregation program plan of operation and governance.
Res. 2024-027 5-9-2024    Approving an addendum to the full-service lighting
                          agreement with Miami Valley Lighting, LLC.
                          Waiving competitive bidding and awarding a contract
Res. 2024-044 7-11-2024   to Miami Valley Lighting for the Brightening Ohio
                          Streetlight Replacement Project.
Res. 2024-050 8-22-2024   Approving an addendum to the full-service lighting
                          agreement with Miami Valley Lighting, LLC.
                         
 
TABLE B: EASEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
             Authorizing an easement to the Dayton Power & Light Company for the purpose of
Res.  6-11-  relocating existing transmission pole lines along the Creekside Trail
09-O  2009   Bikepath, immediately east of Hawkins Road, for improved access and
             maintenance.
      7-23-  Authorizing an easement to the Dayton Power & Light Company for the purpose of
09-51 2009   locating an electric distribution line on property owned by the City of Xenia
             to service the Xenia Police storage building on Towler Road.
      8-27-  Authorizing a lease agreement granting an easement to David and Carol Hidy for
09-59 2009   the purpose of accommodating a private driveway along the west side of
             Creekside Trail Bikepath.
      10-22- Authorizing an easement to the Dayton Power & Light Company on property owned
09-66 2009   by the City of Xenia, for the purpose of upgrading the electric distribution
             system in downtown Xenia.
      12-29- Authorizing conservation easements on various city properties adjacent to
09-82 2009   Shawnee Creek and the Ford Road WWTP site as a requirement of the Ohio EPA
             Section 319 Grant Program and Little Miami River Stream Restoration Project.
      3-11-  Authorizing a lease granting an easement to Letcher J. Crowe for the use of a
10-07 2010   portion of the Little Miami Scenic Trail right-of-way as part of the accessory
             off-street parking area for 607 North Detroit Street.
      3-11-  Replaces previously approved Ord. 09-59, passed 8-27-2008, authorizing a lease
10-08 2010   granting an easement to David and Carol Hidy for the purpose of accommodating
             a private driveway along the west side of Creekside Trail Bikepath.
             Authorizing the City Manager to accept a ten-year easement from Xenia Area
11-19 5-12-  Community Theater, Inc., for the use of a portion of the west-facing wall of
      2011   45 E. Second Street for the painting of a mural as part of the Comprehensive
             Downtown Revitalization Tier Two-Downtown Building and Streetscape Program.
Res.  11-10- Authorizing the City Manager to grant an easement to Dayton Power & Light for
11-DD 2011   the construction of electric service to the Jamestown Connector Tunnel.
Res.  12-29- Authorizing the City Manager to grant an easement to Dayton Power & Light for
11-LL 2011   the construction of electric service to the New Shawnee Elementary School.
Res.  9-27-  Authorizing the City Manager to vacate four feet of a ten-foot utility
12-W  2012   easement at 2692 Childers Drive.
13-11 2-28-  Granting a 0.210-acre public access easement on a city-owned 0.83-acre track
      2013   in Arnovitz Industrial Park plat.
      3-14-  Vacating a portion of an existing 20-foot wide sanitary sewer easement on Lots
13-15 2013   5 and 8 and accepting a relocated 20-foot wide sanitary sewer easement on
             proposed Lot 8A in the Legacy Center Subdivision.
Res.  4-25-  Authorizing the City Manager to grant two highway easements to the Greene
13-H  2013   County Board of County Commissioners to construct the Jasper Road Culvert
             #0.02 on property owned by the City of Xenia.
      8-8-   Authorizing the City Manager to grant an easement to Dayton Power and Light
13-41 2013   for the construction of electric service to the new Jamestown connector
             tunnel.
Res.  2-27-  Vacating residual easements from four vacated streets and alleys at 207 Dayton
14-I  2014   Avenue.
Res.  6-12-  Authorizing the City Manager to grant two conservation easements to the Greene
14-S  2014   County Board of Park District Commissioners for a local share commitment to
             the Glady Run Stream Restoration Project.
      8-27-  Authorizing the City Manager to grant a conservation easement to the Greene
15-Q  2015   County Board of Park District Commissioners for a local share commitment to
             the Glady Run Stream Restoration Project.
2018- 2-8-   Granting a 0.193-acre standard highway easement along U.S. Route 68 to the
06    2018   State of Ohio, and declaring an emergency.
2018- 5-24-  Granting a 0.057-acre waterline easement to the Denver S. Blair & Evelyn L.
15    2018   Blair irrevocable trust on the property located at 966 Towler Road.
2018- 11-20- Appropriating fee simple interests and/or temporary construction easements in
35    2018   the properties located at 335 E. Church Street, 182 N. Columbus Street, 191 N.
             Columbus Street and the corner of N. Columbus Street and E. Church Street.
Res.         6-27-2019   Accepting dedication of a conservation easement on the property
2019-       located at 809 Luther Drive from Traditions at Xenia.
P
Res.  6-27-  Accepting dedication of a sign easement on Lot 1 of Xenia Industrial and
2019- 2019   Commerce Park Section II from GDP Investments, LLC.
Q
2020- 2-13-  Vacating a five-foot section of a thirty-foot drainage easement on Lot 222 in
02    2020   the Arrowhead Acres Subdivision, Section Six Plat, within the corporate limits
             of the City of Xenia, Ohio.
2022- 3-24-  Granting a fifty-foot-wide permanent pipeline easement, situated in part of
O     2022   Virginia Military Survey 387, to Vectren Energy Delivery of Ohio, Inc., d/b/
             a Centerpoint Energy Ohio.
2023- 9-28-  Authorizing the sale and grant of a standard highway easement to the Ohio
29    2023   Department of Transportation on a portion of city-owned property directly
             across from 1831 North US Route 68.
2024- 4-25-  Authorizing grant of a perpetual highway easement and a temporary construction
09    2024   easement to Ohio Department of Transportation on a portion of city-owned
             Little Miami Scenic Trail.
            
 
TABLE C: VACATING OF STREETS AND ALLEYS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
86-36    4-10-1986   Second alley north of Gordon St., from N. Detroit St. to
                     the east line of a north-south alley.
86-38    4-24-1986   Alley between Lots 37 and 38 of the Goe, Andrew and Foust
                     Addition.
86-43    5-27-1986   Alley from N. Columbus Ave. between Radar St. and
                     Lexington Ave.
86-45    6-12-1986   Second alley west of Church St. between W. Main and W.
                     Market Sts.
86-76    9-11-1986   Portion of the first alley west of S. Detroit St., from
                     High St. southerly approximately 206.25 feet.
86-79    10-9-1986   First alley south of W. Second St., from Bellbrook Ave.
                     westerly approximately 269 feet.
87-47    7-23-1987   First alley south of W. Main St., from S. Church St.
                     (formerly Mechanic St.) westerly 128.8 feet.
87-49    7-23-1987   Portion of an alley running westerly from Orange St.
                     between W. Second and Trumbull Sts.
                     First alley north of Thornhill St., from the first north-
87-55    8-27-1987   south alley east of S. Detroit St. easterly approximately
                     150 feet.
88-31    4-14-1988   Portion of the first alley south of W. Second St., from a
                     point 196 ft. west of W. Orange St. westerly 37.97 feet.
89-70    11-9-1989   Portion of Angela Ave.
89-71    11-9-1989   Portion of S. Columbus St.
                     Two sections of Brenner Ave., from W. Second St. southerly
89-84    12-14-1989  125 feet. and from Trumbull St. northerly approximately
                     108 feet.
                     Portion of the first alley south of W. Second St., from a
90-35    8-9-1990    point 144.5 feet. west of S. Church St. westerly
                     approximately 124.5 feet.
92-3     1-23-1992   Ten-foot wide alley, from N. Columbus St. to the terminus
                     of the alley.
92-44    9-10-1992   Alley south of E. Second St., from Collier St. easterly
                     approximately 99.5 feet.
93-22    4-8-1993    Portion of Druid St.
93-50    8-26-1993   Ten-foot alley north of E. Church St., from Orchard St. to
                     Park St.
94-76    11-10-1994  Ten-foot alley east of S. Whiteman St., from E. Third St.
                     northerly 165 feet.
95-6     2-9-1995    Two alleys north of E. Main St., from N. Whiteman St.
                     towards Greene St.
95-48    7-27-1995   Twelve-foot alley abutting Lots 18 to 22 in Allen and
                     Wrights Addition.
96-31    4-11-1996   Portion of Vine St.
96-51    6-13-1996   Portion of Church St.
96-60    7-11-1996   Ten-foot alley east of Columbus St., from E. Second St.
                     southwardly 156 feet.
                     Alley running east from South Detroit Street between 283
02-4     2-28-2002   South Detroit Street, 263 South Detroit Street and 63
                     Leaman Street.
                     Portion of Louise Drive extending from the southeast
02-48    10-24-2002  right-of-way line of Marshall Drive southeastwardly to the
                     northwest right-of-way line of North Stadium Drive.
                     Portion of alley running east and west between West Main
03-43    9-11-2003   Street and West Second Street and being bounded by Shawnee
                     Creek and the bike path, having a width varying from 18 to
                     20 feet.
08-44    7-10-2008   Vacating an alley located immediately east of Whiteman,
                     between East Main Street and East Second Street.
                     Vacating a section of June Drive, in the Progress Center
2019-13  6-13-2019   Section One Plat, between South Progress Drive and the
                     Layne Number Four Part C Plat, within the corporate limits
                     of the City of Xenia, Ohio.
                     Vacating a section of a six-foot-wide public alley right-
2019-23  12-12-2019  of-way parallel to Stelton Road and abutting Lots 1, 2,
                     and 3 of the Miller Addition Subdivision and Lot 1A of the
                     Sols Addition Replat.
                     Vacating the alley between part of Lot 165, part of Lot
2022-18  7-9-2022    165 - Parcel 1, and part of Lot 172 - Parcel 2 of the
                     original plat of the City of Xenia.
 
TABLE D: DEDICATION AND PLAT APPROVAL
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.      Date Passed Description
Res. 86-S     9-25-1986   Dedication of Alameda Dr.
Res. 88-A     1-14-1988   Dedication of S. Monroe St.
Res. 88-P     8-25-1988   Dedication of Fayette St.
Res. 94-Q     7-14-1994   Accepting replat of West Park Square Phase One.
12-40         8-23-2012   Accepting dedication of 0.439 acres of North Detroit
                          Street (US Route 68) right-of-way.
                          Accepting dedication of a 0.2446-acre public access
14-34         8-28-2014   easement on the West Park Square Shopping Center
                          property.
15-40         9-10-2015   Accepting dedication of 0.49-acres of Kinsey Road
                          right-of-way.
2018-05       2-8-2018    Accepting the dedicated streets in the Villages of
                          Sterling Green Subdivision.
2020-14       5-28-2020   Accepting the dedication of a 0.0063-acre tract of
                          public street right-of-way on Stelton Road.
                          Accepting the dedication from the Greene County
2020-29       12-10-2020  Career Center of a new public street to be known as
                          Innovation Drive.
                          Approving the final plat and authorizing a
2021-JJ       9-9-2021    subdivider's agreement for the Summer Brooke South,
                          Section Four, subdivision, and declaring an
                          emergency.
                          Approving the final plat and authorizing the City
2022-T        4-28-2022   Manager to execute the subdivider's agreement for the
                          Edenbridge, Section One, subdivision.
                          Approving the final plat and authorizing the City
2022-GGG      9-22-2022   Manager to execute the subdivider's agreement for the
                          Edenbridge, Section Two, subdivision.
                          Approving the final plat and authorizing the
Res. 2023-023 4-13-2023   execution of a subdivider's agreement with Arnold
                          Development, Inc., for the Summer Brooke South
                          Subdivision, Section Five.
                          Approving the final plat and authorizing the
Res. 2023-024 4-13-2023   execution of a subdivider's agreement with Robinwood
                          Development, LLC, for the Wright Cycle Estates
                          Subdivision, Section Fourteen.
                          Approving the final plat and authorizing the
Res. 2023-039 8-10-2023   execution of a subdivider's agreement with Lynn
                          Street Development LLC for the Lynn Street
                          Development Subdivision.
                          Approving the final plat for the Grandstone Trace
Res. 2023-045 9-14-2023   Subdivision, Section One, and authorizing the
                          execution of a subdivider's agreement with Grandstone
                          Trace LLC.
                          Approving the final plat and authorizing the
Res. 2024-010 2-22-2024   execution of a subdivider's agreement with Van Eaton,
                          LLC, for the Edenbridge Subdivision, Section Three.
                          Approving the final plat for the Grandstone Trace
Res. 2024-042 6-27-2024   Subdivision, Section One, and authorizing the
                          execution of a subdivider's agreement with D.R.
                          Horton - Indiana, LLC.
                          Approving the final plat and authorizing execution of
Res. 2024-074 12-23-2024  a subdivider's agreement with Van Eaton, LLC, for the
                          Edenbridge Subdivision, Section Four.
                         
 
TABLE E: ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF REAL PROPERTY
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
85-71 10-11- Approving sale of 651 E. Market St. to R.F. and M.G. Evans.
      1985
85-76 10-24- Authorizing sale of Mulberry St. real estate to L.N. Collins, Inc.
      1985
86-6  2-13-  Authorizing transfer of certain real estate to the Xenia Economic
      1986   Growth Corp.
88-4  1-28-  Approving sale of certain property to B.C. and J.B. Montgomery, D. Weis
      1988   and R. Bales.
Res.  1-28-  Declaring valid the contract to purchase real estate from the city by
88-B  1988   D. Weis.
88-36 4-28-  Approving sale of certain property to R. Bales.
      1988
89-3  1-26-  Approving sale of certain property to Bob Evans Farms, Inc.
      1989
Res.  8-10-  Authorizing release of real estate from the effect of an indenture of
89-U  1989   mortgage with the Third National Bank and Trust Co.
      3-22-  Authorizing execution of a deed to the Greene Co. Dist. Library for
90-14 1990   real estate subject to a land contract which has been fully paid and
             satisfied.
Res.  6-23-  Authorizing purchase of two parcels of land, located at 18 Home Ave.
94-O  1994   and at the northeast corner of Hill and S. Detroit Sts., for public
             purposes.
94-57 9-8-   Authorizes sale of 193 Sims St. to C. Farrell.
      1994
Res.  5-9-   Authorizes appropriation of property from Consolidated Rail Corp.
96-K  1996   required for construction of Xenia Station.
Res.  6-13-  Authorizes appropriation of property required for construction of an
96-L  1996   alternative transportation corridor in connection with the construction
             of Xenia Station and hub.
00-5  3-23-  Approving sale of certain property and authorizing execution of a deed
      2000   to the Greene Co. Bd. of Commissioners.
02-32 9-12-  Authorizing the City Manager to purchase four parcels of land on East
      2002   Main Street from William E. Schmidt and Mary Gray.
03-26 5-22-  Authorizing sale of real estate located at 737 E. Second Street to
      2003   Harold F. Rodin.
06-50 7-27-  Accepting property located at 723 E. Second Street.
      2006
06-84 12-28- Donating 723 E. Second Street, Xenia, Ohio, to Habitat for Humanity of
      2006   Greene County.
      6-28-  Authorizing the purchase of real estate located at 474 E. Main St.,
07-33 2007   Xenia, Ohio, at Sheriff's sale on July 12, 2007, in an amount not to
             exceed $16,000.
      12-13- Authorizing the sale of the right-of-way on Harner Drive, specifically
07-60 2007   0.1371 acres and 0.0003 acres, owned by the City of Xenia, Ohio, no
             longer needed for any municipal purpose.
08-29 5-8-   Donating 474 East Main Street, Xenia, Ohio, to Habitat for Humanity.
      2008
08-67 10-23- Selling five parcels of land located on Old Springfield Pike and
      2008   adjacent to the Little Miami Scenic Bike Path.
09-49 7-9-   Authorizing the sale of Parcel M40000200050021100, also known as 366
      2009   East Main Street.
09-57 8-27-  Authorizing the sale of Parcel M40000200080011400, also known as 248
      2009   Taylor Street.
09-58 8-27-  Authorizing the gift of parcel M40000200080015200 located on East
      2009   Church Street from the City of Xenia to Marsha Porter.
09-60 9-10-  Authorizing the sale of Parcel M40000200080014800, also known as 830
      2009   East Church Street.
09-67 10-22- Authorizing the sale of Parcel M40000200080030100, also known as 908
      2009   East Market Street.
09-68 10-22- Authorizing the sale of Parcel M40000200080038600, located on East Main
      2009   Street.
09-69 10-22- Authorizing the sale of Parcel M40000200050027900, located at 476 East
      2009   Market Street.
09-70 10-22- Authorizing the sale of Parcel M40000200080016200, located at 978 East
      2009   Church Street.
09-73 11-12- Authorizing the sale of Parcel M400002000120046300, also known as 395
      2009   East Main Street.
      11-24- Authorizing execution of a deed from the city to the city to reflect a
09-75 2009   resurvey of the Ford Road Wastewater Treatment Plant property (779 Ford
             Road).
      11-24- Authorizing execution of a covenant on the Ford Road WWTP Property (779
09-76 2009   Ford Road) deed as a requirement of the American Recovery and
             Reinvestment Act and Little Miami River Stream Restoration Project.
      2-10-  Accepting three parcels forfeited to the City of Xenia by the Greene
11-09 2011   County Court of Common Pleas, being parcels M40000200080015000,
             M40000200080030600 and M40000100060001100.
      4-28-  Authorizing the sale of parcel M40000200080015000 (846 E. Church St.),
11-17 2011   M40000200080030600 (928 E. Market St.), and M40000100060001100 (188 N.
             West St.).
11-29 8-25-  Authorizing the sale of parcel M40000100470000200 (1111 Colorado
      2011   Drive), known as Bennett Park.
11-65 11-22- Purchasing property at 677 Cincinnati Avenue.
      2011
      2-14-  Accepting two parcels, numbered M40000200080012600 (Taylor Street) and
13-06 2013   M40000100100000900 (492 S. Detroit Street) located in the City of
             Xenia.
13-13 2-28-  Authorizing the sale of 729 E. Church Street (Parcel Number
      2013   M40000200080027200) to Michael Siwo.
      4-25-  Authorizing the acceptance of parcels M40000100190000600 (5.60 Ac.) and
13-25 2013   M40000100190000500 (7.14 Ac.) at 1087 West Second Street from the Xenia
             Board of Education.
13-26 4-25-  Authorizing the sale of parcel M40000100100000900 known as 492 S.
      2013   Detroit Street to Brentwood Builders, Inc.
13-34 6-27-  Authorizing the purchase of the property located at 677 Cincinnati
      2013   Avenue.
14-04 1-23-  Accepting Parcel Number M40000200030030000 located on Louise Drive.
      2014
      1-23-  Authorizing the transfer of four properties identified as
14-05 2014   M40000200080036700 to Lemi S. Laki, and M40000200080015600,
             M40000200120026800, and M40000200120026900 to Nehemiah Marcus.
14-45 10-9-  Authorizing the transfer of property identified as M40000100090028600.
      2014
14-49 11-13- Purchasing Parcels M36000100130004000, M36000100130004100, and
      2014   M36000100130004200, property address 1845 U.S. Route 68 North.
14-50 11-13- Authorizing the transfer of one property identified as
      2014   M40000200080012600.
             Purchasing properties from Dennis Moore at 1847 U.S. Route 68 North and
      4-9-   1849 U.S. Route 68 North, being 1849 U.S. 68 North, consisting of
15-07 2015   parcels M36000100130003600 and M36000100130003700; and 1847 U.S. Route
             68 North, consisting of parcels M36000100130003800 and
             M36000100130003900.
15-38 9-10-  Accepting Parcel Number M40000200120011000 located at 403 E. Main St.
      2015
15-39 9-10-  Accepting Parcel Number M40000200030030700 located on Louise Dr.
      2015
15-42 9-24-  Authorizing the sale of 0.043 acres of land currently on the former
      2015   Simon Kenton Elementary School Property.
15-50 11-12- Authorizing the transfer of one (1) property identified as
      2015   M40000200080016200.
      11-24- Authorizing the City to obtain an interest in real estate at Parcel
15-56 2015   M40000100070013100, also known as the former location of the Xenia K-
             Mart Store.
16-18 4-28-  Accepting Parcel M40000200050000100 and M40000200050032700 located at
      2016   220 E. Church Street.
16-23 5-26-  Authorizing the sale of Parcel M40000100070013100 in Xenia Towne
      2016   Square.
      6-23-  Accepting Parcel M40000200070001200 and M40000200070001600 located on
16-31 2016   N. Columbus Street and Parcel M40000200110006400 located on E. Main
             Street.
17-05 1-26-  Accepting parcel M40000200080026600 located on E. Market Street.
      2017
17-06 1-26-  Accepting parcel M40000200050022000 located at 392 E. Market Street.
      2017
      6-8-   Authorizing the city to obtain an interest in real estate at Parcels
17-31 2017   M40000200120028900 and M40000200120045600 for preservation of an
             historic cemetery and development of a new municipal cemetery.
      7-13-  Authorizing the sale of land known as the former Simon Kenton
17-35 2017   Elementary School, constituting parcels M40000100190000500 and
             M40000100190000600.
      8-10-  Authorizing the sale of 0.114 acres of parcel M40000100190000500 at
17-36 2017   1087 West Second Street, also known as a portion of the property
             occupied by the former Simon Kenton Elementary School.
      8-24-  Authorizing the City Manager to purchase real estate parcel
17-37 2017   M36000100220001900 as identified by the Greene County Auditor at 588
             Dayton-Xenia Road.
      12-14- Authorizing the filing of a petition for forfeiture of the property
17-49 2017   located at 607 East Second Street, authorizing the expenditure of funds
             to acquire said property.
2018- 9-27-  Authorizing the sale of the properties located at 220 E. Church Street
28    2018   to Kyle and Jenny Holmstrom and Gary and Sharon Creviston.
2018- 11-8-  Accepting the donation of property from the Young Men's Christian
33    2018   Association of Greater Dayton to the City of Xenia, Ohio.
2019- 1-24-  Amending Ordinance 2018-28, authorizing the sale of the property
01    2019   located at 220 E. Church Street, and declaring an emergency.
Res.  9-12-  Authorizing the sale of city-owned properties located at 2046 El Camino
2019- 2019   Drive (Beverly Hills Park) to Rhonda P. Hiles and Thomas & Marla
AA           Whitacre.
             Authorizing the sale of city-owned property located at Sierra Trail
2020- 5-28-  (Beverly Hills Park M40000100420007700), to Judith A. Lewis & Shirley
K     2020   J. Stepp; David R. & Cheryl S. Maxson; Bobbie J. & Donna J. Murphy;
             Jack L. Poe; Thomas M. & Rikki A. Eavers; and Robert C. & Rebecca J.
             Shelek.
2020- 6-25-  Authorizing the sale of city-owned property located at 895 Louise Drive
O     2020   to Phillip Stevens.
2020- 8-27-  Authorizing the sale of city-owned property located at 135 East Church
W     2020   Street (former Xenia YMCA) to former Y Xenia, LLC (14 parcels).
2020- 9-10-  Authorizing the sale of 0.606 acres of city-owned properties located at
Y     2020   450 Home Avenue (Home Avenue Park) to Home Church.
2020- 9-10-  Authorizing the sale of 23.4373 acres of city-owned property located at
Z     2020   Tremont Road and North Columbus Street to Isaac and Samantha Jack &
             Jacob and Cynthia Strehle.
             Approving and authorizing the execution of the mutual release and
2021- 1-14-  settlement agreement with Blue Rock Investments, LLC, for the
A     2021   acquisition of leasehold interests and permanent improvements in the
             Xenia Towne Square and a dismissal of claims, and declaring an
             emergency.
2021- 1-28-  Authorizing the sale of a portion of the city-owned property at 153 N.
D     2021   Columbus Street to Robert Hamilton and permitting limited uses within
             the city's permanent highway easement on said property.
2021- 7-8-   Authorizing the sale of city-owned property located at 896 Louise Drive
DD    2021   to Shriner Building Company, LLC, and declaring an emergency.
2021- 10-28- Authorizing the sale of the city-owned property at 677 E. Cincinnati
OO    2021   Avenue to, and approving a loan agreement with, Memory Puzzles, LLC.
2021- 11-23- Accepting the transfer of real property (former Carnegie Library) from
VV    2021   the Greene County Board of Commissioners, and declaring an emergency.
2022- 1-13-  Authorizing the sale of 23.4373 acres of city-owned property located at
C     2022   Tremont Road and North Columbus Street to John and Rachel Howard,
             repealing Resolution 2020-Z, and declaring an emergency.
2022- 2-10-  Authorizing the sale of the city-owned properties at 825 and 843 N.
G     2022   Detroit Street to Carl W. and Kimberly Rae Williams, and declaring an
             emergency.
2022- 2-24-  Authorizing the sale of real property at 194 E. Church Street (former
H     2022   Carnegie Library) to O'Neal's Catering, LLC, and repealing Resolution
             2021-WW.
2022- 5-12-  Approving the sale of four (4) city-owned properties located at 205
Z     2022   Park Street, 476 E. Market Street, a vacant lot on E. Main Street, and
             392 E. Market Street to Solis Construction, LLC.
             Authorizing the execution of a property sale agreement with Anthony W.
2022- 8-25-  Collier and Walter D. Crum II for the acquisition of the property
ZZ    2022   located at 249 Sycamore Street (five parcels M400001000900267 00,
             M400001000900268 00, M400001000900269 00, M400001000900270 00, and
             M400001000900271 00).
2022- 9-8-   Determining that a 0.349-acre tract on Burnett Drive is not needed for
AAA   2022   any municipal purpose.
2022- 10-8-  Approving and authorizing the conveyance of the city-owned property at
32    2022   403 E. Main Street in accordance with the purchase and sale agreement
             with Anthony W. Collier and Walter D. Crum II.
2022- 10-22- Approving the conveyance of a 0.349-acre tract on Burnett Drive and
36    2022   authorizing a purchase and sale agreement with CIL Isotope Separations,
             LLC, for said conveyance.
2022- 11-12- Approving the conveyance of 0.0517 acres of city-owned property to
39    2022   Brian Ryan.
             Approving the sale and conveyance of certain city-owned property at
2023- 3-9-   Xenia Towne Square (Lot 1 of Xenia Towne Square Redevelopment Project
04    2023   No. 1), including the building located thereon, and all right and title
             to any leases, to Dillin, LLC.
2023- 7-13-  Accepting the transfer of real property located at 774 Cincinnati
19    2023   Avenue from the Greene County Board of Commissioners.
2023- 9-14-  Approving the sale and conveyance of the city-owned property at 774
25    2023   Cincinnati Avenue to the Greene County Fish Food Pantry.
             Authorizing the sale of five (5) city-owned properties (totaling six
             (6) parcels) to the Xenia Community Improvement Corporation.
                Street Address   Greene County Parcel ID
2023- 11-21-    271 E. Second Street   M40000200120022700
32    2023      422 S. Detroit Street   M40000100100000300
                960 Catherine Street   M40000100040014300 & M40000100040014400
                88 Pocahontas Street   M40000200150019000
                469 Chestnut Street      M40000100100004800
Res.  8-10-  Determining that 774 Cincinnati Avenue is not needed for any municipal
2023- 2023   purpose.
044
             Determining certain city-owned properties are not needed for any
             municipal purpose and authorizing the City Manager to use negotiations
             or informal competition for the sale of said properties Greene County
Res.  9-14-  Parcel IDs/Addresses:
2023- 2023      M40000200120022700 - 271 E. Second Street
047             M40000100100000300 - 422 S. Detroit Street
                M40000100040014300 & M40000100040014400 - 960 Catherine Street
                M40000200150019000 - 88 Pocahontas Street
                M40000100100004800 - 469 Chestnut Street
2024- 2-22-  Amending Ordinance 2023-02, approving the sale and conveyance of city-
04    2024   owned property at 130 E. Church Street (0.9537 acres) to Cevennes, LLC,
             and declaring an emergency.
Res.  2-22-  Authorizing the purchase of 12.338 acres from the Woodland Cemetery
2024- 2024   Association.
008
2024- 8-8-   Authorizing transfer of City-owned properties (Lots 1, 1B, 1C, 1D and
15    2024   1E) in Xenia Market District to Xenia Community Improvement Corp.
Res.  5-23-  Authorizing the purchase of 6.5+/- acres from Simon Kenton Bridges of
2024- 2024   Hope Inc.
034
            
 
TABLE F: LEASE OR USE OF REAL PROPERTY
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.      Date Passed Description
                          Authorizing lease agreement with Greene Co. Park
Res. 89-V     9-7-1989    Dist. Bd. of Park Commissioners for 5.605 acres of
                          land.
                          Authorizing the City Manager to sign the lease
                          between the City of Xenia and Douglas B. Soward for
07-23         5-10-2007   5.04 acres of land adjacent to the Wastewater
                          Treatment Plant on Lower Bellbrook, for the amount of
                          $60 per tillable acre for three crop years, the lease
                          expiring on the last day of February 2010.
Res. 09-MM    12-29-2009  Authorizing a lease to Xenia Little League for West
                          Side Park.
10-04         2-11-2010   Authorizing a lease for 3.84 tillable acres of land
                          on Lower Bellbrook.
                          Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a lease
                          agreement with MVP Restaurant Group, LLC, granting
12-39         8-23-2012   permission to use a portion of the Little Miami
                          Scenic Trail right-of-way for Nick's Restaurant,
                          located at 1443 North Detroit Street for 25 years.
                          Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a first
                          amendment to Option and Lease Agreement with Red
                          Spires Asset Sub, LLC, an entity of American Tower,
14-39         10-9-2014   to use a portion of the parent parcel at 966 Towler
                          Road, Parcel I.D. M40000100320000100, to operate a
                          wireless telecommunication facility for five
                          additional five-year renewal terms.
15-13         4-9-2015    Authorizing the City Manager to sign a lease for 3.84
                          tillable acres of land on Lower Bellbrook.
                          Authorizing the city to lease a portion of land owned
17-01         1-12-2017   by the city at 200 West Main Street, also known as
                          Parcel M40000100070013100 and the former location of
                          the Xenia Kmart Store.
                          Authorizing the City Manager to execute a use
Res. 2018-L   5-10-2018   agreement with Devil Wind Brewing for the use of city
                          property located adjacent to 130 S. Detroit Street.
                          Authorizing the City Manager to execute a use
Res. 2018-FF  10-11-2018  agreement with Casey's Marketing Company for the use
                          of city property located adjacent to 1625 N. Detroit
                          Street.
                          Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease
Res. 2019-C   3-14-2019   agreement with J.P. Fritz Business Center for the
                          city-owned property at 130 E. Church Street for the
                          purpose of operating a small business incubator.
                          Authorizing the City Manager to execute a use
Res. 2019-Y   8-22-2019   agreement with Gregory P. Bernitt for the use of city
                          property located adjacent to 30 S. Detroit Street.
                          Authorizing the City Manager to execute a use
                          agreement with MKP Detroit Group, LLC, for the use of
Res. 2019-DD  9-26-2019   city-owned bike trail property located adjacent to
                          1443 N. Detroit Street and terminating the existing
                          lease agreement with MKP Restaurant Group, LLC.
                          Authorizing a three-year lease of 5.04 acres of city-
2020-C        2-27-2020   owned land adjacent to the Wastewater Treatment Plant
                          on Lower Bellbrook Road to Douglas B. Soward.
                          Authorizing the City Manager to execute a use
2020-S        7-23-2020   agreement with JV Cedar Properties, LLC, for the use
                          of city-owned bike trail property located adjacent to
                          607 N. Detroit Street.
                          Authorizing a three-year lease of space in the City
2020-T        8-13-2020   Administration Building to the Regional Income Tax
                          Agency.
                          Authorizing a property use agreement with Studio B
2021-V        4-22-2021   Signs for the use of the city-owned property located
                          at 713 N. Detroit Street.
                          Authorizing a use agreement with Beyond Motors, LLC,
2022-U        4-28-2022   for the use of city-owned bike trail property located
                          adjacent to 1307 N. Detroit Street.
                          Consenting to the assignment of the use agreement
Res. 2023-052 10-12-2023  with Beyond Motors, LLC, to Dahiba Real Estate, LLC,
                          for the use of city-owned property located adjacent
                          to 1307 N. Detroit Street.
                          Authorizing execution of lease agreements of city-
2024-08       4-25-2024   owned land for farm use on Lower Bellbrook Road to
                          Doug Soward and on Towler Road to Fairlands, Inc.
                          Determining certain city-owned properties are not
                          needed for any municipal purpose and authorizing the
                          City Manager to use negotiations or informal
Res. 2024-019 3-28-2024   competition for the lease of said properties for
                          agricultural use (12.338-acre portion of
                          M40000100200003600 on Towler Rd. and
                          M55000100030000100 on Lower Bellbrook Rd.).
                         
 
TABLE G: STREET GRADE LEVELS AND CHANGE OF STREET NAME
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
03-28    6-12-2003   Scott Court, in the Promised Land Section, changed to
                     Spegele Court.
03-36    7-24-2003   Park Street renamed to East Park Street.
 
TABLE H: ANNEXATION AND DETACHMENT OF TERRITORY
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
-     3-29-  Original city limits.
      1869
-     5-23-  132 acres, part of V.M.S. No. 2243, Xenia Twp.
      1890
-     12-23- (a)Tract between Ankeney (Mill) Rd. and Woodland Cemetery.
      1891
           (b)Tract between Cincinnati Ave. and Wilmington Pk.
135   7-22-  (a)Tract 1: adjacent to Woodlawn Cemetery, Ankeney (Mill) Rd.,
      1920   Springfield Pk. and West St.
           (b)Tract 2: part of V.M.S. No. 2242.
           (c)Tract 3: bounded by South Detroit St., Pocahontas St., O. S. & S. O.
             Home, Dowdell Ave. and Columbus St.
837   5-22-  Two parcels of L. J. Buell, et al.
      1947
913   4-28-  132 acres in Xenia Twp.
      1949
1065  2-28-  25 acres in Xenia Twp.
      1952
55-42 8-25-  491 acres, application of Grace Augustus, et al.
      1955
57-36 9-26-  12 acres, part of V.M.S. No. 2242, Xenia Twp.
      1957
57-38 10-10- 177 acres, part of V.M.S. No. 2241, Xenia Twp.
      1957
58-45 11-25- Two tracts, part of V.M.S. No. 548, Xenia Twp.
      1958
58-48 12-18- 48 acres, application of P. D. Wickline, et al.
      1958
59-11 4-9-   13 acres, Sec. 6 of Layne Subdivision.
      1959
61-71 9-14-  (a)Tract 1, Parcel 1: part of Lot 167, Meadowbrook plat, and all of
      1961   Greene Hospital plat.
           Tract 1, Parcel 2: property of Meadowbrook Company and Greene Hospital
             Trustees in V. M. S. No. 548.
           (b)Tract 2: 148 acres, including Xenia Shopping Plaza, et al.
63-27 6-27-  28 acres of Hoog tract.
      1963
63-42 10-10- 110 acres of Lillian Weiss, et al., in V.M.S. No. 2264.
      1963
65-3  2-11-  33.40 acres of John Dewine, et al., and Kinsey Village Apts. Dev. Co.
      1965
65-19 6-24-  Portion of Rockhold property and Northside Christian Church property.
      1965
66-5  2-10-  Portion of Turvey, Welsh, Woods and Austria lands.
      1966
      5-12-  Lands of Westminster United Church, Arnovitz and Torrence, east of old
66-16 1966   Springfield Pk. and north of Kinsey Rd., and land of Copes Development
             Corp., west of Rt. 68 and south of Beverly Hills Subdivision.
66-22 6-9-   155 acres of M. L. and K. R. Smith and being part of Military Survey
      1966   2264.
66-31 9-8-   Six parcels, portions of Northside Christian Church property, Rockhold
      1966   property and lands of Turvey, Welsh, Woods and Austria.
67-1  1-12-  15.49 acres of Copes Development Corp. in Beverley Stubblefields Survey
      1967   No. 3099.
67-34 3-28-  38-30 acres Turvey land, part of Military Survey 2264.
      1968
68-8  3-28-  2 parcels (3.04 acres and 1.119 acres) in vicinity of Kinsey Rd. and Rt.
      1968   68 intersection.
68-16 6-13-  Two parcels, being parts of Military Surveys 3586 and 548.
      1968
68-27 8-8-   149.343 acres, being part of Military Surveys 760 and 3586.
      1968
68-40 11-14- 30 acres abutting Ledhetter Rd.
      1968
68-48 12-26- Fetz and Jette land, consisting of 4 tracts totaling 41.220 acres.
      1968
69-5  2-27-  26.42 acres owned by West Central Ohio Broadcasters, Inc., and 67 acres
      1969   owned by Ogilive.
69-6  2-27-  149.343 acres owned by Mid-Continent Properties, Inc.
      1969
70-7  2-26-  Authorizes initiation of annexation proceedings for 67.469 acres
      1970   abutting the east boundary of Bellbrook Ave.
70-17 5-14-  Mallow land, consisting of 15.65 acres in Xenia Twp.
      1970
      11-24- Seven tracts as follows: 26.099 acres of B. G. Danis Co., Inc.; 5.52
70-39 1970   acres of C. Fetz, Jr.; 24.68 acres of Ohio; 3.28 acres of Ohio; 7.10
             acres of Ohio; 0.25 acre of Greene County; and 0.54 acre of Smith.
-     2-1-   13.605 acres of the Harner property on Old Springfield Pike.
      1971
71-38 8-12-  1.423 acres owned by Fairmont Foods Co. and Arnovitz at Kinsey Rd. and
      1971   Old Springfield Pk. intersection.
72-16 3-23-  Moran Farm, consisting of 112.54 acres in Xenia Twp.
      1972
72-22 5-11-  3.964 acres of S. Columbus St.
      1972
72-23 5-11-  5.99 acres owned by city in Xenia Twp.
      1972
72-34 8-24-  Danis Realty Co., Inc. land, consisting of two tracts of 4.398 and 0.193
      1972   acres.
72-45 11-21- 229.1632 acres in Xenia Twp. at S. Columbus St.
      1972
73-2  1-11-  National Homes Construction Corp. land, consisting of two tracts of
      1973   98.584 and 0.359 acres.
73-17 3-22-  50.06 acres in the name of J. and G. Collins, part of Military Survey
      1973   2264.
             Eight tracts as follows: 13 acres of W. & A. Lewis; 8.85 acres of D.
73-33 7-12-  Kyle; 0.15 acre of R. & C. Turvey; 0.9 acre of A. Day; 4.58 acres of R.
      1973   & C. Turvey; 5.65 acres of St. Brigid Cemetery; 2.81 acres of Upper
             Bellbrook Pike.
73-44 10-25- 53.187 acres of Mid-Continent Properties, Inc.
      1973
73-46 10-25- 28.32 acres of R. Atkinson, et al.
      1973
74-23 4-25-  (a)66.358 acres of D.L. Tidd;
      1974
           (b)1.00 acre of Northside Christian Church;
           (c)2.00 acres of Northside Christian Church.
      9-12-  Five tracts as follows: 28.31 acres of K. & G. Smith; 6.09 acres of H. &
74-84 1974   B. Hicks; 0.94 acre of H. & B. Hicks; 0.09 acre of R. & J. Studley;
             38.35 acres of Greene County Commissioners.
75-65 6-12-  199.085 acres of Balentine, et al. land, being part of Military Survey
      1975   3576.
75-   11-13- 43.33 acres of Xenia City Bd. of Education land and 4.98 acres of Pavey
124   1975   land, being parts of Military Survey 548.
76-61 - -    6.1214 acres, 4.3277 acres and 5.681 acres of land of the Mercury Realty
             Co. on N. Detroit St. and Old Springfield Pike.
76-73 - -    Initiating annexation of 152.268 acres of County land granted by Greene
             County, effective March 15, 1977.
76-71 10-28- (a)Parcel One: 7.407 acres of City of Xenia land, being Lot No. 22 of
      1976   Hays Acres;
           (b)Parcel Two: 0.625 acres of the Baltimore and Ohio RR Co. in Xenia
             Twp.
80-47 10-9-  49.09 acres of D. G. Johnson land in Xenia Twp. in Military Survey 390.
      1980
82-11 3-11-  112.693 acres of W. L. Wightman, et al. land in Xenia Twp. in Military
      1982   Surveys 2239, 548 and 2567.
87-84 12-29- Accepting annexation of 52.364 acres of land owned by J. Colman.
      1987
89-45 7-13-  Accepting annexation of 12.444 acres of land owned by Timber Ridge
      1989   Development, Inc., Welsh Realty Investments, Inc., and G. Galloway.
89-46 7-13-  Accepting annexation of 8.336 acres of land owned by the city.
      1989
89-47 7-13-  Accepting annexation of 55.5758 acres of land owned by W & M Properties.
      1989
90-18 4-12-  Accepting annexation of 154.7 acres of land, petitioned by P. Aultman,
      1990   agent.
91-3  1-24-  Accepting annexation of 98.118 acres of land, petitioned by P. Stephan,
      1991   agent.
91-77 12-30- Accepting annexation of 20.741 acres of land, petitioned by J. Finlay,
      1991   agent.
92-35 6-25-  Accepting annexation of 53.865 acres of land located on the south side
      1992   of U.S. 35 W. and east of the U.S. 35 Bypass.
94-2  2-10-  Accepting annexation of 39.917 acres of land on the west side of
      1994   Stephenson Rd. owned by J.A. and D.R. Vonada.
94-71 10-27- Accepting annexation of 110.675 acres of land north of Xenia Industrial
      1994   Pk. and south of Birch Rd. owned by Arnovitz Enterprises, Inc.
95-12 3-9-   Accepting annexation of 13.0754 acres of land west of Stephenson Rd.
      1995   owned by Mr. and Mrs. H. Fawley and Mr. and Mrs. R. Curtis.
95-34 6-8-   Accepting annexation of 322.848 acres of land located on U.S. 42S, north
      1995   of Hedges Dr., petitioned by N. Fear, agent.
96-2  1-11-  Accepting annexation of 74.749 acres of land located west of Arrowhead
      1996   Subdivision, petitioned by M. Arnovitz.
      1-11-  Accepting annexation of 56.523 acres of land located on the east side of
96-3  1996   Birch Rd. and northeast of Xenia Industrial Park, petitioned by D.D.
             Bales.
      7-11-  Accepting annexation of 10.524 acres of land, located at the terminus of
96-59 1996   Wilson Dr., owned by the Goecke Development Co., petitioned by G.
             Boecke, agent.
      7-10-  Accepting annexation of 45.802 acres of land located on the west side of
97-30 1997   Arrowhead Subdivision, specifically at the terminus of Maryland Dr.,
             Virginia Dr. and New Mexico Dr.
Res.  5-14-  Accepting annexation of 315.118 acres of land on the west side of
98-F  1998   Stevenson Rd., north of Kinsey Rd., petitioned by M. Arnovitz, agent.
             Authorizing annexation of 270.078 acres of land, subsequently amended to
98-52 8-13-  266.938 acres of land, known as the north portion of the former Ohio
      1998   Veterans Children’s Home property, owned by the Greene County Board of
             County Commissioners.
Res.  8-27-  Accepting annexation of 188.0016 acres of land located on U.S. 42N, on
98-J  1998   the west side of Stevenson Rd., south of the WGC Golf Course, petitioned
             by M. McNamee, agent.
98-76 11-12- Authorizing annexation of 23.365 acres of land on which the Glady Run
      1998   Waste Water Treatment Plant is located, owned by the city.
Res.  5-13-  Accepting annexation of 0.247 acres owned by F. and C. Collett, on S.
99-F  1999   Columbus St.
00-22 6-22-  Accepting annexation of 13.178 acres of land located on Birch and Hoop
      2000   Rds., petitioned by J.W. and D.R. Percival.
      7-12-  Accepting annexation to the city of 268.670 acres of land located on US
01-26 2001   35 by-pass between State Route 380 and US Route 68 and Union Road owned
             by Greene County Board of Commissioners.
01-27 7-12-  Accepting annexation to the city of 8.594 acres of land located on Birch
      2001   Road and owned by Arnovitz Enterprises.
03-27 5-22-  Accepting annexation to the city of 1.279 acres of land located at 932
      2003   Old Springfield Pike, owned by Brian and Jane Newton.
             Accepting annexation to the city of 9.904 acres of land located on South
04-05 2-26-  Progress Drive, owned by Charles W. Strausburg, Janice H. Strausburg,
      2004   Donald O. Moore, Sr. and the Board of County Commissioners of Greene
             County.
04-06 2-26-  Accepting annexation to the city of 2.685 acres of land located between
      2004   S. Progress Drive and U.S. 35 Bypass owned by Harner, et al.
05-04 1-27-  Annexing unincorporated territory that is 7.482 acres of land known as
      2005   SR Business Route 35.
      9-8-   Accepting annexation to the City of Xenia of 72.469 acres of land
05-48 2005   located on Upper Bellbrook Road and Easterly Way of U.S. Route 35 owned
             by Charles W. and Janice H. Strausburg, et al.
      12-29- Accepting annexation to the City of Xenia of 52.265 acres of land
05-88 2005   located at the northeast corner of Van Eaton Road and Lower Bellbrook
             Road in Spring Valley and Xenia Townships.
06-75 11-20- Accepting annexation to the City of Xenia of 14.02 acres of land located
      2006   at the terminus of Wilson Drive and south of the WGC Golf Course.
07-25 5-10-  Authorizing the annexation of unincorporated territory, that is, .554
      2007   acres of land, known as Beason Road.
      8-9-   Accepting annexation to the City of Xenia of 391.614 acres of land
07-37 2007   located at the northeast corner of Van Eaton Road and Upper Bellbrook
             Road in Beavercreek, Spring Valley and Xenia Townships.
      11-24- Authorizing the annexation of 5.991 acres of land owned by the City of
15-52 2015   Xenia, being a 5.991-acre parcel of land with a Greene County Parcel
             Identification Number of M36000100210003800.
2020- 9-24-  Accepting the annexation of 45.637 acres of land in Xenia Township to
25    2020   the City of Xenia, Ohio.
             Authorizing submission to the Greene County Board of Commissioners of a
2021- 2-11-  municipal petition for annexation of 5.59 acres, more or less, owned by
05    2021   the City of Xenia within Xenia Township, pursuant to Section 709.16 of
             the Ohio Revised Code.
2021- 6-24-  Accepting the annexation of 24.544 acres of land in Xenia Township to
14    2021   the City of Xenia, Ohio.
2021- 7-8-   Accepting the annexation of 2.2946 acres of land at 800 Hedges Road in
16    2021   Xenia Township to the City of Xenia, Ohio.
2023- 8-10-  Accepting the annexation of 10.103 acres of land in Xenia Township (1164
24    2023   Stevenson Road) to the City of Xenia, Ohio.
2024- 5-23-  Accepting the annexation of a 1.204-acre parcel on Van Eaton Road in
12    2024   Spring Valley Township and a 7.671-acre parcel at 1060 Lower Bellbrook
             Road in Xenia Township to City of Xenia, Ohio.
            
 
TABLE I: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date    Description
No.   Passed
              41.220 acres of Fetz and Jette zoned I-2; 10.05 acres of Nutter zoned R-3;
69-17 7-24-   10.95 acres of Amole zoned B-3; 5 acres of First Church of Christ zoned R-3;
      1969    4 acres of Craine, 0.27 acres of Anderson and 0.07 acres of Anderson, zoned
              R-3.
69-27 11-13-  19.142 acres on Lower Bellbrook Rd., from R-1C to B-4; 13.245 acres on Lower
      1969    Bellbrook Rd., from R-1C to R-3.
69-33 12-11-  67 acres of Ogilvie, zoned R-1A; 149.343 acres of Mid-Continent Properties,
      1969    Inc., zoned R-1C; 0.49 acres of Camco Investments, from R-1 to R-3.
70-1  2-12-   Land in vicinity of Vine St., from R-1C to B-4.
      1970
70-10 3-12-   Lots 1 through 7 of Rosedale Plat at intersection of Kinsey Rd. and Old
      1970    Springfield Pk., from R-3 to B-3.
70-11 3-26-   Property of A. E. Viney et al, on Lexington Ave., from R-1C to R-3.
      1970
70-21 6-11-   Two parcels, being 1.24 acres on the corners of Cottage Grove Ave. and South
      1970    Columbus St., from R-1C to R-2.
70-24 7-23-   Land along the southeast boundary of Bellbrook Ave., from I-2 to B-3.
      1970
70-25 7-23-   Land at the corner of Washington and South Columbus Sts., from R-1C to R-2.
      1970
70-34 11-12-  15.65 acres of Mallow annexed by Ord. 70-17, zoned A-1.
      1970
70-37 11-24-  Land in the vicinity of Rogers St. and Ormsby Dr., from R-1 to H-1.
      1970
70-38 11-24-  Marathon Oil Co. land on Lower Bellbrook Rd., from I-2 to B-3.
      1970
71-2  1-14-   West Second St. property, from R-3 to B-2.
      1971
71-3  1-14-   26.099 acres of B.G. Danis Co. and Standard Oil Co. land on Lower Bellbrook
      1971    Rd. zoned B-3 and I-2.
71-4  1-28-   5.53 acres of Smith property, from R-1C to B-3.
      1971
71-6  2-11-   Land in the vicinity of Greene Memorial Hospital zoned H-1.
      1971
71-25 6-10-   3.22 acres of Fetz land zoned B-3.
      1971
71-39 8-12-   26.42 acres of West Central Ohio Broadcasters, Inc., land zoned R-1A.
      1971
71-42 8-26-   1.268 acres of Arrowhead Acres Addition zoned R-1C.
      1971
71-43 8-26-   1.423 acres of Fairmont Foods Co. and Arnovitz land zoned B-3.
      1971
72-7  2-24-   .28 acre of Hillard land, from R-1C to B-1.
      1972
72-17 4-13-   .20 acre of Dixon land, from R-1C to B-1.
      1972
72-18 4-27-   Moran Subdivision land zoned 1.99 acres R-2; 16.272 acres R-1A; 9 acres B-3;
      1972    25.2 acres R-3; 60.076 acres R-1B.
72-25 5-25-   21 acres of Mercury Realty Co. land, from R-1A to B-3.
      1972
72-46 11-21-  Part of Lot 104 on Church St., from R-1 to B-2.
      1972
72-47 11-21-  4.398 acres and 0.193 acres of Danis Realty Co., Inc., land rezoned B-3 and
      1972    I-2.
72-48 11-21-  Lighthiser land, from I-1 to R-2.
      1972
72-50 12-14-  17.135 acres zoned B-3; 16.419 acres zoned R-3; 195.609 acres zoned I-2; all
      1972    belonging to Xenia Area Development Corp.
73-1  1-11-   0.763 acres and 1.229 acres of Hidy land, from R-2 to R-3.
      1973
73-3  1-11-   98.584 acres and 0.359 acres of National Homes Construction Corp. land zoned
      1973    R-1A.
74-60 7-25-   Special conditional use overlay for area beginning at N. Detroit and Church
      1974    Sts.
74-87 9-26-   Amends the overlay zoning area by 10 separate changes of permitted uses on
      1974    the overlay area.
74-   11-14-  Expansion of overlay zoning map to include Area 1 for low density
104   1974    residential and Area 2 for commercial land use.
75-19 3-13-   Lots 68 through 73 of Andrew and Foust Addition at the corner of Bellbrook
      1975    Ave. and Center St., from Low Density Residential to Office Residential.
75-26 3-27-   0.0224 acre parcel on Vine St., from Low Density Residential to Commercial.
      1975
      4-10-   Lots 1 through 8 of Allison’s First Addition, bounded by W. Second St.,
75-34 1975    Brenner Ave., Trumbull St. and Allison Ave., from Medium Density Residential
              to Commercial.
75-35 4-10-   Lots 56 and 57 of Andrew and Foust Addition on Bellbrook Ave. immediately
      1975    northeast of Walnut St., from Low Density Residential to Office Residential.
75-36 4-10-   Nine parcels on Dayton Ave., from Low Density Residential to Commercial.
      1975
77-24 7-14-   1.2 acres in vicinity of Allison Ave. and W. Main St. from, Low Density
      1977    Residential to Highway Commercial.
77-37 9-8-    152.286 acres near U.S. 35 as recently annexed, owned by Greene County,
      1977    zoned R-1A.
      9-14-   Two parcels, being 2.772 and 2.931 acres on Kinsey Rd., zoned R-1B; 0.885
78-52 1978    acres on Amlin Dr., zoned B-1; two tracts, being 0.818 and 0.605 acres on
              Old Springfield Pk., from B-3 to B-1.
78-71 12-14-  Northwest corner of Allison Ave. and Trumbull St., from Low Density
      1978    Residential to Office Residential.
              Land along west side of N. Detroit St., from W. Church to Gordon Sts., from
78-76 12-28-  Medium Density Residential, Office Residential and Commercial to Office
      1978    District; lot abutting south side of Union St., 125 feet. west of N. Detroit
              St., from Office Residential to R-1C.
79-4  2-8-    0.3702 acres in South Hill, Welsh No. 4 Subdivision, from R-1C to R-4;
      1979    0.6599 acres in South Hill, Welsh No. 4 Subdivision, from R-4 to R-1C.
79-6  2-22-   Rezones certain land per the attached map Exhibit A.
      1979
79-14 3-8-    Eliminates overlay zoning and rezones land per the map attached.
      1979
79-22 4-12-   Adopts Official Zoning Map dated 4-6-1979.
      1979
79-80 12-8-   Parcels 157 and 158 on Bellbrook Ave., from R-3 to R-O.
      1979
80-6  2-14-   McIntire land, from R-1C to I-1.
      1980
80-13 3-27-   Parts of Lots 19, 20, 21 and 22 at corner of W. Second and Mechanic Sts.,
      1980    from R-3 to B-1.
80-26 5-22-   Lots 15, 16, 17 and 18 of Gowdy Addition on W. Second St., from R-3 to B-1.
      1980
80-27 5-22-   Parcels 46 and 47 on W. Market St., from I-1 to O-1.
      1980
81-17 6-25-   Part of Lot 128, from R-1C to B-2.
      1981
81-19 6-25-   49.09 acres recently annexed in Xenia Twp., in Military Survey 390, zoned I-
      1981    2.
81-30 8-27-   Land on north side of Second St. between King and Galloway Sts., from R-1C
      1981    to B-2.
81-34 9-24-   12.821 acres adjacent to Xenia Country Club, from R-1A to PUD.
      1981
82-7  2-25-   638 Vine St., from R-2 to B-3.
      1982
82-12 3-11-   106.172 acres north of U.S. 35 zoned I-2, and 6.521 acres south of U.S. 35
      1982    zoned B-3 (land annexed of W. L. Wightman, et al).
82-31 6-10-   Lots 3, 7, 8 and 9 of the Galloway, Winnans and Others Addition, from R-1C
      1982    to PUD.
82-68 11-11-  Lots 18 to 21 of Gordon’s Addition, from B-3 to O-1.
      1982
83-38 7-28-   131 and 135 S. Allison Ave., from O-1 to B-1.
      1983
83-41 8-25-   Land at southeast corner of N. Columbus St. and E. Market St., from R-1C to
      1983    R-3.
84-30 6-28-   Land on E. Second St., between Collier and Whiteman Sts., from B-2 to R-O.
      1984
84-52 11-8-   Arnovitz property fronting on Old Springfield Pk., from R-1B to R-O.
      1984
85-65 9-26-   The 0.572 acre of Brantley land on N. Monroe Dr., from R-3 to R-O.
      1985
86-14 2-27-   Kennedy’s Corner, from B-1 to B-4.
      1986
86-15 2-27-   Kline property on north side of W. Church St., between Galloway and West
      1986    Sts., from R-1C to R-3.
86-29 3-13-   4.01 acres on north side of Country Club Dr., from R-1A to PUD.
      1986
86-32 3-27-   2.416 acres at the northerly terminus of Omalee Dr., from R-1C to PUD.
      1986
86-46 6-12-   Land on north side of W. Church St., between Galloway and West Sts., from R-
      1986    1C to R-3.
86-74 9-25-   Parcels 23 to 29 on the corner of S. Detroit and Rogers Sts., from H-1 to R-
      1986    1C.
86-78 10-9-   Parcels 95 to 100, 103 to 106 and 108 on the corner of Bellbrook Ave. and W.
      1986    Second St., from B-1 to Commercial PUD.
86-87 10-23-  Parcels 89 to 93 and 323 on the corner of S. Church and W. Second Sts., from
      1986    B-1 to B-3.
86-   11-25-  Parcels 104, 105 and 107 to 110 on W. Second St., from B-2 to R-O.
100   1986
87-28 5-28-   3.4 acres on the south side of U.S. 35, west of Allison Ave. and east of
      1987    June Dr., from I-1 to Commercial PUD.
87-69 10-22-  Parcel 158 on the corner of W. Second St. and Ottawa Dr., from B-3 to R-2.
      1987
87-82 12-10-  10 lots in the Gatch Subdivision, from R-1C to R-O
      1987
87-85 12-29-  52.364 acres of recently annexed land on U.S. 68N owned by J. Colman, zoned
      1987    R-1A.
88-11 2-11-   Parcels 79 to 85, 127 to 131 and 200 on the corner of S. Orange and W.
      1988    Second Sts., from R-3 to Commercial PUD.
88-21 3-24-   Parcel 218 on the corner of Bellbrook Ave. and California St., from R-1C to
      1988    B-1.
88-33 4-14-   7.595 acres of land owned by G. Kegley, located southwest of Tennessee and
      1988    New Mexico Drs., from A-1 to R-1C.
88-37 4-28-   52.34 acres of land on U.S. 68N, owned by J. Colman, from R-1A to Single-
      1988    Family PUD.
88-57 6-9-    8.62 acres of land on Alameda Dr., from R-3 to Single-Family Semi-Clustered
      1988    PUD.
89-22 4-13-   Parcels 42 to 49 on the north side of W. Second St. between S. King and S.
      1989    Galloway Sts., from B-2 to R-2.
89-48 7-13-   55.5758 acres of recently annexed land, on the north side of U.S. 35W and
      1989    the southside of Dayton-Xenia Rd., zoned PUD.
89-53 7-27-   12.444 acres of recently annexed city-owned land, zoned R-1A.
      1989
90-17 4-12-   Parcels 7, 255, 325, 326 and 330 on Newport Rd., from B-3 to R-3.
      1990
90-21 5-10-   5.93 acres of land south of Winding Trail and Lamplighter Pl., from R-1A to
      1990    Single-Family PUD.
90-25 5-24-   45.172 acres of land west of Beverly Hills Subdivision, from R-1B to PUD of
      1990    Single Family and Cluster Units.
91-13 3-14-   Recently annexed land south of Kinsey Rd., west of Stevenson Rd. and east of
      1991    the Xenia Golf Course, zoned R-1A.
91-38 8-8-    5.28 acres of land on U.S. 35W and Progress Dr., from R-1A to O-1.
      1991
92-8  2-27-   Six parcels on the corner of Leaman and S. Detroit Sts., from I-1 to B-3.
      1992
92-9  2-27-   20.768 acres of recently annexed land north of Murray Hill and east of Eavey
      1992    St., Broodmoor Dr. and S. Columbus St., zoned R-1C.
92-22 3-26-   Parcels 91 to 93 on the corner of Cincinnati Ave. and Walnut St., from B-
      1992    3 to R-O.
92-51 11-12-  476 W. Market St., from I-1 to R-O.
      1992
93-6  2-11-   Parcel 2 west of Glen Kegley Estates, from A-1 to R-1C.
      1993
      4-8-    Portions of Parcels 4 and 6 and all of Parcel 8 on the south side of Country
93-20 1993    Club Dr. and southeast of the Xenia Golf Course, from R-1A to Residential
              PUD.
93-21 4-8-    6.727 acres on the north side of Country Club Dr. and east of the
      1993    intersection with N. Detroit St., from R-1A to Residential PUD.
93-56 9-9-    48 parcels along E. Second St., between S. Collier and S. Columbus Sts.,
      1993    from R-2 to R-1C.
93-66 10-14-  4 parcels along Colorado and Lower Bellbrook Drs., from R-3 to R-1C, from B-
      1993    4 to R-1C and from B-4 to R-3.
93-70 11-23-  2053 Bellbrook Ave., zoned B-3.
      1993
94-8  3-10-   Parcel along W. Second St. and Rockwell Dr., from B-1 to R-1C.
      1994
94-9  3-10-   Eleven parcels in Wise Manor Subdivision, from R-3 to R-1C.
      1994
94-41 6-23-   2380 Lower Bellbrook Rd., from B-4 to R-1C.
      1994
94-42 7-14-   Recently annexed land zoned I-O and I-1.
      1994
94-43 7-14-   Parcels between Lower Bellbrook Rd. and U.S. 42S, from I-2 to I-O, from I-
      1994    2 to I-1 and from I-1 to I-O.
94-50 8-11-   Modification of the Northgate Residential PUD.
      1994
94-70 10-27-  1112 N. Detroit St., from R-1C to Single-Family Residential PUD.
      1994
94-72 10-27-  Recently annexed land on Birch Rd., zoned I-2.
      1994
      2-9-    Summer Brooke site on Kinsey Rd., from R-1A to R-1A Residential PUD, and
95-3  1995    39.9 acres of recently annexed land on Stevenson Rd., zoned R-1A Residential
              PUD.
95-11 3-9-    .058 acre of land at the rear of 1143 W. Second St., from R-1C to B-4.
      1995
95-17 4-13-   10.756 acres of land east of the intersection of Country Club Dr. and N.
      1995    Detroit St., from R-1A to Residential PUD.
95-51 8-10-   322.848 acres of recently annexed land on the west side of U.S. 42S and
      1995    north of Heges Rd., zoned Mixed Density Residential PUD.
95-61 10-12-  97.5 acres of land on Bellbrook Rd. and Berkshire Dr., from R-1A to
      1995    Residential PUD.
96-16 3-15-   56.5 acres of recently annexed land, North of Xenia Industrial Park,
      1996    southeast of Birch Rd. and south of Hoop Rd., zoned I-2.
              Properties along former railroad right of way between N. and S. Miami Ave.
96-80 10-10-  and U.S. 68, site of Eavey Bldg. and parcels immediately south of Eavey
      1996    Bldg., and properties along Sycamore St., from I-1 and R-1C to Commercial
              PUD.
97-13 4-10-   7.755 acres located on 1463 Lower Bellbrook Rd. (part of the former Marathon
      1997    station), from B-3 to I-O.
97-19 6-12-   Rezoning approximately 13.6 acres of land, creating an Office/Commercial
      1997    Planned Unit Development.
97-22 6-12-   Seventy parcels located along E. Third St., S. Whiteman St., S. Collier St.,
      1997    Hivling St. and Leaman St. from R-2 to R-1C.
97-58 11-25-  Designating recently annexed land located on Stevenson Rd. and east of
      1997    Summer Brooke Subdivision, being an area of 13.0754 acres, as R-1A.
      11-25-  Designating recently annexed land located at the terminus of Wilson Dr.,
97-59 1997    owned by the Goecke Development Co. and being an area consisting of 10.524
              acres, as R-1A.
      11-25-  51.732 acres of land located west of Arrowhead Subdivision and north of
97-60 1997    Sterling Green Subdivision, from A-1 to Residential Planned Unit Development
              (R-PUD).
98-30 5-14-   Designating recently annexed land located on the north side of Kinsey Rd.,
      1998    north of Summer Brooke Subdivision, being an area of 315.118 acres, as R-1A.
98-59 9-10-   Designating recently annexed land located on U.S. 42N, west of Stevenson
      1998    Rd., being an area of 188.0016 acres, as R-1A.
98-44 7-9-    Designating 54.458 acres of land located on Progress Dr., U.S. 35 by-pass
      1998    and W. Main St., owned by N. Fear, as B-3.
      4-8-    Designating recently annexed parcels formerly known as the Ohio Veterans
99-10 1999    Childrens Home (OVCH) as Mixed Use Residential/Office Planned Unit
              Development and A-1.
99-11 4-8-    Designating 23.365 acres of land located on Lower Bellbrook Rd., being the
      1999    site of the Xenia Glady Run Wastewater Treatment Facility, as I-1.
99-17 5-27-   Designating 0.247 acres of land located on S. Columbus St. as I-1.
      1999
99-33 8-12-   Designating 74.749 acres annexed in 1996 and located on Upper Bellbrook Rd.
      1999    as Residential Planned Unit Development.
00-6  3-23-   Parcels 218 to 226, 388 to 395, 474 to 479 and 516, on E. Third St., from R-
      2000    2 to R-1C.
      3-23-   Designating 45.802 acres annexed in 1997 and located west of Arrowhead
00-7  2000    Subdivision and being Virginia Military Survey 760, as Mixed Density
              Residential Planned Unit Development.
00-23 6-22-   Designating recently annexed land located on Birch and Hoop Rds., being an
      2000    area of 13.178 acres, as A-1.
      7-27-   Six parcels representing the Greene Cty. Office and Administrative Campus,
00-31 2000    located north of W. Main St., west of Progress Dr. and south of Dayton-Xenia
              Rd., from R-1A to O-1.
      1-25-   Rezoning properties on South Miami Avenue and High Street from I-1 to R1-C,
01-03 2001    and rezoning properties on the east side of Home Avenue from Ormsby Drive to
              South Monroe Street from B-3 to R1-C.
01-25 7-12-   Designating three parcels of recently annexed land located on U.S. 35 by-
      2001    pass between S.R. 380 and U.S. 68 and Union Road as A-1, B-3 and I-2.
01-28 7-12-   Designating land located on Birch Road that is under petition for annexation
      2001    as I-2.
02-46 10-24-  Rezoning 78.027 acres of land located south of U.S. 35 bypass and west of
      2002    U.S. 42 from I-O to Residential Planned Unit Development.
02-47 10-24-  Rezoning 32.534 acres of land located south of U.S. 35 bypass and west of
      2002    U.S. 42 from I-O to R-3.
      3-13-   Rezoning 9.564 acres of land located west and south of Harner Drive and west
03-12 2003    of Progress Drive from R-1A One-Family Residential District to B-3 Highway
              Oriented Business District.
03-30 6-12-   Designating land located at 932 Old Springfield Pike that is under petition
      2003    for annexation as R-1A.
      12-11-  Rezoning 35.3 acres of land formerly part of Kinsey Meadows Subdivision and
03-51 2003    located east of North Highlander Drive and west of Stevenson Road from R-1A
              One-Family Residential District to Residential Planned Unit Development.
              Zoning 12.589 acres of land located between S. Progress Drive and U.S. 35
04-07 2-26-   Bypass, owned by Charles and Janice Strausburg, Greene County Board of
      2004    Commissioners, Donald Moore and Harner, et al. to B-3 Highway-Oriented
              Business District.
04-08 2-26-   Rezoning 5.129 acres of land located east of South Progress Drive from A-
      2004    1 Agricultural District to B-3 Highway-Oriented Business District.
04-25 6-10-   Rezoning three parcels located on Vine Street from B-3 Highway-Oriented
      2004    Business District to R-2 Two-Family Residential District.
      9-23-   Rezoning 212.522 acres of land located on U.S. 42 North, Stevenson Road and
04-38 2004    Wilson Drive from R-1A One-Family Residential District to Mixed Density
              Residential Planned Unit Development.
              Changing zoning of property located at 2380 Bellbrook Road, Xenia, with
05-43 8-11-   Greene County Property Identification Number of M40000100400006000 and
      2005    M40000100400005600 and currently owned by Academy of Holistic Health from R-
              1C One-Family Residential District to O-1 Office District.
              Amending the zoning map of the city of Xenia by designating city zoning to
05-51 9-22-   land located on Upper Bellbrook Road and easterly way of U.S. Route 35 owned
      2005    by Charles and Janice Strausburg and Ross A. Apple et. al. under
              consideration for annexation to the City of Xenia.
06-04 1-12-   Rezoning land on Fairground Road to Residential PUD.
      2006
      2-23-   Amending the zoning map of the city of Xenia by designating residential
06-19 2006    planned unit development on 49.19-acres of land on Van Eaton Road that was
              approved for annexation.
      2-23-   Amending the zoning map by designating A-1 Agricultural Zoning District to
06-20 2006    3.075-acre of land on Lower Bellbrook Road and Van Eaton Road that was
              approved for annexation.
06-30 5-11-   Rezoning two parcels located on 625 South Detroit Street from H-1 Hospital
      2006    District to R-1C One-Family Residential District.
06-66 11-9-   Amending Ordinance 95-3, the original Summer Brooke PUD.
      2006
07-02 1-11-   Amending the zoning map by designating city zoning to 14.02 acres of land
      2007    located east of Wilson Drive Terminus within the WGC Golf Course.
07-24 5-10-   Amending the zoning map by amending Progress Center PUD to add 0.104 acres
      2007    of land and combining with Lot 1.
      8-9-    Amending the zoning map by zoning 391.614 acres of land located on the
07-38 2007    northeast corner of Van Eaton Road and Upper Bellbrook Road owned by Gerdes
              Inc., Thomas J. Gerdes and Nancy Lee Gerdes as A-1 Agricultural District.
      10-11-  Rezoning approximately 6.638 acres south of Stelton Road and west of
07-52 2007    Chestnut Street from R-4 Multi-Family Residential District to R-1C One-
              Family Residential District.
07-55 11-8-   Rezoning approximately 6.138 acres located at 834 Bellbrook Avenue from R-1C
      2007    One-Family Residential District to I-O Industrial Office District.
08-03 1-10-   Rezoning two parcels west of the terminus of Trumbull Street from R-1C One-
      2008    Family Residential District to B-3 Highway Oriented Business District.
08-19 4-10-   Rezoning a 10.089-acre parcel located on Lynn Street and High Street from I-
      2008    2 Heavy Industrial Zoning District to R-1C One- Family Residential District.
      7-12-   Rezoning 11.55 acres of land located on Dayton Avenue from B-4 Planned
08-36 2008    Shopping Business District to a Mixed-use Planned Unit Development based on
              a PUD Concept Plan.
      11-13-  Rezoning six residential parcels located on Lynn Street and High Street from
08-75 2008    I-2 Heavy Industrial Zoning District to R-1C One-Family Residential
              District.
      4-9-    Rezoning 40.904 acres of land consisting of two parcels located on South
09-15 2009    Columbus Street and Birch Road owned by Robert W. Louderback from I-2 Heavy
              Industrial District to A-1 Agricultural District.
      2-25-   Rezoning lot 20 of Gatch All Subdivision that has Greene County Parcel
10-05 2010    Identification Number M40000100200009700 from R-1C One-family Residential
              District to B-3 Highway Oriented Business District.
      7-8-    Rezoning 380 Fairground Road, Greene County Parcel Identification Number of
10-28 2010    M40000100420000100 and containing 4.46 acres, from R-1A One-Family
              Residential District to A-1 Agricultural District.
              Amending the Progress Center PUD to add six parcels of land totaling 16.107
10-45 9-23-   acres and currently zoned B-3 Highway Oriented Business District, being lots
      2010    M40000100230022600, M40000100580002000, M40000100580001800,
              M40000100580001700, M40000100580001600, M40000100230023300.
11-02 1–13- Rezoning 16 acres of land located on Hedges Road from Residential Planned
      2011    Unit Development to A-1 Agricultural District.
              Rezoning 13.218 acres of land located at 819 Colorado Drive, and with a
11-03 1-13-   Greene County Tax Identification Number of M40000100470000100, from R-1C
      2011    One-Family Residential District to Residential Planned Unit Development
              based on a PUD Concept Plan.
      7-14-   Rezoning 7.4 acres of land from B-3 Highway Oriented Business District to
11-26 2011    Residential Planned Unit Development and rezoning 1.4 acres of land from R-
              1C One-Family Residential District to Residential Planned Unit Development.
      9-8-    Rezoning a 0.22 acre parcel of land located at 755 Vine Street from B-
11-41 2011    4 Planned Shopping Center Business District to R-O Residential Office
              District.
11-59 11-10-  Rezoning a 0.15 acre parcel of land located at 522 Bellbrook Avenue from I-
      2011    1 Light Industrial District to R-1C One-Family Residential District.
13-51 10-10-  Rezoning a 0.475 acre area of land located at 207 Dayton Avenue from R-1C
      2013    One-Family Residential District to B-3 Highway Oriented Business District
13-53 10-24-  Rezoning two parcels located at 320 North West Street from I-2 Heavy
      2013    Industrial District to R-1C One-Family Residential District.
13-64 12-12-  Rezoning a 2.98-acre area of land located at 2380 Bellbrook Avenue from O-
      2013    1 Office District to B-1 Convenience Shopping Business District.
      10-23-  Rezoning a 2.98-acre area of land located at 2380 Bellbrook Avenue from B-
14-48 2014    1 Convenience Shopping Business District to C-PUD Commercial Planned Unit
              Development.
      12-29-  Modifying an existing 11.396-acre Mixed Use Planned Unit Development at 457
14-59 2014    and 469 Dayton Avenue to accommodate reuse of a vacant building at 469
              Dayton Avenue.
      4-9-    Rezoning an existing 4.9-acre parcel with a Greene County Parcel
15-11 2015    Identification Number of M40000200010000100 from R-3 Multi-Family
              Residential to C-PUD Commercial Planned Unit Development.
      5-28-   Rezoning an existing 6.5-acre parcel with a Greene County Parcel
15-21 2015    Identification Number of M40000100450000400 from B-4 Planned Shopping Center
              to I-1 Light Industrial District.
      7-9-    Rezoning four existing parcels totaling 0.44 acres, including the addresses
15-28 2015    of 482, 498, 508 and 514 North Detroit Street, from O-1 Office District to
              B-2 Central Business District.
      4-14-   Rezoning a recently annexed 5.991-acre parcel with a Greene County Tax
16-16 2016    Identification Number of M36000100210003800 from R-1 One-Family Residential
              District to R-1C One-Family Residential District.
16-27 6-9-    Rezoning 136 existing parcels, totaling 276.5 acres, as necessitated by the
      2016    enactment of a new Land Development Code.
              Rezoning five existing parcels totaling 10.15 acres, including the addresses
16-35 7-14-   of 168 and 194 South Progress Drive and 133, 167 and 195 Hospitality Drive
      2016    from C-PUD Commercial Planned Unit Development to B-3 General Business
              District.
16-38 7-28-   Rezoning a 0.318-acre portion of 1334 North Detroit Street from R-1C One-
      2016    Family Residential District to PUD Planned Unit Development.
16-45 8-25-   Rezoning 4,412 existing parcels, totaling 1,300 acres, in association with
      2016    the enactment of a new Land Development Code.
17-09 2-9-    Rezoning an 8.8-acre parcel at 730 Dayton-Xenia Road from I-2 Heavy
      2017    Industrial District to A-1 Agricultural District.
17-15 4-13-   Rezoning a three-acre parcel at 626 North Columbus Avenue from R-1B One-
      2017    Family Residential to P-1 Public and Institutional District.
              Approving a major change to a PUD concept plan for an existing 158.382-acre
17-22 5-11-   PUD encompassing parcels or portions of parcels formerly known as the Ohio
      2017    Veterans Children’s Home by increasing the PUD to a total of 249.837 acres
              and modifying the PUD standards.
17-29 6-8-    Rezoning two parcels at 1017-1051 Stevenson Road totaling 13.941 acres from
      2017    R-1A One-Family Residential to A-1 Agricultural District.
17-34 7-13-   Rezoning a 1.876-acre portion of a parcel at 856 Hedges Road from A-
      2017    1 Agricultural District to R-1A One-Family Residential District.
17-39 8-24-   Rezoning two parcels totaling 12.6 acres at 1087 West Second Street from R-
      2017    1C One-Family Residential District to P-1 Public and Institutional District.
17-43 10-12-  Rezoning a 0.951-acre parcel at 44 Kinsey Road from R-1B One-Family
      2017    Residential District to B-1 Convenience Business District.
2018- 6-14-   Amending the official zoning map of the City of Xenia, Ohio, to rezone the
16    2018    properties located at 415 and 421 Bellbrook Avenue from I-2 Heavy Industrial
              District to B-3 General Business District.
2018- 7-26-   Approving a major change to a concept plan for an 11.396-acre planned unit
21    2018    development at 441, 457 and 469 Dayton Avenue.
2018- 12-27-  Amending the official zoning map of the City of Xenia, Ohio, to rezone the
37    2018    property located at 130 East Church Street from R-1C One-Family Residential
              District (7,500) to P-1 Public and Institutional District.
2019- 2-28-   Amending the official zoning map of the City of Xenia, Ohio, to rezone three
04    2019    parcels along Greene Way Blvd., comprising 13.6 acres, more or less, from P-
              1, Public and Institutional District, to B-3, General Business District.
              Amending the official zoning map of the City of Xenia, Ohio, to rezone 14
2019- 5-23-   parcels with the addresses of 602-614, 624, 634, 658-672, 680, 728 and 750
11    2019    Cincinnati Avenue, comprising 6.3 acres, more or less, from I-2, Heavy
              Industrial District, to B-3, General Business District.
2019- 12-30-  Amending the official zoning map of the City of Xenia, Ohio, to rezone 65
25    2019    South Progress Drive from PUD, Planned Unit Development, to B-1, Convenience
              Business District.
2020- 6-11-   Amending the official zoning map of the City of Xenia, Ohio, to rezone two
05    2020    parcels totaling 3.94 acres, more or less, at 774 Cincinnati Avenue from I-
              2, Heavy Industrial District, to B-3, General Business District.
              Amending the official zoning map of the City of Xenia, Ohio, to rezone 53.4
2021- 4-22-   acres, more or less, at the intersection of Van Eaton Road and Lower
09    2021    Bellbrook Road, from PUD Planned Unit Development and A-1 Agricultural
              District to 44.7 acres of R-1C One-family Residential District zoning and
              8.7 acres of R-2 Two-family Residential District Zoning.
              Amending the official zoning map of the City of Xenia, Ohio, to rezone two
2021- 5-27-   parcels totaling 5.01 acres, more or less, at 784 Bellbrook Avenue from R-1C
11    2021    One-family Residential District (7,500) to P-1 Public and Institutional
              District.
              Amending the official zoning map of the City of Xenia, Ohio, to rezone two
2021- 5-27-   parcels totaling 0.57 acres, more or less, comprising the southern part of
12    2021    Lot 36 of the Drake and Leaman's western addition, located between 300 and
              346 Bellbrook Avenue, from R-3 Attached Residential District to O-1 Office
              District.
              Amending the official zoning map of the City of Xenia, Ohio, to rezone 0.05
2021- 5-27-   acres, more or less, comprising the southern 21.25 feet of Lot 72 of the
13    2021    original plat of the City of Xenia, located on N. Monroe Street, from R-
              3 Attached Residential District to B-3 General Business District.
              Amending the official zoning map of the City of Xenia, Ohio, to establish I-
2021- 6-24-   1 Light Industrial District as the zoning district for two newly annexed
15    2021    parcels totaling 18.499 acres, more or less, including 855 Lower Bellbrook
              Road and Greene County Parcel ID M36000200230000500.
2022- 4-23-   Approving a major change to the Planned Unit Development concept plan for
06    2022    Wright Cycle Estates that increases the number of planned single-family
              homes and decreases the planned commercial acreage.
              Amending the official zoning map of the City of Xenia, Ohio, to rezone two
2022- 5-28-   parcels, totaling 10.02 acres, more or less, located at 441 Ledbetter Road,
10    2022    from R-3 Attached Residential District to P-1 Public and Institutional
              District.
2022- 5-28-   Amending the official zoning map of the City of Xenia, Ohio, to rezone
11    2022    23.4373 acres, more or less, located at the terminus of Tremont Road from R-
              1B One-family Residential District (10,000) to A-1 Agricultural District.
2022- 7-23-   Amending the official zoning map of the City of Xenia, Ohio, to rezone the
19    2022    property at 89 Leaman Street, totaling 0.43 acres, more or less, from I-
              1 Light Industrial District to R-2 Two-family Residential District.
2022- 10-22-  Amending the official zoning map of the City of Xenia, Ohio, to rezone the
37    2022    property at 312 Fairground Road, totaling 11.99 acres, more or less, from R-
              1A One-family Residential District to P-1 Public and Institutional District.
2022- 12-22-  Approving a major change to the Planned Unit Development concept plan for
42    2022    Wright Cycle Estates that increases the number of planned single-family
              homes.
2022- 2-11-   Amending the official zoning map of the City of Xenia, Ohio, to rezone the
50    2023    property at 24-72 Hill Street, totaling 0.84 acres, more or less, from I-
              1 Light Industrial District to B-2 Downtown District.
2023- 6-8-    Amending the official zoning map of the City of Xenia, Ohio, to rezone the
15    2023    property at 855 Lower Bellbrook Road from I-1 Light Industrial District to
              O-1 Office District.
2023- 8-10-   Approving a major change to the concept plan for the 11.396-acre planned
23    2023    unit development at 441, 457, and 469 Dayton Avenue.
              Amending official zoning map of City of Xenia, Ohio, to rezone property at
2024- 4-11-   130 East Church Street from P-1 Public and Institutional District to B-
07    2024    1 Convenience Business District and rezone property at 194 East Church
              Street from R-1C One-family Residential District to B-1 Convenience Business
              District.
2024- 8-8-    Amending official zoning map of City of Xenia, Ohio, to rezone property at
16    2024    262 S. Allison Avenue from R-1C One-family Residential District (7,500) to
              B-3 General Business District.
2024- 8-8-    Amending official zoning map of City of Xenia, Ohio, to rezone property at
17    2024    1060 Lower Bellbrook Road from A-1 Agricultural to R-2 Two-family
              Residential District.
             
 
 
TABLE J: CHANGES TO TRAFFIC CONTROL MAP
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
05-49 9-8-   Creating “No Parking” zones on West Third Street between Detroit and Cincinnati
      2005   Streets.
             (a)No parking is permitted on either side of the Third Street between Detroit
             Street and Sycamore Street;
             (b)No parking is permitted on the south side of Third Street between Sycamore
             Street and King Street;
             (c)No parking is permitted on the north side of Third Street between King Street
             and Galloway Street;
             (d)No parking is permitted on the south side of Third Street between Galloway
             Street and West Street; and
             (e)No parking is permitted on the north side of Third Street between West Street
             and Cincinnati Avenue.
             Amending Traffic Map to reflect that on West Second Street, east of West Street,
      10-13- there will be no parking on the north side and south side for a distance of 190
05-57 2005   feet from the intersection. In the event that the prohibited parking zone falls
             within a driveway, the placement of the “No Parking” sign shall be installed
             within the 190 foot zone so as not to obstruct the driveway.
05-61 10-27- Creating a “No Parking” zone on Trumbull Street for 25 feet east of the drive
      2005   approach at JCL Equipment, located at 915 Trumbull Street.
06-05 1-12-  Reducing a “No Parking” zone at 102 West Second Street from 60 feet to a distance
      2006   of 30 feet west from in the intersection of South King Street.
06-31 5-11-  Creating a “No Parking” zone on the north side of Lake Street between the dead-
      2006   end and Monroe Street.
06-78 12-14- Creating a “No Parking” zone on the west side of Catherine Street between Ankeney
      2006   Mill Road and Harbine Avenue.
11-12 3-24-  Prohibiting parking on both sides of Leach Street between East Main Street and
      2011   East Church Street.
12-21 5-10-  Establishing a 25-foot handicap-only parking space in front of 489 East Church
      2012   Street.
12-43 9-13-  Eliminating one parking space immediately north of the pedestrian crosswalk in
      2012   front of 100 North Detroit Street.
12-51 11-20- Prohibiting parking between the two driveways in front of the Third Baptist
      2012   Church at 464 East Main Street on Wednesdays and Sundays.
      6-27-  Eliminating signage of “No Turn on Red During School Hours” at the intersection
13-36 2013   of Ankeney Mill Road and North Detroit Street; and erecting a “No Turn on Red”
             sign on the westbound E. Ankeney Mill Road leg of the intersection.
14-12 2-13-  Prohibiting parking on Mulberry Street between Lexington Avenue and East Church
      2014   Street.
14-52 11-25- Prohibiting parking on the south side of West Ankeney Mill Road from the
      2014   centerline of North King Street to a point 84 feet to the west.
14-53 11-25- Establishing a posted speed limit of 25 miles per hour (mph) on Bellbrook Avenue
      2014   from Allison Avenue to West Second Street.
      12-29- Prohibiting parking along the east property line of 2497 Cornwall Drive beginning
15-65 2015   at the southeast property corner for a distance of 40 feet between the hours of
             7:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, except for holidays.
      12-8-  Relocating the stop sign along East Second Street from South Collier Street to
16-55 2016   South Whiteman Street and constructing a new pedestrian crosswalk at South
             Whiteman Street.
17-45 11-9-  Removing the handicap parking space in front of 29 West Main Street and
      2017   establishing a new two-hour parking space.
             Designating two parking spaces along the west side of South Whiteman Street,
17-52 12-14- between the rear of 81 East Main Street and East Main Street, as a loading/
      2017   unloading zone during the hours of 8:00-10:00 a.m. and 1:30-3:30 p.m., Monday
             through Friday.
2018- 3-22-  Establishing a 15-minute loading/unloading zone and authorizing the erection of
09    2018   loading/unloading signs in front of the Xenia pre-school at 425 Edison Boulevard.
2018- 7-12-  Establishing a twenty-foot disability parking space in front of 201 West Second
20    2018   Street.
2018- 10-11- Establishing a 20-foot disability parking space In front of 393 East Second
30    2018   Street.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
Historical References to Ohio Revised Code
References to 1997 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
HISTORICAL REFERENCES TO OHIO REVISED CODE
 
ORC Cites Code Section
ORC Cites              Code Section
715.22                 400.02
723.01                 400.02
723.011                660.05
737.022                400.03
901.51                 642.08
901.99                 642.08
1349.17                672.11
1349.99                672.11
2901.02                600.02
2901.03                600.03
2901.04                600.04
2901.05                600.05
2901.06(B)             600.05
2901.08                600.04
2901.09                600.16
2901.11                600.06
2901.13                600.07
2901.21                600.08
2901.22                600.09
2901.23                600.10
2901.24                600.11
2903.10                636.24
2903.16                636.24
2907.09                666.04
2907.10                666.06
2907.23                666.07
2907.241               666.085
2907.25                666.09
2907.26                666.10
2907.31                666.11
2907.311               666.12
2907.33                666.14
2907.35                666.15
2907.36                666.16
2907.37                666.17
2909.01                642.15
2909.03                642.02
2909.06                642.03
2909.07                642.04
2909.08                642.12
2909.09                642.10
2909.10                642.10
2909.101               642.10
2909.11                642.01
2911.21                642.05
2911.211               642.06
2911.23                642.07
2913.04                642.11
2913.07                672.22
2913.33                672.13
2913.41                672.14
2913.42                672.15
2913.43                672.16
2913.441               608.15
2913.61(B) - (E)       672.03
2913.71                672.04
2913.72                672.045
2915.02                630.02
2915.03                630.03
2915.04                630.04
2915.05                630.05
2915.09                630.06
2915.091               630.10
2915.092               630.11
2915.093               630.12
2915.094               630.13
2915.10                630.07
2915.11                630.08
2915.12                630.09
2915.13                630.12
2917.04                648.02
2917.05                648.03
2917.11                648.04
2917.12                648.05
2917.13                648.06
2917.40                636.19
2917.41                672.07
2919.18                636.25
2921.01                606.01
2921.13                608.01
2921.23                608.05
2921.331               402.01
2921.52(A) - (D)       608.145
2923.01                600.13
2923.02                600.14
2923.03                600.15
2925.32(B)(4)          624.073
2925.32(D)(2)          624.073
2925.32(F)             624.073
2925.32(G)             624.073
2925.33                624.076
2925.36                624.08
2925.50                624.13
2925.51                624.12
2925.511               624.12
2927.02                636.21
2927.021               636.21
2927.022               636.21
2927.023               636.21
2927.03                636.23
2929.21                698.02
2929.22                698.03
2929.23                666.99
2929.24                698.02
2929.25                698.02
2929.26                698.02
2929.27                698.02
2929.28                698.02
2929.31                698.04
2929.41                698.05
2935.041               608.17
2981.07                642.14
2981.11                608.16
2981.12                608.16
2981.13(A)             608.16
3701.81                660.02
3701.82                660.01
3701.99(B)             660.01
3701.99(C)             660.02
3719.08(A), (E)        624.10
3719.172(A), (B)       624.11
3719.19                624.13
3719.99(C)             624.10
3719.99(E)             624.11
3743.54                678.03
3743.64                678.03
3743.65(A)-(E)         678.03
3743.66                678.03
3743.68                678.03
3743.68(D)             678.03
3767.13                660.04
3767.29                660.06
3767.99(B)             660.06
3767.99(C)             660.04
3781.111s              452.08(a)(2)
3781.55                666.04
4301.22                612.10
4301.62                612.07
4301.631               612.10
4301.637               612.06
4301.64                612.04
4301.70                612.06
4301.99(A)             612.06,
                       612.07
4301.99(B)             612.04,
                       612.10
4301.99(E)             612.10
4303.202(D)(2)         612.08
4303.208(C)            612.08
4303.25                612.05
4303.99(D)             612.08
4501.01                422.90,
                       430.90
4503.01                444.90
4503.05                436.01
4503.11                444.01(b), (c)
4503.111               444.05
4503.12                444.13
4503.182               444.09
4503.193               440.01(d)
4503.21                444.01(a), (c)
4503.231               444.06
4503.235               434.16
4503.236               434.14
4503.30                444.10(a), (c)
4503.301               444.10(b), (c)
4503.31                444.11(a), (e)
4503.32                444.11(c)(1), (d)(1)
4503.33                444.11(b)
4503.34                444.11(c)(2), (d)(2)
4503.38                444.12
4503.44                444.07
4503.47                444.08
4505.03                444.16
4505.11                444.17
4505.18                444.14
4505.181               444.14(b)(2)
4505.19                444.15
4505.99                444.16
4506.011               442.90
4506.03                442.01, (b), (e)
4506.04                442.02(a), (d)
4506.05                442.01(c), (e)
4506.06                442.01(d), (e)
4506.12(I)             442.02(c)
4506.12(J)             442.02(d)
4506.14(D)             442.02(b)
4506.14(E)             442.02(d)
4506.15                442.03(a), (c)
4506.16                442.03(c)(2)
4506.161               442.99
4506.17                442.04
4506.18                442.05(b)(1), (c)
4506.19                442.05(b)(2), (c)
4506.20                442.05(a), (c)
4506.23                442.03(b)
4507.02(A)(1)          440.01(a), (c)
4507.02(A)(4)          440.02(a)
4507.03                440.01(b), (c)
4507.04                440.01(b)
4507.05                440.03
4507.071               440.07
4507.213               440.02(b) - (d)
4507.30                440.04
4507.31                440.05
4507.321               442.06
4507.35                440.06
4507.99                440.02(c)
4509.101               440.14
4509.102               440.15
4509.103(A)            440.14(g)
4509.69                440.19(a)
4509.74                440.23
4509.77                440.19(b)
4509.80                442.07(e)
4509.80(C)             442.07(d)
4510.037(J)            440.13
4510.04                440.17
4510.05                402.13(a),
                       698.07
4510.07                402.13(b)
4510.11                440.08(a) – (g)
4510.111               440.09
4510.12                440.10
4510.14                440.11
4510.15                434.07(d)
4510.16                440.12
4510.17(E)(7)          440.08(h)
4510.21                440.16
4510.22                402.14
4510.41                440.18
4510.44                434.15
                       422.90,
4511.01                430.90,
                       432.29
4511.011               400.06
4511.03                412.07
4511.031               412.10
4511.04                402.06
4511.041               402.07
4511.042               402.07
4511.043               402.09
4511.05                410.10
4511.051               410.11
4511.06                400.01
4511.07                400.01
4511.071               402.10
4511.08                400.07
4511.091               434.06
4511.11                400.04
4511.12                412.01
4511.13(A),(B),(C),(G) 412.03
4511.13(D),(E),(F),(G) 412.06
4511.131               412.04
4511.132               412.02
4511.14                412.05
4511.16                412.08
4511.17                412.09
4511.18                412.11
4511.181               434.90
4511.19                434.09
4511.191               434.10(a) – (e)
4511.192               434.10(f) – (k)
4511.193(C)            434.09(f)
4511.194               434.11
4511.195               434.12
4511.196s              434.13
4511.197s              434.13
4511.198               434.13
4511.20                434.07(a), (c)
4511.201               434.07(b), (c)
4511.202               434.08
4511.203               434.17
4511.204               432.41
4511.205               432.42
4511.21                434.03
4511.211               434.04
4511.213               432.21
4511.214               430.01,
                       430.06(b)s, (d)(2)
4511.214(A)(3)         422.08
4511.216               430.01(b)(2)
4511.22                434.01
4511.23                434.02
4511.24                434.05
4511.25                432.01
4511.251               410.13
4511.26                432.02
4511.27                432.03
4511.28                432.04
4511.29                432.05
4511.30                432.06
4511.31                432.07
4511.32                432.30
4511.33                432.08
4511.34                432.09
4511.35                432.31
4511.36                432.10
4511.37                432.11
4511.38                432.12
4511.39                432.13
4511.40                432.14
4511.41                432.15
4511.42                432.17
4511.43                432.18
4511.431               432.16(b), (c)
4511.432               432.19
4511.44                432.16(a), (c)
4511.441               420.04
4511.45                432.20
4511.451               432.24
4511.452               420.06
4511.454               432.23
4511.46                420.01
4511.47                420.05
4511.48                420.03
4511.481               420.08
4511.49                420.02
4511.491               420.10
4511.50                420.07
4511.51                420.09
                       422.10,
                       422.12(d),
4511.512               422.13s,
                       422.14s,
                       422.15s
4511.513               420.11
                       422.09,
                       422.12(c), (f)(2),
4511.514               422.13s,
                       422.14s,
                       422.15s
4511.52                422.01
4511.521               422.06(a), (c)
4511.522               422.05(e)(3)
                       422.13,
4511.522(C)s           422.14,
                       422.15
4511.522(D)            422.05(d), (e)(3)
4511.53                422.05(e)(2),
                       422.07(a), (c)(1)
4511.53(B)             422.05(c)
4511.53(C)             424.05
4511.54                422.16
4511.55                422.05(a), (b), (e)(1);
                       422.07(b), (c)(2)
4511.56                422.02
4511.60                432.29
4511.65                400.05
4511.66                452.01(a)-(b)
4511.661               452.02
4511.67                452.01(c)
4511.68                452.03
4511.681               452.15
4511.69(A) - (C)       452.04
4511.69(D)             452.21
4511.69(E) - (K)       452.08
4511.69(J)s            452.08
4511.70                432.38
4511.701               410.03
4511.71                432.26
4511.711               422.12(a), (b), (f)(1);
                       432.27
4511.712               432.25
                       422.13s,
4511.713               422.14s,
                       422.15s,
                       432.27
4511.714               410.12
4511.72                432.22
4511.73                432.28
4511.74                410.01
4511.75                432.32
4511.751               432.33
4511.76                436.09
4511.761               436.10
4511.762               436.11
4511.763               442.09
4511.764               436.12
4511.77                436.13
4511.771               436.14
4511.79                442.08
4511.81                438.29
4511.82                410.02
4511.84                432.40
4511.85                442.07(a) – (c), (e)
4511.98s               400.09
4511.99                402.99(a)
4511.991               402.99(b), (c)
4513.02(A),(E),(H)     438.01
4513.02(G)             438.39(c)
4513.021               438.27
4513.03                422.06(b), (c);
                       438.02
4513.04                422.04(a),
                       438.03
4513.04(B)             422.04(g)
4513.05                438.04
4513.06                438.05
4513.07                436.04
4513.071               422.04(f),
                       438.06
4513.071(B)            422.04(g)
4513.08                438.07
4513.09                438.08
4513.10                438.09
4513.11                430.90
4513.111               430.02
4513.112               430.03
4513.113               430.04
4513.114               430.05
4513.115               430.07
4513.12                438.11
4513.13                438.12
4513.14                438.13(a), (c)
4513.15                438.14
4513.16                438.13(b), (c)
4513.17                438.16
4513.171               402.07
4513.182               438.17
4513.19                438.18
4513.20                438.19
4513.20(A)(2)          422.04(b)
4513.20(A)(3)          422.03
4513.21                438.20
4513.22                422.04(c),
                       438.21
4513.22(B)             422.04(g)
4513.221s              438.21,
                       438.38
4513.23                422.04(d),
                       438.22
4513.23(B)             422.04(g)
4513.24                438.23
4513.241               438.24
4513.242               438.25
4513.25                438.31
4513.26                438.26
4513.261               422.04(e),
                       438.10
4513.261(D)            422.04(g)
4513.262               438.28
4513.263               438.30
4513.27                436.05
4513.28                436.06
4513.29                436.07
4513.30                438.35
4513.31                438.34
4513.32                438.36
4513.33                436.25
4513.34                436.24
4513.36                402.02
4513.361               402.03
4513.38                438.39(a)
4513.41                438.39(b)
4513.41(C)             438.39(a)(3)
4513.50                436.08(d)
4513.51                436.08(a) - (c)
4513.60                454.01
4513.601               454.02
4513.61                454.03
4513.611               454.04
4513.612               454.09(a), (c)
4513.62                454.05
4513.63                454.08
4513.64                454.07
4513.65                454.06
4513.66                440.24
4513.67                454.09(b), (c), (d)
                       422.04(g),
                       436.24,
                       436.25,
                       438.07,
                       438.09,
4513.99                438.17,
                       438.19(c),
                       438.26,
                       438.31,
                       438.35,
                       438.36
4513.99(A)             438.34
4513.99(B)             422.03
4519.01                424.90
4519.02                424.01,
                       430.06(d)(1)
4519.02(A)(2)          430.06(a)
4519.09                424.03
4519.20                424.04
4519.22                424.10
4519.40                424.06
4519.401               430.06(c), (d)(2)
4519.41                424.08
4519.44                424.02
4519.45                424.11
4519.46                424.09
4519.47                424.12
4519.66                424.13
4519.67                424.14
4521.01s               450.01
4521.02s               450.11,
                       452.90
4521.03s               450.03
4521.04s               450.02
4521.05s               450.02
4521.06s               450.04,
                       450.06
4521.07s               450.05
4521.08s               450.07,
                       450.08
4521.09s               450.09
4521.10s               450.10
4549.02                440.20
4549.021               440.21
4549.03                440.22
4549.05                400.08
4549.08                444.02
4549.10                444.03
4549.11                444.04
4549.12                444.04
4549.13                402.05
4549.14                402.05
4549.15                402.05
4549.16                402.05(c)
4549.18                436.02(a), (c)
4549.19                436.02(b)
4549.20                438.37
4933.18                672.06
4933.19                672.06
5301.61                642.09
5301.99                642.09
5577.02                436.23(a)
5577.03                436.16
5577.04                436.17
5577.041               436.18
5577.042               436.19
5577.043               436.20
5577.044               436.23(b)
5577.045               436.23(c)
5577.05                436.21(a) – (f)
5577.06                436.21(g)
5577.07                436.22
5577.10                436.26
5577.11                436.03
5577.12                436.99(b)
5577.14                442.10
5577.15                436.27
                       436.03,
5577.99                436.26,
                       436.99(a)
5589.01                410.07
5589.02                410.08
5589.08                438.33
5589.081               438.32
                       410.07,
5589.99                410.08,
                       438.32,
                       438.33
                       
 
REFERENCES TO 1997 CODE
1997 Code 2006 Code
1997 Code 2006 Code
808.02    802.01
820.01    802.01
840.01    802.01
850.01    802.01
858.01    802.01
862.01    802.01
880.02    878.01
882.01    878.01
884.01    878.01
1440.05   Part Two, Appendix A
1440.07   Part Two, Appendix A
1468.04   Part Two, Appendix A
          
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
86-S     9-25-1986   TSL Table D
88-A     1-14-1988   TSL Table D
88-B     1-28-1988   TSL Table E
88-P     8-25-1988   TSL Table D
89-E     1-26-1989   260.05
89-U     8-10-1989   TSL Table E
89-V     9-7-1989    TSL Table F
93-P     8-26-1993   TSL Table A
94-O     6-23-1994   TSL Table E
94-Q     7-14-1994   TSL Table D
96-K     5-9-1996    TSL Table E
96-L     6-13-1996   TSL Table E
97-P     12-23-1997  TSL Table A
98-F     5-14-1998   TSL Table H
98-J     8-27-1998   TSL Table H
99-F     5-13-1999   TSL Table H
99-G     6-10-1999   TSL Table A
01-C     2-22-2001   TSL Table A
02-C     2-14-2002   260.01
03-B     2-27-2003   260.01
04-A     2-12-2004   260.01
04-F     3-11-2004   260.01
04-G     3-11-2004   260.01
07-D     3-8-2007    TSL Table A
07-E     3-22-2007   260.01
08-D     2-14-2008   260.28
08-F     3-13-2008   260.01
09-O     6-11-2009   TSL Table B
09-P     6-11-2009   TSL Table F
09-U     9-10-2009   TSL Table A
09-MM    12-29-2009  TSL Table F
11-C     2-10-2011   TSL Table A
11-E     4-14-2011   260.01
11-DD    11-10-2011  TSL Table B
11-LL    12-29-2011  TSL Table B
12-K     4-12-2012   260.01
12-V     9-13-2012   TSL Table A
12-W     9-27-2012   TSL Table B
12-LL    12-13-2012  260.01
13-H     4-25-2013   TSL Table B
13-L     5-23-2013   260.01
13-CC    11-14-2013  260.01
14-I     2-27-2014   TSL Table B
14-L     3-13-2014   260.01
14-S     6-12-2014   TSL Table B
14-V     7-24-2014   TSL Table A
14-HH    10-23-2014  Ed. Note, Ch. 1060
17-G     3-23-2017   TSL Table A
2018-A   1-25-2018   TSL Table A
2018-C   2-8-2018    TSL Table A
2018-G   3-8-2018    TSL Table A
2018-L   5-10-2018   TSL Table F
2018-FF  10-11-2018  TSL Table F
2019-C   3-14-2019   TSL Table F
2019-E   3-28-2019   TSL Table A
2019-P   6-27-2019   TSL Table B
2019-Q   6-27-2019   TSL Table B
2019-Y   8-22-2019   TSL Table F
2019-AA  9-12-2019   TSL Table E
2019-DD  9-26-2019   TSL Table F
2023-017 3-23-2023   TSL Table A
2023-023 4-13-2023   TSL Table D
2023-024 4-13-2023   TSL Table D
2023-037 7-13-2023   TSL Table A
2023-039 8-10-2023   TSL Table D
2023-044 8-10-2023   TSL Table E
2023-045 9-14-2023   TSL Table L
2023-047 9-14-2023   TSL Table E
2023-052 10-12-2023  TSL Table F
2024-008 2-22-2024   TSL Table E
2024-010 2-22-2024   TSL Table D
2024-019 3-28-2024   TSL Table F
2024-023 4-11-2024   TSL Table A
2024-027 5-9-2024    TSL Table A
2024-034 5-23-2024   TSL Table E
2024-042 6-27-2024   TSL Table D
2024-044 7-11-2024   TSL Table A
2024-050 8-22-2024   TSL Table A
2024-074 12-23-2024  TSL Table D
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
06-21    - -         TSL Table I
76-61    - -         TSL Table H
76-73    - -         TSL Table H
-        3-29-1869   TSL Table H
-        5-23-1890   TSL Table H
-        12-23-1891  TSL Table H
135      7-22-1920   TSL Table H
837      5-22-1947   TSL Table H
913      4-28-1949   TSL Table H
1065     2-28-1952   TSL Table H
1113     2-12-1953   251.04
55-42    8-25-1955   TSL Table H
56-34    12-27-1956  660.14
57-36    9-26-1957   TSL Table H
57-38    10-10-1957  TSL Table H
58-45    11-25-1958  TSL Table H
58-48    12-18-1958  TSL Table H
59-11    4-9-1959    TSL Table H
61-71    9-14-1961   TSL Table H
61-85    11-28-1961  251.05
                     1474.01,
                     1474.02,
62-36    9-13-1962   1474.03,
                     1474.04,
                     1474.05,
                     1474.06
                     1010.01,
                     1010.04,
63-10    2-14-1963   1010.06,
                     1010.07,
                     1010.10,
                     1010.98
63-27    6-27-1963   TSL Table H
63-42    10-10-1963  TSL Table H
63-43    10-10-1963  219.02
64-17    8-13-1964   Part Two, Appendix A
65-3     2-11-1965   TSL Table H
65-4     2-25-1965   660.05
65-18    6-24-1965   648.10
65-19    6-24-1965   TSL Table H
66-2     1-27-1966   1001.05
66-5     2-10-1966   TSL Table H
66-16    5-12-1966   TSL Table H
66-22    6-9-1966    TSL Table H
66-31    9-8-1966    TSL Table H
                     810.02,
66-40    11-22-1966  810.04,
                     810.05,
                     810.99
67-1     1-12-1967   TSL Table H
67-34    3-28-1968   TSL Table H
68-8     3-28-1968   TSL Table H
68-16    6-13-1968   TSL Table H
68-27    8-8-1968    TSL Table H
68-40    11-14-1968  TSL Table H
68-45    12-12-1968  Part Two, Appendix A,
                     1010.04
68-48    12-26-1968  TSL Table H
69-5     2-27-1969   TSL Table H
69-6     2-27-1969   TSL Table H
69-17    7-24-1969   TSL Table I
69-27    11-13-1969  TSL Table I
69-33    12-11-1969  TSL Table I
70-1     2-12-1970   TSL Table I
70-7     2-26-1970   TSL Table H
70-10    3-12-1970   TSL Table I
70-11    3-26-1970   TSL Table I
70-17    5-14-1970   TSL Table H
70-21    6-11-1970   TSL Table I
70-24    7-23-1970   TSL Table I
70-25    7-23-1970   TSL Table I
70-34    11-12-1970  TSL Table I
70-37    11-24-1970  TSL Table I
70-38    11-24-1970  TSL Table I
70-39    11-24-1970  TSL Table H
71-2     1-14-1971   TSL Table I
71-3     1-14-1971   TSL Table I
71-4     1-28-1971   TSL Table I
-        2-1-1971    TSL Table H
71-6     2-11-1971   TSL Table I
71-25    6-10-1971   TSL Table I
71-38    8-12-1971   TSL Table H
71-39    8-12-1971   TSL Table I
71-42    8-26-1971   TSL Table I
71-43    8-26-1971   TSL Table I
72-7     2-24-1972   TSL Table I
72-16    3-23-1972   TSL Table H
72-17    4-13-1972   TSL Table I
72-18    4-27-1972   TSL Table I
72-22    5-11-1972   TSL Table H
72-23    5-11-1972   TSL Table H
72-25    5-25-1972   TSL Table I
72-34    8-24-1972   TSL Table H
72-45    11-21-1972  TSL Table H
72-46    11-21-1972  TSL Table I
72-47    11-21-1972  TSL Table I
72-48    11-21-1972  TSL Table I
72-50    12-14-1972  TSL Table I
73-1     1-11-1973   TSL Table I
73-2     1-11-1973   TSL Table H
73-3     1-11-1973   TSL Table I
73-17    3-22-1973   TSL Table H
73-33    7-12-1973   TSL Table H
73-44    10-25-1973  TSL Table H
73-46    10-25-1973  TSL Table H
73-51    11-8-1973   245.03,
                     245.04
74-7     4-7-1974    1472.08
74-23    4-25-1974   TSL Table H
74-60    7-25-1974   TSL Table I
74-84    9-12-1974   TSO Table H
74-87    9-26-1974   TSO Table I
74-104   11-14-1974  TSO Table I
75-19    3-13-1975   TSO Table I
75-26    3-27-1975   TSO Table I
75-30    4-10-1975   251.03
75-34    4-10-1975   TSO Table I
75-35    4-10-1975   TSO Table I
75-36    4-10-1975   TSO Table I
75-65    6-12-1975   TSO Table H
75-124   11-13-1975  TSO Table H
95-74    12-14-1975  Part Two, Appendix A, 1046.04
76-71    10-28-1976  TSO Table H
77-10    3-24-1977   Part Two, Appendix A
77-24    7-14-1977   TSO Table I
77-37    9-8-1977    TSO Table I
78-15    5-11-1978   251.05
78-26    6-22-1978   1001.03
                     Part Two, Appendix A,
78-29    6-22-1978   1010.04,
                     1010.11
78-36    7-27-1978   618.12,
                     618.15
78-52    9-14-1978   TSO Table I
78-71    12-14-1978  TSO Table I
78-76    12-28-1978  TSO Table I
79-4     2-8-1979    TSO Table I
79-6     2-22-1979   TSO Table I
79-14    3-8-1979    TSO Table I
79-15    3-8-1979    251.05
79-22    4-12-1979   TSO Table I
79-28    5-17-1979   251.05
                     1015.01,
                     1015.02,
                     1015.05,
79-33    6-14-1979   1015.06,
                     1015.09,
                     1015.12,
                     1015.99
                     1402.01,
79-48    7-26-1979   1402.03,
                     1402.04
79-61    9-13-1979   253.01
79-80    12-8-1979   TSO Table I
80-6     2-14-1980   TSO Table I
80-13    3-27-1980   TSO Table I
80-26    5-22-1980   TSO Table I
80-27    5-22-1980   TSO Table I
                     251.04,
80-28    5-28-1980   Part Two, Appendix A,
                     1010.03,
                     1010.05
80-47    10-9-1980   TSL Table H
81-17    6-25-1981   TSL Table I
81-19    6-25-1981   TSL Table I
81-30    8-27-1981   TSL Table I
81-34    9-24-1981   TSL Table I
                     878.01,
                     880.01,
                     880.02,
                     880.05,
                     880.06,
                     880.07,
                     880.08,
82-6     2-11-1982   880.09,
                     880.11,
                     880.12,
                     880.14,
                     880.16,
                     880.18,
                     880.20,
                     880.21,
                     880.99
82-7     2-25-1982   TSL Table I
82-11    3-11-1982   TSL Table H
82-12    3-11-1982   TSL Table I
                     1015.03,
82-14    3-25-1982   1015.04,
                     1015.08,
                     1015.11
82-31    6-10-1982   TSL Table I
82-68    11-11-1982  TSL Table I
83-33    6-23-1983   210.06
83-34    7-14-1983   1472.03
83-38    7-28-1983   TSL Table I
83-41    8-25-1983   TSL Table I
84-22    5-24-1984   660.07
84-30    6-28-1984   TSL Table I
                     Part Two, Appendix A,
84-35    7-12-1984   1030.01 to
                     1030.06
84-52    11-8-1984   TSL Table I
84-64    11-20-1984  1015.03
85-2     1-10-1985   TSL Table A
85-13    3-28-1985   TSL Table A
85-22    6-13-1985   660.03
85-50    8-22-1985   612.11
85-65    9-26-1985   TSL Table I
85-71    10-11-1985  TSL Table E
                     622.01,
                     622.03,
                     622.04,
                     622.05,
85-75    10-24-1985  622.06,
                     622.07,
                     622.08,
                     622.09,
                     622.10
85-76    10-24-1985  TSL Table E
86-6     2-13-1986   TSL Table E
86-14    2-27-1986   TSL Table I
86-15    2-27-1986   TSL Table I
86-29    3-13-1986   TSL Table I
86-32    3-27-1986   TSL Table I
86-36    4-10-1986   TSL Table C
86-38    4-24-1986   TSL Table C
86-43    5-27-1986   TSL Table C
86-45    6-12-1986   TSL Table C
86-46    6-12-1986   TSL Table I
86-76    9-11-1986   TSL Table C
86-74    9-25-1986   TSL Table I
86-78    10-9-1986   TSL Table I
86-79    10-9-1986   TSL Table C
86-87    10-23-1986  TSL Table I
86-98    11-13-1986  251.06
86-100   11-25-1986  TSL Table I
86-117   12-29-1986  TSL Table A
87-27    5-14-1987   660.03,
                     660.15
87-28    5-28-1987   TSL Table I
87-47    7-23-1987   TSL Table C
87-49    7-23-1987   TSL Table C
87-55    8-27-1987   TSL Table C
                     878.01,
                     884.01,
                     884.02,
87-59    8-27-1987   884.03,
                     884.04,
                     884.05,
                     884.06
87-69    10-22-1987  TSL Table I
87-82    12-10-1987  TSL Table I
87-84    12-29-1987  TSL Table H
87-85    12-29-1987  TSL Table I
88-4     1-28-1988   TSL Table E
88-11    2-11-1988   TSL Table I
88-21    3-24-1988   TSL Table I
88-23    3-24-1988   1472.09, 1472.11, 1472.12
88-31    4-14-1988   TSL Table C
88-33    4-14-1988   TSL Table I
88-36    4-28-1988   TSL Table E
88-37    4-28-1988   TSL Table I
88-57    6-9-1988    TSL Table I
88-78    7-28-1988   810.06
88-81    8-11-1988   1010.08,
                     1010.99
88-82    8-11-1988   204.03
88-92    10-13-1988  1015.03
89-3     1-26-1989   TSL Table E
89-22    4-13-1989   TSL Table I
89-30    6-8-1989    880.06
89-38    6-8-1989    219.03
89-42    6-8-1989    250.09
89-43    6-8-1989    241.06
89-45    7-13-1989   TSL Table H
89-46    7-13-1989   TSL Table H
89-47    7-13-1989   TSL Table H
89-48    7-13-1989   TSL Table I
89-53    7-27-1989   TSL Table I
89-61    9-7-1989    251.05
89-70    11-9-1989   TSO Table C
89-71    11-9-1989   TSO Table C
                     880.07,
                     880.10,
89-72    11-21-1989  880.12,
                     880.17,
                     880.99
89-75    11-21-1989  TSO Table A
89-76    11-21-1989  TSO Table A
89-77    11-21-1989  TSO Table A
89-78    11-21-1989  Part Two, Appendix A,
                     1030.03
89-84    12-14-1989  TSO Table C
                     251.04,
                     1025.01,
                     1025.02,
                     1025.03,
                     1025.05,
                     1025.06,
89-86    12-28-1989  1025.07,
                     1025.08,
                     1025.09,
                     1025.10,
                     1025.11,
                     1025.12,
                     1025.98,
                     1025.99
90-14    3-22-1990   TSO Table E
90-15    4-12-1990   245.02
90-17    4-12-1990   TSO Table I
90-18    4-12-1990   TSO Table H
90-21    5-10-1990   TSO Table I
90-22    5-10-1990   TSO Table A
90-25    5-24-1990   TSO Table I
90-35    8-9-1990    TSO Table C
90-41    8-23-1990   251.06
91-3     1-24-1991   TSO Table H
91-13    3-14-1991   TSO Table I
                     1040.01,
                     1040.02,
91-14    3-14-1991   1040.03,
                     1040.98,
                     1040.99
91-17    4-25-1991   1010.09
91-19    4-25-1991   618.02
                     880.03,
91-24    5-16-1991   880.04,
                     880.14,
                     880.15
91-38    8-8-1991    TSO Table I
                     878.01,
                     882.01,
                     882.02,
                     882.03,
                     882.04,
                     882.05,
                     882.06,
                     882.07,
91-62    10-24-1991  882.08,
                     882.09,
                     882.10,
                     882.11,
                     882.12,
                     882.13,
                     882.14,
                     882.15,
                     882.16,
                     882.99
91-77    12-30-1991  TSL Table H
92-3     1-23-1992   TSL Table C
96-2     2-13-1992   214.03
92-8     2-27-1992   TSL Table I
92-9     2-27-1992   TSL Table I
92-17    3-12-1992   1030.04
92-18    3-12-1992   Part Two, Appendix A,
                     1016.09
92-22    3-26-1992   TSL Table I
92-23    3-26-1992   660.07,
                     660.14
92-27    5-28-1992   1010.02
92-35    6-25-1992   TSL Table H
92-44    9-10-1992   TSL Table C
92-51    11-12-1992  TSL Table I
92-55    11-24-1992  Part Two, Appendix A,
                     1025.04
93-3     1-28-1993   251.06
93-6     2-11-1993   TSL Table I
93-20    4-8-1993    TSL Table I
93-21    4-8-1993    TSL Table I
93-22    4-8-1993    TSL Table C
93-35    6-24-1993   Part Two, Appendix A, 1042.30
                     802.01,
                     850.01,
                     850.02,
                     850.03,
93-38    7-8-1993    850.04,
                     850.05,
                     850.06,
                     850.07,
                     850.99
93-40    7-22-1993   1030.04
                     802.01,
                     862.01,
                     862.02,
                     862.03,
                     862.04,
93-43    8-12-1993   862.05,
                     862.07,
                     862.08,
                     862.09,
                     862.10,
                     862.11,
                     862.99
93-44    8-26-1993   1010.04
93-50    8-26-1993   TSL Table C
93-55    9-9-1993    212.04
93-56    9-9-1993    TSL Table I
93-66    10-14-1993  TSL Table I
93-70    11-23-1993  TSL Table I
94-2     2-10-1994   TSL Table H
94-8     3-10-1994   TSL Table I
94-9     3-10-1994   TSL Table I
94-41    6-23-1994   TSL Table I
94-42    7-14-1994   TSL Table I
94-43    7-14-1994   TSL Table I
94-50    8-11-1994   TSL Table I
94-57    9-8-1994    TSL Table E
94-70    10-27-1994  TSL Table I
94-71    10-27-1994  TSL Table H
94-72    10-27-1994  TSL Table I
94-76    11-10-1994  TSL Table C
95-3     2-9-1995    TSL Table I
95-6     2-9-1995    TSL Table C
95-11    3-9-1995    TSL Table I
95-12    3-9-1995    TSL Table H
95-17    4-13-1995   TSL Table I
5-34     6-8-1995    TSL Table H
95-48    7-27-1995   TSL Table C
95-51    8-10-1995   TSL Table I
95-57    8-24-1995   Part Two, Appendix A
95-58    8-24-1995   1015.03
95-61    10-12-1995  TSL Table I
95-73    12-14-1995  Part Two, Appendix A,
                     1010.05
95-74    12-14-1995  Part Two, Appendix A,
                     1015.04
96-2     1-11-1996   TSL Table H
96-3     1-11-1996   TSL Table H
96-6     1-25-1996   251.07
96-7     1-25-1996   290.01
96-16    3-15-1996   TSL Table I
96-23    3-28-1996   212.01
96-31    4-11-1996   TSL Table C
96-41    5-9-1996    648.11
                     620.01,
                     620.03,
                     620.04,
                     620.05,
                     620.06,
                     620.07,
96-43    5-23-1996   620.08,
                     620.09,
                     620.10,
                     620.11,
                     620.12,
                     620.13,
                     620.99
96-51    6-13-1996   TSL Table C
96-59    7-11-1996   TSL Table H
96-60    7-11-1996   TSL Table C
96-61    7-11-1996   241.01
96-71    8-22-1996   666.13
96-77    9-26-1996   1472.10
96-80    10-10-1996  TSL Table I
                     244.01,
96-100   12-12-1996  244.02,
                     244.06,
                     251.03
97-2     1-9-1997    802.01
97-3     1-9-1997    TSL Table A
97-08    2-27-1997   Part Two, Appendix A
97-13    4-10-1997   TSL Table I
97-17    5-8-1997    1402.99,
                     1474.99
97-19    6-12-1997   TSL Table I
97-22    6-12-1997   TSL Table I
97-30    7-10-1997   TSL Table H
                     1404.01 to
97-54    11-13-1997  1404.06,
                     1404.99
97-58    11-25-1997  TSL Table I
97-59    11-25-1997  TSL Table I
97-60    11-25-1997  TSL Table I
98-14    3-26-1998   250.03
98-30    5-14-1998   TSL Table I
98-44    7-9-1998    TSL Table I
98-52    8-13-1998   TSL Table H
98-59    9-10-1998   TSL Table I
98-60    9-10-1998   Part Two, Appendix A
98-76    11-12-1998  TSL Table H
99-6     3-11-1999   880.13
99-10    4-8-1999    TSL Table I
99-11    4-8-1999    TSL Table I
99-13    4-22-1999   290.03
99-16    5-13-1999   290.01
99-17    5-27-1999   TSL Table I
99-33    8-12-1999   TSL Table I
99-35    8-12-1999   Part Two, Appendix A,
                     1015.04
99-54    10-28-1999  245.02
00-02    2-24-2000   Part Two, Appendix A
00-5     3-23-2000   TSL Table E
00-6     3-23-2000   TSL Table I
00-7     3-23-2000   TSL Table I
00-22    6-22-2000   TSL Table H
00-23    6-22-2000   TSL Table I
00-31    7-27-2000   TSL Table I
00-34    8-10-2000   240.06
00-35    8-10-2000   1015.03
00-36    8-10-2000   Part Two, Appendix A
00-51    9-28-2000   410.06
00-59    11-9-2000   412.06
01-03    1-25-2001   TSL Table I
01-07    2-8-2001    210.05
01-25    7-12-2001   TSL Table I
01-26    7-12-2001   TSL Table H
01-27    7-12-2001   TSL Table H
01-28    7-12-2001   TSL Table I
01-46    11-8-2001   219.03
02-4     2-28-2002   TSL Table C
02-21    7-11-2002   242.09
02-32    9-12-2002   TSL Table E
02-46    10-24-2002  TSL Table I
02-47    10-24-2002  TSL Table I
02-48    10-24-2002  TSL Table C
03-01    1-9-2003    210.05
03-09    2-27-2003   214.06
03-12    3-13-2003   TSL Table I
03-23    5-8-2003    214.03
03-26    5-22-2003   TSL Table E
03-27    5-22-2003   TSL Table H
03-28    6-12-2003   TSL Table G
03-30    6-12-2003   TSL Table I
03-36    7-24-2003   TSL Table G
03-40    8-14-2003   880.04
03-43    9-11-2003   TSL Table C
03-51    12-11-2003  TSL Table I
03-54    12-30-2003  Part Two, Appendix A
04-05    2-26-2004   TSL Table H
04-06    2-26-2004   TSL Table H
04-07    2-26-2004   TSL Table I
04-08    2-26-2004   TSL Table I
04-09    3-11-2004   862.04,
                     862.08
04-19    5-13-2004   Part Two, Appendix A,
                     1015.04
04-20    5-13-2004   Part Two, Appendix A,
                     1010.05
04-21    5-13-2004   1015.03
04-25    6-10-2004   TSL Table I
04-28    7-8-2004    1015.05
                     878.01,
                     880.01,
                     880.02,
                     880.04,
                     880.05,
                     880.06 
04-33    8-12-2004   880.07,
                     880.08,
                     880.09,
                     880.11,
                     880.12,
                     880.13,
                     880.15,
                     880.22
04-38    9-23-2004   TSL Table I
                     1020.01,
                     1020.02,
04-39    9-23-2004   1020.03,
                     1020.05 to
                     1020.10,
                     1020.99
05-04    1-27-2005   TSL Table H
05-05    2-10-2005   210.05
                     Part Two, Appendix A,
05-08    3-24-2005   804.02,
                     1000.02,
                     1001.03
05-18    5-12-2005   802.01
                     802.01,
                     840.01,
                     840.02,
                     840.03,
                     840.04,
                     840.05,
                     840.06,
                     840.07,
05-19    5-12-2005   840.08,
                     840.09,
                     840.10,
                     840.11,
                     840.12,
                     840.13,
                     840.14,
                     840.15,
                     840.16,
                     840.99
                     802.01,
                     858.01,
                     858.02,
                     858.03,
                     858.04,
                     858.05,
                     858.06,
                     858.07,
                     858.08,
                     858.09,
05-20    5-12-2005   858.10,
                     858.11,
                     858.12,
                     858.13,
                     858.14,
                     858.15,
                     858.16,
                     858.17,
                     858.18,
                     858.19,
                     858.20,
                     858.99
05-23    6-9-2005    1015.05
05-43    8-11-2005   TSL Table I
05-48    9-8-2005    TSL Table H
05-49    9-8-2005    TSL Table J
05-51    9-22-2005   TSL Table I
05-57    10-13-2005  TSL Table J
05-61    10-27-2005  TSL Table J
05-88    12-29-2005  TSL Table H
06-04    1-12-2006   TSL Table I
06-05    1-12-2006   TSL Table J
06-08    12-14-2006  410.05
06-10    1-26-2006   Part Two, Appendix A
                     Part Two, Appendix A,
06-12    1-26-2006   1030.03,
                     1030.04,
                     1030.05
06-13    1-26-2006   880.17
06-14    1-26-2006   880.13
06-19    2-23-2006   TSL Table I
06-30    5-11-2006   TSL Table I
06-31    5-11-2006   TSL Table J
                     618.02,
                     618.10,
                     618.11,
                     618.12,
06-34    5-25-2006   618.15,
                     618.16,
                     618.17,
                     618.18,
                     618.19
                     860.01,
                     860.02,
                     860.03,
06-35    5-25-2006   860.04,
                     860.05,
                     860.06,
                     860.99
06-50    7-27-2006   TSL Table E
                     804.01,
06-62    9-28-2006   810.03,
                     1000.02,
                     1602.11
06-65    10-26-2006  880.06
06-66    11-9-2006   TSL Table I
06-69    11-9-2006   251.06
06-70    11-9-2006   648.10
06-71    11-9-2006   850.02
06-72    11-9-2006   Part Two, Appendix A,
                     1010.03
06-73    11-9-2006   Part Two, Appendix A,
                     1025.04
06-75    11-20-2006  TSL Table H
06-78    12-14-2006  TSL Table J
06-84    12-28-2006  TSL Table E
                     1030.01,
06-86    12-28-2006  1030.02,
                     1030.04
                     Part Two, Appendix A,
06-87    12-28-2006  1020.04,
                     1020.98
06-88    12-28-2006  Part Two, Appendix A,
                     1010.05
06-89    12-28-2006  Part Two, Appendix A
06-90    12-28-2006  Part Two, Appendix A
06-91    12-28-2007  Part Two, Appendix A,
                     1015.03
06-92    12-28-2006  Part Two, Appendix A,
                     1025.04
07-02    1-11-2007   TSL Table I
07-05    2-8-2007    210.05
07-06    2-8-2007    Adopting Ordinance
07-23    5-10-2007   TSL Table F
07-24    5-10-2007   TSL Table I
07-25    5-10-2007   TSL Table H
07-33    6-28-2007   TSL Table E
07-37    8-9-2007    TSL Table H
07-38    8-9-2007    TSL Table I
07-40    8-9-2007    Part Two, Appendix A
07-52    10-11-2007  TSL Table I
07-55    11-8-2007   TSL Table I
07-60    12-13-2007  TSL Table E
07-61    12-27-2007  Part Two, Appendix A
07-64    12-27-2007  866.01 -
                     866.10
                     1030.01,
07-65    12-27-2007  1030.04,
                     1030.07,
                     1030.10
08-03    1-10-2008   TSL Table I
08-04    1-10-2008   1010.03,
                     1010.05
08-05    1-10-2008   1015.03,
                     1015.04
08-06    1-10-2008   Part Two, Appendix A
08-07    1-10-2008   Part Two, Appendix A
08-19    4-10-2008   TSL Table I
08-25    4-24-2008   250.05
08-28    5-8-2008    214.03
08-29    5-8-2008    TSL Table E
08-36    6-12-2008   TSL Table I
08-44    7-10-2008   TSL Table C
                     Part Two, Appendix A,
08-52    8-14-2008   1030.01 to
                     1030.07,
                     1030.10
08-65    9-25-2008   880.06
08-67    10-23-2008  TSL Table E
08-75    11-13-2008  TSL Table I
08-87    12-30-2008  Part Two, Appendix A,
                     1030.06
09-04    2-12-2009   Part Two, Appendix A,
                     1030.04
09-15    4-9-2009    TSL Table I
                     244.01,
09-16    4-9-2009    244.03 to
                     244.07
09-19    4-9-2009    880.23
09-21    4-9-2009    Part Two, Appendix A
09-22    4-9-2009    802.01
09-29    4-23-2009   630.14
09-49    7-9-2009    TSL Table E
09-50    7-9-2009    Part Two, Appendix A
09-51    7-23-2009   TSL Table B
09-55    8-27-2009   1041.01,
                     1041.02
09-56    8-27-2009   Part Two, Appendix A
09-57    8-27-2009   TSL Table E
09-58    8-27-2009   TSL Table E
09-59    8-27-2009   TSL Table B
09-60    9-10-2009   TSL Table E
09-66    10-22-2009  TSL Table B
09-67    10-22-2009  TSL Table E
09-68    10-22-2009  TSL Table E
09-69    10-22-2009  TSL Table E
09-70    10-22-2009  TSL Table E
09-73    11-12-2009  TSL Table E
09-75    11-24-2009  TSL Table E
09-76    11-24-2009  TSL Table E
09-78    11-24-2009  251.06
09-79    11-24-2009  1030.03
09-82    12-29-2009  TSL Table B
09-86    12-29-2009  Part Two, Appendix A,
                     1010.05
10-04    2-11-2010   TSL Table F
10-05    2-25-2010   TSL Table I
10-07    3-11-2010   TSL Table B
10-08    3-11-2010   TSL Table B
10-20    6-10-2010   242.04,
                     242.08
10-21    6-10-2010   660.08
10-24    6-10-2010   1602.11
10-27    6-24-2010   880.03,
                     880.04
10-28    7-8-2010    TSL Table I
10-31    11-2-2010   Charter
10-37    8-26-2010   878.01,
                     880.24
10-42    9-9-2010    1015.05
10-45    9-23-2010   TSL Table I
11-02    1-13-2011   TSL Table I
11-03    1-13-2011   TSL Table I
11-05    1-27-2011   1010.09
11-06    1-27-2011   1040.06,
                     1040.98
11-09    2-10-2011   TSL Table E
11-12    4-23-2011   TSL Table J
11-17    4-28-2011   TSL Table E
11-19    5-12-2011   TSL Table B
11-26    7-14-2011   TSL Table I
11-29    8-25-2011   TSL Table E
11-37    8-25-2011   1001.03
11-41    9-8-2011    TSL Table I
11-46    9-22-2011   880.15
11-59    11-10-2011  TSL Table I
11-64    11-22-2011  Part Two, Appendix A
11-65    11-22-2011  TSL Table E
                     802.01,
                     870.01 -
11-69    11-22-2011  870.09,
                     870.98,
                     870.99
11-70    11-22-2011  618.02,
                     618.11
                     1010.03,
                     1010.05,
                     1015.03,
12-08    3-22-2012   1015.04,
                     1016.09,
                     1020.04,
                     1025.04
12-09    3-22-2012   Part Two, Appendix A
12-19    4-26-2012   250.03
12-21    5-10-2012   TSL Table J
2012-22  5-10-2012   214.01
12-24    5-10-2012   214.06
12-25    5-24-2012   TSL Table A
12-30    6-14-2012   618.02
12-31    6-14-2012   Part Two, Appendix A
12-36    7-26-2012   214.04
12-39    8-23-2012   TSL Table F
12-40    8-23-2012   TSL Table D
12-43    9-13-2012   TSL Table J
12-48    10-25-2012  618.18
12-51    11-20-2012  TSL Table J
13-05    2-14-2013   Part Two, Appendix A,
                     1010.09
13-06    2-14-2013   TSL Table E
13-11    2-28-2013   TSL Table B
13-12    2-28-2013   230.03
13-13    2-28-2013   TSL Table E
13-15    3-14-2013   TSL Table B
13-20    4-11-2013   210.05
13-24    4-25-2013   TSL Table A
13-25    4-25-2013   TSL Table E
13-26    4-25-2013   TSL Table E
13-31    6-13-2013   648.12
13-34    6-27-2013   TSL Table E
13-35    6-27-2013   TSL Table A
13-36    6-27-2013   TSL Table J
13-37    6-27-2013   648.13
                     1602.01,
                     1602.02,
13-40    7-25-2013   1602.04,
                     1602.10,
                     1604.09,
                     1604.10
13-41    8-8-2013    TSL Table B
13-51    10-10-2013  TSL Table I
13-53    10-24-2013  TSL Table I
13-64    12-12-2013  TSL Table I
14-04    1-23-2014   TSL Table E
14-05    1-23-2014   TSL Table E
                     Part Two, Appendix A,
                     660.03,
14-10    2-13-2014   660.13,
                     1488.01,
                     1490.01 -
                     1490.08
14-11    2-13-2014   1488.01
14-12    2-13-2014   TSL Table J
14-14    1-23-2014   TSL Table E
14-34    8-28-2014   TSL Table D
14-36    9-25-2014   Part Two, Appendix A
14-37    9-25-2014   1490.01
14-39    10-9-2014   TSL Table F
14-40    10-9-2014   202.06,
                     Part Two, Appendix A
14-44    10-9-2014   1030.11
14-45    10-9-2014   TSL Table E
14-48    10-23-2014  TSL Table I
14-49    11-13-2014  TSL Table E
14-50    11-13-2014  TSL Table E
14-52    11-25-2014  TSL Table J
14-53    11-25-2014  TSL Table J
14-54    11-25-2014  432.11
14-59    12-29-2014  TSL Table I
14-60    12-29-2014  880.24
15-07    4-9-2015    TSL Table E
15-08    4-9-2015    251.02
15-10    4-9-2015    TSL Table E
15-11    4-9-2015    TSL Table I
15-13    4-9-2015    TSL Table F
15-14    4-23-2015   Part Two, Appendix A
15-21    5-28-2015   TSL Table I
15-29    7-23-2015   Part Two, Appendix A,
                     1016.09
15-32    7-23-2015   Ch. 878, Title;
                     Ch. 880, Title
                     881.01,
                     881.03,
                     881.04,
                     881.05,
15-33    7-23-2015   881.06,
                     881.09,
                     881.18,
                     881.22,
                     881.25,
                     881.26
15-37    8-13-2015   TSL Table D
15-38    9-10-2015   TSL Table E
15-39    9-10-2015   TSL Table E
15-40    9-10-2015   TSL Table D
15-41    9-10-2015   1015.05
15-42    9-24-2015   TSL Table E
                     Part Two, Appendix A,
15-43    9-24-2015   850.02 to
                     850.07,
                     850.99
15-45    10-22-2015  Part Two, Appendix A
15-50    11-12-2015  TSL Table E
15-51    11-24-2015  TSL Table A
15-52    11-24-2015  TSL Table H
15-56    11-24-2015  TSL Table E
15-57    11-24-2015  886.01 to
                     886.08
15-59    11-24-2015  250.05
                     1030.06,
15-60    11-24-2015  1030.07,
                     1030.10,
                     1030.11
15-61    11-24-2015  881.22,
                     881.26
16-10    3-24-2016   TSL Table A
16-16    4-14-2016   TSL Table I
16-18    4-28-2016   TSL Table E
16-19    4-28-2016   1490.03
16-23    5-26-2016   TSL Table E
16-26    6-9-2016    Part Twelve, Editor s Note
16-27    6-9-2016    TSL Table I
16-28    6-9-2016    Part Two, Appendix A
16-31    6-23-2016   TSL Table E
                     1025.03,
                     1025.05,
                     1025.06,
16-32    6-23-2016   1025.07,
                     1025.09,
                     1025.11,
                     1025.12
16-35    7-14-2016   TSL Table I
16-38    7-28-2016   TSL Table I
16-45    8-25-2016   TSL Table I
16-54    11-22-2016  881.05
16-55    12-8-2016   TSL Table J
17-01    1-12-2017   TSL Table F
17-05    1-26-2017   TSL Table E
17-06    1-26-2017   TSL Table E
17-09    2-9-2017    TSL Table I
                     802.01,
17-14    4-13-2017   872.01,
                     872.02,
                     872.99
17-15    4-13-2017   TSL Table I
17-17    4-27-2017   210.05
17-22    5-11-2017   TSL Table I
                     1025.03,
17-23    5-11-2017   1025.04,
                     1025.06,
                     1025.07
17-24    5-11-2017   Part Two, Appendix A
17-29    6-8-2017    TSL Table I
17-31    6-8-2017    TSL Table E
17-34    7-13-2017   TSL Table I
17-35    7-13-2017   TSL Table E
17-36    8-10-2017   TSL Table E
17-37    8-24-2017   TSL Table E
17-39    8-24-2017   TSL Table I
                     Part Two, Appendix A,
17-41    10-12-2017  1041.01,
                     1041.02
17-43    10-12-2017  TSL Table I
17-45    11-9-2017   TSL Table J
17-47    11-9-2017   TSL Table A
17-49    12-14-2017  TSL Table E
17-52    12-14-2017  TSL Table J
2018-04  2-8-2018    Part Twelve, Editor s Note
2018-05  2-8-2018    TSL Table D
2018-06  2-8-2018    TSL Table B
                     881.01,
                     881.03,
                     881.04,
                     881.05,
                     881.06,
2018-08  2-22-2018   881.09,
                     881.18,
                     881.22,
                     881.25,
                     881.26,
                     881.27,
                     881.99 
2018-09  3-22-2018   TSL Table J
2018-11  4-26-2018   TSL Table A
                     642.13,
2018-12  4-26-2018   642.15,
                     642.99
2018-15  5-24-2018   TSL Table B
2018-16  6-14-2018   TSL Table I
2018-20  7-12-2018   TSL Table J
2018-21  7-26-2018   TSL Table I
18-22    7-26-2018   1040.06
                     Part Two, Appendix A,
18-23    8-9-2018    1041.01,
                     1041.02
2018-27  9-13-2018   245.01 to
                     245.05
2018-28  9-27-2018   TSL Table E
2018-30  10-11-2018  TSL Table J
                     240.01 to
                     240.04,
                     240.06,
                     240.07,
                     Part Two, Appendix A,
                     450.01 to
                     450.12,
                     452.05,
                     452.06,
                     452.07,
                     452.09,
2018-31  10-25-2018  452.10,
                     452.11,
                     452.12,
                     452.13,
                     452.14,
                     452.16,
                     452.90,
                     452.91,
                     452.92,
                     452.99,
                     454.06,
                     454.10,
                     454.99
2018-33  11-8-2018   TSL Table E
2018-35  11-20-2018  TSL Table B
2018-37  12-27-2018  TSL Table I
2018-38  12-27-2018  Part Two, Appendix A
2019-01  1-24-2019   TSL Table E
2019-04  2-28-2019   TSL Table I
2019-05  3-14-2019   1490.03
2019-08  4-11-2019   Part Two, Appendix A
2019-09  5-9-2019    TSL Table A
2019-11  5-23-2019   TSL Table I
19-12    5-23-2019   210.05
2019-13  6-13-2019   TSL Table C
                     242.01 to
2019-19  9-26-2019   242.09,
                     Part Two, Appendix A
2019-21  11-14-2019  Part Twelve, Editor s Note
                     618.11,
                     648.10,
                     648.11,
                     648.12,
2019-22  12-26-2019  648.13,
                     660.03,
                     678.01,
                     678.02,
                     1040.01
2019-23  12-12-2019  TSL Table C
2019-25  12-30-2019  TSL Table I
2020-02  2-13-2020   TSL Table B
                     1602.01 to
                     1602.12,
                     1602.99,
2020-03  2-27-2020   1604.01,
                     1604.02,
                     1604.08,
                     1604.09,
                     1604.10
2020-05  6-11-2020   TSL Table I
2020-06  3-12-2020   219.05
                     881.01 to
2020-10  4-23-2020   881.27,
                     881.99
2020-11  5-14-2020   TSL Table A
2020-13  5-28-2020   260.11
2020-14  5-28-2020   TSL Table D
2020-15  6-25-2020   TSL Table A
2020-19  8-13-2020   240.08
                     1015.05,
2020-20  8-27-2020   1016.01 to
                     1016.12
2020-24  9-10-2020   1021.01 to
                     1021.10
2020-25  9-24-2020   TSL Table H
2020-29  12-10-2020  TSL Table D
2020-C   2-27-2020   TSL Table F
2020-E   3-12-2020   TSL Table A
2020-F   3-26-2020   TSL Table A
2020-K   5-28-2020   TSL Table E
2020-O   6-25-2020   TSL Table E
2020-S   7-23-2020   TSL Table F
2020-T   8-13-2020   TSL Table F
2020-W   8-27-2020   TSL Table E
2020-Y   9-10-2020   TSL Table E
2020-Z   9-10-2020   TSL Table E
2021-A   1-14-2021   TSL Table E
2021-D   1-28-2021   TSL Table E
                     240.02,
2021-04  2-11-2021   Part Two, Appendix A,
                     618.02,
                     1030.04
2021-05  2-11-2021   TSL Table H
2021-09  4-22-2021   TSL Table I
2021-V   4-22-2021   TSL Table F
2021-11  5-27-2021   TSL Table I
2021-12  5-27-2021   TSL Table I
2021-13  5-27-2021   TSL Table I
2021-14  6-24-2021   TSL Table H
2021-15  6-24-2021   TSL Table I
2021-16  7-8-2021    TSL Table H
2021-DD  7-8-2021    TSL Table E
2021-JJ  9-9-2021    TSL Table D
2021-OO  10-28-2021  TSL Table E
2021-VV  11-23-2021  TSL Table E
                     200.01 to
                     200.07,
                     200.99,
                     202.01 to
                     202.07,
                     204.01 to
                     204.08,
                     206.01 to
2021-23  12-29-2021  206.04,
                     210.01 to
                     210.07,
                     212.01,
                     212.02,
                     212.04 to
                     212.07,
                     214.01 to
                     214.06
2022-C   1-13-2022   TSL Table E
2022-G   2-10-2022   TSL Table E
2022-H   2-24-2022   TSL Table E
2022-02  2-10-2022   452.11
2022-04  2-24-2022   Part Twelve, Editor s Note
2022-M   3-24-2022   TSL Table A
2022-N   3-24-2022   TSL Table A
2022-O   3-24-2022   TSL Table B
2022-06  4-23-2022   TSL Table I
2022-T   4-28-2022   TSL Table D
2022-U   4-28-2022   TSL Table F
2022-Z   5-12-2022   TSL Table E
2022-10  5-28-2022   TSL Table I
2022-11  5-28-2022   TSL Table I
                     260.01 to
2022-13  5-26-2022   260.21,
                     260.90,
                     260.91
                     422.11,
                     422.12,
2022-14  5-26-2022   422.13,
                     422.14,
                     422.15,
                     422.90
2022-KK  6-23-2022   TSL Table A
2022-15  6-25-2022   TSL Table A
2022-16  6-25-2022   TSL Table A
2022-18  7-9-2022    TSL Table C
2022-19  7-23-2022   TSL Table I
                     212.01,
                     212.02,
2022-20  6-23-2022   212.03,
                     212.04,
                     212.06,
                     212.07
                     280.01 to
                     280.05,
                     281.01 to
                     281.05,
                     282.01 to
                     282.07,
2022-21  7-28-2022   283.01 to
                     283.05,
                     284.01 to
                     284.06,
                     285.01 to
                     285.04,
                     286.01 to
                     286.04
2022-ZZ  8-25-2022   TSL Table E
                     240.01 to
                     240.08,
                     241.01 to
                     241.11,
2022-28  8-25-2022   242.01 to
                     242.09,
                     243.01 to
                     243.04,
                     245.01 to
                     245.05
2022-29  8-25-2022   Part Two, Appendix A, Part Twelve, Editor s Note
2022-AAA 9-8-2022    TSL Table E
2022-GGG 9-22-2022   TSL Table D
2022-32  10-8-2022   TSL Table E
2022-34  10-22-2022  TSL Table A
                     250.01 to
                     250.06,
                     252.01,
                     252.02,
                     253.01 to
2022-35  9-22-2022   253.03,
                     254.01 to
                     254.03,
                     255.01,
                     255.02,
                     256.01 to
                     256.03
2022-36  10-22-2022  TSL Table E
2022-37  10-22-2022  TSL Table I
2022-39  11-12-2022  TSL Table E
                     219.01 to
                     219.06,
                     220.01,
                     220.02,
                     221.01,
                     221.02,
                     222.01 to
                     222.03,
                     223.01 to
                     223.03,
2022-40  10-27-2022  224.01 to
                     224.03,
                     230.01 to
                     230.03,
                     231.01 to
                     231.03,
                     232.01 to
                     232.03,
                     233.01 to
                     233.03,
                     234.01 to
                     234.03
2022-41  10-27-2022  618.11
2022-42  12-22-2022  TSL Table I
                     251.01 to
                     251.07,
                     251.90,
                     882.14,
2022-44  11-22-2022  1020.04,
                     1030.04,
                     1030.11,
                     1602.06,
                     1602.08
                     1002.01 to
2022-46  12-8-2022   1002.23,
                     1002.99
2022-50  2-11-2023   TSL Table I
                     1402.01 to
                     1402.06,
                     1402.99,
                     1404.01 to
2022-51  1-12-2023   1404.06,
                     1404.99,
                     1406.01,
                     1406.02,
                     1406.03
2022-52  1-12-2023   Part Two, Appendix A
2023-04  3-9-2023    TSL Table E
2023-05  3-23-2023   Part Two, Appendix A
                     219.07,
2023-06  4-13-2023   245.06,
                     250.07,
                     260.22
2023-07  4-13-2023   TSL Table A
2023-12  5-11-2023   210.05
2023-13  6-22-2023   Part Twelve, Editor s Note
2023-15  6-8-2023    TSL Table I
2023-16  6-8-2023    TSL Table A
2023-18  7-13-2023   Part Twelve, Editor s Note
2023-19  7-13-2023   TSL Table E
2023-20  7-27-2023   TSL Table A
                     450.01,
                     450.06,
2023-22  8-10-2023   450.10,
                     452.08,
                     452.10
2023-23  8-10-2023   TSL Table I
2023-24  8-10-2023   TSL Table H
2023-29  9-28-2023   TSL Table B
                     254.04,
                     881.02,
                     881.03,
                     881.04,
                     881.05,
                     881.06,
                     881.07,
                     881.09,
                     881.10,
2023-31  11-21-2023  881.11,
                     881.12,
                     881.14,
                     881.15,
                     881.17,
                     881.18,
                     881.19,
                     881.20,
                     881.21,
                     881.27,
                     881.99
2023-32  11-21-2023  TSL Table E
                     240.09,
                     1040.01 to
                     1040.06,
                     1040.97 to
2023-33  11-21-2023  1040.99,
                     1041.01,
                     1041.02,
                     1042.01 to
                     1042.04,
                     1042.99
                     660.05,
                     1000.01 to
                     1000.99,
2023-35  12-14-2023  1001.01 to
                     1001.99,
                     1002.01 to
                     1002.23,
                     1002.99,
2023-36  12-14-2023  251.05
                     250.04,
                     Part Two, Appendix A,
                     1010.01 to
                     1010.11,
                     1010.98,
                     1010.99,
                     1015.01 to
                     1015.12,
                     1015.98,
                     1015.99,
                     1016.01 to
                     1016.12,
2023-38  12-28-2023  1020.01 to
                     1020.10,
                     1020.98,
                     1020.99,
                     1021.01 to
                     1021.10,
                     1025.01 to
                     1025.12,
                     1025.98,
                     1025.99,
                     1030.01 to
                     1030.11,
                     1031.01 to
                     1031.06
                     886.01 to
2023-39  12-28-2023  886.08,
                     886.99
                     240.09,
                     250.04,
                     Part Two, Appendix A,
                     660.05,
                     1000.01 to
                     1000.99,
                     1001.01 to
                     1001.99,
                     1002.01 to
                     1002.23,
                     1002.99,
                     1010.01 to
                     1010.11,
                     1010.98,
                     1010.99,
                     1015.01 to
                     1015.12,
                     1015.98,
                     1015.99,
                     1016.01 to
                     1016.12,
2024-01  2-8-2024    1020.01 to
                     1020.10,
                     1020.98,
                     1020.99,
                     1021.01 to
                     1021.10,
                     1025.01 to
                     1025.12,
                     1025.98,
                     1025.99,
                     1030.01 to
                     1030.11,
                     1031.01 to
                     1031.06,
                     1040.01 to
                     1040.06,
                     1040.97 to
                     1040.99,
                     1041.01,
                     1041.02,
                     1042.01 to
                     1042.04,
                     1042.99
                     240.09,
                     250.04,
                     Part Two, Appendix A,
                     660.05,
                     1000.01 to
                     1000.99,
                     1001.01 tp
                     1001.99,
                     1002.01 to
                     1002.23,
                     1002.99,
                     1010.01 to
                     1010.11,
                     1010.98,
                     1010.99 
                     1015.01 to
                     1015.12,
                     1015.98,
                     1015.99,
                     1016.01 to
                     1016.12,
2024-02  2-22-2024   1020.01 to
                     1020.10,
                     1020.98,
                     1020.99,
                     1021.01 to
                     1021.10,
                     1025.01 to
                     1025.12,
                     1025.98,
                     1025.99,
                     1030.01 to
                     1030.11,
                     1031.01 to
                     1031.06,
                     1040.01 to
                     1040.06,
                     1040.97 to
                     1040.99,
                     1041.01,
                     1041.02,
                     1042.01 to
                     1042.04,
                     1042.99
2024-04  2-22-2024   TSL Table E
2024-05  3-28-2024   214.01
2024-07  4-11-2024   TSL Table I
2024-08  4-25-2024   TSL Table F
2024-09  4-25-2024   TSL Table B
2024-10  5-9-2024    260.13,
                     260.15
2024-12  5-23-2024   TSL Table H
2024-14  7-11-2024   241.12
2024-15  8-8-2024    TSL Table E
2024-16  8-8-2024    TSL Table I
2024-17  8-8-2024    TSL Table I
2024-18  8-8-2024    287.01 to
                     287.06
2024-20  9-12-2024   886.03
                     400.09,
                     402.04,
                     402.08,
                     402.11,
                     402.12,
                     410.04,
                     410.05,
                     410.06,
                     410.09,
                     410.99,
                     412.99,
                     422.11 to
                     422.15,
                     422.90,
                     424.07,
                     424.09,
2024-25  10-10-2024  424.99,
                     426.01 to
                     426.04,
                     426.99,
                     430.01,
                     430.99,
                     432.34 to
                     432.37,
                     432.99,
                     436.15,
                     436.99,
                     438.19,
                     438.21,
                     450.02 to
                     450.08,
                     450.10,
                     450.11,
                     450.12
                     872.01,
2024-26  10-10-2024  872.02,
                     872.99
2024-41  12-23-2024  1043.01 to
                     1043.07
2024-42  12-23-2024  600.01,
                     600.12
                    
 
 
