ALVA, OKLAHOMA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Ord. 2022-003, passed 6-21-2022
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Article
      
I.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
1-1.   How code designated and cited
   
1-2.   Definitions and rules of construction
   
1-3.   Catchlines of sections; citations
   
1-4.   References to sections
   
1-5.   History notes
   
1-6.   Editor’s notes, references, and other footnotes
   
1-7.   Certain ordinances not affected by code
   
1-8.   Code does not affect prior offenses, rights, or the like
   
1-9.   Effect of repeal of ordinances
   
1-10.   Severability of parts of code
   
1-11.   Amendment to code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language
   
1-12.   Supplementation of code
   
1-13.   Altering code
   
1-14.   General penalty
   
1-15.   Fines recoverable by civil action
   
1-16.   Ordinances in effect in outlying territory of city
   
1-17.   Map of city designated as official map
§ 1-1. HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   The provisions embraced in the following chapters and sections shall
constitute and be designated the “Code of Ordinances, City of Alva, Oklahoma,”
and may be cited as the Alva Code.
(Prior Code, § 1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption and revision of codes of ordinances, see 11 O.S. §§ 14-107, 14-108,
14-109
§ 1-2. DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The following definitions and rules of construction shall apply to this code
and to all ordinances and resolutions unless the context requires otherwise:
   CITY. The term CITY shall be construed as if the words “of Alva, Oklahoma,”
followed them.
   CODE. The Code of Ordinances, City of Alva, Oklahoma, as designated in § 1-
1.
   COUNCIL or CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of Alva, Oklahoma.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act to
be done a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the day on
which the notice is given or the act is done shall be counted in COMPUTING THE
TIME, but the day on which the proceeding is to be had shall not be counted.
   COUNTY. The County of Woods, Oklahoma.
   GENDER. A word importing one gender only shall extend and be applied to
other genders and to firms, partnerships, and corporations as well.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving JOINT AUTHORITY to three or more persons
or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
persons or officers.
   LAW. Includes applicable federal law, provisions of the constitution and
statutes of the state, the ordinances of the city, and, when appropriate, any
and all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the city.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   NONTECHNICAL AND TECHNICAL WORDS. Words and phrases which are not
specifically defined shall be construed according to the common and accepted
usage of the language; but TECHNICAL WORDS AND PHRASES and such others as may
have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and
understood according to such meaning.
   NUMBER. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied
to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing. Words used in
the plural number may also include the singular unless a contrary intention
plainly appears.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH, and in such cases, the terms SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the terms AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OR, AND. The term OR may be read as the term AND, and the term AND may be
read as the term OR, if the sense requires it.
   OFFICIALS, OFFICERS, DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, COMMITTEES, COMMISSIONS, AND THE
LIKE. The officials, officers, agencies, departments, boards, committees,
commissions of the city.
   PERSON. An actual person, any persons, and to associations, clubs,
societies, firms, partnerships, and bodies politic and corporate, or the
manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer, or employee of any of them, unless a
contrary intention plainly appears.
   PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
   PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when a person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of Oklahoma.
   STATUTORY REFERENCES. References to statutes of the state of Oklahoma as
they now are or as they may be amended.
   STREET. Streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts,
highways, courts, places, squares, curbs, and all other public ways in the city
which are dedicated and open to public use.
   TENSE. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as
the past and present.
   WEEK. Seven days.
   YEAR. A calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Affirmation generally, see 12 O.S. § 72
   Computation of time, see 12 O.S. § 2006
   Legal holiday, see 25 O.S. § 82.1
   Similar provisions, see 25 O.S. §§ 23, 25, 31
§ 1-3. CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS; CITATIONS.
   The catchlines of sections in this code printed in boldface type are
intended as mere catchwords and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of
such sections; nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of the sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(Prior Code, § 1-3)
§ 1-4. REFERENCES TO SECTIONS.
   All references in this code to chapters, articles, divisions, or sections
are to chapters, articles, divisions, or sections of this code unless otherwise
specified.
(Prior Code, § 1-4)
§ 1-5. HISTORY NOTES.
   The history notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this code are
not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate the
source of matter contained in the section.
(Prior Code, § 1-5)
§ 1-6. EDITOR’S NOTES, REFERENCES, AND OTHER FOOTNOTES.
   All editor’s notes, charter references, and state law references appearing
in footnote form in this code are provided for the convenience of the user of
the code and are not of any legal effect.
(Prior Code, § 1-6)
§ 1-7. CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   (A)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
      (1)   Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for
the city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city, or any evidence
of the city’s indebtedness;
      (2)   Any appropriation ordinance or ordinance providing for the levy of
taxes or for an annual budget;
      (3)   Any ordinance creating specific sewer and paving districts and
other local improvement districts or otherwise relating to specific local
improvements and special assessments therefor;
      (4)   Any ordinance calling or otherwise relating to specific elections;
      (5)   Any ordinance annexing territory to the city or excluding territory
as a part of the city;
      (6)   Any ordinance granting any franchise, permit, or other right;
      (7)   Any ordinance accepting the beneficial interest in any trust
created by a trust indenture;
      (8)   Any ordinance creating a trust or relating thereto;
      (9)   Any ordinance approving, authorizing, or otherwise relating to any
contract, agreement, lease, deed, or other instrument;
      (10)   Any ordinance regarding subdivision, zoning, land use, or any
rezoning ordinance;
      (11)   Any ordinance regarding fees, deposits, rates, or charges levied
by the city; and
      (12)   Any ordinance regarding compensation, benefits, retirement
programs, and personnel policies regarding officers and employees.
   (B)   All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force
and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 1-7)
§ 1-8. CODE DOES NOT AFFECT PRIOR OFFENSES, RIGHTS, OR THE LIKE.
   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect any
offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any
contract or right established or accruing, before the effective date of this
code.
(Prior Code, § 1-8)
§ 1-9. EFFECT OF REPEAL OF ORDINANCES.
   The following statements apply to the repeal of ordinances.
   (A)   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinance in force
before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
   (B)   The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty
incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution, or
proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under
the ordinance repealed.
(Prior Code, § 1-9)
§ 1-10. SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF CODE.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Council that the sections,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this code are severable, and if
any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this code or of any
ordinance in the code shall be declared unconstitutional, illegal, or otherwise
invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction,
such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining
phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, and sections of this code of
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-10)
§ 1-11. AMENDMENT TO CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   The following statements apply to amendatory language and new ordinances.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code of ordinances which
amend, repeal, or in any way affect this code of ordinances may be numbered in
accordance with the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion
therein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section, or subsection
or any portion thereof, the repealed portions may be excluded from this code by
omission from reprinted pages.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code may be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section of this code in
substantially the following language: “Be it ordained by the Mayor and City
Council of the City of Alva, Oklahoma, that Section ____________ of the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Alva, Oklahoma, is hereby amended to read as follows:
…” (Set out new provisions in full.)
   (C)   When the Council desires to enact an ordinance of a general and
permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the code, which the
Council desires to incorporate into the code, a section in substantially the
following language may be made part of the ordinance: “Section ____________ Be
it ordained by the Mayor and City Council of the City of Alva, Oklahoma, that
the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made a part of the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Alva, Oklahoma, and the sections of this ordinance
may be renumbered to accomplish this intention.”
   (D)   All sections, articles, chapters, or provisions of this code desired
to be repealed may be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as
the case may be.
(Prior Code, § 1-11)
Statutory reference:
   Enactment of ordinances, see 11 O.S. §§ 14-103 et seq.
§ 1-12. SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   The following statements apply to supplementation of the code.
   (A)   By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the city. A supplement
to the code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of
ordinances passed by the City Council or adopted by initiative and referendum
during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the
code, and shall also include all amendments to the Charter during the period.
The pages of the supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly
into the code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become
obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that,
when they have been inserted, the code will be current through the date of the
adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency, or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for sections
and other subdivisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes
in such catchlines, headings, and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter,” “this article,” “this division,” and the like, as the case may
be, or to “sections ____________ to ____________” (inserting section numbers to
indicate the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the
ordinance incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but, in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
(Prior Code, § 1-12)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption and revision of codes of ordinances, see 11 O.S. §§ 14-107, 14-108,
14-109
§ 1-13. ALTERING CODE.
   It is unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions
any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages or portions
thereof, or to alter or tamper with this code in any manner whatsoever which
will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby. Any person
violating this section shall be punished as provided in §
1-14.
(Prior Code, § 1-13)
§ 1-14. GENERAL PENALTY.
   The following statements apply to penalties.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by state law, whenever, in this code or
in any ordinance of the city, an act is prohibited or is made or declared to be
unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in the code or in any
ordinance, the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is
declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the
violation of any provision of this code or of any ordinance for alcohol-related
or drug-related offenses, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine or
deferral fee in lieu of a fine including costs, not exceeding $800. For all
other offenses, the maximum fine or deferral fee in lieu of a fine shall not
exceed $750. The city may not impose a penalty, including fine or deferral fee
in lieu of a fine and costs, that is greater than that established by state
statute for the same offense. The maximum fine or deferral fee in lieu of a
fine for traffic-related offenses relating to speeding or parking shall not
exceed $200. Each day or any portion of a day during which any violation of
this code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (B)   Any person who shall aid, abet, or assist in the violation of any
provision of this code or any other ordinance shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in this
section.
(Prior Code, § 1-14)
Statutory reference:
   Costs, see 11 O.S. § 27-126
   Maximum fines chargeable by cities with courts not of record, see 11 O.S. §
14-111
   Offenses punishable by imprisonment or fines over $500 are to be by jury
trial, see 11 O.S. §§ 14-111 and 27-119
§ 1-15. FINES RECOVERABLE BY CIVIL ACTION.
   All fines shall be recoverable by civil action before any court of competent
jurisdiction in addition to any other method provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-15)
§ 1-16. ORDINANCES IN EFFECT IN OUTLYING TERRITORY OF CITY.
   All ordinances of the city now in effect within the city are hereby extended
to all real property belonging to, or under the control of, the city outside
the corporate limits of the city, and shall be in full effect therein, insofar
as they are applicable. All ordinances of the city which shall go into effect
in the future shall also apply to and be in full effect within the boundaries
of all outlying real property, insofar as they may be applicable. Any words in
any ordinance indicating that the effect of an ordinance provision is limited
to the corporate limits of the city shall be deemed to mean and include also
the outlying real property belonging to or under the control of the city,
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 1-16)
§ 1-17. MAP OF CITY DESIGNATED AS OFFICIAL MAP.
   The map of the city showing its territorial limits is hereby designated as
the official map of the city, and the corporate limits as shown thereon are
declared to be the true and correct corporate limits of the city, including all
annexations made to the city through and including the date of October 15,
2001.
(Prior Code, § 1-17) (Ord. 2001-844, passed 10-15-2001)
CHAPTER 2: ADMINISTRATION
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
      
III.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
IV.   SOCIAL SECURITY
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   §§ 2-1 through 2-18 reserved
§§ 2-1 THROUGH 2-18. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
Section
Generally
   
2-19.   Mayor-council form of government
   2-20 through 2-41 reserved
Election
   
2-42.   Terms of elected officers
   
2-43.   Ward number and boundaries
   2-44 through 2-74 reserved
Governing Body
   
2-75.   Mayor, duties
   
2-76.   Council, duties
   
2-77.   Time of regular meetings of the Council
   
2-78.   Place of meetings of the Council
   2-79 through 2-99 reserved
Statutory reference:
   General elections in aldermanic cities, see 11 O.S. § 16-203
   Mayor and Councilmembers constitute governing body, see 11 O.S. § 9-102
   Primary elections, see 11 O.S. § 16-107
GENERALLY
§ 2-19. MAYOR-COUNCIL FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The city is governed by the statutory aldermanic or mayor-council form of
government. The powers of the city are vested in the Mayor and City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-19)
Statutory reference:
   Aldermanic form, see 11 O.S. §§ 9-101 et seq.
§§ 2-20 THROUGH 2-41. RESERVED.
ELECTION
§ 2-42. TERMS OF ELECTED OFFICERS.
   (A)   In a statutory aldermanic city, the terms of the elected officers
shall be staggered so that at any one general municipal election, the following
officers are to be elected for four-year terms:
      (1)   One City Councilmember from each ward;
      (2)   The City Mayor;
      (3)   The City Clerk;
      (4)   The City Marshal; and
      (5)   The City Street Commissioner.
   (B)   At the next general municipal election, the following officers are to
be elected for four-year terms:
      (1)   One City Councilmember from each ward; and
      (2)   The City Treasurer.
   (C)   General municipal elections are held on the first Tuesday in April of
each odd-numbered year. A primary election shall be held the third Tuesday of
March in each odd-numbered year, at which time the several political parties
shall nominate candidates for offices which are to be elected at the upcoming
general municipal election.
(Prior Code, § 2-42)
§ 2-43. WARD NUMBER AND BOUNDARIES.
   The city is hereby divided into four wards as follows:
   (A)   Ward number one. All of that part of the city lying east of the
centerline of Eighth Street and north of the centerline of Church Street shall
constitute Ward 1;
   (B)   Ward number two. All of that part of the city lying west of the
centerline of Eighth Street and north of the centerline of Church Street to the
centerline of Fourteenth Street, then north to the city limits shall constitute
Ward 2;
   (C)   Ward number three. All of that part of the city lying west of the
centerline of Eighth Street from the centerline of Church Street south to
Monroe Street, and all of that part lying west of the centerline of College
Avenue (also known as Sixth Street) shall constitute Ward 3; and
   (D)   Ward number four. All of that part of the city lying east of the
centerline of Eighth Street from the centerline of Church Street south to
Monroe Street, and all of that part lying east of the centerline of College
Avenue (also known as Sixth Street), from Monroe Street to the south edge of
the city limits shall constitute Ward 4.
(Prior Code, § 2-43)
Statutory reference:
   Changing wards, see 11 O.S. §§ 20-102 through 20-105
   Establishment and number of wards in aldermanic city, see 11 O.S. § 2-105
   Review of wards after each federal census, see 11 O.S. § 20-101
§§ 2-44 THROUGH 2-74. RESERVED.
GOVERNING BODY
§ 2-75. MAYOR, DUTIES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council and shall certify
to the correct enrollment of all ordinances and resolutions passed by it. The
Mayor is not considered a member of the Council for quorum or voting purposes,
except that he or she may vote on questions under consideration by the Council
only when the Council is equally divided. The Mayor may sign or veto any city
ordinance or resolution passed by the City Council. The Mayor shall be the
Chief Executive Officer and head of the administrative branch of the city
government. He or she is also recognized as the head of the city government for
all ceremonial purposes and by the Governor for purposes of military law. He or
she shall have such powers and duties as may be prescribed by law or ordinance.
   (B)   The Mayor shall serve as Street Commissioner. The Street Commissioner,
Street Superintendent, and other employees appointed as provided in Article III
of this chapter shall maintain and improve the streets of the city and shall
place, maintain, and remove street signs and traffic signs and devices. (See
also § 2-238.)
(Prior Code, § 2-75)
Statutory reference:
   Power of mayor and duties, see 11 O.S. §§ 9-104 through 9-106
§ 2-76. COUNCIL, DUTIES.
   The City Council shall consist of eight Councilmembers, two elected from
each ward of the city. The Council shall elect from among its members a
President of the Council. The Council President shall be elected in each odd-
numbered year at the first Council meeting held after Council terms begin or as
soon thereafter as practicable, and he or she shall act as Mayor in the
absence, disability, or suspension of the Mayor. While presiding in the place
of Mayor, he or she shall have all the powers, rights, and privileges as other
members of the Council. The Council shall have the powers and duties as
prescribed by law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 2-76)
Statutory reference:
   Powers and duties, see 11 O.S. §§ 9-107 through 9-108
§ 2-77. TIME OF REGULAR MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall hold a regular meeting at 6:30 p.m. on the first and
third Monday of every month; unless such regular meeting falls on a day which
is an approved federal holiday, in which case the regular meeting shall be held
on the immediately following day, Tuesday, at 6:30 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 2-77)
Statutory reference:
   Meetings, see 11 O.S. § 9-109
§ 2-78. PLACE OF MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
   Every meeting of the City Council shall be held in the Council chamber in
the municipal building unless, in case of an emergency, the Mayor or any three
Councilmembers calling a special meeting designate another place in the city
for holding of the special meeting. An adjourned meeting may be held at any
other place within the city designated by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-78)
Statutory reference:
   Special meetings, see 11 O.S. § 9-109
§§ 2-79 THROUGH 2-99. RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Generally
   2-100 through 2-126 reserved
Business Manager
   
2-127.   Office created
   
2-128.   Powers and duties
   
2-129.   How appointed; term of office
   
2-130.   Salary
   
2-131.   Oath; bond
   2-132 through 2-160 reserved
City Clerk
   
2-161.   Term
   
2-162.   Powers and duties of the City Clerk
   2-163 through 2-192 reserved
City Treasurer
   
2-193.   Term
   
2-194.   Duties
   
2-195.   Bond
   2-196 through 2-213 reserved
City Attorney
   
2-214.   Appointment
   2-215 through 2-236 reserved
Other Offices
   
2-237.   City Inspector, building official
   
2-238.   Street Commissioner and Department
   
2-239.   Cooperative Health Department and Director
   
2-240.   Other personnel to be appointed
   
2-241.   Removal, suspension of personnel
   
2-242.   Salaries
   
2-243.   Salaries of appointed officers
   2-244 through 2-264 reserved
Statutory reference:
   Appointment of City Attorney, see 11 O.S. § 9-105
   Appointment and removal of city personnel, see 11 O.S. §§ 9-117 and 9-118
   City Clerk, see 11 O.S. § 9-112
   City Treasurer, see 11 O.S. § 9-113
   Combining city offices, see 11 O.S. § 9-115
GENERALLY
§§ 2-100 THROUGH 2-126. RESERVED.
BUSINESS MANAGER
§ 2-127. OFFICE CREATED.
   There is hereby created the position of Business Manager of the city, who
shall be known as the “Business Manager” of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-127)
§ 2-128. POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Business Manager shall maintain supervision over all of the various
departments of the city. It shall be his or her duty to see that the various
departments are operated in an economical and efficient manner and to the best
interest of the city, in cooperation with departmental committees of the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-128)
§ 2-129. HOW APPOINTED; TERM OF OFFICE.
   The position shall be filled by the Mayor with approval of the City Council,
and the person so appointed shall hold office for a period of two years from
date of appointment or until his or her successor shall be appointed and
qualified, but may be removed at any time, for good cause, by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-129)
§ 2-130. SALARY.
   The salary of the Business Manager shall be fixed by resolution of the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-130)
§ 2-131. OATH; BOND.
   The Business Manager, before assuming office, shall take the usual and
regular oath of office and execute a surety bond to the city in the penal sum
of $1,000 for the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office.
(Prior Code, § 2-131)
§§ 2-132 THROUGH 2-160. RESERVED.
CITY CLERK
§ 2-161. TERM.
   The City Clerk is an officer of the city, elected for a four-year term, as
provided in this code.
(Prior Code, § 2-161)
Statutory reference:
   City Clerk’s office, creation, see 11 O.S. § 9-112
§ 2-162. POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall serve as Clerk of the Council and attend meetings
of the Council and shall keep a journal of its proceedings, as provided by law.
He or she shall enroll all ordinances and resolutions passed by the Council in
the book kept for that purpose, as required by law. He or she shall have
custody of the seal of the city and attest and affix it to documents as
required by law or ordinance.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall collect or receive revenues and other money for
the city, as provided by law or ordinance, and shall deposit all such moneys
promptly with the City Treasurer. He or she shall keep proper books of accounts
and other financial records, properly recording all financial transactions.
   (C)   He or she shall have all other powers and duties prescribed by law or
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 2-162)
Statutory reference:
   City Clerk’s offices, duties, see 11 O.S. § 9-112
§§ 2-163 THROUGH 2-192. RESERVED.
CITY TREASURER
§ 2-193. TERM.
   There shall be a City Treasurer, who is an officer of the city, elected for
a four-year term, as provided in this code.
(Prior Code, § 2-193)
§ 2-194. DUTIES.
   The City Treasurer shall receive all moneys of the city paid to him or her
in accordance with law or ordinance and shall deposit daily all funds coming
into his or her hands in such depositories as the Council may designate. He or
she shall disburse such funds in the manner provided by applicable law or
ordinance. He or she shall keep proper books of account and other financial
records, properly recording all financial transactions. He or she shall have
such other powers, duties, and functions as may be prescribed by applicable law
or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 2-194)
Statutory reference:
   City Treasurer’s office, creation and duties, see 11 O.S. § 9-113
§ 2-195. BOND.
   The City Treasurer, before entering upon the duties of his or her office,
shall execute and file with the City Clerk a good and sufficient bond in the
sum of $50,000, executed by some reliable fidelity and surety company lawfully
transacting business in the state. The bond and surety shall be approved by the
Council of the city, and the bond shall be conditioned for the faithful
performance of the duties of the City Treasurer as provided by ordinances of
the city and enjoined by law. The city shall pay out of its general revenue the
premium for such bond.
(Prior Code, § 2-195)
Statutory reference:
   City Treasurer to give bond, other officers as designated by ordinance, see
11 O.S. § 8-105
§§ 2-196 THROUGH 2-213. RESERVED.
CITY ATTORNEY
§ 2-214. APPOINTMENT.
   The following statements apply to appointment of a City Attorney.
   (A)   The Municipal Counselor shall be appointed by the Mayor and the
appointment confirmed by the Council, and shall hold office at the pleasure of
the Mayor and Council. He or she shall have such qualifications, powers, and
duties as are prescribed by law for city attorneys in cities of the first
class. It shall be his or her duty to advise the Mayor and Council and each
member thereof, and all city officials, upon all law questions, and he or she
shall give opinions in writing when requested, and shall represent the city as
counsel in all litigation, in all courts, for or against the city, and shall
perform such other legal service in behalf of the city, its officers, or
employees, as may be required.
   (B)   Salary of the Municipal Counselor shall be established by the Mayor
and Council, and the salary shall compensate for all routine duties performed
for the city. However, whenever the Mayor and Council deem it necessary, they
may employ the Municipal Counselor, or any other attorney or law firm for any
particular matter, at a fee to be agreed upon between them.
(Prior Code, § 2-214)
§§ 2-215 THROUGH 2-236. RESERVED.
OTHER OFFICES
§ 2-237. CITY INSPECTOR, BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   There shall be a City Inspector, appointed by the Business Manager for an
indefinite term, and removable by the Business Manager. The City Inspector,
sometimes called the building official, is an officer of the city, and has
supervision of the building inspections, including the electrical inspector,
the plumbing inspector, and/or any other inspectors and assistant inspectors
appointed in the Department.
(Prior Code, § 2-237)
§ 2-238. STREET COMMISSIONER AND DEPARTMENT.
   The Mayor shall serve as Street Commissioner. The Street Commissioner,
Street Superintendent, and other employees appointed as provided in this
article shall maintain and improve the streets of the city and shall place,
maintain, and remove street signs and traffic signs and devices.
(Prior Code, § 2-238) (Ord. 775, passed 1-6-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 9-114
§ 2-239. COOPERATIVE HEALTH DEPARTMENT AND DIRECTOR.
   The County Cooperative Health Department and its Director shall have the
powers of a City Health Department and City Health Officer respectively for the
city. References to Health Department and Health Officer or Director of the
Health Department in this code and in other ordinances of the city mean the
Cooperative Health Department and its Director, unless the context clearly
indicates another meaning.
(Prior Code, § 2-239)
§ 2-240. OTHER PERSONNEL TO BE APPOINTED.
   The Mayor, with approval of the Council, shall appoint such other personnel
as may be necessary to exercise the powers and perform the duties relative to
the functions which are lawfully imposed upon or assumed by the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-240)
§ 2-241. REMOVAL, SUSPENSION OF PERSONNEL.
   Except as may be otherwise provided by law or ordinance, officers and
employees of the city who are appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the
Council may be removed for cause, suspended, or laid off by the Mayor with the
approval of the Council. The Mayor and Council may also remove any elective
officer for cause, except the Mayor, as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 2-241)
Statutory reference:
   Appointments and removals, appeals, see 11 O.S. §§ 9-117 and 9-118
§ 2-242. SALARIES.
   The salary of officers and employees are on file in the City Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 2-242)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation of elected officers to be by ordinance, see 11 O.S. § 9-116
§ 2-243. SALARIES OF APPOINTED OFFICERS.
   All appointed officers shall receive such compensation as may from time to
time be determined by the Council. If the compensation of any appointed officer
shall be lowered after he or she has entered upon the performance of his or her
duties, at least 30 days’ notice shall be given to such officer before such
reduction shall take effect.
(Prior Code, § 2-243)
§§ 2-244 THROUGH 2-264. RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: SOCIAL SECURITY
Section
   
2-265.   Declaration of policy to come under coverage
   
2-266.   Execution of agreement with state agency
   
2-267.   Withholdings
   
2-268.   Contributions
   
2-269.   Records and reports
   
2-270.   Exclusions
Statutory reference:
   Social Security coverage for local governments, see 51 O.S. § 125
§ 2-265. DECLARATION OF POLICY TO COME UNDER COVERAGE.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the city to extend, at
the earliest date, to the eligible employees and officials of the city the
benefits of the system of Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance as authorized
by the Federal Social Security Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 401 et seq. and all
amendments thereto, and 51 O.S. §§ 121 et seq. In pursuance of this policy, the
officers and employees of the city shall take such action as may be required by
applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 2-265)
§ 2-266. EXECUTION OF AGREEMENT WITH STATE AGENCY.
   The Mayor is authorized and directed to execute all necessary agreements and
amendments with the State Department of Human Services to accomplish the
provisions of § 2-265.
(Prior Code, § 2-266)
§ 2-267. WITHHOLDINGS.
   Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and officials for the
purposes provided in § 2-265 are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts
and at such times as may be required by applicable state and federal laws or
regulations, and shall be paid over to the state or federal agency designated
by the laws and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 2-267)
§ 2-268. CONTRIBUTIONS.
   Employer contributions shall be paid from amounts appropriated for these
purposes from available funds to the designated state or federal agency in
accordance with applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 2-268)
§ 2-269. RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The city shall keep such records and submit such reports as may be required
by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
§ 2-270. EXCLUSIONS.
   Excluded from this article authorizing the extension of Social Security
benefits to city officers and employees are the following:
   (A)   Any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position,
employee, or official covered or authorized to be covered by any other
ordinance creating any retirement system for any employee or official of the
city at the time of initially extending these Social Security benefits to
officers and employees of the city; or
   (B)   Any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position,
employee or official for which compensation is on a fee basis, or any position,
employee, or official not authorized to be covered by applicable state or
federal laws or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 2-270)
CHAPTER 3: RESERVED
   [Reserved]
CHAPTER 4: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   OCCUPATION TAX
      
III.   REGULATION OF SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
IV.   LOW-POINT BEER
      
V.   PRIVATE CLUBS
      
VI.   SOCIAL HOST
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
4-1.   Definitions
   4-2 through 4-20 reserved
§ 4-1. DEFINITIONS.
   All terms and phrases used in this chapter shall be given the same use and
meaning as defined by the state’s Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, 37A O.S. §§
1-101 through 6-129.
(Prior Code, § 4-1) (Ord. 770, passed 5-19-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, see 37 O.S. § 163.2 and 37A O.S. § 7-102
§§ 4-2 THROUGH 4-20. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: OCCUPATION TAX
Section
   
4-21.   Levy
   
4-22.   Payment of tax; proration
   
4-23.   Annual report
   
4-24.   Licensee to post tax receipt
   
4-25.   Payment of tax required; penalty
   
4-26.   Additional fee
   
4-27.   Recovery of tax
   
4-28.   Application for certificate; investigations
   
4-29.   Issuance of certificate of zoning compliance
   
4-30.   Violations of state law
Statutory reference:
   Occupation tax, see 37A O.S. § 4-104
§ 4-21. LEVY.
   (A)   There is hereby levied and assessed an annual occupation tax on every
business or occupation relating to alcoholic beverages as specifically
enumerated herein and in the amount herein stated:
      (1)   Brewer: $1,250;
      (2)   Distiller: $3,125;
      (3)   Winemaker: $625;
      (4)   State winemaker: $75;
      (5)   Rectifier: $3,125;
      (6)   Wholesaler: $3,500;
      (7)   Class B wholesaler: $625;
      (8)   Retail package store: $300;
      (9)   Mixed beverage:
         (a)   Initial: $600; and
         (b)   Renewal: $600.
      (10)   Caterer:
         (a)   Initial: $600; and
         (b)   Renewal: $600.
      (11)   Special event, per day: $50.
   (B)   The occupation tax for those service organizations for which are
exempt under 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(19) for bottle club license shall be $200 per
year.
   (C)   If a brewer or a class B wholesaler also holds a license from the
state to manufacture or wholesale any low-point beer, the occupation tax for
such brewer or class B wholesaler shall be reduced by 75%.
(Prior Code, § 4-21) (Ord. 770, passed 5-19-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Local occupation tax, see 37A O.S. § 4-105
   State license, see 37A O.S. § 2-101
   State low-point beer licenses, see 37A O.S. § 3-108
§ 4-22. PAYMENT OF TAX; PRORATION.
   The following statements apply to payment of tax and proration.
   (A)   Any state licensee originally entering upon any occupation herein
listed shall pay the tax therefor at the office of the City Clerk on or before
the date upon which he or she enters upon such occupation. Said licensee shall
provide a copy of his or her current state license before payment of an
occupation tax will be accepted. Thereafter, the licensee shall pay the tax
annually on or before April 1.
   (B)   Any state licensee carrying on his or her occupation in more than one
location in the corporate limits of the city shall be subject to the tax for
each location.
   (C)   The occupation tax subject to this article shall be prorated on a
monthly basis for the year in which an occupation begins operations.
   (D)   Upon payment of the occupation tax, the City Clerk shall issue a
receipt to the state licensee. The City Clerk shall record the name of such
licensee and the address where he or she engages in his or her occupation. Such
record shall be duly filed and kept in the permanent files of the city for at
least five years. Thereafter, upon resolution by the City Council, it may be
destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 4-22) (Ord. 770, passed 5-19-1986)
§ 4-23. ANNUAL REPORT.
   The City Clerk shall make an annual report to the Alcoholic Beverage Law
Enforcement (ABLE) Commission, covering the fiscal year, showing the number and
class of licensees subject to the occupation tax and the amount of money
collected from said tax.
(Prior Code, § 4-23) (Ord. 770, passed 5-19-1986)
§ 4-24. LICENSEE TO POST TAX RECEIPT.
   Any state licensee shall post his or her tax receipt in a conspicuous place
on the premises wherein he or she carries on his or her occupation.
(Prior Code, § 4-24)
§ 4-25. PAYMENT OF TAX REQUIRED; PENALTY.
   Any person who engages in any of the occupations taxed by this article
without paying said occupation tax imposed therefor in advance of such
operation is guilty of an offense against the city and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined in the sum of not more than $70, excluding costs. Each
day of such violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 4-25) (Ord. 770, passed 5-19-1986)
§ 4-26. ADDITIONAL FEE.
   If the occupation tax due from any person under the provisions of this
article remains due and unpaid for a period of ten days, there shall be imposed
upon him or her an additional fee of $200.
(Prior Code, § 4-26)
§ 4-27. RECOVERY OF TAX.
   The following statements apply to recovery of tax.
   (A)   All sums due from any person by reason of occupation taxes imposed by
this article and all penalties accruing from such person by reason of failure
to pay such tax shall be recoverable at the suit of the city brought against
such person in any court of competent jurisdiction. In any such suit, in
addition to the tax and penalties, the plaintiff shall recover interest, at the
rate of 10% per annum, upon all sums due by way of tax and penalty from the
date of accrual thereof.
   (B)   All costs of collection, judicial or otherwise, including reasonable
attorney fees, are to be determined by the court. Prosecution for an offense
against the city arising out of the failure to pay a tax levied by this
article, regardless of the outcome thereof, or its continued pendency, shall
not constitute a defense or a bar in any manner to the collection of the tax
and penalties, if any are due, as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 4-27)
§ 4-28. APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE; INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   Every applicant for a certificate of compliance with the zoning, fire,
health, and safety codes of the city required by 37A O.S. §§ 2-141 et seq.
shall apply at the office of the City Clerk by:
      (1)   Filing a written application on forms prescribed by that office;
and
      (2)   Paying a verification and certification fee in the amount of $50 at
the time of filing.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for a certificate of compliance, the
City Inspector shall cause an investigation to be made to determine whether the
premises proposed for licensed operations comply with the provisions of
Appendix B to this code pertaining to zoning, and any health, fire, building,
and other safety codes applicable to it.
   (C)   The City Inspector shall act on all such applications within 20 days
of receipt thereof.
(Prior Code, § 4-28) (Ord. 770, passed 5-19-1986)
§ 4-29. ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a certificate is in
compliance with all applicable zoning ordinances, a certificate of zoning
compliance shall be issued to the ABLE Commission.
   (B)   Upon finding that the premises of an application is in compliance with
all applicable fire, safety, and health codes, a certificate of zoning
compliance shall be given to the ABLE Commission.
   (C)   The above certificate of zoning compliance shall be signed by the
Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 4-29) (Ord. 770, passed 5-19-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Certificate of zoning compliance, see 37A O.S. § 2-142
§ 4-30. VIOLATIONS OF STATE LAW.
   Any violation of any law of the state in connection with any of the matters
covered by this article shall be construed to be a specific violation of this
article, whether specifically covered by the provision of this article or not.
(Prior Code, § 4-30)
ARTICLE III: REGULATION OF SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
4-31.   Purpose of article
   
4-32.   Definitions
   
4-33.   Signs
   
4-34.   Advertising
   
4-35.   Separate premises
   
4-36.   Passageway
   
4-37.   Sale in containers
   
4-38.   Not to drink on premises
   
4-39.   Sale only at retail store
   
4-40.   Locations permitted in Appendix B to this code pertaining to zoning
   
4-41.   Locations forbidden by state law
   
4-42.   Not to sell to persons under 21
   
4-43.   False documentation
   
4-44.   Not to sell to intoxicated person
   
4-45.   Not to drink in public place
   
4-46.   Persons under 21 not to be employed
   
4-47.   Not to employ persons under 21
   
4-48.   Time of sale
   
4-49.   Not to sell on credit
   
4-50.   Not to furnish prizes
   
4-51.   Persons under 21 not to be permitted to enter
   
4-52.   Persons under 21 not to enter
   
4-53.   Time of delivery
   
4-54.   Not to permit drinking in café
   
4-55.   Transportation of open containers prohibited
   
4-56.   Separate offenses
   
4-57.   Penalty
   4-58 through 4-87 reserved
§ 4-31. PURPOSE OF ARTICLE.
   This article is enacted as an exercise of the police power of the city to
preserve the public peace, safety, health, and good order thereof and to aid
the enforcement of the policy of the state as established by the state’s
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, being 37A O.S. §§ 1-101 through 6-129.
(Prior Code, § 4-31)
§ 4-32. DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      RETAIL ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE STORE. A package store.
      WHOLESALE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE STORE. A store operated under the authority
of a state wholesaler’s license.
      WINERY. A manufacturing establishment operated under the authority of a
state winemaker’s license.
   (B)   The following specific terms are given the meanings defined for them
in the appropriate sections of the state’s Alcoholic Beverage Control Act:
advertise the sale of alcoholic beverages, alcohol, alcoholic beverage,
brewery, distillery, manufacturer, original package or original container,
package store, person, premises, retail containers, sale, spirits, wholesale
dealer in alcoholic beverages, wholesaler, and wine.
(Prior Code, § 4-32)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, see 37A O.S. § 7-102
§ 4-33. SIGNS.
   No person owning, operating, or maintaining a retail alcoholic beverage
store shall cause or permit it to be designated by more than one sign, which
shall contain only the words “Retail Alcoholic Liquor Store,” or any
combination of such words or any of them, and which shall contain no letter or
figure more than four inches in height or more than three inches in width and
in which the lines of words, if more than one, shall not be more than one inch
apart.
(Prior Code, § 4-33)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 37A O.S. § 3-123
§ 4-34. ADVERTISING.
   No person shall advertise, or cause to be advertised, the sale of alcoholic
beverages within the limits of this city in any manner other than as authorized
by §
4-33.
(Prior Code, § 4-34)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 37A O.S. § 3-123
§ 4-35. SEPARATE PREMISES.
   No person shall maintain, operate, or assist, in any manner, the maintenance
or operation of a retail alcoholic beverage store or package store in premises
which are not separated from adjoining premises in which any other goods,
wares, or merchandise are sold or services are rendered by nontransparent
walls, broken only, if at all, by a passageway to which the public is not
admitted.
(Prior Code, § 4-35)
§ 4-36. PASSAGEWAY.
   No person shall take any alcoholic beverage through any passageway described
in §
4-35 for the purpose of delivery thereof in connection with a sale of such
beverage.
(Prior Code, § 4-36)
§ 4-37. SALE IN CONTAINERS.
   (A)   No person shall sell or deliver alcoholic beverages at a retail
alcoholic beverage store other than:
      (1)   In retail containers;
      (2)   At ordinary room temperatures;
      (3)   In the original package; and
      (4)   For consumption off the premises.
   (B)   No person owning, employed in, or in any manner assisting in the
maintenance and operation of such a store shall suffer or permit any alcoholic
beverage to be consumed, or any retail container of such beverage to be opened
on the premises of such a store.
(Prior Code, § 4-37)
§ 4-38. NOT TO DRINK ON PREMISES.
   No person shall drink or consume, in any manner, alcoholic beverages on the
premises of a retail alcoholic beverage store, nor shall any person open or
break the seal of any original package or retail container containing alcoholic
beverages on the premises of any such retail alcoholic beverage store.
(Prior Code, § 4-38)
§ 4-39. SALE ONLY AT RETAIL STORE.
   No person shall sell at retail, and no person shall deliver, in consequence
or in completion of such a sale, any alcoholic beverages at any place in the
city, except at a retail alcoholic beverage store in strict conformity with
this article and the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 4-39)
§ 4-40. LOCATIONS PERMITTED IN APPENDIX B TO THIS CODE PERTAINING TO ZONING.
   No retail alcoholic beverage store, and no wholesale alcoholic beverage
store, warehouse, brewery, distillery, winery, or any other place, however
described, for the manufacture or production or bottling of alcoholic beverages
of any kind shall be located, maintained, or operated by any person, at any
place within the boundaries of the city, except at a location at which such an
establishment is permitted by Appendix B to this code pertaining to zoning.
(Prior Code, § 4-40)
Statutory reference:
   Zoning, see 37A O.S. § 4-103
§ 4-41. LOCATIONS FORBIDDEN BY STATE LAW.
   No person shall own, operate, maintain, or be interested in any retail
alcoholic beverage store which is located at a place within the city which is
forbidden as a location for such store by the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 4-41)
§ 4-42. NOT TO SELL TO PERSONS UNDER 21.
   No person shall knowingly sell, deliver, or furnish alcoholic beverages at
any place within the city to any person who is under 21 years of age.
(Prior Code, § 4-42)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 37A O.S. § 6-120
§ 4-43. FALSE DOCUMENTATION.
   No person under 21 years of age shall misrepresent his or her age in writing
or present false documentation of age or otherwise for the purpose of inducing
any person to sell him or her alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, § 4-43)
§ 4-44. NOT TO SELL TO INTOXICATED PERSON.
   No person, at any place within the city, shall sell, deliver, or knowingly
furnish alcoholic beverages to an intoxicated person or to any person who has
been adjudged insane or mentally deficient.
(Prior Code, § 4-44)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 37A O.S. § 6-121
§ 4-45. NOT TO DRINK IN PUBLIC PLACE.
   No person within the city shall drink intoxicated liquor in any public
place, nor shall any person be intoxicated in a public place within this city.
(Prior Code, § 4-45)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 37A O.S. § 6-124
§ 4-46. PERSONS UNDER 21 NOT TO BE EMPLOYED.
   No person under 21 years of age shall be employed in the selling,
manufacture, distribution, or other handling of alcoholic beverages at any
place within this city. Provided that a mixed beverage, beer and wine, caterer,
special event, or bottle club licensee may employ servers who are at least 18
years of age, except persons under 21 years of age may not serve in designated
bar or lounge areas, and a mixed beverage, beer and wine, caterer, special
event, or bottle club licensee may employ or hire musical bands who have
musicians who are under 21 years of age if each such musician is either
accompanied by a parent or legal guardian or has on their person, to be made
available for inspection upon demand by any ABLE Commission officer or law
enforcement officer, a written, notarized affidavit from the parent or legal
guardian giving the underage musician permission to perform in designated bar
or lounge areas.
(Prior Code, § 4-46)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 37A O.S. § 6-102
§ 4-47. NOT TO EMPLOY PERSONS UNDER 21.
   No person shall employ or assist or aid in causing the employment of any
person under the age of 21 years of age at any place within this city in the
selling, manufacture, distribution, or other handling of alcoholic beverages.
Provided that a mixed beverage, beer and wine, caterer, special event, or
bottle club licensee may employ servers who are at least 18 years of age,
except persons under 21 years of age may not serve in designated bar or lounge
areas, and a mixed beverage, beer and wine, caterer, special event, or bottle
club licensee may employ or hire musical bands who have musicians who are under
21 years of age if each such musician is either accompanied by a parent or
legal guardian or has on their person, to be made available for inspection upon
demand by any ABLE Commission officer or law enforcement officer, a written,
notarized affidavit from the parent or legal guardian giving the underage
musician permission to perform in designated bar or lounge areas.
(Prior Code, § 4-47)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 37A O.S. § 6-102
§ 4-48. TIME OF SALE.
   No person shall open for business or keep open for business, or sell or
deliver alcoholic beverages to any person at a retail alcoholic beverage store
in this city on any Sunday, New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, the Fourth of July,
Labor Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day, or Christmas Day, or while the polls
are open on the day of any general, primary, runoff primary, or special
election, whether national, state, county, or city, or on any other day except
between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 4-48)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 37A O.S. § 3-125
§ 4-49. NOT TO SELL ON CREDIT.
   No person at any retail alcoholic beverage store in this city shall sell
alcoholic beverage on credit.
(Prior Code, § 4-49)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 37A O.S. § 6-103
§ 4-50. NOT TO FURNISH PRIZES.
   No owner or proprietor of a retail alcoholic beverage store, and no person
employed therein, shall offer or furnish any prize, premium, gift, or similar
inducement to a consumer in connection with a sale of alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, § 4-50)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 37A O.S. § 6-102
§ 4-51. PERSONS UNDER 21 NOT TO BE PERMITTED TO ENTER.
   No owner or proprietor of a retail alcoholic beverage store in this city,
and no person employed therein, shall permit any person under 21 years of age
to enter into, to remain within, or to loiter about the premises of such retail
alcoholic beverage store.
(Prior Code, § 4-51)
§ 4-52. PERSONS UNDER 21 NOT TO ENTER.
   No person under 21 years of age shall enter into, remain within, or loiter
about the premises of any retail alcoholic beverage store within this city.
(Prior Code, § 4-52)
§ 4-53. TIME OF DELIVERY.
   No wholesale dealer in alcoholic beverages, and no officer, agent, or
employee of such a dealer shall sell or deliver to any retail alcoholic
beverage store in this city any amount of spirits or wines on Saturday of any
week, on Sunday of any week, on New Year’s Day, on Memorial Day, on the Fourth
of July, on Labor Day, on Veterans Day, on Thanksgiving Day, on Christmas Day,
or while the polls are open on the day of any general, primary, runoff primary,
or special election, whether national, state, county, or city.
(Prior Code, § 4-53)
§ 4-54. NOT TO PERMIT DRINKING IN CAFÉ.
   No person operating a café, restaurant, club, or any place of recreation
within the city, and no employee engaged in connection with the operation of
such a café, restaurant, club, or place of recreation shall permit any person
to be drunk or intoxicated in his or her place of business.
(Prior Code, § 4-54)
§ 4-55. TRANSPORTATION OF OPEN CONTAINERS PROHIBITED.
   No person within this city shall transport in any vehicle upon any public
highway, street, or alley any alcoholic beverage, unless such alcoholic
beverage is:
   (A)   In an unopened original container with seal unbroken and the original
cap or cork not removed from the containers; or
   (B)   In the trunk or other closed compartment or other container, out of
public view and out of reach of the driver or any occupant of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 4-55)
§ 4-56. SEPARATE OFFENSES.
   Each day’s violation of this article shall constitute a separate offense,
but nothing herein contained shall be construed as determining that not more
than any one such offense can be committed in any one day by the same person.
(Prior Code, § 4-56)
§ 4-57. PENALTY.
   Any violation of any provision contained in this article is an offense
against the city; upon conviction of any such offense, the violator shall be
punished by a fine as provided by § 1-14, including costs.
(Prior Code, § 4-57)
§§ 4-58 THROUGH 4-87. RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: LOW-POINT BEER
Section
   
4-88.   Definitions
   
4-89.   Not to sell to minors; intoxicated persons
   
4-90.   Time of sale
   
4-91.   License fee
   
4-92.   License required
   
4-93.   Compliance with state law; not transferable
   
4-94.   Possession by minors in public
   
4-95.   Transporting of low-point beer except in original unopened container
prohibited; exception
   
4-96.   Revocation of city license
   
4-97.   Penalty
   4-98 through 4-122 reserved
Statutory reference:
   Low-point beer, see 37A O.S. § 3-108
§ 4-88. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOW-POINT BEER. All beverages containing more than 0.5% alcohol by volume,
and not more than 3.2% alcohol by weight, including, but not limited to, beer
or cereal malt beverages obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion
of barley or other grain, malt, or similar products.
   MINOR. A person who, in accordance with state law, has not yet attained the
age at which a person is permitted to consume low-point beer.
   RETAIL DEALER. Any and all persons or concessionaires who sell, distribute,
or dispense any low-point beer within the corporate limits of the city without
regard as to any place where such beverages may be consumed or used.
(Prior Code, § 4-88)
§ 4-89. NOT TO SELL TO MINORS; INTOXICATED PERSONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell, barter, or offer to sell to any minor
any low-point beer. It is unlawful to sell, barter, or offer to sell any low-
point beer to any person under the influence of intoxicating liquor, or to
permit any intoxicated person to be upon and in the premises where low-point
beer is offered for sale and sold.
(Prior Code, § 4-89)
§ 4-90. TIME OF SALE.
   It is unlawful for any retail dealer to sell, or offer for sale, furnish, or
give away any low-point beer for consumption on the premises between the hours
of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on any weekday or Saturday and between the hours of
2:00 a.m. on Sunday and 12:00 p.m. on Sunday.
(Prior Code, § 4-90)
§ 4-91. LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   A tax is hereby levied on every person engaging in, exercising, or
pursuing the following business, occupation, or privilege in this city:
      (1)   For each business selling low-point beer to be consumed off the
premises: the sum of $10 per year; and
      (2)   For each business selling low-point beer to be consumed on the
premises: the sum of $20 per year.
   (B)   Any person desiring to engage in such business as herein defined shall
pay, annually, the sum specified to the City Clerk. The license fee shall
become due and payable in advance, simultaneously with and at the same time as
county and state licenses.
(Prior Code, § 4-91)
Statutory reference:
   City annual license fee, see 37 O.S. § 163.10
   State licenses, cities not to levy greater than state fee, see 37A O.S. § 3-
108
§ 4-92. LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any retail dealer, whether permanent or temporary, at any
place within the corporate limits of the city to sell, distribute, or dispense
any low-point beer without having first applied for and received a municipal
license as herein required.
(Prior Code, § 4-92)
§ 4-93. COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW; NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No municipal license shall be issued to any retail dealer by the City Clerk
without a satisfactory showing that the applicant has obtained all state and
county permits required by law, and has in all other respects complied with the
laws of the state relating to the sale and distribution of low-point beer. No
license shall be transferable.
(Prior Code, § 4-93)
§ 4-94. POSSESSION BY MINORS IN PUBLIC.
   It is unlawful for any minor to buy, hold, or have in his or her possession
any low-point beer or intoxicating alcoholic beverage or beer while such person
is upon any public street, road, or highway, or in any public building or
place, either on foot or in a vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 4-94)
§ 4-95. TRANSPORTING OF LOW-POINT BEER EXCEPT IN ORIGINAL UNOPENED CONTAINER
PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly transport in any moving vehicle
upon a public highway, street, or alley any low-point beer, except in the
original container, which shall not have been opened and from which the
original cap or seal shall not have been removed, unless the opened container
is in the rear trunk or rear compartment, which shall include the spare tire
compartment in a station wagon or panel truck, or any outside compartment which
is not accessible to the driver or any other person in the vehicle while it is
in motion.
(Prior Code, § 4-95)
§ 4-96. REVOCATION OF CITY LICENSE.
   The City Council shall have the authority under this article to revoke any
low-point beer license for a violation of any of the provisions herein
contained.
(Prior Code, § 4-96)
§ 4-97. PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this article shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined as provided in § 1-14. Any
person who shall engage in any of the businesses licensed in this article
without having paid the fee shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be fined as provided in §
1-14.
(Prior Code, § 4-97)
§§ 4-98 THROUGH 4-122. RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: PRIVATE CLUBS
Section
   
4-123.   Definitions
   
4-124.   Classes of clubs
   
4-125.   License Review Board established; authority
   
4-126.   Members; officers; vote; quorum
   
4-127.   License fee to be paid; residency required
   
4-128.   Applications
   
4-129.   Changes to be filed
   
4-130.   Investigation of applicant by Chief of Police, City Inspector
   
4-131.   Hearing provided upon denial of license
   
4-132.   Class B and C licenses
   
4-133.   Eligibility to serve as officer
   
4-134.   Not to violate law
   
4-135.   Rentals to be on fixed basis
   
4-136.   Right to enter and inspect
   
4-137.   Subject to food handling ordinances
   
4-138.   Sanitary facilities
   
4-139.   Bylaws; membership
   
4-140.   Persons under 21 not permitted
   
4-141.   Expiration of license; proration of fee
   
4-142.   Free licenses
   
4-143.   Separate licenses; not transferable
   
4-144.   To exhibit license; required advertising and literature
   
4-145.   Annual operating fee
   
4-146.   To inspect clubs
   
4-147.   Regulations for operation; hours of operation
   
4-148.   Suspension or revocation of licenses, procedures
   
4-149.   Renewal of license
   
4-150.   Other laws applicable
   
4-151.   Penalty
   4-152 through 4-170 reserved
Statutory reference:
   Private clubs, see 37A O.S. §§ 2-139
§ 4-123. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PRIVATE CLUB. Any association, person, key club, bottle club, locker club,
pool club, or any other kind of club or association excluding the general
public from its premises, place of meeting, congregating, or operating, or
exercising control over any other place where persons are permitted to drink
alcoholic beverages other than in a private home.
   PRIVATE HOME. A building, or a separate apartment, or room in a building,
actually occupied as a bona fide place of abode by one person or by persons
maintaining a familial relation. In the case of a caretaker or other person
occupying a room in a building partially devoted to other purposes, only the
room actually occupied as living quarters, containing only furniture,
furnishings, and fixtures appropriate to such use and actually employed in such
use, which are separated from the remainder of the building by fixed walls, the
doors leading to which customarily are locked, shall be considered a PRIVATE
HOME.
(Prior Code, § 4-123)
§ 4-124. CLASSES OF CLUBS.
   For the purpose of license and regulation, private clubs are divided into
three classes:
   (A)   Class A includes private clubs maintained, supported, and controlled
by nationally recognized lodges, fraternal societies, or veterans organizations
for their members only;
   (B)   Class B includes restaurants open to the general public but
maintaining a private room opening into the restaurant, which private room is
used as a private club. No food may be served in the private room nor dancing
permitted in the private room or in the adjacent restaurant; and
   (C)   Class C includes any other private club.
(Prior Code, § 4-124)
§ 4-125. LICENSE REVIEW BOARD ESTABLISHED; AUTHORITY.
   A License Review Board is hereby established to review and pass upon
qualifications of applicants or licensees under this article. The License
Review Board shall issue licenses to applicants qualified under this article
and hear complaints and determine revocations of licenses in proper cases. No
license shall be issued by the License Review Board until the application has
been on file with the City Clerk at least ten days.
(Prior Code, § 4-125)
§ 4-126. MEMBERS; OFFICERS; VOTE; QUORUM.
   The License Review Board shall be composed of five members, the Chief of
Police, the Fire Chief, the City Clerk, the Municipal Counselor, and the City
Inspector. The members shall elect a Chair of the License Review Board, and the
City Clerk shall be Secretary. In the event of the absence of either the Chair
or Secretary at any meeting of the License Review Board, the members present
may elect a temporary Chair or Secretary from among their number. A simple
majority of the members of the License Review Board present at any meeting
shall be required for any action. Four members shall constitute a quorum.
(Prior Code, § 4-126)
§ 4-127. LICENSE FEE TO BE PAID; RESIDENCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall maintain or operate any private club in the city
without first paying in advance to the City Clerk the license fee hereinafter
prescribed, presenting the receipt for the same to the City Clerk, making
application for a license therefor on forms provided by the City Clerk, and
receiving a license from the License Review Board.
   (B)   The applicant for a private club license must be a resident of the
city for at least two years at the time of making application and after the
license is issued.
(Prior Code, § 4-127)
§ 4-128. APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applications for licenses to be issued hereunder shall be filed in
duplicate and made upon forms prepared and made available by the City Clerk and
shall state:
      (1)   The name of the owner of the real estate for which the license is
to be issued and the description of such real estate;
      (2)   If the applicant is not the owner of such real estate, a copy of
the lease or other arrangement under which such applicant holds possession
thereof shall be attached to the application;
      (3)   The articles of incorporation or association and bylaws if the
applicant is an association or corporation;
      (4)   A list of the officers, directors, owners, and any stockholders who
receive a financial return on their stock;
      (5)   The full name, age, residence, present and previous employment
record of the applicant, or if the applicant is an association or corporation,
such information concerning the operators, managers, and persons having
supervisory control over the premises thereof;
      (6)   The length of time the applicant has been a bona fide resident of
the city and authorized to do business in the state immediately preceding the
filing of that application;
      (7)   A full statement setting forth the facts as to any arrangement
under which the applicant allows other persons, including guests, to have
access to the premises and to store or consume alcoholic beverages thereon,
including any fee charged and the amount thereof, the amount of alcoholic
beverages which any person will be allowed to store on the premises at any one
time, a statement as to whether or not food is served on the premises, a
statement as to whether or not ice, mixers, or fluids are sold or delivered to
persons using alcoholic beverages on the premises, and the manner by which
alcoholic beverages are to be transported to the premises;
      (8)   The names of all persons whom such applicant allows upon such
premises and who have the right to store or consume alcoholic beverages
thereon. The applicant shall agree upon making his or her application hereunder
that if additional persons are added to those disclosed at the time of the
applications, that the names and addresses of such persons will be furnished to
the City Clerk within 15 days after such persons acquire similar rights on the
premises; and
      (9)   Such other information as the License Review Board or Chief of
Police shall find reasonably necessary to execute the general purpose of this
article, and to make a fair determination of the moral qualifications of the
applicant and the managers and operators thereof.
   (B)   The applicant shall also submit the following for review by the City
Inspector:
      (1)   Plot plan showing lot and building and available off-street
parking; and
      (2)   Floor plan of the building which will be used as a private club,
showing door signs, area to be used for recreation, restroom configuration,
floor and wall covering material, seating area, plumbing layout, and electrical
layout.
   (C)   The application shall be accompanied by an application fee of $25,
which fee shall be submitted to the City Clerk for deposit in the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 4-128)
§ 4-129. CHANGES TO BE FILED.
   If changes occur in the officers, directors, stockholders, owners, or
managers of any private club, or in the application information, after filing
the application with the City Clerk as aforesaid at any time during the year,
the applicant shall furnish such changes in writing in duplicate on the forms
provided by the City Clerk within one week after their occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 4-129)
§ 4-130. INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT BY CHIEF OF POLICE, CITY INSPECTOR.
   Upon receipt of an application for a license for the operation of a private
club, the City Clerk shall forward a copy of the application to the Chief of
Police, who shall promptly cause an investigation to be made of the applicant,
of the manner in which the applicant proposes to operate the private club, and
a check of any criminal record of any of the persons named in the application.
The Chief of Police shall report in writing to the City Clerk on his or her
findings. The City Inspector shall also report in writing his or her findings
of the plot and building plan and compliance with applicable codes. By
certified statement, the City Inspector shall confirm that the proposed site
and building does or does not meet all zoning, electrical, building, and
plumbing regulations of the city and state.
(Prior Code, § 4-130)
§ 4-131. HEARING PROVIDED UPON DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   Any person whose application for private license for the operation of a
private club is denied shall have the right to appeal to the City Council.
Notice of the appeal stating the grounds therefor shall be filed with Chief of
Police and the City Clerk within five days after receipt of the notice of
denial. Within ten days thereafter, the City Council shall hold a public
hearing upon the appeal, at which hearing, both the applicant and the Chief of
Police and other interested parties may present such evidence as they deem
advisable. Within ten days after the conclusion of the hearing, the City
Council shall affirm or reverse the denial of the license for the operation of
a private club.
(Prior Code, § 4-131)
§ 4-132. CLASS B AND C LICENSES.
   Applicants for class B or class C licenses shall be either state
corporations or associations with written articles of association and bylaws.
The articles or bylaws shall provide for the regular election of officers or
directors.
(Prior Code, § 4-132)
§ 4-133. ELIGIBILITY TO SERVE AS OFFICER.
   No persons shall be eligible for election or to serve or act in any class B
or class C private club as an officer, director, stockholder, or owner, nor
direct any policy thereof, who has not been a continuous resident in good faith
of the county for a period of two years immediately preceding the action or
service in any of such capacities. No person shall be eligible for election or
to serve or act in any private club as an officer, director, stockholder,
owner, or manager, nor direct any policy thereof, who has been convicted of any
felony or of violating any of the gambling or prohibitory laws of the state,
any other state, or the United States, including those heretofore in effect.
(Prior Code, § 4-133)
§ 4-134. NOT TO VIOLATE LAW.
   No private club nor any officer, director, stockholder, owner, or manager
thereof licensed pursuant to the provisions of this article shall violate any
of the provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, being 37A O.S. §§ 1-
101 through 6-129 of the state nor any other law of the state, nor knowingly
permit the violation thereof on any premises subject to the control of any
private club.
(Prior Code, § 4-134)
§ 4-135. RENTALS TO BE ON FIXED BASIS.
   No private club licensed pursuant to the provisions of this article shall
have or make any rental or lease agreement with any other person, firm, trust,
estate, corporation, or other entity providing for any rentals based upon
percentage of profit of the private club, but any rentals paid or to be paid
shall be on a fixed basis without relation to any income, volume, or profit of
the private club.
(Prior Code, § 4-135)
§ 4-136. RIGHT TO ENTER AND INSPECT.
   The right of entry and inspection of any premises subject to the control of
any private club by any uniformed or nonuniformed officer or agent of any
department charged with the enforcement of this article shall be a condition on
which every license is issued. The application for, and acceptance of, any
license hereunder shall conclusively be deemed to be consent of the applicant
and licensee to such entry and inspection.
(Prior Code, § 4-136)
§ 4-137. SUBJECT TO FOOD HANDLING ORDINANCES.
   Every private club licensed pursuant to this article shall be subject to all
ordinances regulating food handling establishments.
(Prior Code, § 4-137)
§ 4-138. SANITARY FACILITIES.
   Every private club licensed pursuant to this article shall, as a minimum,
provide sanitary and toilet facilities as required by the ordinances or Health
Department regulations governing beer taverns.
(Prior Code, § 4-138)
§ 4-139. BYLAWS; MEMBERSHIP.
   Membership in any class C private club shall be regulated by articles or
bylaws. Upon election to membership in any private club, a membership card
shall be issued to the member, and his or her name and his or her age enrolled
on a list of members, which shall be kept on the premises of every private club
and subject to inspection at all times. The list of members shall show the full
name of the member, his or her age, his or her address, and the dates of his or
her application for membership and election to membership. The bylaws or
articles may provide for temporary membership for nonresidents of the city,
temporarily present in the city as members of another organization holding a
meeting in the city. Temporary memberships shall extend to all members of the
organization affected. Temporary membership shall be effected by notice in
writing to the presiding officer of the organization meeting in the city,
limiting the time of temporary membership to the time the organization shall
meet in the city. A copy of the notice shall be filed with the City Clerk. Any
convention badge or identification of membership in the visiting organization
selected by the private club shall serve as the temporary membership card.
(Prior Code, § 4-139)
§ 4-140. PERSONS UNDER 21 NOT PERMITTED.
   No person under the age of 21 years shall be permitted in or on that part of
the premises subject to the control of any private club where persons are
permitted to drink alcoholic beverages unless accompanied by and in custody of
his or her parent or guardian.
(Prior Code, § 4-140)
§ 4-141. EXPIRATION OF LICENSE; PRORATION OF FEE.
   All licenses issued pursuant to this article shall expire on June 30 of each
year. License fees shall be prorated in the following manner: Applicants filing
applications more than six months prior to June 30 of any year shall pay the
license fee in full. Applicants filing applications less than six months prior
to June 30 of any year shall pay one-half of the fee prescribed herein. No
license shall be returned or transferred from person to person or from place to
place. Licenses shall be signed by the City Clerk and countersigned by the
Chair of the License Review Board. The City Clerk shall affix the corporate
seal of the city thereto.
(Prior Code, § 4-141)
§ 4-142. FREE LICENSES.
   No free licenses shall be granted, nor rebates allowed, for any cause, nor
any sum accepted less than the amount herein specified, nor for a shorter
period than therein required.
(Prior Code, § 4-142)
§ 4-143. SEPARATE LICENSES; NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   (A)   A separate license must be obtained for each branch established or
separate place operated by any private club, and each license shall authorize
the operation of a private club only at the location described in the license,
and in conformity to the ordinances of the city and the laws of the state and
of the United States.
   (B)   No license shall be transferable to another person or to any other
location.
(Prior Code, § 4-143)
§ 4-144. TO EXHIBIT LICENSE; REQUIRED ADVERTISING AND LITERATURE.
   (A)   Every private club having a license under the provisions of this
article shall place and exhibit the same at all times while in force in some
conspicuous place in the premises licensed, and shall produce or exhibit the
same when applying for a renewal thereof. The entrance of every private club
shall be plainly marked “Private Club Members Only.”
   (B)   In any advertising, literature, or written information provided by or
about the private club, including any activities or events conducted therein,
the words “Private Club Members Only” shall be included.
(Prior Code, § 4-144)
§ 4-145. ANNUAL OPERATING FEE.
   An annual license tax or fee is hereby levied upon all persons operating a
private club within the city in the following amounts:
   (A)   Class A: $200;
   (B)   Class B: $400; and
   (C)   Class C: $600.
(Prior Code, § 4-145)
§ 4-146. TO INSPECT CLUBS.
   The Police, Fire, and Health Departments and City Inspector shall inspect
all private clubs regularly to enforce all of the terms of this article and
report any violations to the License Review Board.
(Prior Code, § 4-146)
§ 4-147. REGULATIONS FOR OPERATION; HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It is an offense, punishable as hereinafter set forth, and grounds for the
revocation or suspension of a license issued hereunder for any private club, or
operator, partner, or manager, or person having supervisory control thereof, or
employee, to do or permit to be done, on or about the licensed premises, any of
the following acts:
   (A)   Violate any of the provisions of this article;
   (B)   Violate any of the statutes of the state pertaining to alcoholic
beverages;
   (C)   Violate any of the regulations promulgated by the Alcoholic Beverage
Control Board of the state;
   (D)   Consume or permit the consumption of any alcoholic beverages on any
licensed premises between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. on any day and
between 3:00 a.m. Sunday and 12:00 p.m. on the following Monday;
   (E)   Permit any persons not an employee to remain on the licensed premises
where the consumption of alcoholic beverages is usually permitted as a part of
the operation of the private club after 3:15 a.m. on any day of the week and
before the next regular opening hour;
   (F)   Serve to or allow any intoxicated person to consume any alcoholic
beverages on the premises so licensed;
   (G)   Permit an intoxicated person to be or to remain on the licensed
premises;
   (H)   Permit a person under the age of 21 years to consume intoxicating
alcoholic beverages on the premises;
   (I)   Serve or permit to be served any intoxicated alcoholic beverages to
any person under the age of 21 years; or
   (J)   Permit a person under the age of 21 years to serve any intoxicating
alcoholic beverages on the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 4-147)
Statutory reference:
   State statutes on closing hours, 2:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m., see 37A O.S. § 4-
101
§ 4-148. SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES, PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Any failure to comply with any section of this article, or to comply
with statements in the applications and notification of any changes, or to
comply with regulations or requirements of the License Review Board, shall
constitute grounds for revocation of a private club license.
   (B)   The License Review Board may suspend for not more than 15 days, or
revoke licenses issued hereunder if, after public hearing, as hereinafter
provided, the License Review Board finds that the holder of the license has
violated any of the provisions of this article.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall investigate complaints concerning private
clubs, and if he or she finds that a violation of the provisions has been
committed, he or she shall file a complaint with the City Clerk setting forth
the alleged acts constituting the violation. Upon the filing of such complaint,
the City Clerk shall fix a date for hearing the complaint by the License Review
Board and shall cause to be served upon said licensee a copy of the complaint
and notice of the time and place of the hearing. The complaint and notice of
hearing shall be served upon the manager, operator, partner, or persons shown
on the license as having supervisory control over the premises of the private
club, or if such person may not be found, by mailing the same by registered
mail, addressed to such person at the licensed premises. At the hearing
thereon, the complainant, the licensee, or any interested person may be present
and present such evidence as may be relevant and material. If, at the
conclusion of such hearing, the License Review Board finds that the licensee
has violated any of the provisions of §
4-147, the License Review Board shall suspend for not more than 15 days, or
revoke, the license issued to the private club. Upon suspension or revocation,
the licensee shall immediately cease operation as a private club.
(Prior Code, § 4-148) (Ord. 812, passed 10-6-1980)
§ 4-149. RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   Upon the expiration of the term of a license issued hereunder, the City
Clerk shall issue renewal licenses to all licensees whose licenses have not
been revoked upon the payment of the annual license fee.
(Prior Code, § 4-149)
§ 4-150. OTHER LAWS APPLICABLE.
   The provisions of this article shall not be construed to exempt any person
operating a private club from compliance with any other applicable ordinance of
the city not in conflict herewith.
(Prior Code, § 4-150) (Ord. 812, passed 10-6-1980)
§ 4-151. PENALTY.
   Any person, partnership, corporation, or association, or officer, director,
stockholder, owner, or manager of any private club who violates any provision
of this article is guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by fine and costs as provided in §
1-14.
(Prior Code, § 4-151)
§§ 4-152 THROUGH 4-170. RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI: SOCIAL HOST
Section
   
4-171.   Definitions
   
4-172.   Consumption of alcohol by minor
   
4-173.   Hosting, permitting, or allowing a party, gathering, or event where
minors consuming alcoholic beverages prohibited
§ 4-171. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT. Any person 21 years of age or over.
   ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from
whatever source or by whatever process produced.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any liquid or solid material intended to be ingested by
a person which contains ethanol, also known as ethyl alcohol, drinking alcohol,
or grain alcohol, including, but not limited to, intoxicating liquor, malt
beverage, spirits, liquor, liqueur, wine, beer, whiskey, rum, vodka, cordials,
gin, and brandy, and every liquid or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine,
or beer, and which contains 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit
for beverage purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined with
other substances. This term includes intoxicating beverages and low-point beer
as defined herein.
   GATHERING. A party, gathering, or event, where a group of two or more
persons have assembled or are assembling for a social occasion or social
activity.
   INTOXICATING BEVERAGE. Includes beverages containing more than 3.2% alcohol
by weight.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN.
      (1)   A person who, by court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor; or
      (2)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by the
court.
   LOW-POINT BEER. Beverages containing more than 0.5% alcohol by volume, and
not more than 3.2% alcohol by weight, including, but not limited to, beer or
cereal malt beverages obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion of
barley or other grain, malt, or similar products.
   MINOR. Any person under 21 years of age.
   PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, foster parent, or
stepparent of another person.
   PARTY. A gathering or event at which a group of two or more persons assemble
for a social occasion or activity at a private residence or private premises.
   PREMISES. Any residence or other private property, place, or premises,
including any commercial or business premises.
(Prior Code, § 4-171) (Ord. 2007-10, passed 12-17-2007)
§ 4-172. CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL BY MINOR.
   Except as permitted by state law, as permitted herein, it is unlawful for
any minor to:
   (A)   Consume at any public place or any place open to the public any
alcoholic beverage; or
   (B)   Consume at any place not open to the public any alcoholic beverage,
unless in connection with the consumption of the alcoholic beverage, that minor
is being supervised by his or her parent or legal guardian.
(Prior Code, § 4-172) (Ord. 2007-10, passed 12-17-2007)
§ 4-173. HOSTING, PERMITTED, OR ALLOWING A PARTY, GATHERING, OR EVENT WHERE
MINORS CONSUMING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is the duty of any person having control of any premises, who
knowingly hosts, permits, or allows a gathering at said premises, to take all
reasonable steps to prevent the consumption of alcoholic beverages by any minor
at the gathering. Reasonable steps include controlling access to alcoholic
beverages at the gathering; controlling the quantity of alcoholic beverages
present at the gathering; verifying the age of persons attending the gathering
by inspecting drivers’ licenses or other government-issued identification cards
to ensure that minors do not consume alcoholic beverages while at the
gathering; and supervising the activities of minors at the gathering.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any adult or other person who owns or controls any
premises to knowingly host, permit, or allow a gathering or party to take place
or continue at said premises where at least one minor obtains, possesses, or
consumes any alcoholic beverage, whenever the person owning or having control
of the premises either knows a minor has obtained, possessed, or consumed an
alcoholic beverage or reasonably should know that a minor has obtained,
possessed, or consumed an alcoholic beverage had the person taken all
reasonable steps to prevent the obtaining, possession, or consumption of an
alcoholic beverage by a minor as set forth in subsection (A) above of this
section.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to conduct involving the use of alcoholic
beverages that occurs exclusively between a minor and his or her parent or
legal guardian.
   (D)   Nothing in this section should be interpreted to prohibit any family
activity held in the confines of the family home wherein alcohol, alcoholic
beverages, or intoxicating beverages are provided to immediate family members
within the supervision of their parents or legal guardians. However, if the
minor family member leaves such a family gathering intoxicated and is found in
public, then said providers of alcohol will be held responsible in the same
manner as a nonfamily gathering.
   (E)   Nothing in this section should be interpreted to prohibit any
religious practice which includes the use of alcohol. However, if a minor
leaves such a religious gathering intoxicated and is found to be in public,
then said providers of alcohol will be held responsible in the same manner as a
nonreligious gathering.
   (F)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of this section shall be
deemed guilty of a municipal offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished for violation with a fine of $250, plus court costs and statutory
penalties, as allowed by law. Each incident in violation of this section shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (G)   This section shall not apply where prohibited or preempted by state or
federal law.
(Prior Code, § 4-173) (Ord. 2007-10, passed 12-17-2007)
CHAPTER 5: RESERVED
   [Reserved]
CHAPTER 6: ANIMALS
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   KENNEL
      
III.   DOGS AND CATS
      
IV.   ANIMAL POUND
      
V.   BIRD SANCTUARY
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
6-1.   Definitions
   
6-2.   Animals not to be at large
   
6-3.   Animals at large unlawful
   
6-4.   Pasturing in public areas illegal
   
6-5.   Animals prohibited within city limits
   
6-6.   Animals creating nuisance prohibited
   
6-7.   Buildings for animals, construction and conditions
   
6-8.   Indecent exhibition of animals
   
6-9.   Structures to be kept clean
   
6-10.   Disposal of manure
   
6-11.   City inspections
   
6-12.   Number of animals permitted within the city
   
6-13.   Cruelty to animals
   
6-14.   Poisoning animals
   
6-15.   Encouraging animals to fight
   
6-16.   Abandoning animals
   
6-17.   Unlawful to keep bees
   
6-18.   Zoning ordinance to supersede provisions of this chapter
   
6-19.   Penalty
   6-20 through 6-41 reserved
Statutory reference:
   Animals, see 4 O.S. §§ 31 et seq.
   Authority to regulate animals, see 11 O.S. § 22-115
§ 6-1. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any horse, mule, donkey, pony, cow, sheep, goat, hog, dog, cat,
rabbit, chicken, goose, duck, turkey, or other animal or fowl.
   AT LARGE. Not securely confined by a fence or other means on premises under
the control of, or occupied by, the owner, and not under the control of the
owner, a member of his or her immediate family over 12 years of age, or an
agent of the owner, by leash or otherwise, whether on the owner’s premises or
not.
   OWNER. Any person owning, harboring, or keeping an animal. The occupant of
any premises on which a domesticated or tamed animal remains, or to which it
customarily returns, for a period of ten days or more, shall be deemed to be
harboring or keeping the animal.
   VICIOUS DOG. A dog which has bitten, or attempted to bite, any person or
another animal without undue provocation, or which attacks, or barks or growls
at, or acts as if it intends to attack or bite, or bites a person or other
animal when not unduly provoked.
(Prior Code, § 6-1)
§ 6-2. ANIMALS NOT TO BE AT LARGE.
   No owner shall permit any animal or fowl owned, harbored, possessed, or kept
by him or her, as a pet or otherwise, to be at large at any time within the
city. It is unlawful for any animal to be at large at any time within the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-2) (Ord. 814, passed 2-19-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of animals running at large, see 11 O.S. § 22-115
§ 6-3. ANIMALS AT LARGE UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person to open any enclosure in which any animal is
confined or in any manner to allow the animal to be at large.
(Prior Code, § 6-3)
§ 6-4. PASTURING IN PUBLIC AREAS ILLEGAL.
   It is unlawful for any person to stake, confine, or pasture any animal on
any public school ground or other public property, federal, state, city, or
other, on any railroad right-of-way, or on any property without the consent of
the person owning or controlling such property.
(Prior Code, § 6-4)
§ 6-5. ANIMALS PROHIBITED WITHIN CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, harbor,
maintain, or permit, or suffer to be maintained any animal, as defined in
subsection (B) below, upon any property or premises within the corporate limits
of the city, without a permit having issued by the city as hereinafter
provided, or if otherwise excepted under subsection (C) below. The keeping of
such animals in violation of the terms of this section is hereby declared to be
a nuisance against the public health of the city, and such nuisance shall be
subject to abatement as provided by law or penalty as hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ADJOINING. Property touching or in actual contact with the applicant’s
property. It shall not include property lying nearby but which is separated by
an alleyway, roadway, street, or otherwise.
      ANIMAL. Any horse, mule, donkey, pony, cow or cattle, sheep, goat, pig,
hog, dog, cat, rabbit, chicken, goose, duck, turkey, peacock, swine, or other
animal, fowl, or reptile.
      AT LARGE. Neither enclosed within a building, fence, or other enclosure
of sufficient strength and construction to restrain and keep the animal within
the building, fence, or other enclosure, nor securely restrained and controlled
by a person by a leash, harness, or other constraint.
      HOUSEHOLD PET. A domesticated animal regularly kept as a pet within a
house or enclosed yard, including dogs, cats, hamsters, guinea pigs, caged
birds, or any other animal used to assist handicapped persons, but not
including horses, mules, donkeys, ponies, cows or cattle, sheep, goats, pigs,
hogs, chickens, geese, ducks, turkeys, peacocks, swine, or other animals,
fowls, or reptiles. Vietnamese potbellied pigs shall not be considered
HOUSEHOLD PETS.
      THREE STRIKES. Subsequent to issuance of a proper permit by the city, if
there are three or more confirmed complaints or violations of §
6-5, the permit shall be revoked by the city.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Animals may be kept in areas zoned as agricultural or heavy
industry, subject only to the restrictions of the respective zoning ordinances.
      (2)   Animals kept or treated at veterinary hospitals or clinics.
      (3)   In the case where an animal dies and it is necessary to bottle feed
its newborn, the same shall be permitted for a period not to exceed 60 days.
      (4)   Household pets may be kept, subject to compliance with other code
sections specifically applicable to the same.
   (D)   Permit requirements.
      (1)   The city shall prepare an application form which shall be available
to the public at the city office during regular office hours.
      (2)   All persons requesting a permit shall complete the required
application, pay the required application fee, and comply with all requirements
herein.
      (3)   Permits shall be issued by the city’s Animal Control Officer, or
other designee, upon acceptance of the application, payment of the application
fee, and verification of all signatures thereon.
      (4)   To qualify for a permit, the applicant must obtain the approval and
signatures of all owners of properties adjoining the applicant’s property, and
at least 51% of the owners of all properties lying within 300 feet of the
perimeter of the applicant’s property.
      (5)   In the event that an owner of an adjoining property cannot be
located and contacted because of being out-of-state or otherwise, the applicant
may request an exception from the City Business Manager, who may grant an
exception if all other requirements herein have been complied with.
      (6)   Permits are subject to revocation upon the application or written
request of at least 51% of adjoining landowners or 51% of the owners of
properties lying within 300 feet of the applicant’s property.
      (7)   The initial permit shall be valid from its issuance date until the
following March 15, at which time, said permit shall expire and shall be
subject to renewal and payment of the renewal fee. Thereafter, the permit shall
be subject to annual renewal on or before March 15 of each year, and payment of
annual renewal fee.
      (8)   Permits shall be in effect until expiration or revocation.
   (E)   Additional provisions.
      (1)   Every approved applicant shall confine all animals located on the
approved premises in an enclosure or fence line sufficient to prevent their
running at large. Each enclosure or fence line shall have shelter commensurate
with that typically used for the animal being confined, and the premises and
shelter shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.
      (2)   Food for confined animals shall be stored in ratproof, flytight
containers or stacked and stored in a reasonably prudent manner in such manner
as to prevent a public or private nuisance.
   (F)   Expiration or revocation of permit. Upon the expiration or revocation
of the permit issued under § 6-5, the approved applicant shall promptly remove
all animals, enclosures, shelters, feed, and containers from the premises, but
no later than 30 days from the expiration or revocation date. Failure to comply
with this subsection (F) shall result in impoundment of the animals and removal
of the enclosures, shelters, feed, and containers at the approved applicant’s
expense, and other penalties provided herein.
   (G)   Grandfather clause. Upon enactment of this section of the Alva City
Code of Ordinances, persons who have animals located within the city in
violation of §
6-5 shall have 30 days to make application for a permit as hereinabove set
forth, or to remove the animals. Provided, the applicant shall only be required
to obtain the consent and signatures of all adjoining property owners; subject,
however, to the provisions of subsection (D)(5) above. The applicant must
comply with all other municipal codes and ordinances.
   (H)   Penalty. Any violation of any provision contained in this chapter is
an offense against the city. Upon conviction of any such offense, the violator
shall be punished by a fine as provided by §
1-14 of this code, and costs.
(Prior Code, § 6-5) (Ord. 2008-14, passed 1-21-2008)
§ 6-6. ANIMALS CREATING NUISANCE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to keep or harbor within the city any dog or
other animal which, by barking, howling, or otherwise, disturbs the peace and
quiet of any persons or injures other animals or destroys property belonging to
any person other than the owner of the animal.
(Prior Code, § 6-6)
§ 6-7. BUILDINGS FOR ANIMALS, CONSTRUCTION AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Every building wherein any animal is kept within the city shall be
constructed of such material and in such manner that it can be kept clean and
sanitary at all times.
   (B)   Every such building, if located within 200 feet of any tenement or
apartment house, hotel, restaurant, boardinghouse, retail foodstore, building
used for educational, religious, or hospital purposes, or residence other than
that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises upon which such animal
is kept, shall be provided with a watertight and flytight receptacle for
manure, of such size as to hold all accumulations of manure. The receptacle
shall be emptied sufficiently often and in such manner as to prevent it from
being or becoming a nuisance, and shall be kept covered at all times, except
when open during the deposit or removal of manure or refuse. No manure shall be
allowed to accumulate on such premises, except in the receptacle.
(Prior Code, § 6-7)
§ 6-8. INDECENT EXHIBITION OF ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful for any person to permit animals to engage in sexual
intercourse in any place, except an enclosed place entirely out of public view.
(Prior Code, § 6-8)
§ 6-9. STRUCTURES TO BE KEPT CLEAN.
   Every structure, pen, lot, or place wherein an animal is kept or permitted
to be shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition, devoid of rodents
and vermin and free from objectionable odors.
(Prior Code, § 6-9)
§ 6-10. DISPOSAL OF MANURE.
   Manure shall be hauled outside the city in a manner which does not
jeopardize the public health, or else shall be spread evenly upon the ground
and turned under at once, or as soon as the weather permits.
(Prior Code, § 6-10)
§ 6-11. CITY INSPECTIONS.
   The City Inspector, or a designated representative appointed by the Business
Manager, upon complaint of any person, shall inspect any structure or place
where an animal is kept, and may do so on his or her own initiative. He or she
may issue any such reasonable order as he or she may deem necessary to the
owner of the animal to cause the animal to be kept as provided in this chapter
or in a manner so as not to constitute a nuisance. He or she may file a
complaint before the Municipal Judge or by citation against any person for
violation of any provision of this chapter or of any such reasonable order, but
this procedure shall not abridge the right of others to make such complaint.
(Prior Code, § 6-11) (Ord. 2008-836, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 6-12. NUMBER OF ANIMALS PERMITTED WITHIN THE CITY.
   (A)   No person shall own or possess a concentration of dogs or cats, or any
combination thereof in excess of four, within the corporate limits of the city
without a kennel license as provided in Article II of this chapter.
   (B)   There shall be exempted from this chapter persons who possess four or
more dogs or cats, or any combination thereof, as a result of litters born to a
dog or cat in the possession of such person, which exemption shall apply for a
period of 120 days from the date the litter is born.
(Prior Code, § 6-12) (Ord. 2000-836, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 6-13. CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful for any person willfully and maliciously to pour on or apply
to an animal any drug or other thing which inflicts pain on the animal; or
knowingly to treat an animal in a cruel or inhumane manner; or knowingly to
neglect an animal belonging to him or her, or in his or her custody, in a cruel
or inhumane manner.
(Prior Code, § 6-13)
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals, see 21 O.S. § 1685
§ 6-14. POISONING ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful for a person to willfully poison any dog or other animal
except a noxious, nondomesticated animal; or knowingly to expose poison so that
the same may be taken by such an animal.
(Prior Code, § 6-14)
Statutory reference:
   Poisoning animals, see 21 O.S. § 1689
§ 6-15. ENCOURAGING ANIMALS TO FIGHT.
   It is unlawful for any person to instigate or encourage a fight between
animals; or to encourage one animal to attack, pursue, or annoy another animal
except a noxious, nondomesticated animal; or to keep a house, pit, or other
place used for fights between animals.
(Prior Code, § 6-15)
Statutory reference:
   Cockfighting prohibited, see 21 O.S. §§ 1692.1 et seq.
   Dogfighting, see 21 O.S. §§ 1693 et seq.
§ 6-16. ABANDONING ANIMALS.
   No person shall abandon any dog, cat, or other animal in the city. The
abandoning of any animal shall constitute a violation of this code and a public
offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-16) (Ord. 716, passed 12-2-1974)
Statutory reference:
   Abandoned animals, see 21 O.S. § 1686
   Abandoning animals prohibited, see 21 O.S. § 1691
§ 6-17. UNLAWFUL TO KEEP BEES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep bees or maintain an apiary
within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-17)
§ 6-18. ZONING ORDINANCE TO SUPERSEDE PROVISIONS OF THIS CHAPTER.
   In case of conflict between this chapter and the present and any future
zoning ordinance, the provisions of the zoning ordinance (Appendix B to this
code) shall prevail and supersede the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-18)
§ 6-19. PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any ordinance or provision of this chapter, or who
violates, or refuses or neglects to carry out any reasonable order made by the
Health Officer pursuant to this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be
punished as provided in § 1-14.
(Prior Code, § 6-19)
§§ 6-20 THROUGH 6-41. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: KENNEL
Section
   
6-42.   Defined
   
6-43.   License – Required; inspection; fee
   
6-44.   Same – Length of validity; renewal
   
6-45.   Violation
   
6-46.   Location of kennels
   6-47 through 6-65 reserved
§ 6-42. DEFINED.
   The term KENNEL means an establishment, residence, or other property wherein
more than four dogs or cats, or any combination thereof, are kept or where dogs
and/or cats are kept for the purposes of breeding, boarding, selling, or
training.
(Prior Code, § 6-42) (Ord. 2000-836, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 6-43. LICENSE – REQUIRED; INSPECTION; FEE.
   Every person or entity desiring to own or possess more than four dogs or
four cats, or any combination thereof, shall first make application to the City
Clerk, on an application form furnished by the City Clerk, for a license, and
shall, at the time of submitting the application for approval, submit a
petition signed by 80% of the property owners located within 300 feet of the
kennel’s location, granting approval of the kennel and its location. It is the
duty of the City Clerk, upon receipt of such application and petition, to
notify the City Inspector or the designated representative appointed by the
Business Manager that the application has been filed. The City Inspector or
designated representative appointed by the Business Manager shall inspect the
location site of the kennel, and shall determine whether the kennel complies
with all ordinances of the city, county, state, and federal laws or
regulations, including health and safety. If the application, petition, and
investigation are deemed satisfactory and acceptable, the applicant shall be
notified and shall pay a license fee of $10, at which time, a kennel license
shall be issued.
(Prior Code, § 6-43) (Ord. 2000-836, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 6-44. SAME – LENGTH OF VALIDITY; RENEWAL.
   A kennel license shall be valid for a period of one year from the date of
issuance and shall be subject to all city ordinances. The holder of the kennel
license shall, prior to the anniversary date of the issuance of said license,
make application for renewal. Upon such application, upon inspection by the
City Inspector or the designated representative appointed by the Business
Manager and approval of the same, and upon payment of the license fee, the
license holder shall be granted a renewal of the kennel license. The City
Inspector, or the designated representative appointed by the Business Manager,
shall have authority as deemed reasonable and necessary for protection of the
public welfare to inspect a kennel for compliance with city, county, state, and
federal laws, ordinances, or regulations; and shall likewise have authority to
inspect a kennel upon a complaint made to the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-44) (Ord. 2000-836, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 6-45. VIOLATION.
   If the City Inspector, or the designated representative appointed by the
Business Manager, determines that a violation of city, county, state, or
federal law, ordinance, or regulation has occurred, the following actions may
be taken:
   (A)   Issuance of a notice to the kennel license holder of the violation,
giving a period not to exceed 30 days to remedy the problem or face closure;
   (B)   Cite the kennel license holder for violation of this section, which
shall be a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, punishable as set forth in §
1-14. Each day or any portion of a day during which any violation of this
section shall continue shall constitute a separate offense; and/or
   (C)   Issue an immediate order of closure, in which event, the kennel
license holder shall immediately cease and desist operating the kennel. Failure
to comply with the order shall be a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
punishable as set forth in §
1-14. Each day or any portion of a day during which any violation of this
section shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-45) (Ord. 2000-836, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 6-46. LOCATION OF KENNELS.
   No dog kennel or other establishment wherein animals are kept shall be
maintained closer than 40 feet to any tenement or apartment house, hotel,
restaurant, boardinghouse, retail food store, building used for educational,
religious, or hospital purposes, or residence other than that occupied by the
owner or occupant of the premises upon which the animals are kept.
(Prior Code, § 6-46)
§§ 6-47 THROUGH 6-65. RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: DOGS AND CATS
Section
   
6-66.   Dogs and cats to be vaccinated
   
6-67.   Running at large
   
6-68.   Dog and cat bite, procedures
   
6-69.   Allowing dogs and cats at large or to trespass
   
6-70.   Dogs muzzled and cats confined
   
6-71.   Killing dog in self-defense
   
6-72.   Confinement of rabid animals
   6-73 through 6-102 reserved
Statutory reference:
   Dangerous dogs, see 4 O.S. §§ 42.4 and 44 et seq.
   Dog and Cat Sterilization Act, see 4 O.S. §§ 499 et seq.
§ 6-66. DOGS AND CATS TO BE VACCINATED.
   The owner of a dog or cat shall have the dog or cat vaccinated against
rabies by a veterinarian every calendar year before July 1 thereof, or, in the
case of a pup or kitten, before it is six months old. The person vaccinating
the dog or cat shall furnish the owner a certificate of vaccination.
(Prior Code, § 6-66) (Ord. 814, passed 2-19-1996)
§ 6-67. RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   Every person who owns, has charge, care, custody, possession, or
control of any dog or cat within the city shall confine the dog or cat to
premises owned or controlled by him or her. Confinement shall be accomplished
by means of a substantial fence or similar enclosure of sufficient strength and
height to prevent the dog or cat from escaping therefrom, or inside a house or
other building, or by a leash consisting of a metal chain or other material of
sufficient strength to prevent the dog or cat from escaping from the premises
when the leash is stretched to its full length.
   (B)   No person who owns, has charge, care, custody, possession, or control
of any dog or cat within the city shall fail to confine any dog or cat as
required by subsection (A) above of this section.
   (C)   The provisions of subsection (A) above of this section shall not apply
to any person who takes a dog or cat upon private property with the consent of
the owner or person in control of the property, or upon any street or other
public place when the dog or cat is under control of the person in a vehicle,
or by means of a chain or leash of sufficient strength and length to control
the actions of the dog or cat.
(Prior Code, § 6-67) (Ord. 716, passed 12-2-1974; Ord. 814, passed 2-19-1996)
§ 6-68. DOG AND CAT BITE, PROCEDURES.
   Any owner or custodian of a dog or cat who has bitten a person, or owner
having any reason to believe that such dog or cat has bitten any person in the
city shall immediately report the incident to the Chief of Police of the city.
The animal shall immediately be confined at the city pound or at some other
suitable place as provided in §
6-72.
(Prior Code, § 6-68) (Ord. 716, passed 12-2-1974; Ord. 814, passed 2-19-1996)
§ 6-69. ALLOWING DOGS AND CATS AT LARGE OR TO TRESPASS.
   No person shall willfully allow any dog or cat owned by him or her, or under
his or her control, to roam unrestrained about the public streets, nor trespass
on private property. The gross negligence of the owner of such animal in
allowing the dog or cat to violate this section shall be deemed a violation of
this article and shall constitute a public offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-69) (Ord. 716, passed 12-2-1974; Ord. 814, passed 2-19-1996)
§ 6-70. DOGS MUZZLED AND CATS CONFINED.
   (A)   When the Health Officer determines and certifies that a dog, a cat, or
other animal in the city or within five miles of the city is or was infected
with rabies and that an epidemic of rabies threatens the city, the Council, by
resolution, may order all dogs to be muzzled when at large within the city, and
if deemed desirable, all cats to be confined, during a period of time to be
determined by the Council. Such resolution or an adequate notice of its passage
shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the city and
shall go into effect on the date following such publication unless the
resolution prescribes a later time.
   (B)   While such resolution is in effect, it is unlawful for any owner to
permit an unmuzzled dog or a cat to be at large in violation of such
resolution, or for any such dog or a cat to be at large in violation thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-70)
§ 6-71. KILLING DOG IN SELF-DEFENSE.
   Any person may kill a dog in self-defense or in the defense of another when
the dog, without undue provocation, bites him or her, or another, or attacks,
or attempts to bite or attack, him or her, or another, in such manner that an
ordinarily prudent person would be led to believe that the person toward whom
the efforts of the dog are directed is about to be bitten or otherwise
physically harmed.
(Prior Code, § 6-71)
Statutory reference:
   Dangerous dogs, see 4 O.S. §§ 44 et seq.
§ 6-72. CONFINEMENT OF RABID ANIMALS.
   Any dog or other animal which is suspected of having rabies, or any dog or
other animal which has been bitten by a rabid animal, shall be confined in the
manner and for the time ordered by order of the Health Officer or Chief of
Police as follows.
   (A)   If the dog or other animal has been properly vaccinated and licensed,
the owner may confine the dog or other animal, isolated from the public, for a
period of ten days or for any term designated by the Health Officer or Chief of
Police.
   (B)   If the dog or other animal is not licensed or vaccinated, or if the
owner does not have adequate facilities to properly confine the animal, the
animal shall be seized and confined in some veterinary hospital, at the owner’s
expense, and such confinement shall be for a period of ten days or for any term
designated by the Health Officer or Chief of Police.
   (C)   If the owner of the dog or other animal refuses to confine the animal
under the applicable subsections of this section, the dog or animal shall be
ordered confined or destroyed by the appropriate officer of the city. Any
animal ordered destroyed shall be destroyed in a humane manner by a competent
person. The animal’s head shall be furnished to the State Department of Health
for rabies observation.
(Prior Code, § 6-72)
Statutory reference:
   Quarantine of animals, see 63 O.S. § 1-508
§§ 6-73 THROUGH 6-102. RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: ANIMAL POUND
Section
   
6-103.   Established
   
6-104.   Animals to be impounded; notice
   
6-105.   Breaking into pound
   
6-106.   Fees for impounding
   
6-107.   Owner may redeem
   
6-108.   Sale of impounded animals
   
6-109.   Owner may claim excess money
   6-110 through 6-131 reserved
§ 6-103. ESTABLISHED.
   A city pound is hereby established under the jurisdiction of the Police
Department. It shall be under the immediate control of a pound officer or of
such other person as may be officially designated. The person in charge of the
pound shall provide proper sustenance for all animals impounded and shall treat
them in a humane manner. The city may contract with another agency for the use
of a pound maintained by the agency.
(Prior Code, § 6-103)
§ 6-104. ANIMALS TO BE IMPOUNDED; NOTICE.
   (A)   The pound officer, a police officer, or such other officer or employee
of the city as the Business Manager may authorize:
      (1)   Shall take into custody and impound any animal running at large in
violation of any provision of the ordinances of the city; and
      (2)   May enter upon the premises of the owner or other private premises
to take such animal into custody.
   (B)   Any other person may take such animal into custody and present it to
the authority in charge of the pound for impounding. The Council, by motion or
resolution, may provide for the payment of rewards to private persons who
present such animals at the pound if funds exist for the purpose.
   (C)   The owner may redeem the animal at the pound officer’s place of
confinement as provided in this article. A description of any impounded animal
shall also be posted in the office of the City Clerk or other place designated
by the City Business Manager.
   (D)   No animal taken into custody as provided in this section shall be
destroyed or permanently disposed of prior to the expiration of at least 72
hours’ time of taking the animal into custody, and then only after efforts to
notify the owner, as provided in this section.
(Prior Code, § 6-104) (Ord. 716, passed 12-2-1974)
§ 6-105. BREAKING INTO POUND.
   No unauthorized person shall:
   (A)   Break into or attempt to break open the pound, or take or let out any
animal therefrom;
   (B)   Take or attempt to take from any officer or employee of the city any
animal taken into custody as provided by this article; or
   (C)   In any manner interfere with or hinder an officer or employee in the
discharge of his or her duties relating to the taking into custody and
impounding of animals as provided in this article.
(Prior Code, § 6-105)
§ 6-106. FEES FOR IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   The fees for impounding and keeping an animal, to be paid upon
redemption, shall be determined by the Council by motion or resolution.
   (B)   Any person redeeming an impounded animal shall pay the fees set forth
in subsection (A) above of this section to the City Clerk and present his or
her receipt therefor to the person in charge of the pound before the latter
releases the animal.
(Prior Code, § 6-106)
§ 6-107. OWNER MAY REDEEM.
   An owner of an impounded animal or his or her agent may redeem the animal,
prior to its sale or destruction as provided for herein, by paying the required
fees against the animal and meeting any other requirements which may be
prescribed in this article. The owners shall present proof of ownership and
proof that a dog is currently vaccinated.
(Prior Code, § 6-107) (Ord. 716, passed 12-2-1974)
§ 6-108. SALE OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   As soon as practicable after any animal has been impounded, the pound
officer or other employee or officer impounding the animal shall give notice
thereof at the City Clerk’s office or other designated office of the city. The
notice shall describe the animal and notify the owner to pay the charges
thereon and remove the same prior to a designated time. The notice shall also
state that, unless the animal is redeemed, the animal will be sold or
destroyed.
   (B)   Sales herein provided for shall be for cash and shall be conducted by,
or under the direction of, the Chief of Police. If an impounded animal cannot
be sold, he or she shall destroy the animal, or have it destroyed in a humane
manner, or otherwise dispose of it in a legal manner.
   (C)   The purchaser of an animal at a sale held as provided herein shall
acquire absolute title to the animal purchased.
   (D)   The Chief of Police shall pay to the City Clerk all money received
from the sale of impounded animals on the day it is received or on the next day
upon which the office of the City Clerk is open for business.
(Prior Code, § 6-108)
§ 6-109. OWNER MAY CLAIM EXCESS MONEY.
   The owner of an impounded animal sold as provided herein may claim the
excess of the sale price of the animal above the fees for impounding and
keeping the same and a fee of $5 to reimburse the city for any expense it has
had in making the sale, at any time within three months after the sale. If a
claim is so made and approved by the Council, the City Clerk shall pay him or
her such excess. If a claim is not made within three months after the sale, the
excess shall belong to the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-109)
§§ 6-110 THROUGH 6-131. RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: BIRD SANCTUARY
Section
   
6-132.   Established
   
6-133.   Injury to birds in sanctuary prohibited; exceptions
§ 6-132. ESTABLISHED.
   The entire area embraced within the corporate limits of the city is hereby
designated as a bird sanctuary.
(Prior Code, § 6-132)
§ 6-133. INJURY TO BIRDS IN SANCTUARY PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful to trap, hunt, shoot, or attempt to shoot or molest in
any manner any bird or wild fowl or to rob bird nests or wild fowl nests.
However, if starlings or similar birds are found to be congregating in such
numbers in a particular locality that they constitute a nuisance or a menace to
health or property in the opinion of the proper health authorities of the city,
then the health authorities shall meet with representatives of the Audubon
Society, Bird Club, Garden Club, or Humane Society, or as many of the clubs as
are found to exist in the city after having given at least three days’ actual
notice of the time and place of the meeting to the representative of the clubs.
   (B)   If, as a result of the meeting, no satisfactory alternative is found
to abate such nuisance, then the birds may be destroyed in such numbers and in
such manner as is deemed advisable by the health authorities under the
supervision of the Chief of Police of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-133)
CHAPTER 7: RESERVED
   [Reserved]
CHAPTER 8: AVIATION
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   ALVA AIRPORT COMMISSION
      
III.   AIRPORT RULES AND REGULATIONS
      
IV.   AIRPORT RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR USE OF PESTICIDE APPLICATORS
      
V.   AIRPORT ZONING REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   8-1 through 8-18 reserved
Statutory reference:
   Airport zoning powers, see 3 O.S. §§ 100 to 113
   Municipal airports, general powers, see 3 O.S. §§ 61, 62, 65.1 et seq.
§§ 8-1 THROUGH 8-18. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: ALVA AIRPORT COMMISSION
Section
   
8-19.   Created; membership; terms of office; vacancies and the like
   
8-20.   Powers and duties
   
8-21.   Airport budget
   
8-22.   Airport fund
   
8-23.   Annual report
   8-24 through 8-49 reserved
§ 8-19. CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Alva Airport Commission.
   (B)   The Commission shall consist of five members to be appointed by the
Mayor, who shall serve staggered terms of five years each and until their
successors shall be appointed and qualified.
   (C)   Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the
Mayor. Members shall serve without compensation.
   (D)   The Commission shall choose one of its members as Chair and Secretary
of the Commission.
   (E)   The Commission may adopt and from time to time amend rules of
procedure.
   (F)   The Commission shall be required to meet once a month. Any member
absent for two consecutive meetings without acceptable excuse is subject to
dismissal by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 8-19) (Ord. 794, passed 5-21-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Airport zoning powers, see 3. O.S. §§ 100 to 113
   Municipal airports, general powers, see 3 O.S. §§ 61, 62, 65.1 et seq.
§ 8-20. POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Airport Commission shall have charge of and control of the Alva
Municipal Airport and shall be authorized to make rules and regulations
governing the management, improvement, maintenance, operation, and regulation
of said airport and may exercise on behalf of the city all the powers granted
by 3 O.S. §§ 65.1 et seq., both inclusive, also known as the “Municipal
Airports Act of 1947,” except as herein provided. No real property shall be
disposed of by the Commission by sale, lease, or otherwise, except by authority
of the City Council; however, the Commission may lease that portion of the
airport devoted to agricultural purposes for such agricultural purposes and
further may lease space, area, or improvements and grant concessions on the
airport grounds proper for aeronautical purposes or purposes incidental thereto
subject to the provisions of the Municipal Airports Act of 1947.
(Prior Code, § 8-20) (Ord. 794, passed 5-21-1990)
§ 8-21. AIRPORT BUDGET.
   (A)   The Commission shall, each year prior to June 1, prepare a budget for
airport finances for the ensuing calendar year. The budget shall show the
following:
      (1)   Estimated revenues, divided as follows:
         (a)   Federal and state grants;
         (b)   Contribution from city; and
         (c)   Miscellaneous revenues.
      (2)   Estimated expenditures, divided as follows:
         (a)   Personal services;
         (b)   Services other than personal;
         (c)   Supplies and materials;
         (d)   Equipment;
         (e)   Real estate and improvement; and
         (f)   Miscellaneous expenditures.
   (B)   Such budget shall be submitted not later than June 1 to the City
Council for approval or disapproval. The Commission shall not approve any
claims or incur any obligations for expenditure unless there is unencumbered
cash in the Airport Fund to the credit of the Commission with which to pay the
same.
(Prior Code, § 8-21) (Ord. 794, passed 5-21-1990)
§ 8-22. AIRPORT FUND.
   For the purpose of financing the necessary expenditures in carrying out the
purpose of this article, there is hereby created in the city accounts and
treasury a special fund to be designated the “Airport Fund,” wherein revenues
obtained by the municipality from the ownership, control, or operation of the
airport and lands connected therewith shall be deposited, appropriated, and
used in conformity herewith.
(Prior Code, § 8-22) (Ord. 794, passed 5-21-1990)
§ 8-23. ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Commission shall, as soon as possible after the end of each fiscal year,
prepare and present to the City Council a comprehensive annual report of its
activities and finances.
(Prior Code, § 8-23) (Ord. 794, passed 5-21-1990)
§§ 8-24 THROUGH 8-49. RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: AIRPORT RULES AND REGULATIONS
Section
   
8-50.   General regulations
   
8-51.   General traffic rules
   
8-52.   Landing and takeoff
   
8-53.   Taxiing rules
   
8-54.   Miscellaneous traffic rules
   
8-55.   Instruction and practice flying
   
8-56.   Running engines
   
8-57.   Fire regulations
   
8-58.   Persons failing to obey rules to be ejected, grounded
   
8-59.   Penalty
   8-60 through 8-76 reserved
§ 8-50. GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   The following rules and regulations for the use and conduct of the municipal
airport are hereby declared and adopted.
   (A)   The municipal airport shall be conducted as a terminal facility for
the promotion and accommodation of air commerce and shall be operated as an
open public air terminal.
   (B)   The airport shall be open for public use at all hours of the day,
subject to such restriction due to inclement weather, the condition of the
landing area, the presentation of special events and like causes, as may be
determined by the airport manager.
   (C)   Special services may be rendered or special facilities may be provided
thereat on terms as the City Council may prescribe from time to time. No person
shall use the airport as a base for carrying on commercial activities, for the
carrying for hire of passengers, freight, express, or mail, for instructions in
aviation in any of its branches, for the sale of fuels, refreshments, or any
commodity, or for any other commercial purpose unless a permit has been granted
therefor by the City Council.
   (D)   The use of the airport or any of its facilities in any manner shall
create an obligation on the part of the user thereof to obey all the
regulations herein provided.
   (E)   The privilege of using the airport and its facilities shall be
conditioned on the assumption of full responsibility and risk by the user
thereof, and he or she shall release, hold harmless, and indemnify the city,
the City Council, their officers and employees from any liability or loss
resulting from such use as well as against claims of third persons, as against
those of the person so using the airport. The exercise of the privilege of use
shall constitute an acknowledgment that the city and the City Council maintain
the airport in a governmental capacity.
   (F)   The air traffic rules promulgated by the U.S. Civil Aeronautics Board
and presently in effect are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part of
these regulations as fully in all respects as if particularly set forth at this
place.
   (G)   No person, not properly certificated by the U.S. Civil Aeronautics
Board, and no aircraft, not similarly certificated, shall operate on or over
the airport. This restriction shall not apply, however, to public aircraft
belonging to the government of the United States or to a state, territory, or
any political subdivision, nor to any aircraft of a foreign country operated
under permission of the federal government.
   (H)   No person shall navigate any aircraft over, land upon, or take off
from, or service, repair, or maintain any aircraft, or conduct any operation on
or from the airport otherwise than in conformity with these rules and
regulations and those of the U.S. Civil Aeronautics Board.
   (I)   Every person stationed or employed at the airport or receiving
instruction thereon or operating therefrom shall register at the office of the
airport manager and shall state his or her name, address, telephone number, and
the nature of his or her business or occupation.
   (J)   The airport manager shall have authority to take such steps as may be
necessary for the handling, policing, and protection of the public while
present at the airport, subject to the review of the City Council.
   (K)   No person shall take or use any aircraft, parts, or accessories
thereof, tools, or other equipment owned or controlled by any other person and
stored or otherwise left at the airport without the consent of the owner or
operator thereof, or other satisfactory evidence of his or her right to do so.
(Prior Code, § 8-50)
§ 8-51. GENERAL TRAFFIC RULES.
   No aircraft shall land or take off in such manner as to clear any public
street at any altitude of less than 100 feet, nor land or take off on the
taxiway, over hangars, other structures, automobile parking areas, or groups of
spectators.
(Prior Code, § 8-51)
§ 8-52. LANDING AND TAKEOFF.
   (A)   All aircraft approaching the airport for landing shall fall in the
line of traffic and skirt the field to a point where a landing can be made in
the direction indicated by the wind cone and with a straight glide beginning at
least 1,000 feet distant from the leeward end of the landing area.
   (B)   So far as is practicable, no aircraft taking off shall make any turn
at a distance of less than 1,000 feet horizontally from the nearest edge of the
airport.
(Prior Code, § 8-52)
§ 8-53. TAXIING RULES.
   (A)   All aircraft shall be taxied at a slow and reasonable speed; and when
not equipped with adequate brakes, and shall have an attendant beside at least
one wing when taxied in the vicinity of a hangar or other building.
   (B)   When in the vicinity of aircraft landing or taking off, an aircraft
being taxied shall be brought to a complete stop.
   (C)   If the takeoff is to be made from a runway, the aircraft shall be
taxied along the taxiway to a point thereof nearest the leeward end of the
proper runway and thence to the runway.
(Prior Code, § 8-53)
§ 8-54. MISCELLANEOUS TRAFFIC RULES.
   (A)   No person shall take any aircraft from the landing area or hangars, or
operate such aircraft, while under the influence of or using any intoxicating
liquor or habit-forming drug.
   (B)   No aircraft shall be permitted to remain on any part of the landing or
takeoff area for the purpose of repairs; and all repairs shall be made at the
places designated therefor.
   (C)   Every aircraft owner, his or her pilot, and agents severally shall be
responsible for the prompt removal, under the direction of the airport manager,
of wrecked aircraft.
   (D)   The airport manager may refuse clearance to any aircraft until all
charges for storage, supplies, or services rendered to it have been paid.
   (E)   No aircraft shall use paved runways unless equipped with properly
functioning landing gear in operable condition, nor in such a manner as to
cause damage to the airport surface.
(Prior Code, § 8-54)
§ 8-55. INSTRUCTION AND PRACTICE FLYING.
   (A)   Every person instructing students in flying at the airport shall
acquaint them with the rules and regulations in effect thereat.
   (B)   Any aircraft being soloed by a student who does not possess a valid
pilot’s license shall display a plainly visible white streamer in a conspicuous
place.
   (C)   The airport manager, by appropriate notices, may restrict practice
flights and student training to the portion of the airport designated by him or
her.
   (D)   No aircraft shall remain in the landing or takeoff area for the
purpose of instructing students between flights.
(Prior Code, § 8-55)
§ 8-56. RUNNING ENGINES.
   (A)   No aircraft engine shall be started on an aircraft not equipped with
adequate brakes which are fully set, unless the wheels have been set with
blocks that are equipped with ropes or other suitable means for removing them.
   (B)   No aircraft engine shall be started or run unless a competent operator
shall be at the controls of the aircraft.
   (C)   No aircraft engine shall be run or warmed up unless the aircraft is in
such position that the propeller blast shall clear all buildings, groups of
people in the observation areas, and the flight path of landing aircraft.
   (D)   No aircraft engine shall be started in or run within 100 feet of a
hangar or other building.
(Prior Code, § 8-56)
§ 8-57. FIRE REGULATIONS.
   The following fire regulations shall be complied with.
   (A)   Every person using the airport or its facilities in any way shall use
the utmost caution to prevent fires.
   (B)   No aircraft shall be fueled or drained while its engine is running or
while in a hangar or other enclosed place. Fueling shall be done in such manner
and with such equipment that adequate connections for the grounding of static
electricity shall be continuously maintained during such time.
   (C)   No cylinder, or flask, or compressed flammable gas shall be kept or
stored, except at a place designated by the airport manager and the Fire Chief
of the city for that purpose.
   (D)   The cleaning of motors or other parts of aircraft shall not be carried
on in any hangar except with nonflammable substances. If flammable liquid shall
be employed for this purpose, the operation shall be carried on in the open
air.
   (E)   No person shall smoke or ignite any match or cigarette lighter in any
hangar or building, except in offices, waiting rooms, or buildings in which
smoking is authorized specifically by the airport manager.
   (F)   Repairs on storage floors of hangars shall be limited to inspections
and the replacement of parts.
   (G)   No automobile or similar motor vehicle shall enter or remain inside
any hangar, except in connection with, and then only while engaged in,
necessary operations.
   (H)   Hangar entrances shall be kept clear at all times.
   (I)   Floors shall be kept clean and free from oil; and no volatile
flammable solvent shall be used for cleaning floors.
   (J)   No boxes, crates, rubbish, paper, or other litter shall be permitted
to accumulate in or about any hangar; and all oil, paint, and varnish cans,
bottles, or other containers shall be removed from the hangar immediately upon
being emptied.
(Prior Code, § 8-57)
§ 8-58. PERSONS FAILING TO OBEY RULES TO BE EJECTED, GROUNDED.
   Any person operating or handling an aircraft in violation of these rules, or
refusing to comply therewith, may be removed or ejected from the airport or may
be temporarily “grounded” by or under the authority of the airport manager; and
upon the order of the City Council, may be deprived of the further use of the
airport and its facilities for such length of time as may be deemed necessary
to ensure the safeguarding of the same and the public and its interest therein.
(Prior Code, § 8-58)
§ 8-59. PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to abide by any of the provisions of
this article, any of the rules and regulations set forth herein, or any
provisions of laws incorporated therein or herein shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punishable as provided in §
1-14.
(Prior Code, § 8-59)
§§ 8-60 THROUGH 8-76. RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: AIRPORT RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR USE
OF PESTICIDE APPLICATORS
Section
   
8-77.   Purpose
   
8-78.   Authority of city and Airport Commission to set fees
   
8-79.   Use implies consent to regulations
   
8-80.   City and Airport Commission not liable
   
8-81.   Provisions for use
   
8-82.   Annual permit; fee
   
8-83.   Insurance requirements
   
8-84.   Accidents or spills
   
8-85.   Uncontained spills
   
8-86.   Segregated chemical storage area
   
8-87.   Qualified pilots
   
8-88.   Performance bond
   
8-89.   Required list of types and quantities of chemicals
   
8-90.   Issuance of a permit
   8-91 through 8-108 reserved
§ 8-77. PURPOSE.
   A need exists to establish a policy whereby users of the municipal airport
may be afforded a fair and reasonable opportunity, without discrimination, to
use the airport facilities for chemical application and further be afforded the
opportunity to qualify or otherwise compete for airport space and the
furnishing of selected aeronautical services.
(Prior Code, § 8-77) (Ord. 790, passed 2-9-1989)
§ 8-78. AUTHORITY OF CITY AND AIRPORT COMMISSION TO SET FEES.
   The airport shall be open for the use of chemical applicators, subject to
such fees and charges as may be established from time to time by the city and
Airport Commission without discrimination toward this class of users.
(Prior Code, § 8-78) (Ord. 790, passed 2-9-1989)
§ 8-79. USE IMPLIES CONSENT TO REGULATIONS.
   The use of the airport or its facilities, in any manner, shall create the
obligation and the implied consent of the user to obey all of the regulations
herein as well as local, state, and federal regulations regarding chemical
applicators and abide by the minimum standards hereinafter stated.
(Prior Code, § 8-79) (Ord. 790, passed 2-9-1989)
§ 8-80. CITY AND AIRPORT COMMISSION NOT LIABLE.
   The privilege of using the airport and facilities shall be conditioned on
the assumption of full indemnity and hold absolutely harmless the city, its
officers and employees, and the Airport Commission from any liability or loss
resulting from such use as well as against claims of third persons using the
airport. The exercise of the privilege of use shall constitute an
acknowledgment that the city and the Airport Commission maintain the airport in
a governmental capacity.
(Prior Code, § 8-80) (Ord. 790, passed 2-9-1989)
§ 8-81. PROVISIONS FOR USE.
   Any person using the airport for agricultural aerial application which
involves the loading, unloading, and storage of chemicals must maintain a base
of operations at the airport and must have entered into a written agreement
with the city and the Airport Commission. Such persons must be licensed by the
proper agencies, show evidence of carrying required insurance, city permit, and
work performance bond to cover the cost of any cleanup resulting from any
spillage or accident.
(Prior Code, § 8-81) (Ord. 790, passed 2-9-1989)
§ 8-82. ANNUAL PERMIT; FEE.
   An annual permit shall be issued to each applicator from the city, at the
cost of $100. The permit will include the name of the aircraft, with N numbers,
pilots, and pilot certificate number. Changes are permissible when the permit
is amended in writing.
(Prior Code, § 8-82) (Ord. 790, passed 2-9-1989)
§ 8-83. INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Insurance required (provide a copy from insurer):
      (1)   Aircraft liability.
         (a)   Bodily injury:
            1.   Each person: $100,000; and
            2.   Each accident: $300,000.
         (b)   Property damage, each accident: $100,000.
      (2)   Comprehensive public liability and property damage.
         (a)   Bodily injury:
            1.   Each person: $100,000; and
            2.   Each accident: $300,000.
         (b)   Property damage, each accident: $100,000.
   (B)   Performance bond required: $100,000 each applicator, for chemical
damage and cleanup.
(Prior Code, § 8-83) (Ord. 790, passed 2-9-1989)
§ 8-84. ACCIDENTS OR SPILLS.
   Any accident or incident involving the spill of chemicals shall immediately
be brought to the attention of the airport manager. Cleanup of any chemical
spills shall be immediately performed by the applicator at his or her expense.
Any cleanup resulting from any spillage shall be performed in accordance with
all federal, state, and local laws, rules, and regulations pertaining to the
same.
(Prior Code, § 8-84) (Ord. 790, passed 2-9-1989)
§ 8-85. UNCONTAINED SPILLS.
   An UNCONTAINED SPILL is defined as more than ten gallons or 25 pounds of dry
weight or pesticide concentrate, or 50 gallons of an application mixture (tank
mix), shall constitute a spill for chemical damage and cleanup. Such a spill
must be reported within 24 hours to the airport manager and all other local,
state, and federal agencies required by law.
(Prior Code, § 8-85) (Ord. 790, passed 2-9-1989)
§ 8-86. SEGREGATED CHEMICAL STORAGE AREA.
   A segregated chemical storage protected from public access will be provided
by the applicator and approved by the airport. The washdown of agricultural
spraying aircraft and the flushing of agricultural aircraft spray tanks will be
accomplished only in areas so designated by the applicator and approved by the
airport. Empty containers shall be disposed of in accordance with applicable
federal and state laws.
(Prior Code, § 8-86) (Ord. 790, passed 2-9-1989)
§ 8-87. QUALIFIED PILOTS.
   Aircraft shall not be left running without a qualified pilot at the
controls. Agricultural aircraft shall not be refueled, loaded, or unloaded with
chemicals, or otherwise serviced while the engine is running, unless a
qualified pilot is at the controls.
(Prior Code, § 8-87) (Ord. 790, passed 2-9-1989)
§ 8-88. PERFORMANCE BOND.
   The applicator shall be required to provide the city and the Airport
Commission with a performance bond or other proper security, either cash or
from a reputable company licensed to do business in the state, in the sum of
$10,000, to cover the cost of any cleanup resulting from any spillage or
accident. The bond shall cover any incidents either on the leased premises, on
the airport grounds, or away from the airport grounds. The applicator shall not
commence any business until such bond requirement has been satisfied. Leaking
spray nozzles, hoppers, or tanks will constitute such incidents of spillage, as
described in “spills,” defined under performance bond above.
(Prior Code, § 8-88) (Ord. 790, passed 2-9-1989)
§ 8-89. REQUIRED LIST OF TYPES AND QUANTITIES OF CHEMICALS.
   (A)   The applicator shall provide the city and Airport Commission a
complete list of the types and quantities of chemicals stored by him or her, by
location, at the initial onset of his or her operation.
   (B)   A civil defense hazard warning sign will be installed on each storage
building or tank to inform all the emergency-type personnel of contents. These
signs will be obtained from civil defense or the Fire Chief. Applicators shall
notify the city and the Airport Commission of any significant change in the
types or quantities of chemicals used. The city and the Airport Commission
shall make the list available to the Chief, Fire Department, and other
emergency-type personnel.
   (C)   All chemicals, pesticides, and substances used by the applicator shall
be stored in a hanger, other building, or tanks capable of being locked and
secured. Under no circumstances shall any chemical, substance, empty container,
or pesticide be outside a building in an unsecured situation at the close of
any business day or at the time the applicator’s business is unattended.
(Prior Code, § 8-89) (Ord. 790, passed 2-9-1989)
§ 8-90. ISSUANCE OF A PERMIT.
   No permit shall be issued until the applicator is in compliance with all of
the provisions of this article. If a permit is issued and one of the provisions
of this article is breached, said permit can be revoked on proper notice and
hearing.
(Prior Code, § 8-90) (Ord. 790, passed 2-9-1989)
§§ 8-91 THROUGH 8-108. RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: AIRPORT ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
   
8-109.   Definitions
   
8-110.   Zones established
   
8-111.   Height limitations
   
8-112.   Use restrictions
   
8-113.   Nonconforming uses
   
8-114.   Permits
   
8-115.   Enforcement
   
8-116.   Board of Adjustment
   
8-117.   Appeals
   
8-118.   Judicial review
   
8-119.   Penalties
   
8-120.   Conflicting regulations
Statutory reference:
   Airport Zoning Act, see 3 O.S. §§ 100 et seq.
   Airports and aircraft, see 3 O.S. §§ 61 et seq.
   Authority to adopt airport zoning regulations, see 3 O.S. § 103
§ 8-109. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRPORT. Alva Regional Airport, Alva, Oklahoma.
   AIRPORT ELEVATION. The established elevation of the highest point on the
usable landing area, which is 1,474 feet MSL.
   AIRPORT HAZARD. Any structure, tree, or use of land which obstructs the
airspace required for or is otherwise hazardous to the flight of aircraft in
landing or taking off at the airport.
   AIRPORT REFERENCE POINT. The point established as the approximate geographic
center of the airport landing area and is established at a location described
as follows: 1,140 feet west and 2,890 feet south of the NE corner of the NE
quarter of Section 35, T-26-N, R-14-W; Woods County, Oklahoma. Latitude: 36°
46' 23.41" Longitude: 98° 40' 11.81".
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. An airport commission consisting of five members
appointed by the Mayor.
   HEIGHT. For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set
forth in this article and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean sea
level elevation unless otherwise specified.
   INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway equipped or to be equipped with electronic or
visual air navigation aids adequate to permit the landing of aircraft under
restricted visibility conditions.
   LANDING AREA. The area of the airport used for the landing, takeoff, or
taxiing of aircraft.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any structure, tree, or use of land which is lawfully in
existence at the time the regulation is prescribed in this article or an
amendment thereto becomes effective and does not then meet the requirements of
said regulation.
   NONINSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway other than instrument runway.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association, or body politic, and includes a trustee, receiver,
assignee, administrator, executor, guardian, or other representative.
   RUNWAY. The paved surface of an airport landing strip.
   STRUCTURE. An object constructed or installed by humans, including, but
without limitation, buildings, towers, smokestacks, and overhead transmission
lines.
   TREE. Any object of natural growth.
(Prior Code, § 8-109) (Ord. 690, passed 1-5-1970; Ord. 2001-843, passed 9-3-
2001)
§ 8-110. ZONES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   In order to carry out the provisions of this article, there are hereby
created and established certain zones, which include all of the land lying
within the instrument approach zones, noninstrument approach zones, transition
zones, horizontal zone, and conical zone. Such areas and zones are shown on the
Alva Regional Airport Zoning Map consisting of one sheet, prepared by Myers
Engineering, and dated November 8, 1995, which is attached to the ordinance
from which this article is derived and made a part hereof.
   (B)   The various zones are hereby established and defined as follows.
      (1)    Noninstrument approach zone. A noninstrument approach zone is
established at each end of all noninstrument runways on Alva Regional Airport
for noninstrument landings and takeoffs. The noninstrument approach zone shall
have a width of 500 feet at a distance of 200 feet beyond each end of the
runway, widening thereafter uniformly to a width of 3,500 feet at a distance of
10,000 feet beyond each end of the runway, its centerline being the
continuation of the centerline of the runway.
      (2)   Transition zones. Transition zones are hereby established adjacent
to each instrument and noninstrument runway and approach zone as indicated on
the zoning map. Transition zones symmetrically located on either side of
runways have variable widths as shown on the zoning map. Transition zones
extend outward from a line 125 feet on either side of the centerline of the
noninstrument runways for the length of such runway plus 200 feet on each end;
and are parallel and level with such runway centerlines. The transition zones
along such runways slope upward and outward one foot vertically for each seven
feet horizontally to the point where they intersect the surface of the
horizontal zone. Further, transition zones are established adjacent to
noninstrument zones for the entire length of the approach zones. These
transition zones have variable widths, as shown on the zoning map. Such
transition zones flare symmetrically with either side of the runway approach
zones from the base of such zones and slope upward and outward at the rate of
one foot vertically for each seven feet horizontally to the points where they
intersect the surfaces of the horizontal and conical zones.
      (3)   Horizontal zone. A horizontal zone is hereby established as the
area within a circle with its center at the airport reference point and having
a radius of 10,000 feet. The horizontal zone does not include the noninstrument
approach zones and the transition zones.
      (4)   Conical zone. A conical zone is hereby established commencing at
the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward therefrom a distance
of 4,000 feet. The conical zone does not include the noninstrument approach
zones and transition zones.
(Prior Code, § 8-110) (Ord. 690, passed 1-5-1970; Ord. 2001-843, passed 9-3-
2001)
§ 8-111. HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this article, no structure or tree
shall be erected, altered, allowed to grow, or maintained in any zone created
by this article to a height in excess of the height limit herein established
for such zone. Such height limitations are computed from the established
airport elevation and are hereby established for each of the zones in question
as follows:
      (1)   Noninstrument approach zones. One foot in height for each 20 feet
in horizontal distance beginning at a point 200 feet from and at the elevation
of the end of the noninstrument runway and extending to a point 10,000 feet
from the end of the runway;
      (2)   Transition zones. One foot in height for each seven feet in
horizontal distance beginning at any point 125 feet normal to and at the
elevation of the centerline of noninstrument runways extending 200 feet beyond
each end thereof, extending to a height 150 feet above the airport elevation or
1,624 feet above mean sea level. In addition to the foregoing, there are
established height limits of one foot vertical height for each seven feet
horizontal distance measured from the edges of all approach zones for the
entire length of the approach zones and extending upward and outward to the
points where they intersect the horizontal or conical surfaces;
      (3)   Horizontal zone. One hundred fifty feet above the airport elevation
or a height of 1,624 feet above mean sea level; and
      (4)   Conical zone. One foot in height for each 20 feet of horizontal
distance beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone, extending to a
height of 1,824 feet mean sea level.
   (B)   Where an area is covered by more than one height limitation, the more
restrictive limitation shall prevail.
   (C)   Nothing in this article shall be construed as prohibiting the growth,
construction, or maintenance of any tree or structure to a height up to 50 feet
above the surface of the land.
(Prior Code, § 8-111) (Ord. 690, passed 1-5-1970; Ord. 2001-843, passed 9-3-
2001)
§ 8-112. USE RESTRICTIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, no use may be made of
land within any zone established by this article in such a manner as to create
electrical interference with radio communication between the airport and
aircraft, make it difficult for flyers to distinguish between airport lights
and others, result in glare in the eyes of flyers using the airport, impair
visibility in the vicinity of the airport, or otherwise endanger the landing,
taking off, or maneuvering of aircraft.
(Prior Code, § 8-112) (Ord. 690, passed 1-5-1970)
§ 8-113. NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Regulations not retroactive. The regulations prescribed by this
article shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other
changes or alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the
regulations as of the effective date of the ordinance from which this article
is derived, or otherwise interfere with the continuance of any nonconforming
use. Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the construction,
alteration, or intended use of any structure, the construction or alteration of
which was begun prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this
article is derived, and is diligently prosecuted.
   (B)   Marking and lighting. Notwithstanding subsection (A) above of this
section, the owner of any nonconforming structure or tree is hereby required to
permit the installation, operation, and maintenance thereon of such markers and
lights as shall be deemed necessary by the administrative agency to indicate to
the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport the presence of such
airport hazards. Such markers and lights shall be installed, operated, and
maintained at the expense of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-113) (Ord. 690, passed 1-5-1970)
§ 8-114. PERMITS.
   (A)   Future uses. Except as specifically provided in subsections (A)(1),
(A)(2), and (A)(3) below of this section, no material change shall be made in
the use of the land, and no structure or tree shall be erected, altered,
planted, or otherwise established in any zone hereby created unless a permit
therefor shall have been applied for and granted. Each application for a permit
shall indicate the purpose for which the permit is desired, with sufficient
particularity to permit it to be determined whether the resulting use,
structure, or tree would conform to the regulations herein prescribed. If such
determination is in the affirmative, the permit shall be granted. Nothing
contained in any of the exceptions in subsections (A)(1), (A)(2), and (A)(3)
below of this section shall be construed as permitting or intending to permit
any construction, alteration, or growth of any structure or tree in excess of
any of the height limits established by this article, except as set forth in §
8-111.
      (1)   In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and the
conical zone but not within the limits of a noninstrument approach zone or
transition zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less
than 75 feet of vertical height above the ground, except when, because of
terrain, land contour, or topographic features, such tree or structure would
extend above the height limits prescribed for such zone.
      (2)   In the areas lying within the limits of the noninstrument approach
zones but at a horizontal distance of not less than 2,500 feet from each end of
the runways, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than 75
feet of vertical height above the established airport elevation, except when
such tree or structure would extend above the height limit prescribed for such
noninstrument approach zone.
      (3)   In the areas lying within the limits of the transition zones beyond
the perimeter of the horizontal zone, no permit shall be required for any tree
or structure less than 50 feet of vertical height above the ground except when
such tree or structure, because of terrain, land contour, or topographic
feature, would extend above the height limit prescribed for such transition
zones.
   (B)   Existing uses. No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an airport hazard or permit a nonconforming use,
structure, or tree to be made or become higher, or become a greater hazard to
air navigation, than it was on the effective date of the ordinance from which
this article is derived or any amendments thereto or than it is when the
application for a permit is made. Except as indicated, all applications for
such a permit shall be granted.
   (C)   Nonconforming uses abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the administrative
agency determines that a nonconforming structure or tree has been abandoned or
more than 80% torn down, physically deteriorated, or decayed, no permit shall
be granted that would allow such structure or tree to exceed the applicable
height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning regulations.
   (D)   Variances. Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use his or her property, not in
accordance with the regulations prescribed in this article, may apply to the
Board of Adjustment for a variance from such regulations. Such variances shall
be allowed where it is duly found that a literal application or enforcement of
the regulations would result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship
and the relief granted would not be contrary to the public interest but will do
substantial justice and be in accordance with the spirit of this article.
   (E)   Hazard marking and lighting. Any permit or variance granted may, if
such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this article and
be reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the owner
of the structure or tree in question to permit the city at its own expense to
install, operate, and maintain thereon such markers and lights as may be
necessary to indicate to flyers the presence of an airport hazard.
(Prior Code, § 8-114) (Ord. 690, passed 1-5-1970)
§ 8-115. ENFORCEMENT.
   The manager of the Alva Municipal Airport is hereby designated the
administrative officer. It shall be the duty of the administrative officer to
administer and enforce the regulations prescribed herein. Applications for
permits and variances shall be made to the administrative agency upon a form
furnished by him or her. Applications required by this article to be submitted
to the administrative agency shall be promptly considered and granted or denied
by him or her. Applications for action by the Board of Adjustment shall be
forthwith transmitted by the administrative agency.
(Prior Code, § 8-115) (Ord. 690, passed 1-5-1970)
§ 8-116. BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board of Adjustment to have and exercise the
following powers:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision,
or determination made by the administrative agency or officer in enforcement of
this article;
      (2)   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this article
upon which such Board of Adjustment, under such regulations, may be required to
pass; and
      (3)   To hear and decide specific variances.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five members appointed by the
City Council, and each shall serve for a term of three years and until his or
her successor is duly appointed and qualified. Of the members first appointed,
one shall be appointed for a term of one year, two for terms of two years, and
two for terms of three years. Members shall be removable by the appointing
authority for cause, upon written charges, after a public hearing.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for its governance and
procedure in harmony with the provisions of this article. Meetings of the Board
of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the Chair and at such other times as
the Board of Adjustment may determine. The Chair, or in his or her absence, the
Acting Chair, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All
hearings of the Board of Adjustment shall be public. The Board of Adjustment
shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each
question, or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall
keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall
immediately be filed in the office of the administrative agency and shall be a
public record.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment shall make written findings of fact and
conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted and its legal
conclusions from such facts in reversing, affirming, or modifying any order,
requirement, decision, or determination which comes before it under the
provisions of this article.
   (E)   The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Board of
Adjustment shall be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or
determination of the administrative agency or decide in favor of the applicant
on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this article, or to
effect any variation in this article.
(Prior Code, § 8-116) (Ord. 690, passed 1-5-1970)
§ 8-117. APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the
administrative agency or officer made in his or her administration of this
article, if of the opinion that a decision of the administrative agency is an
improper application of these regulations, may appeal to the Board of
Adjustment.
   (B)   All appeals hereunder must be taken within a reasonable time as
provided by the rules of the Board of Adjustment, by filing with the
administrative agency a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The
administrative agency shall forthwith transmit to the Board of Adjustment all
the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was
taken.
   (C)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the administrative agency certifies to the Board of
Adjustment, after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by reason
of the facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or her opinion,
cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not
be stayed except by order of the Board of Adjustment on notice to the agency
from which the appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
appeals, give public notice and due notice to the parties in interest, and
decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may
appear in person, or by agent, or by attorney.
   (E)   The Board of Adjustment may, in conformity with the provisions of this
article, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify the order,
requirement, decision, or determination appealed from and may make such order,
requirement, decision, or determination as may be appropriate under the
circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 8-117) (Ord. 690, passed 1-5-1970)
§ 8-118. JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the Board
of Adjustment, may appeal to the district court as provided in 3 O.S. § 111.
(Prior Code, § 8-118) (Ord. 690, passed 1-5-1970)
§ 8-119. PENALTIES.
   Each violation of this article or of any regulation, order, or ruling
promulgated hereunder shall constitute a misdemeanor and be punishable by a
fine of not more than $500 or imprisonment for not more than one year or both
such fine and imprisonment, and each day a violation continues to exist shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-119) (Ord. 690, passed 1-5-1970)
§ 8-120. CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
   Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations
prescribed in this article and any other regulations applicable to the same
area, whether the conflict be with respect to the height of structures or
trees, the use of land, or any other matter, the more stringent limitation or
requirement shall govern and prevail.
(Prior Code, § 8-120) (Ord. 690, passed 1-5-1970)
CHAPTER 9: RESERVED
   [Reserved]
CHAPTER 10: BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   BUILDING CODE
      
III.   PLUMBING CODE
      
IV.   GAS CODE
      
V.   ELECTRIC INSTALLATIONS
      
VI.   RESIDENTIAL CODE
      
VII.   MECHANICAL CODE
      
VIII.   ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE
      
IX.   MOVING BUILDINGS
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
10-1.   Penalty
   
10-2.   Relief in the courts
   10-3 through 10-24 reserved
§ 10-1. PENALTY.
   Any person who shall engage in any business, trade, or vocation for which a
license, permit, certificate, or registration is required by this chapter,
without having a valid license, permit, certificate, or certificate of
registration as required, or who shall fail to do anything required by this
chapter or by any code adopted by this chapter, or who shall otherwise violate
any provision of this chapter, or who shall violate any lawful regulation or
order made by any of the officers provided for in this chapter, shall be guilty
of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in §
1-14.
(Prior Code, § 10-1)
§ 10-2. RELIEF IN THE COURTS.
   No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this chapter shall interfere with the
right of the city also to apply to the proper courts of the state for a
mandamus, an injunction, or other appropriate action against such person.
(Prior Code, § 10-2)
§§ 10-3 THROUGH 10-24. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: BUILDING CODE
Section
   
10-25.   International Building Code adopted by reference
   
10-26.   City Inspector
   
10-27.   Other city officials’ code responsibilities
   
10-28.   Code appeals
   
10-29.   Permit required
   
10-30.   Application for permits
   
10-31.   Street number required
   
10-32.   Permits outside of city; when required
   
10-33.   When permit secured
   
10-34.   Number of homes to a water line
   
10-35.   Building permit fees
   
10-36.   Manufactured home permits required outside parks; requirements for all
manufactured homes
   
10-37.   International Existing Building Code adopted by reference
   10-38 through 10-60 reserved
§ 10-25. INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by reference the International Building Code,
2006 edition, with Appendices C, D, E, F, H, I, issued by the International
Code Council, Inc., as the building code for the city. The building code shall
be fully applicable and enforceable in controlling the construction and repair
of all buildings and other structures in the city, save and except such
portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified, or amended, as fully as if set
out at length herein.
   (B)   If any provision of current ordinances of the city are in conflict
with the provisions of the building code, except as provided in this article,
the provisions of the building code shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 10-25) (Ord. 2004-546, passed 11-1-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Building code, adoption by cities, see 11 O.S. § 14-107 and 74 O.S. § 324.8
§ 10-26. CITY INSPECTOR.
   Whenever reference is made to the duties of the building official or
inspector in the building code, it shall mean the City Inspector. The City
Inspector shall be the responsible official for enforcing the provisions of the
building code.
(Prior Code, § 10-26)
§ 10-27. OTHER CITY OFFICIALS’ CODE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   When reference is made to the duties of certain officials named in any of
the codes adopted by this chapter, the designated officials of the city who
have duties corresponding to those of the named official in the code shall be
deemed to be the responsible official insofar as enforcing the provisions of
the code is concerned.
(Prior Code, § 10-27)
§ 10-28. CODE APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeal of any decisions of the City Inspector or other appropriate
officials concerning any of the codes in this chapter may go before a Code
Appeals Board, consisting of five members as follows:
      (1)   Builder;
      (2)   Licensed electrician;
      (3)   Licensed plumber; and
      (4)   Two members at large.
   (B)   The Mayor shall appoint the members, with the approval of the City
Council. The Code Appeals Board shall select a Chair by majority vote of the
members. A quorum shall consist of a majority of the Code Appeals Board. Any
individual affected by the codes adopted in this chapter, or the decision of
the Board, or a member of the Code Appeals Board, may appeal any decisions of
the Board to the City Council for a final determination.
(Prior Code, § 10-28)
§ 10-29. PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Before proceeding with the excavation for the erection of, or the repair,
enlargement, or removal of any building or structure within the city, a permit
must first be obtained from the Building Department. If the operations allowed
under such permit are not begun within three months thereafter, such permit
shall become null and void. If such work is to be resumed, a new permit must be
obtained and the regular fee incident thereto shall be collected. The
responsibility for obtaining such permit shall be shared jointly with the owner
of the premises, his or her agent, and the builder or contractor erecting the
improvement, and either or both are subject to the penalty imposed upon the
failure to obtain such permit.
(Prior Code, § 10-29)
§ 10-30. APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
   All applications for permits shall be in writing upon an official blank form
supplied by the City Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 10-30)
§ 10-31. STREET NUMBER REQUIRED.
   Permits shall not be granted or issued until proper street numbers are
assigned as required by ordinance. Assigned numbers shall be written and
included in the permit application under the section “Remarks.”
(Prior Code, § 10-31)
§ 10-32. PERMITS OUTSIDE OF CITY; WHEN REQUIRED.
   It is required and is the responsibility of the homeowner or contractor to
obtain permits from the city for new home construction or remodeling, and for
electrical, mechanical, and plumbing on the dwelling, and to request regular
inspections in the construction of new homes and the remodeling of homes, if
such property is so located, to be furnished water or sewer service by the
city.
(Prior Code, § 10-32)
§ 10-33. WHEN PERMIT SECURED.
   All building permits will be purchased before new construction is started.
Such building permits will not be issued until arrangements have been made for
the new water meter set or the City Inspector approves such meter on the
construction location.
(Prior Code, § 10-33)
§ 10-34. NUMBER OF HOMES TO A WATER LINE.
   In areas where water is furnished by the city, there shall be a maximum of
ten homes connected to a two-inch water line.
(Prior Code, § 10-34)
§ 10-35. BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   The fees which apply for building and alterations are on file in the
City Clerk’s office.
   (B)   The fees are doubled when work that requires a permit by code is
started prior to obtaining the permit.
(Prior Code, § 10-35) (Ord. 768-1/2, passed 2-4-1986; Ord. 2004-852, passed 3-
1-2004; Ord. 2010-26, passed 4-5-2010)
§ 10-36. MANUFACTURED HOME PERMITS REQUIRED OUTSIDE PARKS; REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL
MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to park, use, or occupy any manufactured
home within the city limits except, in a manufactured home park or area
designated by the city zoning ordinance, set out in Appendix B to this code
pertaining to zoning, without first having obtained a permit to do so.
   (B)   A permit must be obtained by the manufactured home occupant for any
location outside a manufactured home park by making application to the City
Clerk for such permit.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued unless the following provisions are met.
      (1)   No permit for parking a manufactured home outside of a manufactured
home park or designated zoned area within the city shall be issued, except upon
written consent of 70% of the owners of property within a radius of 300 feet of
the location of such manufactured home.
      (2)   The owner must produce proof in writing that the particular area in
which the manufactured home is to be located does not have plat restrictions
prohibiting the moving in of the structure, or would violate other plat
restrictions which provide for minimum size, type of construction, cost of
construction, or other related matters.
      (3)   The applicant must produce proof in writing that he or she is the
owner of record of either the particular lot on which the manufactured home is
to be located or the owner of the manufactured home structure.
      (4)   The particular lot on which the manufactured home is to be located
must be a lot of record, free of other dwellings or principal structures, and
of sufficient size to comply with the provisions of the city zoning regulations
set out in Appendix B to this code.
      (5)   Every manufactured home within the corporate limits of the city,
whether in a manufactured home park or without, shall be skirted or enclosed
from the floor to the ground within 60 days of placement so that the area
thereunder cannot be used for the occupancy of animals, and in such a manner
that the underside of the manufactured home cannot be observed from the street.
Skirting material shall be of a durable, waterproof, and fire-resistant nature.
      (6)   All electrical, water, sewer, and gas connections shall conform to
the present requirements set forth by ordinances of the city.
      (7)   (a)   Every manufactured home within the corporate limits of the
city, whether in a manufactured home park or without, must have anchors of
sufficient quantity and strength to resist a wind velocity of 90 mph imposed on
the structure. The minimum number of tie-downs is as follows.
 
                                 No. Frame Ties Each Side No. Over the Top Side
Ten-Foot and 12-Foot Wide Units:
30 to 50 feet long               Five                     Four
51 to 60 feet long               Six                      Four
12-Foot and 14-Foot Wide Units:
60 to 70 feet long               Seven                    Four
Above 70 feet long               One tie-down every ten feet
 
         (b)   The anchors shall be placed and secured within 60 days after
placement of the manufactured home. Tie straps or cables, ground anchors, and
all included hardware of the system must be designated for a holding capacity
of not less than 4,800 pounds per point.
      (8)   The manufactured home shall be supported by foundation piers under
at least the two widest spread structure under carriage beams of the
manufactured home. Each foundation pier shall have a solid masonry block
footing with area bearing on the ground of not less than two blocks in width,
with each block eight inches by 16 inches by four inches thick. Distance
between piers shall be not more than ten feet center to center, and end piers
shall be within five feet of the end of the manufactured home. In no case
should there be fewer piers than the number of anchor points of over the top
tie-downs. Pier construction above the solid masonry block footing shall be of
termite-resistant material. The bearing area of the pier shaft resting on the
footing shall be not less than nine-tenths of a square foot in area.
      (9)   Upon meeting provisions of subsections (C)(1), (C)(2), (C)(3), and
(C)(4) above of this section, the manufactured home may be placed on the
particular lot, and the owner will be given 60 days to meet the balance of the
provisions of this section. Upon completion of all of the provisions contained
herein and inspected by the City Inspector, the permit shall be issued.
   (D)   At any time a manufactured home located on a lot is removed from that
particular lot and not replaced with another manufactured home within one year,
the provisions of this section shall be met before a new permit is issued.
   (E)   The cost of the permit is on file in the City Clerk’s office and shall
be payable at the time of its issuance.
(Prior Code, § 10-36)
§ 10-37. INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   A certain document, three copies of which are on file in the office of the
City Clerk, being marked and designated as the International Existing Building
Code, 2015 edition, including Appendix Chapters B and C (see International
Existing Building Code § 101.6, 2015 edition), as the existing building code of
the city for regulating and governing the repair, alteration, change of
occupancy, addition, and relocation of existing buildings, including historic
buildings, as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and
collections of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions, and terms of said Existing Building Code on file in the
office of the City Clerk are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part
hereof, as if fully set out in this legislation.
(Ord. 2021-001, passed 6-21-2021)
§§ 10-38 THROUGH 10-60. RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: PLUMBING CODE
Section
   
10-61.   International Plumbing Code adopted by reference
   
10.62.   Reserved
   
10.63.   Permits, fees
   
10-64.   Permit required
   
10-65.   Plumbing contractor city registration
   10-66 through 10-88 reserved
Statutory reference:
   State plumbing requirements, licenses, see 59 O.S. §§ 1001 et seq.
§ 10-61. INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   There is hereby adopted by reference the International Plumbing Code, 2006
edition, with Appendices E, F, G, issued by the International Code Council,
Inc., as the plumbing code for the city. The plumbing code shall be fully
applicable and enforceable in governing plumbing and sewers in the city, save
and except such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified, or amended, as
fully as if set out at length herein. If any provision of the ordinances of the
city are in conflict with any provision of the plumbing code, except as
provided in this article, the provisions of the plumbing code shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 10-61) (Ord. 2004-546, passed 11-1-2004)
§ 10-62. RESERVED.
§ 10-63. PERMITS, FEES.
   (A)   The fees applicable to plumbing inspections and permits are on file in
the City Clerk’s office.
   (B)   The fees are doubled when work that requires a permit by code is
started prior to obtaining the permit.
(Prior Code, § 10-63) (Ord. 768-1/2, passed 2-4-1986; Ord. 2004-852, passed 3-
1-2004; Ord. 2010-26, passed 4-5-2010)
§ 10-64. PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Plumbing Inspector shall collect from the contracting plumber, for
whom he or she performs the work coming within the duties of the office at the
time application is made to him or her for the performance of such service, the
applicable fees. The fee shall be paid before the permit shall be issued.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to make or cause to be made any
connections with any main or lateral sewer system of the city without first
having obtained a permit from the City Plumbing Inspector for the particular
job to be installed.
(Prior Code, § 10-64)
§ 10-65. PLUMBING CONTRACTOR CITY REGISTRATION.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in installing plumbing as
described below within the city, unless it is a home in which he or she is
residing, and of which he or she is the legal owner of said property, or is
registered with the city and has a current and valid certificate of
registration issued by the city for a plumbing contractor.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GAS PIPING. All natural gas piping within or adjacent to any building,
structure, or conveyance on the premises up to the connection with a natural
gas meter, regulator, or other source of supply.
      PLUMBING.
         (a)   All piping, fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for, and in
connection with, a supply of water within or adjacent to any building,
structure, or conveyance on the premises and to the connection with a water
main or other source of supply;
         (b)   All piping, fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for sanitary
drainage or storm drainage facilities, including venting systems for such
facilities, within or adjacent to any building, structure, or conveyance on the
premises and to the connection with a public disposal system or other
acceptable terminal; and
         (c)   The installation, repair, maintenance, and renovation of all
piping, fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a supply of water, or for
the disposal of waste water, liquid waste, or sewage within or adjacent to any
building, structure, or conveyance on the premises and to the source of supply
of water or point of disposal of wastes.
   (C)   Only a person who has a current and valid license as a plumbing
contractor issued by the state’s Construction Industries Board may register as
such with the city.
   (D)   Upon application to the city, the applicant shall give full name,
residence address, and place of business address. and in case of removal from
one place to another, shall make a corresponding change in the register
accordingly and the payment of the required fee to the City Clerk’s office. The
city shall register such applicants and issue to them certificates of
registration.
   (E)   City certificates shall not be valid after the termination or
expiration of state licenses of certificates. Registration certificates of
plumbing contractors issued as provided herein shall expire one year from date
of issuance.
   (F)   For all certificates or registration authorized by this section there
will be charged and collected the following fees: Plumbing contractor: $100 for
the initial year and a $50 per year renewal fee thereafter (if not renewed
within one year, renewal will be $100).
   (G)   A plumbing contractor must provide the name and license number of each
worker employed by contractor as a plumbing journeyman or a plumbing
apprentice.
   (H)   Any violation of any provision contained in this section is an offense
against the city; upon conviction of any such offense, the violator shall be
punished by a fine as follows:
      (1)   First offense: $200; and
      (2)   Second and subsequent offenses: $300.
(Prior Code, § 10-65) (Ord. 2008-16, passed 3-3-2008)
§§ 10-66 THROUGH 10-88. RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: GAS CODE
Section
Generally
   
10-89.   International Fuel Gas Code adopted by reference
   
10-90.   Gas permit fees
   
10-91.   Mechanical contractor city registration
   10-92 through 10-112 reserved
License
   
10-113.   Required; fee
   
10-114.   Fees for those who are not plumbers
   
10-115.   Issuance of license; renewal; revocation
   10-116 through 10-143 reserved
Liquefied Petroleum Gas
   
10-144.   Persons who must comply with state law and possess any state license
or permit required by law
   
10-145.   Inspection; fee
   10-146 through 10-173 reserved
Manufactured Homes
   
10-174.   Inspection before turning on gas; requirements
   10-175 through 10-201 reserved
GENERALLY
§ 10-89. INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   There is hereby adopted by reference the International Fuel Gas Code, 2006
edition, with Appendices A, B, C, issued by the International Code Council,
Inc., as the gas code for the city. The gas code shall be fully applicable and
enforceable in governing gas and gas piping in the city, save and except such
portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified, or amended, as fully as if set
out herein. If any provision of the ordinances of the city are in conflict with
the provisions of the gas code, except as provided in this article, the
provisions of the gas code shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 10-89) (Ord. 2004-546, passed 11-1-2004)
§ 10-90. GAS PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   The fees applicable to gas permits and inspections are on file in the
City Clerk’s office.
   (B)   The fees are doubled when work that requires a permit by code is
started prior to obtaining the permit.
(Prior Code, § 10-90) (Ord. 768-1/2, passed 2-4-1986; Ord. 2004-852, passed 3-
1-2004; Ord. 2010-26, passed 4-5-2010)
§ 10-91. MECHANICAL CONTRACTOR CITY REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in mechanical work as
defined in subsections (A)(1) through (A)(4) below of this section, within the
city limits unless he or she is registered with the city office and has a
current and valid certificate of registration.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         GAS PIPING. All natural gas piping within or adjacent to any building,
structure, or conveyance on the premises up to the connection with a natural
gas meter, regulator, or other source of supply.
         GROUND SOURCE PIPING. Piping buried below the earth’s surface or
submerged in a water well, lake, or pond and used in conjunction with a heat
pump to provide heating, ventilation, and/or air conditioning to a structure.
         HVAC or HEATING, VENTILATION, AND AIR CONDITION. The process of
treating air by controlling its temperature, humidity, and cleanliness and of
supplying such air to spaces for human occupancy by means of an integrated
system or air conditioning and ventilation equipment, accessories, and control
devices.
         MECHANICAL WORK. The installation, maintenance, repair, or renovation,
in whole or in part, of any heating system, cooling system, mechanical
refrigeration system, or ventilation system, or any equipment or piping
carrying chilled water, air for ventilation purposes, or natural gas, or the
installation, maintenance, repair, or renovation of process piping used to
carry any liquid, substance, or material, including steam and hot water used
for space heating purposes not under the jurisdiction of the Department of
Labor, provided that minor maintenance and repairs are excluded.
         REFRIGERATION SYSTEM. A system employing fluid which normally is
vaporized and liquified in an air conditioning system, food preservation
measure, or manufacturing process.
         SHEET METAL. The ferrous and non-ferrous ductwork and components which
house and ventilate air conditioning systems, both assembled and custom
fabricated.
   (B)   Only a person who has a current and valid license as a mechanical
contractor issued by the state’s Construction Industries Board may register as
such with the city.
   (C)   Upon application to the city, the applicant shall give full name,
residence address, and place of business address, and in case of removal from
one place to another, shall make a corresponding change in the register
accordingly and the payment of the required fee to the City Clerk’s office. The
city shall register such applicants and issue to them certificates of
registration.
   (D)   City certificates shall not be valid after the termination or
expiration of state licenses or certificates. Registration certificates of
mechanical contractors issued as provided herein shall expire after one year
from date of issuance.
   (E)   For all certificates of registration authorized by this section there
shall be charged and collected the following fees: Mechanical contractor: $100
for the initial year and a $50 per year renewal fee thereafter (if not renewed
within one year, renewal will be $100).
   (F)   A mechanical contractor must provide the name and license number of
each worker employed by contractor as a mechanical journeyman or a mechanical
apprentice.
   (G)   Any violation of any provision contained in this section is an offense
against the city; upon conviction of any such offense, the violator shall be
punished by a fine as follows:
      (1)   First offense: $200; and
      (2)   Second and subsequent offenses: $300.
(Prior Code, § 10-91) (Ord. 2008-17, passed 3-3-2008)
§§ 10-92 THROUGH 10-112. RESERVED.
LICENSE
§ 10-113. REQUIRED; FEE.
   All plumbing contractors, journeyman plumbers, and plumber’s apprentices,
before doing any work as gas fitters within the city corporate limits, must
first procure from the City Clerk a gas fitter license to engage in the work of
gas fitting and pay to the City Clerk a license fee which is on file in the
City Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 10-113)
§ 10-114. FEES FOR THOSE WHO ARE NOT PLUMBERS.
   All firms, corporations, and individuals, other than those qualifying as
plumbers, before doing any work as gas fitters within the city corporate
limits, must first pay to the City Clerk a license fee which is on file in the
City Clerk’s office and procure from the City Clerk a gas fitter’s license to
engage in the work of gas fitting.
(Prior Code, § 10-114)
§ 10-115. ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; RENEWAL; REVOCATION.
   Upon the making and approval of the aforesaid bond, a gas fitter’s license,
valid for a period of one year, shall be issued by the City Clerk upon the
payment of the fee hereinbefore provided. The license may be renewed from year
to year upon compliance with all the terms and conditions of this article, upon
the payment of a sum of $1 to cover the expense of such renewal; provided
further, that at any time, the Gas Inspector, with the approval and consent of
the City Council, may revoke and annul the gas fitter license, and the holder
of the license shall be prohibited by this article from doing further gas
fitting within the city corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 10-115)
§§ 10-116 THROUGH 10-143. RESERVED.
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS
§ 10-144. PERSON WHO MUST COMPLY WITH STATE LAW AND POSSESS ANY STATE LICENSE
OR PERMIT REQUIRED BY LAW.
   It is unlawful for any person to manufacture, fabricate, assemble, install,
or repair any system, container, apparatus, or appliance to be used for the
transportation, storage, dispensing, or utilization of liquefied petroleum gas,
or to transport, handle, or store such gas, unless such person has complied
with and complies with all provisions of the law and ordinances relating
thereto, and has any license or permit which may be required by state law. The
National Fire Protection Association Pamphlet No. 58, Storage and Handling of
Liquefied Petroleum Gases Rules and Regulations, also adopted by the State
Liquefied Petroleum Gas Board, shall have full force and effect within this
city. Any violation of these rules and regulations shall be deemed a violation
of the ordinances of the city and shall be punished accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 10-144)
Statutory reference:
   State rules, liquefied petroleum gas, see 52 O.S. §§ 420.1 et seq.
§ 10-145. INSPECTION; FEE.
   All liquefied petroleum installations within the city, upon completion,
shall be inspected by the Plumbing Inspector, or by the Gas Inspector if a Gas
Inspector is appointed, and shall not be used by the occupants until approved
by the Inspector as complying with §
10-144 and the rules and regulations adopted thereby. The fee for such
inspection is on file in the City Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 10-145)
§§ 10-146 THROUGH 10-173. RESERVED.
MANUFACTURED HOMES
§ 10-174. INSPECTION BEFORE TURNING ON GAS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All extensions of pipe from one room to another must be inspected by
the Gas Inspector before the gas is turned on or into such extension.
   (B)   All manufactured homes must be inspected by the Gas Inspector prior to
turning on the gas or hooking up to a meter. A licensed plumber or gas fitter
must obtain a permit before this inspection.
(Prior Code, § 10-174)
§§ 10-175 THROUGH 10-201. RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: ELECTRIC INSTALLATIONS
Section
   
10-202.   Definitions
   
10-203.   Building Inspector to serve as Electrical Inspector; duties
   
10-204.   Electrical permit fees
   
10-205.   Electrical contractor; licenses; fees
   
10-206.   Permit required
   
10-207.   National Electrical Code adopted by reference
   
10-208.   One hundred-ampere panel required
   
10-209.   Requirements to be noted on permit
   
10-210.   Electrical contractor city registration
   
10-211.   License revocation and suspension
   
10-212.   Installations to which this article applies
   
10-213.   Electrical Inspector to order dangerous installations corrected
   10-214 through 10-234 reserved
§ 10-202. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR. Any person engaged in the business of installing or
servicing or repairing, or contracting to install, repair, or service any
electrical wiring, conduits, devices, fixtures, overhead or underground wiring
systems, or any other electrical energy.
   ELECTRICAL WIRING. All wiring, fixtures, conduits, appliances, devices,
equipment, overhead or underground wiring system, generating or any other
equipment in connection with the general distribution or utilization of
electrical emergency.
   JOURNEYMAN ELECTRICIAN. Every person doing any work of installing,
repairing, servicing, or maintaining any electrical wiring, conduits, devices,
fixtures, overhead or underground wiring systems, or any other electrical
energy.
(Prior Code, § 10-202)
§ 10-203. BUILDING INSPECTOR TO SERVE AS ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   For the purposes of carrying out the provisions of this article and
for the better protection of the city’s electrical wiring and electrical
installations, the Building Inspector shall serve as the Electrical Inspector.
   (B)   The Electrical Inspector shall have the right to designate any
qualified person to make the actual inspections and report to him or her; and
acting on such report, he or she may carry out the provisions of this article.
The Inspector shall have the inspection and testing of all electrical wiring
and electrical installations done within the city. He or she shall inspect all
work coming within his or her jurisdiction or cause such inspection to be done
and shall cause all electrical wiring and installations work to be done and
performed in accordance with the terms and provisions of this article.
(Prior Code, § 10-203)
Statutory reference:
   State electrical requirements, licensing, see 59 O.S. §§ 1680 to 1696
§ 10-204. ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   The fees for all permit applications and inspections are on file in
the City Clerk’s office.
   (B)   The fees are doubled when work that requires a permit by code is
started prior to obtaining the permit.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to make or cause to be made any
electrical connections, wiring, or electrical installations within the city
without first obtaining such permit from the Inspector for the particular job
to be installed.
(Prior Code, § 10-204) (Ord. 768-1/2, passed 2-4-1986; Ord. 2004-852, passed 3-
1-2004; Ord. 2010-26, passed 4-5-2010)
§ 10-205. ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR; LICENSES; FEES.
   (A)   All electrical contractors, before being granted any permit by the
Inspector to work or make any connection, must first present a current state
license issued by the State Department of Health, then pay to the City Clerk a
license fee which is on file in the City Clerk’s office to engage in the work
of an electrical contractor before commencing or doing any electrical work or
making any electrical connections in the city. The contractor shall execute to
the city a bond in the amount which is on file in the City Clerk’s office
conditioned upon the good and faithful performance of all work to be done by
him or her in the city and hold the city harmless to all damages arising from
any work done or caused to be done by such electrical contractor in the city.
   (B)   No registration shall be granted for less than one year; such
registration may be renewed each year within a 30-day period before expiration
of the payment of the required fee.
(Prior Code, § 10-205) (Ord. 781, passed 6-20-1988)
§ 10-206. PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No permit shall be issued to any electrical contractor or any other person
to make connection or do any other work of any kind whatever in the city until
a written application signed by the contractor or person, together with a
statement of the work to be performed, shall be filed with the Inspector. No
part of such work shall be executed until the Inspector shall have authorized
the same to be done. Each application shall bear the owner’s name together with
the lot and block number of the property on which the work is to be done.
(Prior Code, § 10-206)
§ 10-207. NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   No permit shall be issued for electrical wiring and electrical installations
and the methods of installation thereof unless and until the same shall conform
to the approved standards provided for in the National Electrical Code, 2005
edition, the electrical code and all of the provisions thereof being made a
part hereof and incorporated herein and adopted by the city, as its standards,
the same as though set out in full herein.
(Prior Code, § 10-207)
§ 10-208. ONE HUNDRED-AMPERE PANEL REQUIRED.
   In any new construction in the city and any remodeling of any existing
structure which necessitates the alteration of any panel, there shall be
installed, as a minimum requirement, a 100-ampere panel.
(Prior Code, § 10-208)
§ 10-209. REQUIREMENTS TO BE NOTED ON PERMIT.
   Any wiring required to be done shall be noted on the building permit secured
therefor, and it is hereby made the duty of the Building Inspector to enforce
this article.
(Prior Code, § 10-209)
§ 10-210. ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR CITY REGISTRATION.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of installing
electrical equipment for lights, heat, or power, trade or occupation of an
electrical contractor, journeyman, or apprentice in the city, unless he or she
is registered with the city and has a current and valid certificate of
registration issued by the city.
   (B)   Only a person who has a current and valid license as an electrical
contractor issued by the State Construction Industries Board may register as
such with the city.
   (C)   Upon application to the city, the applicant shall give full name,
residence address, and place of business address, and in case of removal from
one place to another, shall make a corresponding change in the register
accordingly and the payment of the required fee to the City Clerk’s office. The
city shall register such applicants and issue to them certificates of
registration.
   (D)   City certificates shall not be valid after the termination or
expiration of state licenses or certificates. Registration certificates of
electrical contractors issued as provided herein shall expire after one year
from date of issuance.
   (E)   For all certificates of registration authorized by this section, there
will be charged and collected the following fees: Electrical contractor: $100
for the initial year and a $50 per year renewal fee thereafter (if not renewed
within one year, renewal will be $100).
   (F)   An electrical contractor must provide the name and license number of
each worker employed by contractor as an electrical journeyman or an electrical
apprentice.
   (G)   Any violation of any provision contained in this section is an offense
against the city; upon conviction of any such offense, the violator shall be
punished by a fine as follows:
      (1)   First offense: $200; and
      (2)   Second and subsequent offenses: $300.
(Prior Code, § 10-210) (Ord. 2008-15, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 10-211. LICENSE REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION.
   Any license issued in accordance with this article may be suspended or
revoked by the City Council for reasons of incompetency or for failure to
comply with the provisions of this article or any applicable ordinance or
regulation; but no license shall be revoked unless the licensee shall have been
notified in writing of the charges against him or her and has been given an
opportunity for hearing, except that failure to maintain the surety bond
required herein in full force and effect shall be grounds for the summary
suspension of such license. Any licensee whose license has been revoked shall
not again be licensed within a period of six weeks from date of such action.
(Prior Code, § 10-211)
§ 10-212. INSTALLATIONS TO WHICH THIS ARTICLE APPLIES.
   The provisions of this article shall apply to all installations of
electrical conductors, wiring, conduits, fixtures, devices, appliances, or
other electrical equipment or materials, hereinafter defined as electrical
wiring, within or on public or private buildings, structures, or premises,
except as follows.
   (A)   The provisions of this article shall not apply to the installation,
alteration, or repair of electrical wiring for the generation and distribution
of electrical current up to and including the meters, where such work is an
integral part of the system owned and operated by an electrical public service
corporation, or the light and power department of any city or town in the
state, in rendering its duly authorized service as such.
   (B)   The provisions of this article shall not apply to the installation,
alteration, or repair of electrical equipment and devices for the operation of
signals for the transmission of intelligence (where such work is an integral
part of the communications system owned and operated by a privately or publicly
owned telephone or telegraph company in rendering its duly authorized service
as such) or to the signal communication systems railroad and pipe line
companies not used by the public or for hire.
   (C)   The provisions of this article shall not apply to the installation,
alteration, or repair of electrical equipment used for radio transmission in
broadcasting or transmitting station.
   (D)   The provisions of this article shall not apply to emergency minor
repair work.
   (E)   The provisions of this article shall not apply to the installation,
alteration, or repair of the fire and police signaling communication systems or
central station electric protection service companies.
(Prior Code, § 10-212)
§ 10-213. ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR TO ORDER DANGEROUS INSTALLATIONS CORRECTED.
   The Electrical Inspector shall at all times have access to any building or
structure under construction to properly examine the same as to the electrical
wiring and installations. Any defective work in connection therewith the
Inspector may find that, in the opinion of the Inspector, is a nuisance or
detriment to the public safety of the occupants of the building or adjoining
buildings, then he or she shall order the defects corrected and put in a safe
condition.
(Prior Code, § 10-213)
§§ 10-214 THROUGH 10-234. RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI: RESIDENTIAL CODE
Section
   
10-235.   International Residential Code adopted by reference
   10-236 through 10-263 reserved
§ 10-235. INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   There is hereby adopted by reference the International Residential Code,
2006 edition with Appendices A, B, C, E, G, H, issued by the International Code
Council, Inc., as the dwelling code for the city. The residential code shall be
fully applicable and enforceable in governing housing in the city, as fully as
if set out at length herein, save and except such portions as are hereinafter
deleted, modified, or amended. If any provision of the ordinances of the city
are in conflict with the provisions of the one-family and two-family dwelling
code, except as provided in this article, the provisions of the dwelling code
shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 10-235) (Ord. 744, passed 2-4-1980; Ord. 2004-546, passed 11-1-
2004)
§§ 10-236 THROUGH 10-263. RESERVED.
ARTICLE VII: MECHANICAL CODE
Section
   
10-264.   International Mechanical Code adopted by reference
   
10-265.   Mechanical permit fees
   10-266 through 10-293 reserved
§ 10-264. INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   There is hereby adopted by reference the International Mechanical Code, 2006
edition, with Appendix A, issued by the International Code Council, Inc, as the
mechanical code for the city. The mechanical code shall be fully applicable and
enforceable in governing mechanical work in the city, save and except such
portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified, or amended, as fully as if set
out at length herein. If any provisions of the ordinances of the city are in
conflict with the provisions of the mechanical code, except as provided in this
article, the provisions of the mechanical code shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 10-264) (Ord. 2004-546, passed 11-1-2004)
§ 10-265. MECHANICAL PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   The fees which shall apply for one-family and two-family dwellings are
on file in the City Clerk’s office.
   (B)   The fees which apply for other than one-family and two-family
dwellings are on file in the City Clerk’s office.
   (C)   The fees are doubled when work that requires a permit by code is
started prior to obtaining the permit.
(Prior Code, § 10-265) (Ord. 768-1/2, passed 2-4-1986; Ord. 2004-852, passed 3-
1-2004; Ord. 2010-26, passed 4-5-2010)
§§ 10-266 THROUGH 10-293. RESERVED.
ARTICLE VIII: ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE
Section
   
10-294.   International Energy Conservation Code adopted by reference
   10-295 through 10-321 reserved
§ 10-294. INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   There is hereby adopted by reference the International Energy Conservation
Code, 2006 edition, with Appendix, issued by the International Code Council,
Inc., as the energy code for the city. The energy conservation code shall be
fully applicable and enforceable in the city, as fully as if set out at length
herein. If any provisions of the ordinances of the city are in conflict with
the provisions of the energy conservation code, the provisions of the energy
conservation code shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 10-294) (Ord. 744, passed 2-4-1980; Ord. 2004-546, passed 11-1-
2004)
§§ 10-295 THROUGH 10-321. RESERVED.
ARTICLE IX: MOVING BUILDINGS
Section
   
10-322.   Permit required
   
10-323.   Application; fee
   
10-324.   Bond
   
10-325.   Passageway for traffic
   
10-326.   Red lights; notification of Fire Chief
   
10-327.   Trees; utilities
   
10-328.   Injury to streets
   
10-329.   Time limit for moving
   
10-330.   Sundays and holidays
   
10-331.   Fire Chief to be informed
   
10-332.   Liability
   
10-333.   Violations
§ 10-322. PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person, as principal, agent, laborer, servant, or
employee, to use or occupy any of the streets, avenues, or alleys, or other
public places within the limits of the city for the purpose of moving any
building, structure, or edifice, or any other object or thing, of any kind or
character, impossible to be moved and transported by ordinary vehicle
conveyances, or to so use and occupy any portions of the streets, avenues,
public ways, places, or alleys within the limits of this city with any
equipment of any kind or character to be used or placed thereon for the purpose
of effecting the transportation of such structures, buildings, edifices, or
other things as described in this section without having first obtained a
permit from the City Clerk for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 10-322)
§ 10-323. APPLICATION; FEE.
   A moving permit shall be obtained by making an application for the same in
writing, reciting therein the character of the thing or object to be moved or
transported along, over, or through any street or alley. It shall further
recite the proposed route of such transportation and the place where any
equipment used in effecting such moving shall be placed and secured. Such
permit shall be issued upon compliance with all the required conditions and the
payment of a fee which is on file in the City Clerk’s office. If work is
started prior to receiving the required permit, the fee is doubled.
(Prior Code, § 10-323) (Ord. 2004-852, passed 3-1-2004)
§ 10-324. BOND.
   No permit shall be issued, as provided for in this article, until the
applicant shall have deposited with the City Clerk a cash bond in the sum which
is on file in the City Clerk’s office to protect the city and cover loss or
damage accruing to it or its citizens by reason of any negligence in connection
with such moving or transportation or prohibited occupancy of the streets,
sidewalks, and any and all property therein.
(Prior Code, § 10-324)
§ 10-325. PASSAGEWAY FOR TRAFFIC.
   It shall be the duty of any person to whom a permit has been issued to move
any building across any street, alley, or avenue to provide sufficient
passageway on one side of the building while the same is being moved, to the
end that traffic will not be unduly interrupted and so that vehicles may effect
a passage by the side of such building and over such street. Where it is
necessary to allow a building to remain overnight on the street, it shall be
the duty of the person moving same to so plan the work that a suitable place
can be reached before night where a passageway can be provided.
(Prior Code, § 10-325)
§ 10-326. RED LIGHTS; NOTIFICATION OF FIRE CHIEF.
   It shall be the duty of the permit holder to place red lights in plainly
visible positions for not less than 200 feet on each side of the building or
structure which is being moved at the close of day and to keep the lights
burning throughout the entire night and until one hour after sunrise on the
following morning. Such lights shall be so placed and maintained that the view
of the lights will not be in any sense obstructed. Provided, that if necessary,
as many additional lights as will enable any person of reasonable and ordinary
prudence to take notice of the obstruction shall be placed at such other points
on the building or structure. It shall be the further duty of the house mover,
or his or her agent, to station a sufficient number of persons on guard and to
establish such notices by placard or boards in the immediate vicinity of the
moving activities as will be necessary to apprize any reasonable person of
potential danger that might be incurred by coming any closer to the moving
operations or buildings being moved or to any of the instruments or agencies
used in the moving of the same. The moving contractor shall also notify the
Fire Chief of the location of such building.
(Prior Code, § 10-326)
§ 10-327. TREES; UTILITIES.
   The person who may have a permit to move a building or structure over any
street within the city shall, by virtue of such permit, derive no right to
injure or impair the condition or usefulness of any shade tree or electric
light, telephone, or telegraph lines or poles. No tree of any kind shall be
cut, trimmed, bruised, or scarred under any circumstances, without the
expressed permission, in writing, of the owner of the tree. In all cases where
it is necessary to remove any electric light, telephone, or telegraph equipment
or construction, it shall be the duty of the person moving such building or
structure to give not less than 24 hours’ notice to the public utility company
or person owning or operating the equipment or construction. The notice shall
state the location of the equipment or construction which is necessary to be
moved, or temporarily changed or altered, and the day on which it is desired to
have such clearance made as well as the amount of time which it will be
necessary to keep such space clear. It shall further be the duty of the person
moving the building or structure to deposit, with the City Clerk, an amount of
money estimated necessary to cover the cost of such changing or moving of
public utility overhead equipment or construction and replacing it in its
former condition, not exceeding the sum which is on file in the City Clerk’s
office. Upon such deposit being made with the City Clerk and such notice
delivered to the owner or operator of the electric light, telephone, or
telegraph poles and line construction, it shall be the duty of the person
owning or operating the light, telephone, or telegraph overhead construction to
make such temporary changes as are reasonably necessary to comply with the
representations set forth in the notice made and delivered to him or her.
(Prior Code, § 10-327)
§ 10-328. INJURY TO STREETS.
   No permit shall be issued to move any building which, in the judgment of the
City Engineer or City Business Manager, might by any chance result in any
injury to the pavements, bridges, conduits, or other street improvements within
the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-328)
§ 10-329. TIME LIMIT FOR MOVING.
   At the time of application for a permit, it shall be the duty of the mover
of any building or structure to estimate the reasonable time required for the
moving of the building from its present location to its proposed location and
shall state in his or her application for a permit what he or she deems to be
such reasonable time. The permit shall especially provide that the building
shall be, from the time any part of the street is used for the moving of same,
cleared from any and all of the streets of the city within a number of days
specified therein, Sundays and holidays excepted. The mover shall pay the sum
which is on file in the City Clerk’s office for each and every day all or any
part of which the building or structure remains on the street in excess of the
number of days allowed in the permit, and his or her cash deposit, in addition
to his or her bond, shall be made liable for the payment of the amount. Nothing
but an act of God shall be a defense against the payment of the sums.
(Prior Code, § 10-329)
§ 10-330. SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS.
   The City Clerk shall not issue any permit on any day which, according to the
estimated number of days required to move the building or structure, when
counted for the date of the permit, includes a Sunday or legal holiday,
provided that this shall apply where the permit provides that the persons
moving such house shall begin on the day of the permit. Provided that, when a
day is set on which the person moving the building shall begin to move the
building or structure and the day is different from the date of issuing the
permit, then no permit shall be issued in such way as to include a Sunday or
holiday within the time allowed for moving the building. Provided that, where
the number of days shall exceed five, the provisions of this section shall not
apply.
(Prior Code, § 10-330)
§ 10-331. FIRE CHIEF TO BE INFORMED.
   In each and every case where any person desiring to move any building shall
have a permit issued for the move, he or she shall show his or her permit to
the Chief of the Fire Department. If, for any reason, any delay is occasioned
by any unforeseen contingency, it shall be his or her further duty to inform
the Fire Chief of such delay and disclose information on the true condition of
the streets and alleys for fire prevention purposes.
(Prior Code, § 10-331)
§ 10-332. LIABILITY.
   No provisions or conditions of this section shall be construed so as to
limit the civil liability of any person moving any house on or over the city
streets, avenues, and alleys from any and all damages which may result as the
proximate cause of such acts to any person or his or her property or to the
city.
(Prior Code, § 10-332)
§ 10-333. VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who shall move any building or structure onto, on, over, or
across any street or alley without having complied with the provisions of this
article shall be guilty of an offense. The failure to comply with any provision
mentioned within this article shall be a separate offense and, upon conviction,
shall be punished accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 10-333)
CHAPTER 11: RESERVED
   [Reserved]
CHAPTER 12: BUSINESSES
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
III.   AMUSEMENTS
      
IV.   PAWNBROKERS
      
V.   RESERVED
      
VI.   POOL, SNOOKER, DOMINOES, BOWLING, BOXBALL
      
VII.   RETAIL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
12-1.   Short weights and measures prohibited
   12-2 through 12-20 reserved
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to tax and regulate occupations, see 11 O.S. §§ 22-106
and 22-107
§ 12-1. SHORT WEIGHTS AND MEASURES PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell, or offer for sale, any food, fuel,
clothing, or any other commodity which does not weigh or measure fully as much,
according to standard weights and measures of the state, as the weight or
measure for which it is sold or offered for sale.
(Prior Code, § 12-1)
§§ 12-2 THROUGH 12-20. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
12-21.   License required
   
12-22.   Application, fee, issuance of license
   
12-23.   Expiration date
   
12-24.   Examination and investigation fee
   
12-25.   License not to be used by others
   
12-26.   Hours of solicitation
   
12-27.   Persons under 16 years of age
   
12-28.   Exemptions
   
12-29.   Unlawful to sell from vehicle; wholesalers exempt
   12-30 through 12-46 reserved
§ 12-21. LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person, either as principal or agent, or his, her, or
their servants or employees, to conduct or carry on from door-to-door any
trade, occupation, or business hereinafter enumerated without first having
procured a license from the City Clerk, as provided in this article.
(Prior Code, § 12-21)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to tax and regulate businesses, professions, and
occupations, see 11 O.S. §§ 22-106 and 22-107
§ 12-22. APPLICATION, FEE, ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Every person desiring to engage in any trade, occupation, or business on a
door-to-door basis, as hereinafter enumerated, shall first make application for
a license to the City Clerk on application forms furnished by the City Clerk
and shall pay to the City Clerk a license examination and investigation fee
which is on file in the City Clerk’s office. It is the duty of the City Clerk,
upon receipt of such application, and where required, such license examination
and investigation fee, and if same is deemed satisfactory and acceptable, and
upon fulfillment of any other requirements of the ordinances of the city, if
any, to issue a license to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 12-22)
§ 12-23. EXPIRATION DATE.
   All annual licenses shall expire on June 30, following their issuance.
(Prior Code, § 12-23)
§ 12-24. EXAMINATION AND INVESTIGATION FEE.
   Every person desiring to engage in any trade, occupation, or business, as
set forth below, must first secure a license from the City Clerk for the
designated occupations or businesses, and in addition thereto, a license
examination and investigation fee for all persons from outside the city shall
be paid. The fee for all hawkers, solicitors, and peddlers of goods, wares, or
merchandise, on a door-to-door basis, including the sale of books, maps, or
magazines, and for the repair, alteration, or renovation of any article shall
be on file in the City Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 12-24)
§ 12-25. LICENSE NOT TO BE USED BY OTHERS.
   No license issued under the provisions of this article shall be used at any
time by any person other than the one to whom it was issued.
(Prior Code, § 12-25)
§ 12-26. HOURS OF SOLICITATION.
   All solicitations made under license provisions shall not be earlier than 9:
00 a.m. or later than 9:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 12-26)
§ 12-27. PERSONS UNDER 16 YEARS OF AGE.
   No license shall be issued to any person under the age of 16 years, and it
is unlawful for any licensee to employ or allow any person under the age of 16
years to be employed as a huckster, peddler, hawker, helper, or solicitor in
connection with the business licensed thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 12-27)
§ 12-28. EXEMPTIONS.
   All churches, civic organizations, charitable campaign fund drives, and
youth organizations are first required to notify the City Police Department of
any house-to-house drive for funds to be undertaken within the city.
(Prior Code, § 12-28)
§ 12-29. UNLAWFUL TO SELL FROM VEHICLE; WHOLESALERS EXEMPT.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale, at retail,
any commodity from any truck, trailer, or other vehicle while such vehicle is
parked on any street or alley of the city.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to wholesalers or
wholesale distributors supplying their customers for resale at retail, nor to
the transportation and distribution, at wholesale or retail, of milk and dairy
products, nor to the sale, in any zoned residential area, of vegetables and
fruit by the producer or grower thereof.
(Prior Code, § 12-29)
§§ 12-30 THROUGH 12-46. RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
12-47.   License required
   
12-48.   Application, fee, issuance of license
   
12-49.   Expiration date
   
12-50.   Examination and investigation fee
   
12-51.   License not to be used by others
   
12-52.   Persons under 16 years of age
   12-53 through 12-77 reserved
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to tax and regulate businesses, professions, and
occupations, see 11 O.S. §§ 22-106 and 22-107
§ 12-47. LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person, either as principal or agent, or his, her, or
their servants or employees, to conduct or carry any trade, occupation, or
business hereinafter enumerated without first having procured a license from
the City Clerk of the city, as provided in this article.
(Prior Code, § 12-47)
§ 12-48. APPLICATION, FEE, ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Every person desiring to engage in any trade, occupation, or business as
hereinafter enumerated shall first make application to the City Clerk on an
application form furnished by the City Clerk for a license and shall pay to the
City Clerk any license examination and investigation fee herein prescribed. It
is the duty of the City Clerk, upon receipt of such application, and where
required, such license examination and investigation fee, and if same is deemed
satisfactory and acceptable, and upon fulfillment of any other requirements of
the ordinances of the city, if any, to issue a license to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 12-48)
§ 12-49. EXPIRATION DATE.
   All annual licenses shall expire on June 30, following their issuance.
(Prior Code, § 12-49)
§ 12-50. EXAMINATION AND INVESTIGATION FEE.
   Every person desiring to engage in any trade, occupation, or business, as
set forth in this section, must first secure a license from the City Clerk for
the following designated occupations or businesses, and in addition thereto, a
license examination and investigation fee for all persons from outside the city
shall be paid in amounts which are on file in the City Clerk’s office:
   (A)   Circuses, carnivals, shows, or exhibitions of any kind, whether
admission is charged or not;
   (B)   Transient amusements not otherwise provided for in this article; or
   (C)   Itinerant skating rinks or shooting galleries operated for profit,
even though maintained and operated on private property.
(Prior Code, § 12-50)
§ 12-51. LICENSE NOT TO BE USED BY OTHERS.
   No license issued under the provisions of this article shall be used at any
time by any person other than the one to whom it was issued.
(Prior Code, § 12-51)
§ 12-52. PERSONS UNDER 16 YEARS OF AGE.
   No license shall be issued to any person under the age of 16 years, and it
is unlawful for any licensee to employ or allow any person under the age of 16
years to be employed in connection with the business licensed thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 12-52)
§§ 12-53 THROUGH 12-77. RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: PAWNBROKERS
Section
Generally
   12-78 through 12-97 reserved
License
   
12-98.   Required
   
12-99.   Fee; bond
   
12-100.   Eligibility for license; net asset requirement
   
12-101.   Revocation of license
   12-102 through 12-121 reserved
Restrictions and Regulations
   
12-122.   Maximum interest and fees
   
12-123.   Record to be kept; record and property to be exhibited
   12-124 through 12-144 reserved
Statutory reference:
   Pawnshops, see 59 O.S. §§ 1501 et seq.
GENERALLY
§§ 12-78 THROUGH 12-97. RESERVED.
LICENSE
§ 12-98. REQUIRED.
   No person shall carry on, maintain, or operate any pawnbroker’s office or
pawn shop within the city, or lend money on the security of pledged goods or
the act of purchasing tangible personal property on condition that it may be
redeemed or repurchased by the seller for a fixed price within a fixed period
of time, without first obtaining a license from the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 12-98)
Statutory reference:
   Pawnbrokers state license required, see 59 O.S. § 1503
§ 12-99. FEE; BOND.
   No license shall be issued by the City Clerk until the person applying
therefor shall pay to the Clerk a license fee, which fee is on file in the City
Clerk’s office, and filing with the Clerk a bond in an amount which is on file
in the City Clerk’s office with two sureties, or a surety company bond to be
approved by the City Council, conditioned upon the licensee’s faithful
observance and obedience to all the conditions and provisions of this article
and pay any penalty or damages, which may be adjudged against such licensee by
any court of competent jurisdiction, for the violations of any of the
provisions of this article.
(Prior Code, § 12-99)
§ 12-100. ELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE; NET ASSET REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   As provided in 59 O.S. § 1505, to be eligible for a pawnshop license,
an applicant shall:
      (1)   Be of good moral character;
      (2)   Have net assets of at least $25,000; and
      (3)   Show that the pawnshop will be operated lawfully and fairly within
the purpose of the State Pawnshop Act, 59 O.S. §§ 1501 et seq.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall find ineligible an applicant who has a felony
conviction which directly relates to the duties and responsibilities of the
occupation of pawnbroker.
   (C)   If the City Clerk is unable to verify that the applicant meets the net
assets requirement for a pawnshop license, the City Clerk may require a
finding, including the presentation of a current balance sheet, by an
accounting firm or individual holding a permit to practice public accounting in
this state, that the accountant has reviewed the books and records of the
applicant, and that the applicant meets the net assets requirement.
(Prior Code, § 12-100)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 59 O.S. § 1503A
§ 12-101. REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The City Council may revoke any license issued hereunder for violation of
any of the provisions of this article.
(Prior Code, § 12-101)
§§ 12-102 THROUGH 12-121. RESERVED.
RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATIONS
§ 12-122. MAXIMUM INTEREST AND FEES.
   Except as provided in 59 O.S. § 1511F, no pawnbroker may contract for,
charge, or receive any amount as a charge in connection with a pawn transaction
other than a pawn finance charge, and no pawn finance charge calculated
according to the actuarial method shall exceed an amount as provided in 59 O.S.
§ 1510.
(Prior Code, § 12-122)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 59 O.S. § 1510(A)
§ 12-123. RECORD TO BE KEPT; RECORD AND PROPERTY TO BE EXHIBITED.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall make available a copy or report within three
days of any buy transaction to the Police Department in which the pawnshop is
located; provided, merchandise bought on invoice from a manufacturer or
wholesaler with an established place of business is exempt from this reporting
requirement. However, such invoice shall be shown upon request to the Business
Manager or his or her duly authorized representative, or any authorized peace
officer. The copy or report shall include:
      (1)   The name and address of the pawnshop;
      (2)   The name, address, race, sex, weight, height, date of birth, and
either identification number of the seller as verified by either a state-issued
identification card, driver’s license, or federal government-issued
identification card, or by readable fingerprint of the right or left index
finger on the back of the pawn or buy transaction copy to be retained for the
pawnbroker’s record;
      (3)   The buy transaction number;
      (4)   The date and time of the transaction;
      (5)   The manufacturer of the item;
      (6)   A description of the item; and
      (7)   The serial number and model number, where available, and any other
identifying markings.
   (B)   Items bought, except on invoice from a manufacturer or wholesaler with
an established place of business, shall be held for ten days before being
disposed of or sold.
   (C)   Any pawnbroker shall make available a copy or report within three days
of any pawn transaction to the local law enforcement agency of the municipality
or other political subdivision in which the pawnshop is located. The copy or
report shall include:
      (1)   The name and address of the pawnshop;
      (2)   The name, address, race, sex, weight, height, date of birth, and
either identification number of the person making the pawn transaction with the
pawnshop as verified by either a state-issued identification card, driver’s
license, or federal government-issued identification card, or by readable
fingerprint of the right or left index finger on the back of the pawn or buy
transaction copy to be retained for the pawnbroker’s record;
      (3)   The pawn transaction number;
      (4)   The date and time of the transaction;
      (5)   The manufacturer of the item;
      (6)   A description of the item; and
      (7)   The serial number and model number, where available, and any other
identifying markings.
   (D)   The pawnbroker shall obtain a written declaration of ownership from
the seller or pledgor on all buy and pawn transactions, except refinance pawn
transactions or merchandise bought from a manufacturer or wholesaler with an
established place of business. The seller or pledgor shall be required to state
how long he or she has owned the property described in the transaction. The
declaration of ownership shall appear on the bill of sale or pawn ticket, to be
completed by the seller or the pledgor at the time of the transaction.
(Prior Code, § 12-123)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 59 O.S. § 1515
§§ 12-124 THROUGH 12-144. RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: RESERVED
   [Reserved]
ARTICLE VI: POOL, SNOOKER, DOMINOES, BOWLING, BOXBALL
Section
   
12-145.   Annual license fee
   
12-146.   Revocation of license; refusal to issue license
   
12-147.   Hours of operation
   12-148 through 12-169 reserved
Statutory reference:
   License from District Court Clerk to operate a pool or billiard hall
required, see 21 O.S. § 1102
§ 12-145. ANNUAL LICENSE FEE.
   Each billiard, pool, snooker, dominoes parlor, bowling alley, or boxball
alley operating within the city shall pay an annual license fee, the amount of
which is on file in the City Clerk’s office, for each such business
establishment, with no license fee charged on individual tables, bowling
alleys, or boxball alleys.
(Prior Code, § 12-145)
Statutory reference:
   Licensing billiards and pool halls, authority of city, see 11 O.S. § 22-106
§ 12-146. REVOCATION OF LICENSE; REFUSAL TO ISSUE LICENSE.
   Any license issued under the provisions of § 12-145 shall be nontransferable
and may be revoked by the City Council whenever the City Council is satisfied
that such pool, snooker, billiard, or domino tables, or bowling alley or
boxball alley are being used for gambling purposes, or if the proprietor of
such room or amusement parlor permits gambling or other disorderly conduct
within the rooms where such tables are located. The City Council may refuse to
issue such license to any person.
(Prior Code, § 12-146)
§ 12-147. HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No person licensed under the provisions of this article shall operate the
business or permit the playing of any form of pool, snooker, billiards, or
dominoes, or other games, between the hours of 12:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 12-147)
§§ 12-148 THROUGH 12-169. RESERVED.
ARTICLE VII: RETAIL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
12-170.   Location restrictions
   
12-171.   Reserved
   
12-172.   Commercial marijuana growing facilities
   
12-173.   Wholesale marijuana facilities
   
12-174.   Marijuana storage facilities
§ 12-170. LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   A retail marijuana establishment permit will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location would be located within 1,000 feet of any
of the following locations: a private or public preschool, elementary,
secondary, vocational, or trade school, college, or university.
   (B)   A retail marijuana establishment permit will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location would be located within 300 feet of any
of the following locations:
      (1)   A library or museum;
      (2)   A public playground;
      (3)   A child care center;
      (4)   A place of worship or religious assembly;
      (5)   A public park, pool, or recreation facility;
      (6)   A juvenile or adult halfway house, correctional facility, or
substance abuse rehabilitation or treatment center; or
      (7)   Another medical marijuana or retail marijuana establishment.
   (C)   For the distance requirements outlined in this article, the distances
described shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight line from the
nearest property line of the parcel of land on which the use described in
subsection (A) or (B) above is located to the nearest property line of the
building or unit in which the proposed retail marijuana establishment would be
located.
(Ord. 2019-003, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 12-171. RESERVED.
§ 12-172. COMMERCIAL MARIJUANA GROWING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Commercial marijuana growing facilities are hereby allowed within the
municipal boundaries of the city under the following conditions.
      (1)   The facility must acquire a permit for the facility and a business
license from the Municipal Clerk. The permit for a commercial growing facility
shall be $1,500 per year, or other amount as set periodically by Council
resolution.
      (2)   Commercial marijuana facilities permit will not be granted to any
applicants where the proposed location would be located within 1,000 feet of
any of the following locations: private or public preschool, elementary,
secondary, vocational, or trade school, college, or university.
      (3)   Commercial marijuana facilities permit will not be granted to any
applicants where the proposed location would be located within 300 feet of any
of the following locations:
         (a)   A library or museum;
         (b)   A public playground;
         (c)   A child care center;
         (d)   A place of worship or religious assembly;
         (e)   A public park, pool, or recreation facility;
         (f)   A juvenile or halfway house, correctional facility, or substance
abuse; or
         (g)   Another medical marijuana or marijuana establishment.
      (4)   The facility must be located in a commercial, industrial, or
agricultural zoned area and shall be an enclosed structure.
      (5)   The facility shall have a security fence as least ten feet in
height and with limited access. The gates to the secure area must be locked at
all times.
      (6)   The facility must be constructed in such a manner that the growing
of the marijuana plants cannot be seen by the public from a public right-of-
way.
      (7)   The growing area, including any lighting, plumbing, or electrical
components used, shall comply with municipal building and fire codes. The
growing area must be properly ventilated so as not to create humidity, mold, or
other related problems.
   (B)   Trespassing upon the grounds of the cemetery or desecration thereof or
other violation, or any willful violation of any of the rules and regulations
made by the City Council or this article shall be deemed a misdemeanor. Any
person, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to a fine as provided in §
1-14.
(Ord. 2019-003, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 12-173. WHOLESALE MARIJUANA FACILITIES.
   (A)   Wholesale marijuana facilities are allowed in the city and must
acquire a city permit for the facility and business license from the Municipal
Clerk. The fee shall be $1,500 per year, or other amount as set periodically by
Council resolution.
   (B)   Wholesale marijuana facilities permits will not be granted to any
applicants where the proposed location is located outside a commercially zoned
area of the corporate city limits.
   (C)   Wholesale marijuana facilities permits will not be granted to any
applicants where the proposed location would be located within 1,000 feet of
any of the following uses: private or public preschool, elementary, secondary,
vocational, or trade school, college, or university.
   (D)   Wholesale marijuana facilities permits will not be granted to any
applicants where the proposed location would be located within 300 feet of any
of the following uses:
      (1)   A library or museum;
      (2)   A public playground;
      (3)   A child care center;
      (4)   A place of worship or religious assembly;
      (5)   A public park, pool, or recreational facility;
      (6)   A juvenile or adult halfway house, correctional facility, or
substance abuse;
      (7)   A rehabilitation or treatment center; or
      (8)   Another medical marijuana or marijuana establishment.
   (E)   For the distance requirements outlined in this article, the distances
described shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight line from the
nearest property line of the parcel of land on which the use described in
subsection (C) or (D) above is located to the nearest property line of the
building or unit in which the proposed wholesale marijuana establishment would
be located.
   (F)   Buildings where marijuana is stored or dispensed must be equipped with
ventilation/air filtration systems so that no odors are detectable off-
premises.
   (G)   The wholesale establishment must collect the applicable sales tax on
all sales.
   (H)   The hours of operation shall be between the hours of 9:00 a.m. to 9:00
p.m. Monday through Saturday. Operations shall be closed on Sundays as well as
Christmas, Thanksgiving, July 4, and New Year’s Day.
   (I)   Any violations of this section will result in the revocation of the
wholesale marijuana permit.
(Ord. 2019-003, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 12-174. MARIJUANA STORAGE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Marijuana storage facilities, other than in a retail outlet, are
hereby allowed within the municipal boundaries of the city, and must acquire a
business license from the City Clerk. There shall be a fee of $2,500 per year,
or other amount as set periodically by Council resolution.
   (B)   Marijuana storage facilities permit will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location is located outside a commercially zoned
area of the corporate city limits.
   (C)   A marijuana storage facilities permit will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location would be located within 1,000 feet of any
of the following uses: private or public preschool, elementary, secondary,
vocational, or trade school, college, or university.
   (D)   A marijuana storage facilities permit will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location would be located within 300 feet of any
of the following uses:
      (1)   A library or museum;
      (2)   A public playground;
      (3)   A child care center;
      (4)   A place of worship or religious assembly;
      (5)   A public park, pool, or recreation facility;
      (6)   A juvenile or adult halfway house, correctional facility, or
substance abuse;
      (7)   A rehabilitation or treatment center; or
      (8)   Another medical marijuana or marijuana establishment.
   (E)   For the distance requirements outlined in this article, the distances
described shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight line from the
nearest property line of the parcel of land on which the use described in
subsection (C) or (D) above is located to the nearest property line of the
building or unit in which the proposed marijuana storage facility would be
located.
   (F)   Buildings where marijuana is stored or dispensed must be equipped with
ventilator/air filtration systems so that no odors are detectable off-premises.
   (G)   Storage facilities must remain locked at all times when not in
operation. The facility must have an electronic security system and have an
appropriate security fence that must be at least ten feet tall around the
facility.
   (H)   The storage facility must collect the applicable sales tax on all
sales.
   (I)   Any violations of this section will result in the revocation of the
marijuana storage facility permit.
(Ord. 2019-003, passed 9-16-2019)
CHAPTER 13: RESERVED
   [Reserved]
CHAPTER 14: CIVIL EMERGENCIES
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   14-1 through 14-18 reserved
Statutory reference:
   Oklahoma Emergency Management Act of 2003, see 63 O.S. §§ 683.1 et seq.
§§ 14-1 THROUGH 14-18. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
Section
   
14-19.   Purpose of civil defense organization
   
14-20.   Department of Emergency Management created
   
14-21.   Emergency Management Advisory Committee
   
14-22.   Director of Emergency Management; powers and duties
   
14-23.   Further powers and duties
   
14-24.   Emergency management; emergency powers
   
14-25.   Enforcement of laws and ordinances
Statutory reference:
   Emergency management, see 63 O.S. §§ 683.1 et seq.
§ 14-19. PURPOSE OF CIVIL DEFENSE ORGANIZATION.
   The purpose of this article is to create an emergency management
organization for the city to be prepared for, and to function in the event of,
emergencies endangering the lives and property of the people of such city. The
duty of such civil defense organization shall be the protection of the lives
and health of the citizens of the city and of property rights, both private and
public, and to perform all functions necessary and incidental thereto.
(Prior Code, § 14-19)
Statutory reference:
   Local emergency management organizations, see 63 O.S. §§ 683.11 and 683.12
§ 14-20. DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT CREATED.
   There is hereby established under the executive branch of the government of
the city a Department of Emergency Management, which shall consist of a
Director of Emergency Management, who shall be appointed by the Mayor of the
city and serve at his or her pleasure.
(Prior Code, § 14-20)
§ 14-21. EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   There is hereby established the Emergency Management Advisory Committee.
This Committee shall consist of the Mayor as Chair and five members appointed
by the Mayor and serving at his or her pleasure. The Committee shall select
from its members a Vice-Chair and Secretary. It shall hold such meetings as are
directed by the Mayor or the Director of Emergency Management.
(Prior Code, § 14-21)
§ 14-22. DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Director of Emergency Management shall be the executive head of the
Department of Emergency Management and shall be responsible for carrying out
the emergency management program of the city. He or she shall serve without
compensation but may be reimbursed for expenses incurred in the performance of
his or her duties. It shall be the duty of the Director of Emergency
Management, as soon as practicable after his or her appointment, to perfect an
organization to carry out the purposes set forth in this article. He or she
shall have all necessary power and authority to form committees or other bodies
and to appoint and designate the Chair or chief officer of such bodies as may
be necessary to perfect such an organization. He or she shall have such further
duty and responsibility to cooperate with all emergency management agencies of
other governmental units, including the state and federal government.
(Prior Code, § 14-22)
§ 14-23. FURTHER POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Director of Emergency Management is further authorized to formulate
written plans and gather information and keep written records thereof to govern
the functions of the civil defense organization.
(Prior Code, § 14-23)
§ 14-24. EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT; EMERGENCY POWERS.
   In the event of an enemy-caused emergency or emergency resulting from
natural causes, the Director of Emergency Management, after due authorization
from the City Council, shall have the power and authority to enforce all rules
and regulations relating to civil defense and, if necessary, take control of
transportation, communications, stocks of fuel, food, clothing, medicine, and
public utilities for the purpose of protecting the civilian population. He or
she shall cooperate in every way with the activities of other governmental
agencies or emergency management organizations. If required by the Mayor, he or
she shall have control over any and all funds allocated from any source for the
purpose of alleviating distress conditions in the city.
(Prior Code, § 14-24)
§ 14-25. ENFORCEMENT OF LAWS AND ORDINANCES.
   The Director of Emergency Management and other members of the emergency
management organization created by him or her shall have the power and
authority to enforce the laws of the state and ordinances of the city during
the period of emergency, and shall, at such time, have the further power to
make arrests for violations of such laws or ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 14-25)
CHAPTER 15: RESERVED
   [Reserved]
CHAPTER 16: EMERGENCY SERVICES
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   AMBULANCE SERVICE
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   16-1 through 16-18 reserved
§§ 16-1 THROUGH 16-18. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: AMBULANCE SERVICE
Section
   
16-19.   Authorization for ambulance fees
   
16-20.   Fee for ambulance service
Statutory reference:
   Emergency medical services, see 63 O.S. §§ 1-2501 et seq.
§ 16-19. AUTHORIZATION FOR AMBULANCE FEES.
   (A)   The city shall charge as set by the City Council for all routine
ambulance service furnished by the city within the city limits, and shall
charge as set by the Council for all emergency ambulance services furnished by
the city within the city limits. In addition to the above charge, there shall
be an additional charge per mile, one-way travel by ambulance furnished by the
city to all areas outside of the city limits.
   (B)   There shall be an additional charge as determined by the Council for
the use of oxygen facilities in the ambulance furnished by the city.
   (C)   There shall be an hourly waiting charge for the ambulance furnished by
the city in the amount as set by the Council for each hour or fraction of an
hour after the first hour thereof.
(Prior Code, § 16-19) (Ord. 798, passed 10-19-1992)
§ 16-20. FEE FOR AMBULANCE SERVICE.
   The rates to be charged for ambulance services are on file in the City
Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 16-20) (Ord. 2000-837, passed 12-29-2000; Ord. 2002-845, passed
6-17-2002; Ord. 2004-548, passed 12-20-2004)
CHAPTER 17: RESERVED
   [Reserved]
CHAPTER 18: ENVIRONMENT
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   RUBBISH, REFUSE, LITTER
      
III.   WEEDS AND TRASH
      
IV.   ABANDONED, JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
      
V.   NUISANCES
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   18-1 through 18-18 reserved
§§ 18-1 THROUGH 18-18. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: RUBBISH, REFUSE, LITTER
Section
Generally
   18-19 through 18-39 reserved
Rubbish
   
18-40.   Unlawful to deposit rubbish
   
18-41.   Reserved
   
18-42.   Removal of dead animals
   18-43 through 18-72 reserved
Litter
   
18-73.   Unlawful to litter
   
18-74.   Unlawful to litter from automobiles
   
18-75.   Litter not to accumulate on property
   
18-76.   Abandoned iceboxes, refrigerators
   18-77 through 18-95 reserved
GENERALLY
§§ 18-19 THROUGH 18-39. RESERVED.
RUBBISH
§ 18-40. UNLAWFUL TO DEPOSIT RUBBISH.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, including the operator of a
vehicle, to throw, drop, deposit, or otherwise place any rubbish, trash, slop,
garbage, filthy substance, animal or human waste products, grass, weeds, trees,
brush, or any other refuse or waste matter in any street, avenue, alley, or in
any ditch or watercourse, or upon the premises of another, or upon any public
ground in this city.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
punishable by a fine of not more than $200 and costs.
(Prior Code, § 18-40) (Ord. 796, passed 11-25-1990; Ord. 99-830, passed 8-16-
1999)
§ 18-41. RESERVED.
§ 18-42. REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   The owner or any person having charge of any animal dying in this city
shall, within 24 hours after the death of such animal, remove its carcass, and
failure so to do shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 18-42) (Ord. 796, passed 11-25-1990)
§§ 18-43 THROUGH 18-72. RESERVED.
LITTER
§ 18-73. UNLAWFUL TO LITTER.
   (A)   LITTERING is defined as throwing any trash, refuse, wastepaper, tin
can, bottles, or any other object or substance whatever upon the public
streets, alleys, roadways, and sidewalks of the city, or upon any real property
owned or occupied by another.
   (B)   It is unlawful to litter.
(Prior Code, § 18-73) (Ord. 796, passed 11-25-1990)
§ 18-74. UNLAWFUL TO LITTER FROM AUTOMOBILES.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw from any automobile or motor vehicle
being operated and driven upon and over the streets, alley, and roadways of the
city any litter, trash, wastepaper, tin cans, or other substance or refuse
whatever.
(Prior Code, § 18-74) (Ord. 796, passed 11-25-1990)
§ 18-75. LITTER NOT TO ACCUMULATE ON PROPERTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any owner or any person occupying any real
property, either as tenant or owner, to allow trash, dirt, filth, wastepaper,
garbage, litter objects, bottles, tin cans, or any other used or disposed of
objects to accumulate upon such real property or premises being so occupied or
rented. All property shall be kept free of such accumulations and free from
vermin or rodent infestation.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person occupying any real property, either as
tenant or owner, to allow accumulated trash, filth, wastepaper, garbage, litter
objects, bottles, tin cans, or any other used or disposed of objects to be
carried from the occupied premises, either by the wind, elements, or otherwise
to any adjoining or real estate not so owned or occupied by the offender.
(Prior Code, § 18-75) (Ord. 796, passed 11-25-1990)
§ 18-76. ABANDONED ICEBOXES, REFRIGERATORS.
   It is unlawful for any person to leave in a place accessible to children any
abandoned, unattended, or discarded icebox, refrigerator, or other container
which has an airtight door with a lock or fastening device which cannot be
easily released for opening from the inside of the icebox, refrigerator, or
container, without first removing the door, lock, or fastener.
(Prior Code, § 18-76) (Ord. 796, passed 11-25-1990)
§§ 18-77 THROUGH 18-95. RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: WEEDS AND TRASH
Section
   
18-96.   Definitions
   
18-97.   Legislative intent
   
18-98.   Unlawful to allow weeds or trash on property
   
18-99.   Report to be made
   
18-100.   Notice to owner or persons in possession or control
   
18-101.   Notice content
   
18-102.   Right of entry by city agents for removal of trash, mowing, and the
like; lien on property to recover costs
   
18-103.   Subsequent accumulations of trash and weeds
   
18-104.   City Inspector designated as administrative officer
   
18-105.   Owner may give consent; right of appeal
   
18-106.   Hearing by Council
   
18-107.   Work to be done by city forces or by contract
   
18-108.   Cost to be determined; statement of cost to be sent
   
18-109.   Failure to pay costs
   
18-110.   Agricultural purposes
   18-111 through 18-133 reserved
Statutory reference:
   Removal of weeds and trash on property, see 11 O.S. § 22-111
§ 18-96. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLEANING. The removal of trash from property.
   OWNER. The owner of record, as shown by the most current tax rolls of the
City Treasurer.
   TRASH. Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible
materials, rubbish, offal or waste, or any matter of any kind or form which is
uncared for, discarded, or abandoned.
   WEED.
      (1)   Includes, but is not limited to, poison ivy, poison oak, or poison
sumac, and all vegetation at any state of maturity which:
         (a)   Exceeds 12 inches in height, except healthy trees, shrubs, or
produce for human consumption grown in a tended and cultivated garden unless
such trees and shrubbery, by their density or location, constitute a detriment
to the health, benefit, and welfare of the public and community or a hazard to
the traffic or create a fire hazard to the property or otherwise interfere with
the mowing of said WEEDS;
         (b)   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals, or invites deposits or
accumulations of refuse or trash;
         (c)   Harbors rodents or vermin;
         (d)   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
         (e)   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
         (f)   Is dead or diseased.
      (2)   The term WEED shall not include tended crops on land zoned for
agricultural use which are planted more than 150 feet from a parcel zoned for
other than agricultural use.
(Prior Code, § 18-96) (Ord. 796, passed 11-25-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 22-111(D)
§ 18-97. LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   It is hereby declared the legislative intent of the Council to conform
hereby to the provisions of 11 O.S. § 22-111.
(Prior Code, § 18-97) (Ord. 796, passed 11-25-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Removal of weeds and trash on property, see 11 O.S. § 22-111
§ 18-98. UNLAWFUL TO ALLOW WEEDS OR TRASH ON PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any owner or persons otherwise in possession or control
of property located within the city limits to allow weeds or tall grass to
grow, or trash to accumulate, on said property.
(Prior Code, § 18-98) (Ord. 796, passed 11-25-1990)
§ 18-99. REPORT TO BE MADE.
   Any officer or employee of the city who discovers an accumulation of trash
or the growth of grass and weeds, or both these conditions, upon any premises
within the city limits, shall report such conditions to the City Inspector if
such premises appear to be:
   (A)   Detrimental to the health, benefit, and welfare of the public and
community;
   (B)   A hazard to traffic; or
   (C)   A fire hazard to the danger of property.
(Prior Code, § 18-99) (Ord. 796, passed 11-25-1990)
§ 18-100. NOTICE TO OWNER OR PERSONS IN POSSESSION OR CONTROL.
   (A)   At least ten days’ notice shall be given to the owner and/or person in
possession or control of the property by certified mail with return receipt
requested at the address shown by the current year’s tax rolls in the County
Treasurer’s office before the City Council holds a hearing or takes action.
   (B)   If the property owner cannot be located, as shown by the return
receipt, or if the return receipt is not returned within ten days from the date
of mailing by the City Council, notice may be given by posting a copy of the
notice on the property or by publication in a local newspaper which has an
office in the city and is of general circulation in the city.
(Prior Code, § 18-100) (Ord. 796, passed 11-25-1990)
§ 18-101. NOTICE CONTENT.
   The notice to the owner and/or person in possession or control of the
property shall contain:
   (A)   An order to clean the property of trash, or to cut or mow the weeds or
grass on the property, and said notice shall further state that unless such
work is performed within ten days after receipt of the notice, the work shall
be done by the city; and a notice of lien shall be filed with the County Clerk
against the property for the costs due and owing to the city;
   (B)   The owner and/or person in possession or control has the right of
appeal to the City Council and that such appeal shall be taken by filing a
written notice of appeal with the City Clerk within ten days after receipt of
the notice;
   (C)   The owner and/or person in possession or control may give written
consent to the city authorizing the removal of the trash or the mowing of the
weeds or grass; and that by giving said written consent, he or she waives his
or her right to a hearing by the City Council and agrees to pay the costs for
the work done; and
   (D)   If the city abates the nuisance, then any accumulation of trash or
excessive weed or grass growth on the property occurring within six months
after the removal of trash or cutting or mowing of weeds or grass on the
property pursuant to such notice may be summarily abated by the city; and the
costs of such abatement shall be assessed against the owner; and a lien may be
imposed on the property to secure such payment, all without further prior
notice to the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 18-101) (Ord. 796, passed 11-25-1990)
§ 18-102. RIGHT OF ENTRY BY CITY AGENTS FOR REMOVAL OF TRASH, MOWING, AND THE
LIKE; LIEN ON PROPERTY TO RECOVER COSTS.
   (A)   Upon a finding that the condition of the property constitutes a
detriment or hazard, and that the property would be benefitted by the removal
of such conditions, the agents of the city are granted the right of entry on
the property for the removal of trash, mowing of weeds or grass, and
performance of the necessary duties as a governmental function of the city.
   (B)   Immediately following the cleaning or mowing of the property, the City
Clerk shall file a notice of lien with the County Clerk describing the property
and the work performed by the city, and stating that the city claims a lien on
said property for the cleaning or mowing costs.
(Prior Code, § 18-102) (Ord. 796, passed 11-25-1990)
§ 18-103. SUBSEQUENT ACCUMULATIONS OF TRASH AND WEEDS.
   If the City Council causes property within the city limits to be cleaned of
trash and weeds or grass to be cut or mowed in accordance with §
18-101, any subsequent accumulation of trash or excessive weeds or grass
occurring within a six-month period may be declared to be a nuisance and may be
summarily abated without further prior notice to the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 18-103) (Ord. 796, passed 11-25-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 22-111(A)(1)
§ 18-104. CITY INSPECTOR DESIGNATED AS ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER.
   The City Inspector is hereby designated as the administrative officer and is
to carry out the duties of the City Council in §§
18-98 through
18-103.
(Prior Code, § 18-104) (Ord. 796, passed 11-25-1990)
§ 18-105. OWNER MAY GIVE CONSENT; RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (A)   The owner of the property may give his or her written consent to the
city authorizing the removal of the trash or the mowing of the weeds or grass.
By giving said written consent, the owner waives his or her right to a hearing
by the city.
   (B)   Upon a finding that the condition of the property constitutes a
detriment or hazard, and that the property would be benefitted by the removal
of such conditions, the agents of the city are granted the right of entry on
the property for the removal of trash, mowing of weeds or grass, and
performance of the necessary duties as a governmental function of the city. A
lien shall be initiated as in §
18-102.
(Prior Code, § 18-105) (Ord. 796, passed 11-25-1990)
§ 18-106. HEARING BY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Upon the filing of a written notice of appeal, the City Council shall
hold a public hearing at the next regularly scheduled meeting to determine
whether the accumulation of the trash or the growth of weeds or grass has
caused the property to become detrimental to the health, benefit, and welfare
of the public and the community or a hazard to traffic, or creates a fire
hazard to the danger of property.
   (B)   Upon a finding that the condition of the property constitutes a
detriment or hazard, and that the property would be benefitted by the removal
of such conditions, the agents of the city are granted the right of entry on
the property for the removal of trash, mowing of weeds or grass, and
performance of the necessary duties as a governmental function of the city. A
lien shall be initiated as in §
18-102.
(Prior Code, § 18-106) (Ord. 796, passed 11-25-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 22-111(A)(4)
§ 18-107. WORK TO BE DONE BY CITY FORCES OR BY CONTRACT.
   The work ordered to be performed under §§
18-102 or
18-106 may be done by the employees of the city under the supervision of the
Business Manager, or it may be let by contract to the lowest and best bidder,
after appropriate notice, in the manner for letting other contracts by public
bid.
(Prior Code, § 18-107) (Ord. 796, passed 11-25-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 22-111(A)(5)
§ 18-108. COST TO BE DETERMINED; STATEMENT OF COST TO BE SENT.
   (A)   The City Council shall determine the actual cost of such cleaning and
mowing and any other expenses as may be necessary in connection therewith,
including the cost of notice and mailing. If the cleaning and mowing are done
by the city, the cost to the property owner for said cleaning and mowing shall
not exceed the actual cost of the labor, maintenance, and equipment required.
If the cleaning and mowing are done on a private contract basis, the contract
shall be awarded to the lowest and best bidder.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall forward by mail to the property owner specified
in §
18-100 a statement of such actual cost and demanding payment.
(Prior Code, § 18-108) (Ord. 796, passed 11-25-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 22-111(A)(5)
§ 18-109. FAILURE TO PAY COSTS.
   (A)   If payment is not made within 30 days from the date of the mailing of
the statement, then:
      (1)   Within the next 60 days, the City Clerk shall forward a certified
statement of the amount of the cost to the County Treasurer in which the
property is located;
      (2)   The amount shall be levied on the property and collected by the
County Treasurer as other taxes authorized by law;
      (3)   Until fully paid, the cost and the interest thereon shall be the
personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date the cost is
certified to the County Treasurer;
      (4)   The cost and the interest thereon shall be a lien against the
property from the date the cost is certified to the County Treasurer, coequal
with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes and special assessments
and prior and superior to all other titles and liens against the property;
      (5)   The lien shall continue until the cost is fully paid; and
      (6)   If the City Clerk received payment, the City Clerk shall forward to
the County Treasurer a notice of such payment and direct discharge of the lien.
   (B)   At any time prior to the collection as provided in this section, the
city may pursue any civil remedy for collection of the amount owing and
interest thereon, including an action in personam against the property owner
and an action in rem to foreclose its lien against the property.
   (C)   At the time of collection, the County Treasurer shall collect a fee
which is on file in the City Clerk’s office for each parcel of property. Said
fee shall be deposited to the credit of the General Fund of the county, and the
City Clerk shall forward to the County Treasurer a notice of such payment and
directing discharge of the lien.
   (D)   A mineral interest, if severed from the surface interest and not owed
by the surface owner, shall not be subject to any tax or judgment lien created
pursuant to this section.
(Prior Code, § 18-109) (Ord. 796, passed 11-25-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 22-111(A)(6)
§ 18-110. AGRICULTURAL PURPOSES.
   The provisions of this article shall not apply to any property zoned and
used for agricultural purposes. However, weeds or trash must be removed from
property zoned and used for agricultural purposes pursuant to the provisions of
this article if such weeds or trash pose a hazard to traffic and are located
in, or within ten yards of, the public right-of-way at intersections.
(Prior Code, § 18-110) (Ord. 796, passed 11-25-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 22-111(E)
§§ 18-111 THROUGH 18-133. RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: ABANDONED, JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
18-134.   Abandoned autos as nuisance
   
18-135.   Notice to owner or occupant of the premises
   
18-136.   Public hearing
   
18-137.   No junked vehicle to be reconstructed or made operable
   
18-138.   Notice to Public Safety Department
   
18-139.   Administration and supervision
   
18-140.   Disposal of vehicles
   
18-141.   Orders from Municipal Court
   
18-142.   Immediate removal of vehicle obstructing traffic
   18-143 through 18-167 reserved
Statutory reference:
   Junked, wrecked, abandoned vehicles, see 47 O.S. §§ 901 et seq.
§ 18-134. ABANDONED AUTOS AS NUISANCE.
   (A)   Any abandoned motor vehicle is hereby declared a nuisance and is
prohibited, and is subject to abatement as provided in this article. The term
ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE means any motor vehicle which is self-propelled, and
which is inoperative, and which does not have lawfully affixed thereto both an
unexpired license plate and a valid motor vehicle safety inspection certificate
and which is wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled, or discarded and which
is located in any place where it is visible from a public place or public
right-of-way.
   (B)   However, this article shall not apply to:
      (1)   A vehicle or part thereof which is completely enclosed within a
building in a lawful manner where it is not visible from the street or other
public or private property; or
      (2)   A vehicle or part thereof which is stored or parked in a lawful
manner on private property in connection with the business of a licensed
vehicle dealer or a junkyard.
(Prior Code, § 18-134)
Statutory reference:
   Abandoning vehicles on public property prohibited, see 47 O.S. § 901
   Grounds for removal of vehicles on state highways, see 47 O.S. § 955
   Removal of abandoned vehicles on private property, see 47 O.S. § 954A
§ 18-135. NOTICE TO THE OWNER OR OCCUPANT OF THE PREMISES.
   Prior to removal of an abandoned vehicle by the city, notice shall be given
to the owner or occupant of the premises whereupon such nuisance exists stating
the nature of the public nuisance, giving the owner or occupant ten days in
which to remove or abate the nuisance. Such notice shall be mailed, by
certified or registered mail with a five-day return requested, to the owner or
occupant. If the notice is returned undelivered by a U.S. Postal Service
official, action to abate the nuisance shall be continued to a date not less
than ten days from the date of such return.
(Prior Code, § 18-135)
§ 18-136. PUBLIC HEARING.
   Any owner or occupant of the premises on which the abandoned motor vehicle
is located, after receiving notice to abate in accordance with the provisions
of this article may, within ten days after service of notice to abate the
public nuisance, request a public hearing prior to the removal of the abandoned
vehicle or part thereof declared to be a public nuisance. Such hearing shall be
heard before the Chief of Police. Any order requiring the removal of a vehicle
or part thereof shall include a description of the vehicle and the correct
identification number and license number of the vehicle, if available at the
site.
(Prior Code, § 18-136)
Statutory reference:
   Hearing, see 47 O.S. § 903A
§ 18-137. NO JUNKED VEHICLE TO BE RECONSTRUCTED OR MADE OPERABLE.
   No vehicle removed under the provisions of this article shall be
reconstructed or made operable.
(Prior Code, § 18-137)
§ 18-138. NOTICE TO PUBLIC SAFETY DEPARTMENT.
   Notice shall be given by the Chief of Police to the State Department of
Public Safety within 72 hours of the date of removal identifying the abandoned
vehicle or part thereof. The notice of removal shall contain the name and
address of the owner, if known, the make, model, vehicle identification number,
registration number, date stored, place stored, and the officer’s estimated
value. Upon receipt of such notice of removal, the State Department of Public
Safety must promptly request the State Tax Commission or other appropriate
motor license agent to furnish the name and address of the owner of and any
lienholder on the vehicle and must, within five days from receipt of the
requested information, send a notice to the owner and any lienholder by regular
mail, postage prepaid, at the addresses furnished by the State Tax Commission
or motor license agent, of the vehicle’s location. This section shall not be
construed to create any civil liability upon the state or city, any agency of
the state or city, or employee thereof for failure to provide such notice to
the owner or lienholder.
(Prior Code, § 18-138)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 903
§ 18-139. ADMINISTRATION AND SUPERVISION.
   Administration and supervision of the removal of vehicles or parts thereof
as provided in this article shall be by the Chief of Police of the city, except
that the removal of the abandoned vehicle or part thereof declared to be a
nuisance may be by any other person duly authorized by the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 18-139)
§ 18-140. DISPOSAL OF VEHICLES.
   The Chief of Police shall dispose of junked vehicles or parts thereof by
removal to a scrap yard or demolished as scrap or salvage, but subject to the
provision of § 18-100, the Chief of Police may enter upon private property for
the purposes specified in this article relative to removal of abandoned
vehicles to examine vehicles or parts thereof, obtain information as to the
identity of vehicles, and to remove or cause the removal of a vehicle or parts
thereof declared by the Chief of Police to be a nuisance, pursuant to the
provisions of this article.
(Prior Code, § 18-140)
§ 18-141. ORDERS FROM MUNICIPAL COURT.
   The Judge of the Municipal Court shall have authority to issue all orders
necessary to enforce the provisions of this article.
(Prior Code, § 18-141)
§ 18-142. IMMEDIATE REMOVAL OF VEHICLE OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   Nothing contained in this article shall affect the provisions permitting
immediate removal of a vehicle left on public property which constitutes an
obstruction to traffic.
(Prior Code, § 18-142)
§§ 18-143 THROUGH 18-167. RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: NUISANCES
Section
   
18-168.   Nuisance defined; public nuisances; private nuisances
   
18-169.   Persons responsible
   
18-170.   Time does not legalize
   
18-171.   Remedies against public nuisances
   
18-172.   Remedies against private nuisances
   
18-173.   City has power to define and summarily abate nuisances
   
18-174.   Certain public nuisances in the city defined
   
18-175.   Summary abatement of nuisances
   
18-176.   Abatement by suit in district court
   
18-177.   Nuisance unlawful
   
18-178.   Health nuisances; abatement
   
18-179.   Procedure cumulative
Statutory reference:
   Nuisances, see 50 O.S. §§ 1 et seq.
§ 18-168. NUISANCE DEFINED; PUBLIC NUISANCES; PRIVATE NUISANCES.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (A)   A NUISANCE is unlawfully doing an act, or omitting to perform a duty,
or is any thing or condition which either:
      (1)   Annoys, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or
safety of others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage, any lake or navigable river, stream, canal, or
basin, or any public park, square, street, or other public property; or
      (4)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property.
   (B)   A PUBLIC NUISANCE is one which affects at the same time an entire
community or neighborhood or any considerable number of persons, although the
extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals may be
unequal.
   (C)   Every nuisance not included in subsection (B) above of this section is
a PRIVATE NUISANCE.
(Prior Code, § 18-168)
Statutory reference:
   Power to define, abate nuisances, procedures, see 50 O.S. §§ 1 et seq.
§ 18-169. PERSONS RESPONSIBLE.
   Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing
nuisance upon or in the use of such property, created by a former owner, is
liable therefor in the same manner as the one who first created it.
(Prior Code, § 18-169)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 50 O.S. § 5
§ 18-170. TIME DOES NOT LEGALIZE.
   No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right.
(Prior Code, § 18-170)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 50 O.S. § 7
§ 18-171. REMEDIES AGAINST PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   The remedies against a public nuisance are as follows:
   (A)   Prosecution on complaint before the Municipal Court;
   (B)   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
   (C)   Civil action; or
   (D)   Abatement:
      (1)   By person injured, as provided in 50 O.S. § 12; or
      (2)   By city, in accordance with law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 18-171)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 50 O.S. § 8
§ 18-172. REMEDIES AGAINST PRIVATE NUISANCES.
   The remedies against a private nuisance are:
   (A)   Civil action; and
   (B)   Abatement by person injured, as provided in 50 O.S. §§ 13 and 14; or
by the city, in accordance with law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 18-172)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 50 O.S. § 13
§ 18-173. CITY HAS POWER TO DEFINE AND SUMMARILY ABATE NUISANCES.
   As provided in 50 O.S. § 16, the city has the power to determine what is and
what shall constitute a nuisance within its corporate limits and, for the
protection of the public health, the public parks, and the public water supply,
outside of its corporate limits. Whenever it is practical to do so, the city
has the power summarily to abate any such nuisance after notice to the owner
and an opportunity for him or her to be heard, if this can be done.
(Prior Code, § 18-173)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 50 O.S. § 16
§ 18-174. CERTAIN PUBLIC NUISANCES IN THE CITY DEFINED.
   (A)   In addition to other public nuisances declared by other sections of
this code or law, the following are hereby declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   The sale, or offering for sale, of unwholesome food or drink; or
the keeping of a place where such sales or offerings are made;
      (2)   The sale, offering for sale, or furnishing of intoxicating liquor
in violation of state law or ordinances of the city; or keeping of a place
where intoxicating liquor is sold, offered for sale, or furnished in violation
of the state law or ordinances of the city;
      (3)   The exposure, display, sale, or distribution of obscene pictures,
books, pamphlets, magazines, papers, documents, or objects; or the keeping of a
place where such are exposed, displayed, sold, or distributed;
      (4)   The keeping of a place where persons gamble, whether by cards, slot
machines, punch boards, or otherwise;
      (5)   The keeping of a place where prostitution, illicit sexual
intercourse, or other immoral acts are practiced;
      (6)   The keeping of a place where activities in violation of state law
or ordinance are practiced or carried on;
      (7)   The conduct or holding of public dances in violation of the
ordinances of the city; or the keeping of a place where such dances are held;
      (8)   The public exposure of a person having a contagious disease;
      (9)   The continued making of loud or unusual noises which annoy persons
of ordinary sensibilities; or the keeping of an animal which makes such noises;
      (10)   The operation or use of any electrical apparatus or machine which
materially or unduly interferes with radio or television reception by others;
      (11)   Any use of a street or sidewalk, or a place adjacent thereto,
which causes crowds of people to gather so as to obstruct traffic on such
street or sidewalk, or which otherwise obstructs traffic thereon, except as may
be authorized by law or ordinance;
      (12)   Permitting water or other liquid to flow or fall, or ice or snow
to fall, from any building or structure upon any street or sidewalk;
      (13)   All wells, pools, cisterns, bodies, or containers of water in
which mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, or which are so constructed,
formed, conditioned, or situated as to endanger the public safety;
      (14)   Rank weeds or grass, carcasses, accumulations of manure, refuse,
or other things, which are, or are likely to be, breeding places for flies,
mosquitoes, vermin, or disease germs; and the premises on which such exist;
      (15)   Any building or structure which is dangerous to the public health
or safety because of damage, decay, or other condition;
      (16)   Any pit, hole, or other thing which is so constructed, formed,
conditioned, or situated as to endanger the public safety;
      (17)   Any fire or explosion hazard which endangers the public safety;
      (18)   Any occupation or activity which endangers the public peace,
health, morals, safety, or welfare; and
      (19)   Any motor vehicle (whether in operating condition or not) or any
trailer without a current vehicle plate as required by law for vehicles used on
the public highways, when stored or kept in a residence district.
   (B)   The enumeration of certain public nuisances in subsection (A) above of
this section shall be cumulative and not limit other provisions of law or
ordinances defining public or private nuisances either in more general or more
specific terms.
(Prior Code, § 18-174)
§ 18-175. SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   (A)   Some nuisances are of such nature as to constitute a grave and
immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals, or welfare of one or
more persons or of the public generally. It is recognized that circumstances
may be such as to justify, and even to require, the Mayor or other appropriate
officer or agency of the city government to take immediate and proper action
summarily to abate such nuisances, or to reduce or suspend the danger until
more deliberate action can be taken toward such abatement.
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department, the Chief of Police, the City
Attorney, the Building Inspector, the Electrical Inspector, the Plumbing
Inspector, or any other officer subordinate to the Mayor may submit through or
with the consent of the Mayor to the City Council, a statement as to the
existence of a nuisance as defined by the ordinances of the city or law, and a
request or recommendation that it be abated. The Mayor himself or herself, the
health officer, any Councilmember, or any resident of the city may submit such
a statement and request a recommendation to the City Council.
   (C)   The Council shall determine whether or not the alleged nuisance is a
nuisance in fact. For the purpose of gathering evidence on the subject, the
Council shall have power to subpoena and examine witnesses, books, papers, and
other effects. Before proceeding to abate the nuisance or have it abated, the
Council shall give notice of a hearing on the proposed abatement to the owner
of any property concerned and to any other person alleged or deemed responsible
for or to be causing the nuisance, and an adequate opportunity to be heard, if
such notice and opportunity for a hearing can be given. Such notice to the
owner and other person concerned shall be given in writing by mail or by
service by a police officer if their names and addresses are known; but, if the
names or addresses are not known, and the peace, health, safety, morals, or
welfare of the person or public adversely affected would not be unduly
jeopardized by the necessary delay, a notice of the hearing shall be published
in a paper of general circulation within the city.
   (D)   If the Council finds that a nuisance does in fact exist, it shall
direct the owner or other person responsible for or causing the nuisance to
abate it within a specified time if the peace, health, safety, morals, or
welfare of the person or public adversely affected would not be unduly
jeopardized by the consequent delay. If such peace, health, safety, morals, or
welfare would be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay, or if the owner or
other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance do not abate it within
the specified time, the Council shall direct the Mayor to abate the nuisance or
to have it abated, if summary abatement is practical, as authorized by 50 O.S.
§ 16. The City Clerk shall send a statement of the cost of such summary
abatement to the owner or other person responsible for or causing the nuisance,
as may be just under the circumstances, if their names and addresses are known.
Until paid, such cost shall constitute a debt to the city collectible as other
debts of the city may be collected.
(Prior Code, § 18-175)
§ 18-176. ABATEMENT BY SUIT IN DISTRICT COURT.
   In cases where it is deemed impractical summarily to abate a nuisance, the
city may bring suit in the District Court of the county where the nuisance is
located, as provided in 50 O.S. § 17.
(Prior Code, § 18-176)
§ 18-177. NUISANCE UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person, including, but not limited to, any owner,
lessee, or other person to create or maintain a nuisance within the city or to
permit a nuisance to remain on premises under his or her control within the
city.
(Prior Code, § 18-177)
§ 18-178. HEALTH NUISANCES; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Pursuant to authority granted by 63 O.S. § 1-1011, the health officer
shall have authority to order the owner or occupant of any private premises in
the city to remove from such premises, at his or her own expense, any source of
filth, cause of sickness, condition conducive to the breeding of insects or
rodents that might contribute to the transmission of disease, or any other
condition adversely affecting the public health, within 24 hours, or within
such other time as may be reasonable, and a failure to do so shall constitute
an offense. Such order shall be in writing and may be served personally on the
owner or occupant of the premises, or authorized agent thereof, by the health
officer or by a police officer, or a copy thereof may be left at the last usual
place of abode of the owner, occupant, or agent, if known and within the state.
If the premises are unoccupied and the residence of the owner, occupant, or
agent is unknown, or is without the state, the order may be served by posting a
copy thereof on the premises, or by publication in at least one issue of a
newspaper having a general circulation in the city.
   (B)   If the order is not complied with, the health officer may cause the
order to be executed and complied with, and the cost thereof shall be certified
to the City Clerk, and the cost of removing or abating such nuisance shall be
added to the water bill or other city utility bill of the owner or occupant if
he or she is a user of water from the city water system or such other utility
service. The cost shall be treated as a part of such utility bill to which it
is added, and shall become due and payable, and be subject to the same
regulations relating to delinquency in payment, as the utility bill itself. If
such owner or occupant is not a user of any city utility service, such cost,
after certification to the City Clerk, may be collected in any manner in which
any other debt due the city may be collected.
(Prior Code, § 18-178)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate health nuisances, see 63 O.S. § 1-1011
§ 18-179. PROCEDURE CUMULATIVE.
   The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this article and
by other provisions of law and ordinance shall be cumulative on to any other
penalties or procedures authorized.
(Prior Code, § 18-179)
CHAPTER 19: RESERVED
   [Reserved]
CHAPTER 20: FINANCE AND TAXATION
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   SALES TAX
      
III.   TELEPHONE EXCHANGE TAX
      
IV.   EXCISE TAX
      
V.   HOTEL TAX
      
VI.   PURCHASING POLICY
      
VII.   STABILIZATION RESERVE FUND
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   20-1 through 20-19 reserved
Statutory reference:
   Ad valorem tax code, see 68 O.S. §§ 2801 et seq.
   Authority to levy taxes, see 68 O.S. § 2701
§§ 20-1 THROUGH 20-19. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: SALES TAX
Section
   
20-20.   State Sales Tax Code adopted by reference
   
20-21.   Tax collector defined
   
20-22.   Classification of taxpayers
   
20-23.   Subsisting state permits
   
20-24.   Reserved
   
20-25.   Purpose of revenues
   
20-26.   Tax rate
   
20-27.   Additional 1% sales or excise tax
   
20-28.   Additional tax; Hospital Capital Improvement Fund
   
20-29.   Exemptions; sales subject to other tax
   
20-30.   Tax due when; returns; records
   
20-31.   Tax constitutes debt
   
20-32.   Vendor’s duty to collect tax; penalties
   
20-33.   Returns and remittances; discounts
   
20-34.   Classification of taxpayers
   
20-35.   Interest and penalties; delinquency
   
20-36.   Waiver of interest and penalties
   
20-37.   Erroneous payments; claim for refund
   
20-38.   Fraudulent returns
   
20-39.   Records confidential
   
20-40.   Amendments
   
20-41.   Provisions cumulative
   20-42 through 20-70 reserved
Statutory reference:
   Sales tax authority, see 68 O.S. § 2701(B)
   Sales Tax Code, see 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq.
§ 20-20. STATE SALES TAX CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The State Sales Tax Code, 68 O.S. §§ 1351 et seq. and 68 O.S. §§ 2701 et
seq., is hereby adopted by reference and made part of this article.
(Prior Code, § 20-20)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to levy sales taxes for municipal purposes, see 68 O.S. § 2701
   State Sales Tax Code, see 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq.
§ 20-21. TAX COLLECTOR DEFINED.
   The term TAX COLLECTOR, as used in this article, means the city department
or the state official agency designated according to law or contract, and
authorized by law to administer the collection of the tax levied in this
article.
(Prior Code, § 20-21)
§ 20-22. CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For the purpose of this article, the classification of taxpayers shall be
prescribed by state law for purposes of the State Sales Tax Code.
(Prior Code, § 20-22)
§ 20-23. SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the State Tax
Commission pursuant to the State Sales Tax Code are, for the purpose of this
article, hereby ratified, confirmed, and adopted in lieu of any requirement for
an additional city permit for the same purpose.
(Prior Code, § 20-23)
§ 20-24. RESERVED.
§ 20-25. PURPOSE OF REVENUES.
   It is the purpose of the first and second cent sales tax to provide revenues
to support the functions of the city government.
(Prior Code, § 20-25) (Ord. 776, passed 2-20-1987)
§ 20-26. TAX RATE.
   (A)   There is hereby levied an excise tax of 2% upon the gross proceeds or
gross receipts derived from all sales taxable under the State Sales Tax Code.
   (B)   (1)   Additional 1.25% sales or excise tax; purpose; limited purpose
capital improvement fund for hospital; limited purpose operation and
maintenance fund for hospital.
         (a)   Beginning on November 1, 2004, and continuing thereafter in
perpetuity unless repealed by the voters, there is hereby declared and shall be
levied and collected, an additional city excise (sales) tax of 1.25%, such
sales tax being in addition to the city and state sales taxes heretofore levied
or assessed, upon the gross proceeds or receipts derived from all sales to any
person taxable under the sales tax laws for the state.
         (b)   The receipts from such sales tax shall be initially deposited
into a limited purpose fund to be known as the “Hospital Capital Improvement
Fund,” to be held on behalf of the Alva Hospital Authority (the “Authority”),
and to be accumulated, earmarked, used, and expended by the authority only for
the purposes set out in subsection (B)(2) below.
         (c)   The receipts from such “excess” sales tax shall be initially
deposited into a limited purpose fund to be known as the “Hospital Operation
and Maintenance Fund,” to be held on behalf of the Authority, and to be
accumulated, earmarked, used, and expended by the Authority only for the
purposes set out in subsection (B)(2) below.
      (2)   Purpose of revenues.
         (a)   It is the purpose of the 1.25% municipal sales tax levied
hereunder to make capital improvements to the Share Memorial Hospital (the
“Hospital”), which is operated by the Alva Hospital Authority (the
“Authority”). Such capital improvements shall include, but not be limited to,
the following:
            1.   Construction, renovation, and expansion of the current
hospital’s facilities;
            2.   Major renovation of existing hospital space and relocation of
support service departments as deemed necessary and required by the authority;
and
            3.   Demolition and reconstruction of areas of the hospital that
are hazardous and dangerous to patients and staff, as deemed reasonable and
necessary by the authority.
         (b)   The Authority may determine to issue its bonds, notes, or other
evidences of indebtedness in order to provide lump sum funding of the capital
improvements authorized hereunder, and use the proceeds of the sales tax levied
hereunder to pay debt service on such indebtedness, subject to city approval as
may be required by law.
         (c)   The proceeds of the tax and investment income therefrom may be
used to pay the costs of such capital improvements as they are made, or to pay
debt service on any tax anticipation notes, or other notes, bonds, obligations,
or evidences of indebtedness issued by the city or the Authority to finance
such capital improvements to said hospital.
         (d)   A special, limited purpose fund, to be known as the “Hospital
Capital Improvement Fund,” is hereby established and shall be used solely for
the purposes of receiving the revenues derived from collection of the 1.25%
sales tax imposed hereunder, receiving income from investment of said fund,
paying indebtedness on any tax anticipation notes or bonds, notes, or other
indebtedness issued by the city or the authority to finance capital
improvements to the hospital, and paying for the hospital capital improvements
specified in this section.
         (e)   A special, limited purpose fund, to be known as the “Hospital
Operation and Maintenance Fund,” is hereby established and shall be used solely
for the purposes of receiving the excess revenues derived from collection of
the 1.25% sales tax imposed hereunder, receiving income from investment of said
fund and paying operation and maintenance expenses of the hospital. For this
purpose, the term EXCESS would be defined as any sales tax revenues remaining
following the monthly payment of principal and interest on the currently
outstanding indebtedness of the Authority and any future obligations issued on
a parity basis therewith and the replenishment of the Debt Service Reserve Fund
to the Debt Service Reserve Requirement of the currently outstanding
indebtedness of the Authority and any future obligations issued on a parity
basis therewith.
(Prior Code, § 20-26) (Ord. 767, passed 7-1-1985; Ord. 2013-040, passed 8-5-
2013)
§ 20-27. ADDITIONAL SALES TAX; ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   Additional 1% sales or excise tax.
      (1)   Beginning on June 1, 1999, and continuing thereafter until lawfully
repealed, there is hereby declared and shall be levied and collected an
additional city excise (sales) tax of 1%, such sales tax being in addition to
the city and state sales taxes heretofore levied or assessed, upon the gross
proceeds or receipts derived from all sales to any person taxable under the
sales tax laws for the state.
      (2)   The receipts from such additional sales tax shall be initially
deposited into a limited purpose fund to be known as the “Economic Development
Fund,” to be held in the name of the Alva Economic Development Authority (the
“Authority”), and to be accumulated, earmarked, used, and expended by the
authority only for the purposes set out in subsection (B) below of this
section.
   (B)   Purpose of revenues. It is the purpose of the one cent municipal sales
tax levied hereunder to promote economic development within the city, and areas
immediately adjacent thereto, in order to maintain or improve economic
conditions within the city; and to the extent not reasonably needed for
economic development purposes, as determined by the Authority with approval of
the City Council, to support the general functions of the city government.
Specifically, said one cent of additional municipal sales tax shall be utilized
and expended for the following purposes, and in the manner hereinafter
provided.
      (1)   A special, limited purpose fund, to be known as the “Economic
Development Fund,” is hereby established and shall be used solely for the
purposes of receiving the revenues derived from collection of the additional 1%
sales tax imposed hereunder, receiving income from investment of said fund,
paying the costs of the economic development programs herein described or
subsequently developed and implemented by the authority with the approval of
the city, paying indebtedness on any bonds, notes, or other indebtedness issued
by the city or the authority to finance the programs herein described, and to
otherwise be transferred to the city to finance its general operations and
functions.
      (2)   The authority shall develop a plan for one or more projects to
promote economic development within the city. Such economic development plan,
and any amendments or revisions thereto, shall be presented to and approved by
a majority vote of the City Council prior to its implementation. Any such
economic development plan shall promote the growth or maintenance of the
economy within the city, and may include, but not be limited to, such items as:
         (a)   Funding of scholarships to Northwestern Oklahoma State
University students in the city;
         (b)   The development, operation, and maintenance of an adequate
system of parks and recreational facilities within the city;
         (c)   Recruitment of new industries to, or the retention of existing
industries within or near the city; and
         (d)   Such other projects as determined by the Authority, with the
approval of the city, which will promote the overall economic health and
financial well being of the city and its residents.
      (3)   The authority may determine to issue its bonds, notes, or other
evidences of indebtedness in order to provide lump sum funding of one or more
programs hereunder, and use the proceeds of the sales tax levied hereunder to
pay debt service on such indebtedness, subject to city approval as required by
law.
      (4)   In the event the authority determines that all of the proceeds of
the one cent sales tax levied hereunder are not required for the economic
development purposes above described, the Authority shall make a recommendation
to the City Council that any amounts determined not to be needed for such
purposes be transferred from the Economic Development Fund to the General Fund
of the city, and upon approval by the City Council, such excess or surplus
amounts shall be transferred to the city’s General Fund and used for any lawful
purpose.
(Prior Code, § 20-27) (Ord. 827, passed 3-1-1999)
§ 20-28. ADDITIONAL TAX; HOSPITAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Additional 1.25% sales or excise tax; purpose; limited purpose capital
improvement fund for hospital.
      (1)   Beginning on November 1, 2004, and continuing thereafter until a
date that is 30 days after any bonds or notes issued to finance the capital
improvements specified in this section have been fully paid and retired, or
provisions made for retirement, whichever date is first to occur, there is
hereby declared, and shall be levied and collected, an additional city excise
(sales) tax of 1.25%, such sales tax being in addition to the city and state
sales taxes heretofore levied or assessed, upon the gross proceeds or receipts
derived from all sales to any person taxable under the sales tax laws for the
state.
      (2)   The receipts from such additional sales tax shall be initially
deposited into a limited purpose fund to be known as the “Hospital Capital
Improvement Fund,” to be held on behalf of the Alva Hospital Authority (the
“Authority”), and to be accumulated, earmarked, used, and expended by the
Authority only for the purposes set out in subsection (B) below of this
section.
   (B)   Purpose of revenues.
      (1)   It is the purpose of the 1.25% municipal sales tax levied hereunder
to make capital improvements to the Share Memorial Hospital (the “hospital”),
which is operated by the Alva Hospital Authority (the “authority”). Such
capital improvements shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
construction, renovation, and expansion of the current hospital’s facilities;
major renovation of existing hospital space and relocation of support service
departments as deemed necessary and required by the authority; and demolition
and reconstruction of areas of the hospital that are hazardous and dangerous to
patients and staff, as deemed reasonable and necessary by the Authority.
      (2)   The authority may determine to issue its bonds, notes, or other
evidences of indebtedness in order to provide lump sum funding of the capital
improvements authorized hereunder, and use the proceeds of the sales tax levied
hereunder to pay debt service on such indebtedness, subject to city approval as
may be required by law.
      (3)   The proceeds of the tax, and investment income therefrom, may be
used to pay the costs of such capital improvements as they are made, or to pay
debt service on any tax anticipation notes, or other notes, bonds, obligations,
or evidences of indebtedness issued by the city or the authority to finance
such capital improvements to said hospital.
      (4)   A special, limited purpose fund, to be known as the “Hospital
Capital Improvement Fund,” is hereby established and shall be used solely for
the purposes of receiving the revenues derived from collection of the
additional 1.25% sales tax imposed hereunder, receiving income from investment
of said fund, paying indebtedness on any tax anticipation notes or bonds,
notes, or other indebtedness issued by the city or the Authority to finance
capital improvements to the hospital, and paying for the hospital capital
improvements specified in this section.
(Prior Code, § 20-28) (Ord. 2004-853, passed 6-23-2004)
§ 20-29. EXEMPTIONS; SALES SUBJECT TO OTHER TAX.
   There is hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this article
the gross receipts or gross proceeds exempted from the State Sales Tax Code,
inclusive, but not exclusive of, and derived from the:
   (A)   Sale of low-point beer on which the tax levied by state law has been
paid;
   (B)   Sale of cigarettes and such tobacco products on which the tax levied
by state law has been paid;
   (C)   Sale of gasoline or motor fuel on which the motor fuel tax, gasoline
excise tax, or special fuels tax levied by state law has been paid;
   (D)   Sale of motor vehicles or any optional equipment or accessories
attached to motor vehicles on which the state motor vehicle excise tax levied
by state law has been paid; and
   (E)   Sale of crude petroleum or natural or casinghead gas and other
products subject to gross production tax under state law. This exemption shall
not apply when such products are sold to consumer or user for consumption or
use, except when used for injection into the earth for the purpose of promoting
or facilitating the production of oil or gas. This subsection (E) shall not
operate to increase or repeal the gross production tax levied by the laws of
this state.
(Prior Code, § 20-29) (Ord. 742, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 20-30. TAX DUE WHEN; RETURNS; RECORDS.
   The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the state sales tax under the State
Sales Tax Code.
(Prior Code, § 20-30) (Ord. 742, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 20-31. TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT.
   The taxes, penalty, and interest due under this article shall at all times
constitute a prior, superior, and paramount claim as against the claims of
unsecured creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(Prior Code, § 20-31) (Ord. 742, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 20-32. VENDOR’S DUTY TO COLLECT TAX; PENALTIES.
   (A)   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor. It shall be the duty of each and every vendor in this city to collect
from the consumer or user the full amount of the tax levied by this article, or
an amount equal as nearly as possible or practicable to the average equivalent
thereof.
   (B)   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge, and when added, such tax shall
constitute a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or
user to vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in the same manner
as other debts.
   (C)   A vendor, as defined hereunder, who willfully or intentionally fails,
neglects, or refuses to collect the full amount of the tax levied by this
article, or willfully or intentionally fails, neglects, or refuses to comply
with the provisions or remits or rebates to a consumer or user, either directly
or indirectly, and by whatsoever means, all or any part of the tax herein
levied, or makes in any form of advertising, verbally or otherwise, any
statement which infers that he or she is absorbing the tax, or paying the tax
for the consumer or user by an adjustment of prices or at a price including the
tax, or in any manner whatsoever, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in §
1-14.
   (D)   Any sum collected or required to be collected in accordance with this
article shall be deemed to be held in trust for the city. Any person that
willfully or intentionally fails, neglects, or refuses to collect the sums
required to be collected or paid shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in §
1-14.
(Prior Code, § 20-32) (Ord. 742, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 20-33. RETURNS AND REMITTANCES; DISCOUNTS.
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the tax collector at the time and in the manner, form, and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances of tax collected hereunder and shall be
subject to the same discount as may be allowed by the State Sales Tax Code for
the collection of state sales taxes.
(Prior Code, § 20-33) (Ord. 742, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 20-34. CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   Vendors shall be classified in the manner provided for the classification of
taxpayers in the State Sales Tax Code.
(Prior Code, § 20-34) (Ord. 742, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 20-35. INTEREST AND PENALTIES; DELINQUENCY.
   The state law, 68 O.S. § 217, is hereby adopted and made a part of this
article, and interest and penalties at the rates and in amounts as therein
specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in
reporting and paying the tax levied by this article. The failure or refusal of
any taxpayer to make and transmit the reports and remittances of tax in the
time and manner required by this article shall cause such tax to be delinquent.
In addition, if the delinquency continues for a period of five days, the
taxpayer shall forfeit his or her claim to any discount allowed under this
article.
(Prior Code, § 20-35) (Ord. 742, passed 9-17-1979)
Statutory reference:
   Interest and penalties, see 68 O.S. § 217
§ 20-36. WAIVER OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by reason of a
taxpayer’s failure to pay the city tax herein levied may be waived or remitted
in the same manner as provided for the waiver or as applied in administration
of the state sales tax provided in 68 O.S. § 220. To accomplish the purposes of
this section, the applicable provisions of 68 O.S. § 220 are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this article.
(Prior Code, § 20-36) (Ord. 742, passed 9-17-1979)
Statutory reference:
   Waiver or remission of interest or penalties, see 68 O.S. § 220
§ 20-37. ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND.
   Refund of erroneous payment of the city sales tax herein levied may be made
to any taxpayer making the erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for the administration of
the state sales tax as set forth in 68 O.S. § 227. To accomplish the purpose of
this section, the applicable provisions of 68 O.S. § 227 are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this article.
(Prior Code, § 20-37) (Ord. 742, passed 9-17-1979)
Statutory reference:
   Erroneous payments, see 68 O.S. § 227
§ 20-38. FRAUDULENT RETURNS.
   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this article, the failure or
refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein required, or the
making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or
escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under this
article shall be an offense, and upon conviction thereof, the offending
taxpayer shall be subject to a fine as provided in § 1-14.
(Prior Code, § 20-38) (Ord. 742, passed 9-17-1979)
Statutory reference:
   False or fraudulent returns, see 68 O.S. § 241
§ 20-39. RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the city sales tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same the provisions of the State Sales Tax Code,
68 O.S. §§ 101 et seq. and 205, and each subsection thereof, are hereby adopted
by reference and made fully effective and applicable to administration of the
city sales tax as if here set forth in full.
(Prior Code, § 20-39) (Ord. 742, passed 9-17-1979)
Statutory reference:
   Records and files confidential, see 68 O.S. § 205
§ 20-40. AMENDMENTS.
   The people of the city, by their approval of the sales tax ordinance, hereby
authorize the City Council, by ordinance duly enacted, to make such
administrative and technical changes or additions in the method and manner of
administering and enforcing this article as may be necessary or proper for
efficiency and fairness. Neither the rate of the tax herein provided nor the
use to which the revenue is put shall be changed without approval of the
qualified electors of the city as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 20-40) (Ord. 742, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 20-41. PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions of this article shall be cumulative and in addition to any or
all other taxing provisions of city ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 20-41) (Ord. 742, passed 9-17-1979)
§§ 20-42 THROUGH 20-70. RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: TELEPHONE EXCHANGE TAX
Section
   
20-71.   Telephone exchange fee
   
20-72.   Fee to be in lieu of other fee
   20-73 through 20-102 reserved
Statutory reference:
   Utility tax, see 68 O.S. § 2601
§ 20-71. TELEPHONE EXCHANGE FEE.
   There is hereby levied an annual inspection fee and service charge upon each
and every person operating a telephone exchange in the city in an amount equal
to 2% of the gross revenue for each current year for exchange telephone
transmission service rendered owners within the limits of the city to
compensate the city for the expenses incurred for service rendered incident to
the exercise of its police power, supervision, police regulation, and police
control of the construction of the lines and equipment of the telephone company
in the city. The inspection fee and charge shall be due and payable to the city
on or before July 1 of each year, and shall be paid into and appropriated and
expended for the General Revenue Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 20-71)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to levy utility taxes, see 68 O.S. §§ 2601 et seq.
§ 20-72. FEE TO BE IN LIEU OF OTHER FEE.
   During continued substantial compliance with the terms of this article by
the owner of any telephone exchange, the charge levied hereby shall be and
continue to be in lieu of all concessions, charges, excise, franchise, license,
privilege, and permit fees or taxes of assessments, except ad valorem taxes.
However, it is not intended hereby to extinguish or abrogate any existing
arrangement whereby the city is permitted to use underground conduits, duct
spaces, or pole contracts of the company for the fire alarm and police call
system of the city.
(Prior Code, § 20-72)
§§ 20-73 THROUGH 20-102. RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: EXCISE TAX
Section
   
20-103.   Levied on storage, use, or other consumption of tangible, personal
property levied
   
20-104.   State law adopted
   
20-105.   Tax collector defined
   
20-106.   Classification of taxpayers
   
20-107.   Subsisting state permits
   
20-108.   Purposes of revenues
   
20-109.   Time when returns and payments due
   
20-110.   Tax constitutes debt
   
20-111.   Interest and penalties; delinquency
   
20-112.   Waiver of interest and penalties
   
20-113.   Erroneous payments; claim for refund
   
20-114.   Fraudulent returns
   
20-115.   Records confidential
   
20-116.   Provisions cumulative
   20-117 through 20-145 reserved
Statutory reference:
   Excise tax, see 68 O.S. §§ 1401 et seq.
§ 20-103. LEVIED ON STORAGE, USE, OR OTHER CONSUMPTION OF TANGIBLE, PERSONAL
PROPERTY LEVIED.
   There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by every person storing,
using, or otherwise consuming within the municipality tangible, personal
property purchased or brought into this municipality, an excise tax on the
storage, use, or other consuming within the municipality of such property at
the rate of 4.25% of the purchase price of such property. Such tax shall be
paid by every person storing, using, or otherwise consuming, within the
municipality, tangible, personal property purchased or brought into the
municipality. The additional tax levied hereunder shall be paid at the time of
importation or storage of the property within the municipality and shall be
assessed to only property purchased outside the state; provided, that the tax
levied herein shall not be levied against tangible, personal property intended
solely for use outside the municipality, but which is stored in the
municipality pending shipment outside the municipality or which is temporarily
retained in the municipality for the purpose of fabrication, repair, testing,
alteration, maintenance, or other service. Any person liable for payment of the
tax authorized herein may deduct from such tax any local or municipal sales tax
previously paid on such goods or services; provided, that the amount deducted
shall not exceed the amount that would have been due if the taxes imposed by
the municipality had been levied on the sale of such goods or services.
(Prior Code, § 20-103) (Ord. 813, passed 3-1-1996; Ord. 99-829, passed 6-7-
1999; Ord. 2006-03, passed 9-4-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 68 O.S. § 1402
§ 20-104. STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   The provisions in 68 O.S. §§ 1400 et seq. are hereby adopted by reference.
(Prior Code, § 20-104) (Ord. 813, passed 3-1-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Tax exemptions, see 68 O.S. § 1401 et seq.
§ 20-105. TAX COLLECTOR DEFINED.
   The term TAX COLLECTOR, as used herein, means the department of the city or
the official agency of the state duly designated according to law or contract
authorized by law, to administer the collection of the tax herein levied.
(Prior Code, § 20-105) (Ord. 813, passed 3-1-1996)
§ 20-106. CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For the purpose of this article, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the State Use Tax Code, 68
O.S. §§ 1401 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 20-106) (Ord. 813, passed 3-1-1996)
§ 20-107. SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the State Tax
Commission pursuant to the State Use Tax Code are, for the purpose of this
article, hereby ratified, confirmed, and adopted in lieu of any requirement for
an additional municipality permit for the same purpose.
(Prior Code, § 20-107) (Ord. 813, passed 3-1-1996)
§ 20-108. PURPOSES OF REVENUES.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this article to provide revenues
for the support of the functions of the City Council, and any and all revenues
derived hereunder may be expended by the governing body of the municipality for
any purpose for which funds may be lawfully expended as authorized.
(Prior Code, § 20-108) (Ord. 813, passed 3-1-1996)
§ 20-109. TIME WHEN RETURNS AND PAYMENTS DUE.
   The tax levied by this article is due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the state use tax under the Use Tax
Code of the state.
(Prior Code, § 20-109) (Ord. 813, passed 3-1-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Due dates, returns, payment, see 68 O.S. § 1405
§ 20-110. TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT.
   Such taxes, penalty, and interest due hereunder shall at all times
constitute a prior, superior, and paramount claim as against the claims of
unsecured creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(Prior Code, § 20-110) (Ord. 813, passed 3-1-1996)
§ 20-111. INTEREST AND PENALTIES; DELINQUENCY.
   The provisions of 68 O.S. § 217 are hereby adopted and made a part of this
article, and interest and penalties at the rates and in the amounts as therein
specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in
reporting and paying the tax levied by this article. Provided, that the failure
or refusal of any retailer or vendor to make and transmit the reports and
remittances of tax in the time and manner required by this article shall cause
such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if such delinquency continues for a
period of five days, the retailer or vendor shall forfeit his or her claim to
any discount allowed under this article.
(Prior Code, § 20-111) (Ord. 813, passed 3-1-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Penalties and interest, see 68 O.S. § 217
§ 20-112. WAIVER OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by reason of a
retailer’s or vendor’s failure to pay the city the tax herein levied may be
waived or remitted in the same manner as provided for said waiver or remittance
as applied in administration of the state use tax provided in 68 O.S. § 227,
and to accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions of 68
O.S. § 220 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article.
(Prior Code, § 20-112) (Ord. 813, passed 3-1-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Interest or penalty waiver or remission, see 68 O.S. § 220
§ 20-113. ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND.
   Refund of erroneous payment of the city use tax herein levied may be made to
any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
state use tax as set forth in 68 O.S. § 227, and to accomplish the purpose of
this section, the applicable provisions of 68 O.S. § 227 are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this article.
(Prior Code, § 20-113) (Ord. 813, passed 3-1-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Payment errors, claims, hearings, see 68 O.S. § 227
§ 20-114. FRAUDULENT RETURNS.
   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this article, the willful
failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein
required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of
avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under
this article shall be an offense, and upon conviction thereof, the offending
taxpayer shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100 and costs. Each day
of noncompliance with this article shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 20-114) (Ord. 813, passed 3-1-1996)
Statutory reference:
   False or fraudulent returns, see 68 O.S. § 241
§ 20-115. RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the city use tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 O.S. § 205 are hereby
adopted by reference and made fully effective and applicable to administration
of the municipal use tax as if herein set forth in full.
(Prior Code, § 20-115) (Ord. 813, passed 3-1-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Records and files confidential, see 68 O.S. § 205
§ 20-116. PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions hereof shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and all
other taxing provisions of the municipality ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 20-116) (Ord. 813, passed 3-1-1996)
§§ 20-117 THROUGH 20-145. RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: HOTEL TAX
Section
   
20-146.   Definitions
   
20-147.   Tax rate
   
20-148.   Exemptions
   
20-149.   Tax to be separately designated on bills
   
20-150.   Operator responsible for collection
   
20-151.   Records to be kept
   
20-152.   Returns
   
20-153.   Payment of tax
   
20-154.   Bond required
   
20-155.   Assessment and determination of tax
   
20-156.   Refunds
   
20-157.   Notice
   
20-158.   Remedies exclusive
   
20-159.   General powers of the Director
   
20-160.   Administration of oaths and compelling testimony
   
20-161.   Certificates of registration
   
20-162.   Delinquent taxes
   
20-163.   Interest and penalties
   
20-164.   Use of funds
   
20-165.   Tourism and Convention Development Committee
   
20-166.   Records confidential
   
20-167.   Fraudulent returns
   
20-168.   Amendments
   
20-169.   Provisions cumulative
   
20-170.   Collection fee
   
20-171.   Provision for nullification and discharge
   20-172 through 20-199 reserved
Statutory reference:
   Lodging tax, see 68 O.S. § 1370.9
§ 20-146. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMITTEE. The Alva Tourism and Convention Development Committee.
   DIRECTOR. The City Clerk or a duly authorized agent of the City Clerk.
   HOTEL. Any building, structure, trailer, or other facility in which the
public may, for consideration, obtain sleeping accommodations in which three or
more rooms are used for the accommodation of guests whether such rooms are in
one or several structures. The term shall include hotels, apartment hotels,
motels, tourist homes, bed and breakfast inns, houses or courts, lodging
houses, inns, rooming houses, trailer houses, trailer motels, dormitory space
where bed space is rented to individuals or groups, apartments not occupied by
permanent residents, and all other facilities where rooms or sleeping
facilities or spaces are furnished for a consideration. The term shall not
include hospitals, sanitariums, or nursing homes.
   OCCUPANCY. The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of
any room in a hotel, or the right to the use or possession of the furnishings
or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use and possession of
the room.
   OCCUPANT. A person who, for a consideration, uses, possesses, or has the
right to the use or possession of any room in a hotel, under any lease,
concession, permit, right to access, license to use, or other agreement.
   OPERATOR. A person or legal entity operating a hotel in this city,
including, but not limited to, the owner, proprietor, lessee, sublessee,
mortgagee in possession, court-appointed receiver, trustee in bankruptcy,
licensee, or any other person otherwise operating such hotel.
   PERMANENT RESIDENT. Any occupant who, during the current term of occupancy,
occupies or has the right of occupancy of any room in a hotel for 30 or more
consecutive days.
   RENT. Any consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, and
property or services of any kind or nature, and also any amount for which
credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction
therefrom whatsoever.
   ROOM. Any room of any kind in any part or portion of a hotel which is
available for or let out for use or possessed for any purpose other than a
place of assembly. As used herein, the term PLACE OF ASSEMBLY means a room or
space which is legally capable under the code of the city of being occupied by
75 or more persons and which is used for educational, recreational, or
amusement purposes and shall include: dance halls, cabarets, nightclubs,
restaurants, any room or space for public or private banquets, feasts, social
card parties, or weddings, lodge and meeting hall, or rooms, skating rinks,
gymnasiums, swimming pools, billiard, bowling and table tennis rooms, halls or
rooms used for public or private catering purposes, funeral parlors, markets,
recreational rooms, concert halls, broadcasting studios, and all other places
of similar type of occupancy.
   TAX. The tax levied pursuant to this article.
(Prior Code, § 20-146) (Ord. 2000-835, passed 8-21-2000)
§ 20-147. TAX RATE.
   There is hereby levied an excise tax of 5% upon the gross proceeds or gross
receipts derived from all rent for every occupancy of a room in a hotel in this
city, except that the tax shall not be imposed where the rent is less than the
rate in the amount on file in the City Clerk’s office per day.
(Prior Code, § 20-147) (Ord. 2000-835, passed 8-21-2000)
§ 20-148. EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The following guests shall be exempt from the tax levied in this
article:
      (1)   Permanent residents as defined in this article;
      (2)   Representatives of the United States government or any agency or
division thereof while on official business; and
      (3)   Representatives of the state or any political subdivision thereof
while on official business.
   (B)   Every operator shall document the basis for which exemptions are made
pursuant to this section on a form provided by the Director or, if no form is
provided, in sufficient detail as to be verified by audit by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 20-148) (Ord. 2000-835, passed 8-21-2000)
§ 20-149. TAX TO BE SEPARATELY DESIGNATED ON BILLS.
   The operator shall separately designate, charge, and show the tax on all
bills, statements, receipts, or any other evidence of charges or payment of
rent for occupancy issued or delivered by the operator.
(Prior Code, § 20-149) (Ord. 2000-835, passed 8-21-2000)
§ 20-150. OPERATOR RESPONSIBLE FOR COLLECTION.
   The tax levied by this article shall be paid by the occupant to the
operator, whether person, firm, or corporation, as trustee for and on account
of the city. Each and every operator, whether person, firm, or corporation, in
this city shall collect from the occupant a full amount of the tax levied by
this article. Every person required to collect any tax imposed by this article,
and in the case of a corporation, each principal officer thereof shall be
personally liable for said tax. The operator shall report the same to the
Director on required forms or returns.
(Prior Code, § 20-150) (Ord. 2000-835, passed 8-21-2000)
§ 20-151. RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   Every operator shall keep records of every occupancy and of all rent paid,
charged, or due thereon and of the tax payable thereon in such form as the
Director may by regulations require. Such records shall be available for
inspection and examination at any time upon demand by the Director, or a duly
authorized agent or employee of the city, and shall be preserved for a period
of not less than three years.
(Prior Code, § 20-151) (Ord. 2000-835, passed 8-21-2000)
§ 20-152. RETURNS.
   (A)   Every operator shall file with the Director a return of occupancy and
of rents and of the taxes payable thereon within 30 days from the periods
ending March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31 of each year from the
effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived. If the
payment date falls on a date upon which the office of the City Clerk is closed,
the payment period shall run to the next regular business day the office of the
City Clerk is open for business.
   (B)   The Director may permit or require returns to be made by shorter or
longer periods and upon such dates as he or she may specify. The form of return
shall be prescribed by the Director and shall contain such information as he or
she may deem necessary for the proper administration of this article. The
Director may require amended returns to be filed within 20 days after notice
and to contain the information specified in the notice.
(Prior Code, § 20-152) (Ord. 2000-835, passed 8-21-2000)
§ 20-153. PAYMENT OF TAX.
   At the time of filing a return of occupancy and of rents, each operator
shall pay to the Director the taxes imposed by this article upon the rents
included in such return, as well as all other moneys collected by the operator
acting or purporting the act under the provisions of this article. All the
taxes for the period for which a return is required to be filed shall be due
from the operator and payable to the Director on or before the date fixed for
the filing of the return for such period without regard to whether a return is
filed or whether the return which is filed correctly shows the amount of rent
and taxes due thereon.
(Prior Code, § 20-153) (Ord. 2000-835, passed 8-21-2000)
§ 20-154. BOND REQUIRED.
   When the Director believes that any operator is about to cease business,
leave the state, or remove or dissipate assets, or for any other similar
reason, the Director deems it necessary in order to protect revenues under this
article, the Director may require such operator to file with the city a bond
issued by a surety company authorized to transact business in this state in
such amount as the Director may fix to secure the payment of any tax or
penalties and interest due, or which may become due from such operator. In the
event that the Director determines that an operator is to file such bond,
notice shall be given to such operator specifying the amount of bond required.
The operator shall file such bond within five days after the delivery or
mailing of such notice unless, within such five days, the operator shall
request in writing a hearing before the City Council or its designee, at which
time, the propriety and amount of the bond shall be determined by the City
Council or its designee. Such determination shall be final and shall be
complied with within 15 days thereafter. In lieu of such bond, securities
approved by the Director, or cash in such amount as he or she may prescribe,
may be deposited with the Director. The Director may at any time, after five
days’ notice to the operator, apply the bond, cash, or other security to any
tax and/or any penalties due, and for that purpose, the securities may be sold
at private or public sale.
(Prior Code, § 20-154) (Ord. 2000-835, passed 8-21-2000)
§ 20-155. ASSESSMENT AND DETERMINATION OF TAX.
   If a return required by this article is not filed, or if a return, when
filed, is incorrect or insufficient, the amount of tax due shall be assessed by
the Director from such information as may be obtainable and, if necessary, the
tax may be estimated on the basis of external indices, such as number of rooms,
location, scale of rents, comparable rents, types of accommodations and
services, number of employees, or other factors. Written notice of such
assessment shall be given to the person liable for the collection and payment
of the tax. Such assessment shall finally and irrevocably fix and determine the
tax unless the person or entity against whom it is assessed, within 30 days
after the giving of notice of such assessment, shall apply in writing to the
City Council or its designee for a hearing, or unless the Director, on his or
her own motion, shall reassess the same. After such hearing, the City Council
or its designee shall give written notice of its determination to the person or
entity against whom the tax is assessed, and such determination shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 20-155) (Ord. 2000-835, passed 8-21-2000)
§ 20-156. REFUNDS.
   (A)   Procedure. The Director shall refund or credit any tax erroneously
collected if written application to the Director for such refund shall be made
within two years from the date of payment thereof. For like causes, and in the
same period, a refund may be so made upon the initiative and the order of the
Director. Whenever a refund is made, the reasons therefor shall be stated in
writing. Such application may also be made by the person who has collected and
paid such tax to the Director, providing that the application is made within
two years of the payment of the occupant to the operator, but no refund of
money shall be made to the operator until he or she has repaid to the occupant
the amount for which the application for refund is made. The Director, in lieu
of any refund required to be made, may allow credit therefor on payment due
from the applicant.
   (B)   Determination and hearing. Upon application for a refund, the Director
may receive evidence with respect thereto, and make such investigation as
deemed necessary. After making a determination as to the refund, the Director
shall give notice thereof to the applicant. Such determination shall be final
unless the applicant, within 90 days after such notice, shall apply in writing
to the City Council for a hearing. After such hearing, the City Council shall
give written notice of its decision to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 20-156) (Ord. 2000-835, passed 8-21-2000)
§ 20-157. NOTICE.
   Notices provided for under this article shall be deemed to have been given
when such notice has been delivered personally to the operator or deposited in
the United States mail to the last known address of the operator.
(Prior Code, § 20-157) (Ord. 2000-835, passed 8-21-2000)
§ 20-158. REMEDIES EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided in this article shall be exclusive remedies available
to any person for the review of tax liability imposed by this article.
(Prior Code, § 20-158) (Ord. 2000-835, passed 8-21-2000)
§ 20-159. GENERAL POWERS OF THE DIRECTOR.
   In addition to all other powers granted to the Director, the Director is
hereby authorized and empowered:
   (A)   To make, adopt, and amend rules and regulations appropriate to the
carrying out of this article for the purposes thereof;
   (B)   To extend for cause shown the time for filing return for a period not
exceeding 60 days; and for cause shown, to waive, remit, or reduce penalties or
interest;
   (C)   To delegate functions hereunder to an assistant or other employee of
the city;
   (D)   To assess, reassess, determine, revise, and readjust the taxes imposed
by this article; and
   (E)   To prescribe methods for determining the taxable and nontaxable rents.
(Prior Code, § 20-159) (Ord. 2000-835, passed 8-21-2000)
§ 20-160. ADMINISTRATION OF OATHS AND COMPELLING TESTIMONY.
   The Director shall have the power to administer oaths, subpoena and require
the attendance of witnesses, the production of books, papers, and documents,
and take affidavits in relation to any matter or proceeding in the exercise of
the powers and duties of the Director or City Council under this article.
(Prior Code, § 20-160) (Ord. 2000-835, passed 8-21-2000)
§ 20-161. CERTIFICATES OF REGISTRATION.
   Every operator shall file with the Director a certificate of registration in
a form prescribed by said Director within ten days after the effective date of
the ordinance from which this article is derived, or in the case of operators
commencing business or opening new hotels after such effective date, within
three days after such commencement or opening. The Director shall, within five
days after such registration, issue, without charge, to each operator a
certificate of authority empowering such operator to collect the tax from the
occupant and duplicates thereof for each additional hotel. Each certificate of
authority shall be permanently displayed by the operator in such manner that it
may be seen and comes to the notice of all occupants and persons seeking
occupancy. Such certificates shall be nonassignable and nontransferable and
shall be surrendered immediately to the Director upon the cessation of business
at the hotel named, or upon its sale or transfer.
(Prior Code, § 20-161) (Ord. 2000-835, passed 8-21-2000)
§ 20-162. DELINQUENT TAXES.
   The tax levied by this article shall be due and payable at the time filing
of the returns provided for in this article is required. All taxes not paid
within five business days from the time they become due shall be delinquent.
(Prior Code, § 20-162) (Ord. 2000-835, passed 8-21-2000)
§ 20-163. INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   If any tax levied or assessed by this article becomes delinquent, the
person or entity responsible and liable for such tax shall pay a penalty equal
to 10% of the unpaid tax and interest on such unpaid tax and penalty shall
accrue at the rate of 1.5% per month on the unpaid balance from the date of
delinquency.
   (B)   The city may bring a civil suit to enforce payment of any past due tax
levied or assessed pursuant to this article in addition to conviction
hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 20-163) (Ord. 2000-835, passed 8-21-2000)
§ 20-164. USE OF FUNDS.
   All taxes collected pursuant to the provisions of this article shall be set
aside and used exclusively for the purpose of creating the Tourism and
Convention Development Committee, and fulfilling the Committee’s duties to
encourage, promote, and foster tourism and conventions and promote investment
in facilities for the development of conventions and tourism that will benefit
the city.
(Prior Code, § 20-164) (Ord. 2000-835, passed 8-21-2000; Ord. 2007-09, passed
9-4-2007)
§ 20-165. TOURISM AND CONVENTION DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Created. There is hereby created a Tourism and Convention Development
Committee, which shall be composed of five members.
   (B)   Compensation. The members shall serve without compensation. Of the
members appointed:
      (1)   Two shall be selected by the board of directors of the City Chamber
of Commerce in accordance with its rules for participation in the Committee,
subject to Council approval; and
      (2)   Three shall be selected by the City Council, with a minimum of one
from the hospitality industry.
   (C)   Term of office.
      (1)   Each member of the Tourism and Convention Development Committee
shall serve four-year terms and until a successor has been appointed and
accepted such appointment.
      (2)   The Tourism and Convention Development Committee members shall be
appointed for four years.
      (3)   The term shall expire on June 30 in the year in which the term
would normally expire, regardless of the date of appointment. Members may be
removed without cause. A majority vote of the remaining members of the
appointing body will be required before a member may be removed. An appointee
shall serve out the remainder of the incomplete term.
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   Three members shall constitute a quorum, and all business may be
transacted by a simple majority at a quorum, except that approving the budget,
incurring any nonbudgeted expenditure, amending the bylaws of the Committee or
written agreement with the Chamber or city, or hiring or firing personnel, will
require an agreement by at least three members.
      (2)   The Committee shall select from its members a Chair, who shall
serve for a period of one year.
      (3)   The meetings of the Committee shall be called by the Chair.
      (4)   The members shall be given five days’ notice prior to any meeting,
provided emergency meetings may be held if any members consent to such meeting
in writing. All meetings of the Committee, subcommittees, task forces, or study
groups shall be subject to the State Open Meeting Act, 25 O.S. §§ 301 through
314.
   (E)   Responsibilities. The Committee shall:
      (1)   Promote public awareness and education as to the values of the
promotion of tourism and conventions;
      (2)   Gather information and ideas, conduct research, develop
advertising, promotional programs, materials, and equipment, travel to bid
conventions and trade show events, and to promote the city’s image so that the
city will be developed and maintained as a convention, tourism, and recreation
center;
      (3)   Submit to the City Council annually a budget of operations for the
forthcoming year;
      (4)   Contract with the Chamber of Commerce to carry out and administer
the programs as developed by the Committee;
      (5)   Promote investment in facilities that have a primary purpose of
providing space for conventions, tourism, recreation, or entertainment; and
      (6)   Employ persons or other legal entities to perform services
necessary to the fulfillment of the Committee’s duties; provided, nothing in
this article shall prohibit the employment of Committee members by the
Committee, the Chamber of Commerce, or the city.
(Prior Code, § 20-165) (Ord. 2000-835, passed 8-21-2000; Ord. 2007-09, passed
9-4-2007)
§ 20-166. RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the hotel tax is legislatively recognized and declared,
and to protect the same the provisions of 68 O.S. § 205 of the State Sales Tax
Code, and each subsection thereof is hereby adopted by reference and made fully
effective and applicable to administration of the city hotel room tax as is
herein set forth.
(Prior Code, § 20-166) (Ord. 2000-835, passed 8-21-2000)
§ 20-167. FRAUDULENT RETURNS.
   The willful failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and
remittances therein required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report
for the purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof
rightfully due under this article shall be an offense, and upon conviction
thereof, the offending taxpayer shall be subject to a fine of not more than
$100, including costs, each day is to be considered a separate offense to be
charged severally.
(Prior Code, § 20-167) (Ord. 2000-835, passed 8-21-2000)
§ 20-168. AMENDMENTS.
   The people of the city, by their approval of the ordinance from which this
article is derived at the election herein provided, hereby authorize the City
Council by ordinances duly enacted to make such administrative and technical
changes or additions in the method and manner of administration and enforcing
this article as may be necessary or proper for the efficiency and fairness,
except that the rate of the tax herein provided shall not be changed without
approval of the qualified electors of the city as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 20-168) (Ord. 2000-835, passed 8-21-2000)
§ 20-169. PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions hereof shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and all
other taxing provisions of city ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 20-169) (Ord. 2000-835, passed 8-21-2000)
§ 20-170. COLLECTION FEE.
   The city is authorized by this article to deduct a sum from this specially
collected tax to be used for the cost of collection and disbursement, not to
exceed 3% of the total revenue accruing from the tax over an annual collection
period.
(Prior Code, § 20-170) (Ord. 2000-835, passed 8-21-2000)
§ 20-171. PROVISION FOR NULLIFICATION AND DISCHARGE.
   (A)   This tax is levied exclusively for the purpose of financing a
committee, administered as herein before detailed, for the purpose of the
tourism and convention development of the city, and the term of this tax shall
be directly and totally dependent upon the existence of this committee. If, for
any reason, the agreements from which the committee derives its existence are
nullified or revoked, or for any reason are held to be no longer the governing
principles of the committee, the collection and/or disbursement of the revenues
from this tax shall cease immediately, and this article shall be caused to
become void by its own terms.
   (B)   By provision of this article, the revenues of the tax created by this
act are for the sole and singular source of funding for the committee created
herein. If, for any reason or act of any party, the funding of the committee
shall be either partially or totally reduced whether it is a temporary or
permanent state, all parties charged with responsibilities relating to the
administration of the committee shall be and are hereby discharged from any and
all responsibilities, whether they be creations of ordinance or contract.
(Prior Code, § 20-171) (Ord. 2000-835, passed 8-21-2000)
§§ 20-172 THROUGH 20-199. RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI: PURCHASING POLICY
Section
   
20-200.   Purpose
   
20-201.   Payroll distribution
   
20-202.   Competitive bidding
   
20-203.   Purchases of goods, services, and capital when competitive bidding is
not required
   
20-204.   Emergency and after-hours purchases
   
20-205.   Debt service
   
20-206.   Inter-fund transfers
   
20-207.   Petty cash
   
20-208.   Incurring indebtedness
   
20-209.   Financial reporting
   
20-210.   Applicability to public trusts
   
20-211.   Deviation from policy
   20-212 through 20-219 reserved
§ 20-200. PURPOSE.
   The city’s policy on purchasing is to be used to provide general guidance on
appropriate and proper methods to make purchases for city officials, employees,
and other individuals engaged in the official business of the city. Any person
who is authorized to order supplies, equipment, or encumber funds must follow
these guidelines unless such deviation is previously approved by the Mayor or
City Business Manager.
(Prior Code, § 20-200) (Ord. 2014-049, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 20-201. PAYROLL DISTRIBUTION.
   (A)   For all employees and officers of the city, a documented record shall
be maintained in a personnel file of the authorized rate of pay or salary and
authorized deductions for each employee or officer.
   (B)   For each pay period, a documented record of time worked and leave
taken shall be prepared, in the form of time sheets, cards, or logs, for each
employee and officer to be paid. For employees exempt from the overtime
provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq., the
record may exclude time worked. Such record of time worked and leave taken
shall be verified as to its accuracy in writing by the employee or officer,
supervisor, and department head.
   (C)   Upon verification of the work record, a payroll statement or register,
including the amount of gross pay, authorized deductions and net pay, shall be
prepared and submitted to the City Business Manager for review and written
approval.
   (D)   Upon approval of the payroll statement or register, the net payroll
checks shall be prepared along with checks or wire transfers for payment of
related payroll taxes and other payroll benefits, required by law or contract.
Direct deposits may be used as an alternative to checks and wire transfers.
   (E)   No payroll related encumbrances are required to be recorded in the
budgetary accounting records as long as the payroll costs are recorded as
expenditures at the time they become due and payable. However, no payroll costs
may be incurred or paid if they exceed the available appropriation for the
purposes, as established by the City Council.
   (F)   The City Business Manager shall record or cause to be recorded in the
appropriate journals and ledgers the payroll costs incurred and/or paid for the
pay period.
   (G)   A copy of the payroll statement, register, or payroll check register
may be provided to the City Council for informational purposes; however, the
City Council approval is not required prior to the payment of payroll related
costs if incurred and paid in accordance with the provisions above.
(Prior Code, § 20-201) (Ord. 2014-049, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 20-202. COMPETITIVE BIDDING.
   The city’s purchasing officer shall obtain competitive bids before any
purchase of supplies, materials, equipment, or other personal property, or
contractual services, except as otherwise provided by ordinance or state
statute. The competitive bids shall be obtained by submitting the
specifications and an invitation to bid to at least three entities dealing in
and able to supply the same. If there are not three entities dealing in and
able to supply the same, competitive bids may be solicited from a smaller
number of entities. The city purchasing agent may also publish notice of the
invitation to bid in a newspaper of general circulation within the city. All
bids shall be sealed and shall be opened in public at the time and place
designated in the invitation for bids. The purchasing agent may repeatedly
reject all bids and reopen the invitation for competitive bids. The purchasing
agent shall purchase from the bidder whose bid is most advantageous to the
city, considering price, quality, date of delivery, and other relevant
information. In the event of a tie, the purchasing agent may purchase from one
of those tying or may divide the purchase amount host tying always accepting
the bid or bids most advantageous to the city.
(Prior Code, § 20-202) (Ord. 2014-049, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 20-203. PURCHASES OF GOODS, SERVICES, AND CAPITAL WHEN COMPETITIVE BIDDING IS
NOT REQUIRED.
   (A)   The City Business Manager shall designate, and City Council shall
approve annually, certain positions as purchasing officers empowered to
purchase or contract against budget appropriations. Only these designated
positions will be empowered to obligate the city. The initial positions
empowered to purchase or contract against budget appropriations is attached to
the ordinance from which this section derives as exhibit A, and incorporated
herein by this specific reference.
   (B)   For all purchases of goods, services, or capital (all purchases or
disbursements other than payroll and debt service) for which the obligation and
final invoice for the payment of the obligation does not occur within the same
month, purchase orders, or contracts shall be prepared and approved, in
writing, by a designated purchasing officer prior to the time the purchase
commitment is made. The approved purchase order or contract shall be forwarded
to an officer or employee charged with keeping the appropriation and
expenditure records (encumbering clerk), who shall determine that there exists
available unencumbered appropriation for that purpose. Upon such determination,
the encumbering clerk shall attest to that fact in writing. If appropriation is
not available for the proposed purchase or commitment, the purchase or
commitment shall not proceed until budget amendments are authorized to provide
sufficient appropriation.
      (1)   Upon approval of the purchasing officer and encumbering clerk, an
encumbrance shall be recorded in the appropriation and expenditure records in
the amount or estimated amount of the commitment.
      (2)   These encumbering requirements shall not apply to the following
type of purchases or commitments:
         (a)   Payroll and payroll related expenses;
         (b)   Utility and telephone services by entities governed by State
Corporation Commission;
         (c)   Insurance contracts; and
         (d)   Purchases where the obligation and final invoice are processed
in the same month.
   (C)   For all purchases or contracts for goods, services, or capital, the
following persons shall be authorized to obligate the city up to the amount
designated:
      (1)   Under $15,000: the designated purchasing agent will be allowed to
obligate the city;
      (2)   All purchases under $25,000: the City Business Manager will be able
to obligate the city; and
      (3)   Any amount over $25,000: City Council approval shall be obtained
prior to the time the commitment is made, and such approval shall be recorded
in the minutes of the Council.
   (D)   Council approval shall not apply to the following type of purchases or
commitments if previously approved by the Council: payroll and personal
services, utilities, insurance requirements of the city, debt service, capital
purchases, or commitments as approved in the annual budget document and
commitments by the city to organizations governed by the State Corporation
Commission.
   (E)   For all purchases of goods, services, or capital, the approved
requisition, purchase order, or contract shall be forwarded to the officer or
employee charged with keeping the appropriation and expenditure records, who
shall determine that sufficient unencumbered appropriations exist in the
accounts to be charged. Upon such determination, the officer or employee shall
attest to that fact in writing.
   (F)   If appropriation is not available for the proposed purchase or
commitment, the purchase or commitment shall not proceed until budget
amendments are authorized to provide sufficient appropriation.
   (G)   Upon receipt of a qualified request, the purchasing agent shall obtain
pricing from at least three different vendors, if practical, according to the
following standards:
      (1)   Fifty thousand dollars or less: for any public construction
contract or public improvement contract, as defined by 61 O.S. § 102(6) and
(7), written quotations and prior approval by the City Council; and
      (2)    Fifty thousand dollars or more: for any public construction
contract or public improvement contract, as defined by 61 O.S. § 102(6) and
(7), sealed bids.
   (H)   After satisfactory delivery of the merchandise or completion of
contract provisions, an invoice or claim form shall be obtained, adequately
documenting request for payment. The officer or employee receiving satisfactory
delivery of merchandise or contract service shall acknowledge such fact by
signing the invoice, claim form, delivery ticket, or receiving advice.
      (1)   The invoice or claims form, along with the written acknowledgment
of receipt, shall be forwarded to the officer or employee responsible for
processing accounts payable, who shall review the invoice for accuracy and
propriety, including comparison to the authorized purchase order or contract,
if applicable.
      (2)   Upon completion of the accounts payable officer review, the
invoices or claim forms, along with the related supporting documentation, shall
be submitted to the City Business Manager for consideration and approval of
payment, along with an accompanying invoice or claims listing, which shall be
approved in writing by the City Business Manager.
   (I)   The accounts payable officer shall accumulate all properly submitted
and due claims and invoices to be processed for payment and present them to the
City Business Manager for consideration and approval for payment. Upon such
approval for payment, the accounts payable officer shall issue properly signed
checks, or other authorized forms of payment, in payment of said claims and
invoices. A list of claims and invoices paid will be prepared and presented by
the Finance Committee and submitted, for informational purposes, to the City
Council at its next regular meeting following the payment date.
   (J)   The City Business Manager shall record or cause to be recorded in the
appropriate journals and ledgers the purchases and cash disbursements incurred
and paid.
(Prior Code, § 20-203) (Ord. 2014-049, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 20-204. EMERGENCY AND AFTER-HOURS PURCHASES.
   (A)   EMERGENCY AND PURCHASES, for the purposes of this policy, shall be
defined as purchases made in response to the loss or the imminent threat of
loss or damage or injury to life, health, or property or to alleviate a delay
which would result in unreasonable and unnecessary cost to the city.
   (B)   AFTER-HOUR PURCHASES, for the purposes of this policy, shall be
defined as emergency purchases as defined in subsection (A) above made without
a purchase order during weekends, holidays, or between the hours of 5:00 p.m.
and 8:00 a.m. and which cannot reasonably be delayed.
   (C)   Emergency purchases for items costing less than $5,000 shall have no
restrictions; however, these purchases shall be made as nearly to normal as
practical. Emergency purchases for items costing $5,000 or more shall have the
prior approval, written or verbal, by the Mayor or the City Business Manager
within 48 hours after said purchase explaining why said purchase was necessary.
The City Council shall be notified of all emergency purchase in excess of
$5,000.
(Prior Code, § 20-204) (Ord. 2014-049, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 20-205. DEBT SERVICE.
   (A)   All long-term indebtedness, in the form of bonds, notes, or lease
purchase obligations, shall only be incurred in the manner provided by law.
   (B)   Once lawfully incurred, payments of principal and interest on the
bonds or notes and payments on the lease purchase obligations shall be paid in
accordance with the terms as specified in the bond indenture, note agreement,
or lease purchase contract by the City Business Manager without further
approval of the governing body.
   (C)   The manner of payment shall be consistent with the manner used for the
payment of purchases of goods, services, or capital as described in § 20-203.
   (D)   The City Business Manager shall record or cause to be recorded in the
appropriate journals and ledgers the debt service payments and maintain current
records of the remaining amount of indebtedness.
(Prior Code, § 20-205) (Ord. 2014-049, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 20-206. INTER-FUND TRANSFERS.
   (A)   All transfers of resources between funds shall only be made in
accordance with the appropriations provided by the City Council for such
transfers. Such appropriations shall be contained in the original or amended
budget of the city.
   (B)   Once lawfully appropriated, inter-fund transfer payments may be made
by the City Business Manager or his or her designee without further City
Council approval. Such transfers, however, may not exceed the amount lawfully
appropriated.
   (C)   The manner of payment of these inter-fund transfers shall be
consistent with the manner used for the payment of purchases of goods,
services, and capital as described in § 20-203.
   (D)   The City Business Manager shall record or cause to be recorded these
inter-fund transfers in the appropriate journals and ledgers.
(Prior Code, § 20-206) (Ord. 2014-049, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 20-207. PETTY CASH.
   (A)   As provided for in 11 O.S. § 17-102(D), the city may have petty cash
accounts for use in making certain small payments for costs incurred in
operating the municipality.
   (B)   Each petty cash account established shall require City Council
approval, including the amount of the petty cash current balance. However, in
no case, should the current balance exceed $1,500.
   (C)   The petty cash accounts shall be reimbursed by utilizing properly
itemized invoices or petty cash voucher slips and by then processing the
reimbursement in the manner used for payment of purchases of goods, services,
and capital.
   (D)   Personal checks shall not be cased from the Petty Cash Fund in any
amount.
(Prior Code, § 20-207) (Ord. 2014-049, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 20-208. INCURRING INDEBTEDNESS.
   As provided for in Article 10, § 26 of the state’s Constitution, the city is
prohibited from becoming indebted in any manner for any purpose in an amount
exceeding the amount appropriated by the City Council for such purpose, without
voter approval.
(Prior Code, § 20-208) (Ord. 2014-049, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 20-209. FINANCIAL REPORTING.
   The City Business Manager, or his or her designee, shall prepare a monthly
budget status report in accordance with a comparison of actual results to date
and the budget by purpose. The report shall be placed on the agenda for City
Council acknowledgment at a meeting of the City Council in the month following
the close of the monthly period.
(Prior Code, § 20-209) (Ord. 2014-049, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 20-210. APPLICABILITY TO PUBLIC TRUSTS.
   (A)   For all public trusts created pursuant to 60 O.S. §§ 176 through 180,
for which the city is beneficiary and for which the trust’s governing body
(trustees) are comprised entirely of members of the City Council, the above
noted requirements of §§ 20-201 through 20-210, excluding § 20-208 on incurring
indebtedness, shall apply.
   (B)   For the purposes of the public trusts, as used above, the terms
GOVERNING BODY shall mean board of trustees of the trust, CHIEF EXECUTIVE
OFFICER shall mean City Business Manager as appointed by the trustees, and
TRUST TREASURER shall mean City Treasurer as elected by the citizens of the
city or appointed by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 20-210) (Ord. 2014-049, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 20-211. DEVIATION FROM POLICY.
   The foregoing policies are provided to assist employees in conducting their
business in a manner acceptable to the city. Deviations from this policy by
employees must be approved by the Mayor or the City Business Manager prior to
occurrence to avoid personal responsibility by the employee.
(Prior Code, § 20-211) (Ord. 2014-049, passed 12-1-2014)
§§ 20-212 THROUGH 20-219. RESERVED.
ARTICLE VII: STABILIZATION RESERVE FUND
Section
   
20-220.   Stabilization Reserve Fund
§ 20-220. STABILIZATION RESERVE FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a reserve fund to be known as the
“Stabilization Reserve Fund.” The amounts deposited in this reserve fund are to
be used only for the purposes defined in this section.
   (B)   This fund shall be created for the purpose of receiving, holding, and
accounting for amounts designated as stabilization reserves. These funds are to
be contributed by the General Fund, Alva Utility Authority Fund, Airport Fund,
Cemetery Fund, Alva Economic Development Fund, and other funds as deemed
appropriate by resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   The minimum amount to be contained in the Stabilization Reserve Fund
is 16% of budgeted annual non-capital operating expenses for each of the funds
contributing stabilization reserves into the Stabilization Reserve Fund.
   (D)   The maximum amount to be contained in the Stabilization Reserve Fund
is 35% of budgeted annual non-capital operating expenses for each of the funds
contributing stabilization reserves into the Stabilization Reserve Fund.
   (E)   Minimum funding for the Stabilization Reserve Fund when the balance is
less than the maximum level as established in subsection (D) above of this
section shall not be less than 2% of budgeted non-capital operating
expenditures. This funding is to be transferred annually from the participating
funds to the Stabilization Reserve Fund.
   (F)   Amounts held in the Stabilization Reserve Fund are to be designated by
purpose for use only by the fund from which the funds were contributed.
Accounting processes shall be established to provide for reporting by purpose.
   (G)   Amounts held in the Stabilization Reserve Fund in excess of minimum
amounts may only be expended when certain specific circumstances exist. The
circumstances requiring the expenditure of stabilization funds are not expected
to recur on a routine basis. The circumstances when it is necessary to
appropriate or spend stabilization amounts are subject to the objective
criteria outlining the parameters of acceptable uses of stabilization funds
included below. The existence of the circumstances must be declared by seven of
the eight voting members of the governing body establishing that one or more of
the criteria listed below exists:
      (1)   Expenditures for emergency situations as defined above for life,
health, or public safety issues for which no existing appropriation exists;
      (2)   Situations where a significant expense or revenue decline arises
that could not have reasonably been foreseen, and for which new revenue is not
available and transfers of existing appropriations are not considered feasible
or appropriate in maintaining existing service levels;
      (3)   Expenditures where the proposed use is of a nonoperational nature
involving capital or technical purchases having a useful life of greater than
five years that will improve the efficiency of the city government;
      (4)   Expenditures where the proposed use is of a nonrecurring nature,
such as a study, or for start-up costs of a program whose ongoing costs are
otherwise funded; or
      (5)   Correcting the results of an inaccurate estimate, accounting error,
or budgeting error.
   (H)   Amounts held in the Stabilization Reserve Fund that are below the
minimum threshold may be expended only under specific limited circumstances.
The circumstances when it is necessary to appropriate or spend minimum required
amounts, even in circumstances where the amounts on hand may fall shy of
established minimum levels, are set out below. The existence of the
circumstances must be declared by seven of the eight voting members of the
governing body establishing that one or more of the criteria listed below
exists:
      (1)   Expenditures for emergency situations as defined above for life,
health, or public safety issues for which no existing appropriation exists;
      (2)   Situations where a significant expense or revenue decline arises
that could not have reasonably been foreseen, and for which new revenue is not
available and transfers of existing appropriations are not considered feasible
or appropriate in maintaining existing service levels; or
      (3)   Correcting the results of an inaccurate estimate, accounting error,
or budgeting error.
(Prior Code, § 20-220) (Ord. 2015-050, passed 4-6-2015)
CHAPTER 21: RESERVED
   [Reserved]
CHAPTER 22: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   FIRE CODE
      
III.   STORAGE AND TRANSPORTATION OF GASOLINE AND OTHER FLAMMABLES
      
IV.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
V.   OPEN BURNING
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   22-1 through 22-18 reserved
§§ 22-1 THROUGH 22-18. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: FIRE CODE
Section
   
22-19.   Adoption
   
22-20.   Fire Department to enforce code
   
22-21.   Penalties
   22-22 through 22-45 reserved
§ 22-19. ADOPTION.
   There is hereby adopted by the City Council for the purpose of prescribing
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or
explosion, that certain code known as the International Fire Code, with
Appendices B, C, D, F; issued by the International Code Council, Inc., being
particularly the 2006 edition thereof, and the whole thereof, save and except
such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified, or amended by this code, of
which fire code, not less than one copy has been and now is filed in the office
of the City Clerk. The fire code is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as
if set out at length herein; and from the date on which this code shall take
effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 22-19) (Ord. 744, passed 2-4-1980)
§ 22-20. FIRE DEPARTMENT TO ENFORCE CODE.
   (A)   The fire code shall be enforced by the Fire Department of the city,
under the supervision of the Chief of the Fire Department. Whenever the word
MUNICIPALITY is used in the fire code, it means this city.
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department may detail such members of the Fire
Department as inspectors as may from time to time be necessary.
(Prior Code, § 22-20)
§ 22-21. PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of the fire code hereby
adopted or fails to comply therewith, or who violates or fails to comply with
any order made thereunder, or who builds in violation of any detailed statement
of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any
certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been
taken, or who fails to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the
City Council or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed
therein, shall severally for every such violation and noncompliance
respectively be guilty of an offense, punishable by a fine as provided in § 1-
14. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the
violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be required to
correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time. When not
otherwise specified, each ten days that prohibited conditions are maintained
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   The application of the penalty set out in subsection (A) above of this
section shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited
conditions.
(Prior Code, § 22-21)
§§ 22-22 THROUGH 22-45. RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: STORAGE AND TRANSPORTATION OF GASOLINE
AND OTHER FLAMMABLES
Section
   
22-46.   Storage to be in compliance with article provisions
   
22-47.   Permit required
   
22-48.   When article provisions not applicable
   
22-49.   Permit for transportation
   
22-50.   Fire Chief to designate routes
   22-51 through 22-73 reserved
§ 22-46. STORAGE TO BE IN COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLE PROVISIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or store within the corporate
limits of the city gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, liquefied petroleum gas, or
other highly flammable substances in quantities in excess of 100 gallons
without having first complied with the provisions of this article.
(Prior Code, § 22-46)
§ 22-47. PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Any person desiring to maintain tanks or containers for the
storage of gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, liquefied petroleum gas, or other
highly flammable substances in any quantity in excess of 100 gallons within the
corporate limits of the city shall, before locating and placing such tanks or
containers, file with the City Clerk an application in writing addressed to the
Mayor and City Council, specifying:
         (a)   The substance desired to be kept or stored;
         (b)   The proposed location described by block and lot numbers or
metes and bounds;
         (c)   The particular point upon such tract where it is proposed to
locate each such tank or container; and
         (d)   The maximum capacity of each such tank or container.
      (2)   The Mayor shall present such application to the City Council for
action at the next regular meeting thereof after such application has been
filed with the City Clerk.
   (B)   If the Council is satisfied that the proposals contained in each such
application will not be unduly hazardous to the public welfare, nor unduly
dangerous to the neighborhood in which it is proposed to locate such storage
facility, it shall grant such application and direct the issuance of a permit
in writing in accordance with such application by the City Clerk. The Council
may, in its discretion, order any such permit to be issued subject to the
condition that any or all of the tanks or containers proposed to be used for
storing any of the substances enumerated in such application shall be buried
below the surface of the earth at least three feet above the top of such
container and covered with earth or a heavier covering to the level of the
ground where the storage facility is to be maintained. No person shall
construct, maintain, or operate facilities for the storage of gasoline,
kerosene, naphtha, liquefied petroleum gas, or other highly flammable
substances in quantities in excess of 100 gallons without having first obtained
such written permit duly authorized by the City Council. However, persons now
keeping, maintaining, or operating any storage facility mentioned in this
section shall have a period of 90 days from the effective date of the ordinance
from which this article is derived in which to obtain such written permit
without penalty.
   (C)   All storage facilities shall meet the requirements set forth in
Pamphlet 30 issued by the National Fire Protection Association, latest edition
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 22-47)
§ 22-48. WHEN ARTICLE PROVISIONS NOT APPLICABLE.
   The provisions of this article shall not apply to the keeping for retail
sale of gasoline, kerosene, or other flammable oils by grocers in quantities of
less than 50 gallons.
(Prior Code, § 22-48)
§ 22-49. PERMIT FOR TRANSPORTATION.
   No truck or tank transporter used for the purpose of hauling liquefied
petroleum gas shall be driven on, over, or across the streets or alleys of the
city, except and unless the operator of such conveyance shall have in his or
her possession a written permit issued by the Chief of the Fire Department of
the city in the manner hereinafter prescribed, authorizing the use of the
particular street or alley upon which such conveyance shall be located for the
transportation of the cargo being transported.
(Prior Code, § 22-49)
§ 22-50. FIRE CHIEF TO DESIGNATE ROUTES.
   The Chief of the Fire Department of the city is hereby delegated the
authority to issue written permits to the operators of trucks or tank
transports hauling liquefied petroleum gas to and from storage facilities
located within the corporate limits of the city. The permit shall specify the
route of ingress and egress from the city limits to the storage facility, and
shall be routes which the Chief of the Fire Department shall deem least
hazardous to the public and private welfare.
(Prior Code, § 22-50)
§§ 22-51 THROUGH 22-73. RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
Generally
   22-74 through 22-104 reserved
Fire Services
   
22-105.   Fire Department established
   
22-106.   Duties
   
22-107.   City may contract
   
22-108.   Fee to be paid to city
   
22-109.   To answer outside calls, when
   
22-110.   Officers retain regular status
   
22-111.   Service as agent of state, immunity
   22-112 through 22-135 reserved
Volunteer Fire Department
   
22-136.   Established
   
22-137.   Duties of the Fire Chief
   
22-138.   Company officers
   
22-139.   Secretary-Treasurer
   
22-140.   Bylaws
   
22-141.   Meetings
   
22-142.   Rules and regulations
   
22-143.   Use of fire equipment; inventory and repair
   22-144 through 22-170 reserved
GENERALLY
§§ 22-74 THROUGH 22-104. RESERVED.
FIRE SERVICES
§ 22-105. FIRE DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established the Fire Department, the head of which is the
Fire Chief, who shall be appointed and removed by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 22-105)
Statutory reference:
   Fire departments and personnel, see 11 O.S. §§ 29-101 et seq.
§ 22-106. DUTIES.
   It is the duty of the Fire Department, among others, to extinguish fires; to
rescue persons endangered by fire; to resuscitate, and to administer first aid
to, persons injured in or about burning structures, or elsewhere in case of an
emergency; to promote fire prevention; and unless otherwise provided, to
enforce all ordinances relating to fires, fire prevention, and safety of
persons from fire and explosions in theaters, stores, and other public
buildings.
(Prior Code, § 22-106)
§ 22-107. CITY MAY CONTRACT.
   The city is hereby authorized and empowered to enter into contracts or
agreements with individuals, firms, private corporations or associations, or
political subdivisions of the state for fire protection outside the corporate
limits of the city, and to contract to provide fire protection jointly with
other organizations and municipal subdivisions of the state.
(Prior Code, § 22-107)
§ 22-108. FEE TO BE PAID TO CITY.
   Any contract entered into by the city with an individual owner, firm,
private corporation or association, for outside aid, or mutual aid for fire
protection, shall provide for the payment by the owner, firm, private
corporation or association, or political subdivision to the city for such fire
apparatus and personnel at a rate set by the City Council by motion or
resolution for mileage and for time away from the station, per call, per piece
of equipment such as fire truck, engine, hose wagon, ladder wagon, or any one
piece of fire apparatus together with the personnel furnished therewith by the
city.
(Prior Code, § 22-108)
§ 22-109. TO ANSWER OUTSIDE CALLS, WHEN.
   The Fire Department of the city is authorized and directed to answer all
outside calls within a distance of three miles from the nearest station,
unless, in the opinion of the Fire Chief, it is inexpedient to do so on account
of another fire in the city, broken apparatus, impassable or dangerous
highways, or other physical conditions.
(Prior Code, § 22-109) (Res. 212, passed 9-20-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Contracts for fire protection, see 11 O.S. §§ 29-106 through 29-108
§ 22-110. OFFICERS RETAIN REGULAR STATUS.
   All firefighters of the city attending and serving at fires or doing fire
prevention work outside the corporate limits of the city as herein provided
shall be considered as serving in their regular line of duty as fully as if
they were serving within the corporate limits of the city. The firefighters
shall be entitled to all the benefits of any fire pensions and relief fund in
the same manner as if the firefighting or fire prevention work was being done
within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 22-110)
§ 22-111. SERVICE AS AGENT OF STATE, IMMUNITY.
   The Fire Department answering any fire alarm or call or performing any fire
prevention services outside the corporate limits of the city shall be
considered as an agent of the state and acting solely and alone in a
governmental capacity. The city shall not be liable in damages for any act of
commission, omission, or negligence while answering or returning from any fire,
or reported fire, or doing any fire prevention work under and by virtue of this
article.
(Prior Code, § 22-111)
§§ 22-112 THROUGH 22-135. RESERVED.
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 22-136. ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Fire Department of the city is a volunteer fire department which
is comprised of not less than 12 nor more than 20 volunteer firefighters.
   (B)   For the purpose of this division, a VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER shall be
considered as one who is enrolled as a member of the Fire Department and who
serves in that capacity without receiving a regular salary.
(Prior Code, § 22-136)
Statutory reference:
   Volunteer fire departments, provisions and requirements, see 11 O.S. §§ 29-
201 et seq.
§ 22-137. DUTIES OF THE FIRE CHIEF.
   The Chief shall be at the head of the Department, subject to the laws of the
state, ordinances of the city, and the rules and regulations adopted in this
division. The Chief shall have the following powers and duties.
   (A)   The Chief shall be responsible for the general condition and efficient
operation of the Department, the training of members, and the performance of
all other duties imposed upon him or her.
   (B)   The Chief may inspect or cause to be inspected by members of the
Department the fire hydrants, cistern, and other sources of water supply at
least twice each year.
   (C)   The Chief shall maintain a library or file of publications on fire
prevention and fire protection and shall make use of it to the best advantage
of all members.
   (D)   The Chief shall make every effort to attend all fires and direct the
officers and members in the performance of their duties.
   (E)   The Chief shall see that the citizens are kept informed on fire
hazards in the community and on the activities of the Department.
   (F)   The Chief shall see that each fire is carefully investigated to
determine its cause, and in the case of suspicion of incendiarism, shall notify
proper authorities and secure and preserve all possible evidence for future use
in the case.
   (G)   The Chief is authorized to enter any building or premises in the city
at any reasonable hour for the purpose of making inspections and to serve
written notice to immediately correct any hazards that may be found.
   (H)   The Chief shall see that complete records are kept of all fires,
inspections, apparatus, equipment, personnel, and other information of the
Department and shall make reports to the Business Manager as he or she may
require.
(Prior Code, § 22-137)
§ 22-138. COMPANY OFFICERS.
   Company officers shall be selected by the Chief based upon the following
criteria:
   (A)   Knowledge of firefighting;
   (B)   Leadership ability; and
   (C)   Knowledge of firefighting equipment.
(Prior Code, § 22-138)
§ 22-139. SECRETARY-TREASURER.
   (A)   One member elected by the members of the Fire Department shall be a
Secretary-Treasurer.
   (B)   His or her duties shall consist of the following:
      (1)   Calling the roll at the opening of each meeting;
      (2)   Keeping the minutes of each meeting; and
      (3)   Collecting any money due the Department by the members.
(Prior Code, § 22-139)
§ 22-140. BYLAWS.
   The bylaws of the Department shall include the following.
   (A)   All Volunteer Fire Department members are required, when notified, to
respond to alarms of fire and other emergencies.
   (B)   A member is required to be present at all regular meetings, called
meetings, and schools presented for the benefit of the firefighters.
   (C)   At least one regular business meeting of the members shall be held
each month.
   (D)   Any member having two unexcused absences in succession or three
unexcused absences in a period of three months will be dropped from the Fire
Department rolls.
   (E)   Any member leaving the city for an extended period of time is required
to notify the Chief.
   (F)   Any member refusing to attend training classes provided for members of
the Department will be dropped.
   (G)   Any member of the Fire Department may be dropped from the rolls for
the following offenses:
      (1)   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
      (2)   Any act of insubordination;
      (3)   Neglect of duty;
      (4)   Any violation of rules and regulations governing the Fire
Department;
      (5)   Conviction of a felony; or
      (6)   By majority vote of the members of the company and approval of the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 22-140)
§ 22-141. MEETINGS.
   The regular company meeting shall be held on a date as set by the Chief. One
such meeting shall be a regular business meeting. Special meetings may be held
on the written request of five members or the Fire Chief. The object of the
meeting shall be inserted in the call, and no business shall be transacted
which is not mentioned in the call or provided in the constitution.
(Prior Code, § 22-141)
§ 22-142. RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Council, by motion or resolution, may adopt and change regulations
relating to the Fire Department, its organization, operation, and compensation.
(Prior Code, § 22-142)
§ 22-143. USE OF FIRE EQUIPMENT; INVENTORY AND REPAIR.
   (A)   No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any private
purpose, nor shall any person willfully and without proper authority take away
or conceal any article used in any way by the Department. No person shall enter
any place where fire apparatus is housed or handle any apparatus or equipment
belonging to the Department unless accompanied by, or having the special
permission of, an officer or authorized member of the Department.
   (B)   The Chief shall prepare and keep a complete inventory of all property
belonging to the Fire Department, and shall, at the expiration of his or her
term, turn over such inventory and all such property to his or her successor,
together with all books, records, reports, and data of the Department.
   (C)   The Chief shall report to the Business Manager any necessary repairs,
alterations, or improvements needed by the Fire Department with an estimate of
their probable cost, and shall superintend the making of the repairs,
alterations, or improvements, and if any apparatus shall become disabled for
immediate use, he or she shall repair the same and report his or her action to
the Council.
(Prior Code, § 22-143)
§§ 22-144 THROUGH 22-170. RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: OPEN BURNING
Section
   
22-171.   Purpose
   
22-172.   Definitions
   
22-173.   Open burning prohibited except by permit
   
22-174.   Exceptions to open burning prohibition
   
22-175.   Open burning permits
   
22-176.   Permit denial
   
22-177.   Permit revocation
   
22-178.   Penalty
   
22-179.   Penalty under city, county, or state imposed burn ban
   
22-180.   Penalty for burning during period of “extreme fire danger”
§ 22-171. PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to promote the general health, welfare, and
safety by regulating open burning within the city.
(Prior Code, § 22-171) (Ord. 2015-051, passed 5-4-2015)
§ 22-172. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWOOD. Dry, clean wood such as “Presto Logs,” charcoal, or cordwood used
or intended for use as heating fuel inside a residence or for an outdoor
recreational fire. FIREWOOD does not include wood that is green, with leaves or
needles, rotten, wet, oil-soaked, or treated with paint, glue, or other
preservatives; construction debris; or refuse.
   OPEN FIRE/OPEN BURNING. A fire burning in matter, whether concentrated or
dispersed, which is not contained within a fully enclosed fire box, structure,
or vehicle, and from which the products of combustion are emitted directly to
the open atmosphere without passing through a stack, duct, or chimney.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. A fire, other than an enclosed propane or charcoal grill,
set for cooking, warming, or ceremonial purposes, which is not more than three
feet in diameter by two feet high.
   STARTER FUEL. Dry, untreated firewood, or charcoal fire starter.
(Prior Code, § 22-172) (Ord. 2015-051, passed 5-4-2015)
§ 22-173. OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED EXCEPT BY PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall cause, allow, or permit open burning within the city
without first having obtained a permit from the Fire Marshal.
   (B)   No person shall willfully burn or set fire to any grain, grass,
growing crop, standing timber, or any building, fixture, or appurtenance of
real property within the city unless a permit therefor has been secured from
the Fire Marshal.
   (C)   No person shall negligently or carelessly set on fire or cause to be
set on fire within the city any woods, prairie, grass, or other combustible
material, whether on his or her own land or not, by means whereof the property
of another shall be endangered; and no person shall willfully allow any fire
upon his or her own land to extend beyond the limits thereof.
   (D)   Any permit granted by the Fire Marshal for burning may be limited as
to location and time and in such other manner as the Fire Marshal may
prescribe.
(Prior Code, § 22-173) (Ord. 2015-051, passed 5-4-2015)
§ 22-174. EXCEPTIONS TO OPEN BURNING PROHIBITION.
   Open burning of the types and subject to the conditions as hereinafter
stated shall be exempt from the prohibition in § 22-173 of this code.
   (A)   Recreational fires are permitted, in accordance with all of the
following conditions.
      (1)   A state, county, or city burn ban is not in effect.
      (2)   Stacked size of firewood shall not exceed three feet in diameter by
two feet in height.
      (3)   Fires shall be located at least 15 feet from any structures or
combustible materials.
      (4)   Only firewood shall be used.
      (5)   Fire extinguishing equipment such as buckets, shovels, garden
hoses, or a fire extinguisher with a minimum 4-A rating shall be readily
available.
      (6)   Fires shall be constantly attended by a responsible person at least
18 years of age within sight of the flames until the fire is completely
extinguished.
      (7)   Sustained winds must be less than 15 mph as measured at the site of
the recreational fire.
      (8)   A recreational fire will be immediately discontinued if the Fire
Marshal, Fire Chief, or designee determines the fire is creating a fire safety
hazard.
   (B)   Fires under managed supervision, for which a burning permit has been
obtained from the Fire Marshal, but limited to the following:
      (1)   Fires purposely set for the instruction and training of public and
industrial firefighting personnel;
      (2)   Fires set for the elimination of a fire hazard which cannot be
abated by any other practical means;
      (3)   Fires purposely set for forest, prairie, grassland, and game
management purposes; or
      (4)   The burning of trees, brush, grass, and other vegetative material
in the clearing of land, the maintenance of a street, road, or highway right-
of-way, and in accepted agricultural land management practices, provided that
all conditions placed on the permit by the Fire Marshal are met.
   (C)   Exceptions to conduct fires under this section does not excuse a
person from the consequences, damages, or injuries which may result therefrom,
nor does it exempt any person from regulations promulgated by any other
governmental unit exercising jurisdiction in matters of pollution or fire
hazard regulation.
(Prior Code, § 22-174) (Ord. 2015-051, passed 5-4-2015)
§ 22-175. OPEN BURNING PERMITS.
   An open burning permit may be issued on a prescribed form to the applicant
if the burning is for one of the purposes set forth in §
22-174(B) and if the open burning is conducted under the following
circumstances.
   (A)   A state, county, or city ban is not in effect.
   (B)   The prevailing wind at the time of the burning is away from nearby
residences.
   (C)   The burning is conducted as far away as practical from any highway or
public road and controlled so that a traffic hazard is not created.
   (D)   The recipient of the permit or his or her authorized representative is
present for the duration of any fire authorized by the permit. A copy of the
permit shall be onsite at all times.
   (E)   The recipient of the permit gives prior notice to the local E-911
dispatcher and Fire Chief or his or her designee of the time and location of
any fire authorized by the permit.
   (F)   Open burning of materials pursuant to §
22-174(B)(4) shall be conducted in accordance with the following additional
restrictions.
      (1)   Oils, rubber, and other similar smoke producing materials shall not
be burned or used as starting materials.
      (2)   The open burning is conducted under such other reasonable
conditions as the Fire Marshal may impose.
(Prior Code, § 22-175) (Ord. 2015-051, passed 5-4-2015)
§ 22-176. PERMIT DENIAL.
   Any permit application submitted pursuant to this article may be denied at
the discretion of the Fire Chief or Fire Marshal, or if a reasonable, practical
alternative method of the disposal of the material is available; or a nuisance
condition would result from the burning.
(Prior Code, § 22-176) (Ord. 2015-051, passed 5-4-2015)
§ 22-177. PERMIT REVOCATION.
   Any permit is subject to revocation at the discretion of the Fire Marshal
if:
   (A)   Any of the conditions of the permit are violated; or
   (B)   A fire hazard exists or develops during the course of the burning.
(Prior Code, § 22-177) (Ord. 2015-051, passed 5-4-2015)
§ 22-178. PENALTY.
   Any person who violates, neglects, or refuses to comply with any of the
provisions of §§
22-171 through
22-177 shall be fined as follows:
   (A)   First offense: $250;
   (B)   Second offense: $500; and
   (C)   Third or subsequent offense: $750.
(Prior Code, § 22-178) (Ord. 2015-051, passed 5-4-2015)
§ 22-179. PENALTY UNDER CITY, COUNTY, OR STATE IMPOSED BURN BAN.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to set fire to any forest, grass, range,
crop, or other wildlands, or to build a campfire or bonfire, or to burn trash
or other material that may cause a forest, grass, range, crop, or other
wildlands fire within the municipality where, because of emergency drought
conditions, there is a gubernatorially proclaimed extraordinary danger from
fire, unless the setting of any backfire during the drought emergency is
necessary to afford protection as determined by a representative of the
Division of Forestry, or unless it can be established that the setting of the
backfire was necessary for the purpose of saving life or property. The burden
of proving the necessity shall rest on the person claiming a defense.
   (B)   Any proclamation promulgated by the governor shall be effective
immediately upon the governor’s signed approval of the emergency proclamation
and shall supersede any resolution passed by the City Council.
   (C)   Any person who violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not more than $750.
(Prior Code, § 22-179) (Ord. 2015-051, passed 5-4-2015)
§ 22-180. PENALTY FOR BURNING DURING PERIOD OF “EXTREME FIRE DANGER.”
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to set fire to any forest, grass, range,
crop, or other wildlands, or to build a campfire or bonfire, or to burn trash
or other material that may cause a forest, grass, range, crop, or other
wildlands fire within the municipal city limits after the City Council has
passed a resolution declaring a period of extreme fire danger. As used in this
section, EXTREME FIRE DANGER means:
      (1)   Severe, extreme, or exceptional drought conditions exist as
determined by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
pursuant to its criteria;
      (2)   No more than one-half inch of precipitation is forecast for the
next three days; and
      (3)   Either of the following is found to exist:
         (a)   Fire occurrence is significantly greater than normal for the
season and/or initial attack on a significant number of wildland fires has been
unsuccessful due to extreme fire behavior; or
         (b)   Where data is available, more than 20% of the wildfires in the
county have been caused by escaped debris or controlled burning.
   (B)   Any such resolution shall be effective for a period not to exceed 30
days from the date of passage by the City Council, unless the burn ban is
removed earlier by the same method by which it was approved. If extreme fire
danger conditions persist, subsequent resolutions may be passed by the City
Council in the same manner as provided in this subsection (B). The City
Council, in the resolution, may grant exceptions to the fire prohibition based
on appropriate precautionary measures.
   (C)   Any resolution passed by the City Council under authority of this
section shall be effective immediately upon passage of the resolution. Notice
of the resolution shall be submitted to the Forestry Division of the state’s
Department of Agriculture, Food, and Forestry, all local news media, local law
enforcement officials, and the state headquarters of the Department of Public
Safety, the state’s Tourism and Recreation Department, and the Department of
Wildlife Conservation on the day of passage of the resolution. Evidence of
publication or posting as provided in this subsection (C) shall be maintained
by the city.
   (D)   The provisions of this section may be enforced by any law enforcement
officer of this state.
   (E)   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this section shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of not more than
$500.
   (F)   The selling of fireworks shall not be considered an act in violation
of this section.
(Prior Code, § 22-180) (Ord. 2015-051, passed 5-4-2015)
CHAPTER 23: RESERVED
   [Reserved]
CHAPTER 24: FLOODS
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   24-1 through 24-18 reserved
Statutory reference:
   Floodplain Management Act, see 82 O.S. §§ 1601 et seq.
§§ 24-1 THROUGH 24-18. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
Section
Generally
   
24-19.   Definitions
   
24-20.   Statutory authorization
   
24-21.   Statement of purpose
   
24-22.   Findings of fact
   
24-23.   Method of reducing flood losses
   
24-24.   Application; compliance; interpretation
   
24-25.   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
24-26.   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   24-27 through 24-55 reserved
Administration
   
24-56.   Designation of administrator; duties
   24-57 through 24-85 reserved
   
24-86.   Development permit required
   
24-87.   Permit procedures; approval or denial
   24-88 through 24-117 reserved
   
24-118.   Appeal Board established
   
24-119.   Duties
   
24-120.   Appeal by aggrieved person
   
24-121.   Records and reports
   24-122 through 24-140 reserved
   
24-141.   Exceptions to procedures in this article
   
24-142.   Lots one-half acre or less
   
24-143.   Conditions to granting variances
   
24-144.   Variances within designated floodways
   
24-145.   Prerequisites for granting variances
   
24-146.   New construction and substantial improvements
   24-147 through 24-175 reserved
Standards for Flood Hazard Areas
   
24-176.   General standards
   
24-177.   Specific standards
   
24-178.   Standards for subdivision proposals
Statutory reference:
   Floodplain Management Act, see 82 O.S. §§ 1601 et seq.
GENERALLY
§ 24-19. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the floodplain administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this article or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO zone on a community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet. This
condition occurs where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path
of flooding is unpredictable and intermediate, and where velocity flow may be
evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may
be designated as zone A on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM). After detailed
rate-making has been completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, zone
A usually is refined into zone A, AE, AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-30, or V.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A nonbasement building elevated above the ground level by
means of pilings, columns (posts and piers), or shear walls parallel to the
floor of the water; and adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural
integrity of the building during a flood of up to the magnitude of the base
flood.
      (1)   Built, in the case of a building in zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO,
AH, AH, B, C, X, and D, to have the top of the elevated floor above the highest
adjacent grade, and includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid
foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movement of floodwaters; or
      (2)   In the case of a building in zone V1-30, VE, or V, to have the
bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the elevated floor above
the highest adjacent grade, and also includes a building otherwise meeting the
definitions of elevated floor, even though the lower area is enclosed by means
of breakaway walls if the breakaway walls meet the standard of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3
(e)(5) of the National Flood Insurance Program regulations.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the start of construction commenced before the effective date of the FIRM
or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as existing structures.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME
SUBDIVISION. The preparation of additional sites by the construction of
facilities for serving the lots on which the mobile homes are to be affixed,
including the installation of utilities, either final site grading or pouring
of concrete pads, or the construction of streets.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of the community on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated the boundaries of the
flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow) related erosion areas having special hazards
have been designated as zone A, M, and/or E.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official report provided by the Federal
Insurance Administration. The report contains flood profiles, the water surface
elevation of the base flood, as well as the flood hazard boundary-floodway map.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. (See FLOOD or FLOODING.)
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated, and expended, and which have been
constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of
the area within a community subject to a special flood hazard and the extent of
the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane
tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees, or dikes. These specialized flood
modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering
standards.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   HABITABLE FLOOR. Any floor usable for living purposes, which includes
working, sleeping, eating, cooking, or recreation, or a combination thereof. A
floor used for storage purposes only is not a HABITABLE FLOOR.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including
basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a basement area is
not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided, that such enclosure is not
built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable nonelevation
design requirement of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3 of the National Flood Insurance Program
regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For floodplain
management purposes, the term MANUFACTURED HOME also includes park trailers,
travel trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on site for greater than 180
consecutive days. For insurance purposes, the term MANUFACTURED HOME does not
include park trailers, travel trailers, and other similar vehicles.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s flood insurance rate maps are
referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, structures for which
the start of construction commenced after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 3501
et seq., includes substantial improvement and means the date the building
permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the
permit date. The ACTUAL START DATE means either the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
footing, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers,
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation of the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any repair, construction, or improvement, the cost of which equals
or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure either:
         (a)   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before
the damage occurred.
      (2)   For the purpose of this definition, the term SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall,
ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences, whether or
not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term
does not however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to ensure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a state inventory of historic places.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this
article when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A
VARIANCE, therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise
prohibited by this article. (For full requirements, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.6 of the
National Flood Insurance Program regulations.)
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2) (e)(4), or (e)(5) of the National Flood Insurance Program
regulations is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in regulation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Prior Code, § 24-19) (Ord. 780, passed 1-18-1988)
§ 24-20. STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has, in 82 O.S. §§ 1601 et seq., delegated the
responsibility to local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to
minimize flood losses.
(Prior Code, § 24-20) (Ord. 780, passed 1-18-1988)
§ 24-21. STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this article to promote public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize the expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains; electric, telephone, and sewer lines; streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
(Prior Code, § 24-21) (Ord. 780, passed 1-18-1988)
§ 24-22. FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas designated no special flood hazard area (NSFHA)
are subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life and property
and are health and safety hazards and which cause disruption of commerce,
governmental services, and extraordinary public expenditures for flood
protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety,
and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed, or otherwise protected from flood damage.
(Prior Code, § 24-22) (Ord. 780, passed 1-18-1988)
§ 24-23. METHOD OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purpose, this article uses the following methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazard to other
lands.
(Prior Code, § 24-23) (Ord. 780, passed 1-18-1988)
§ 24-24. APPLICATION; COMPLIANCE; INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   This article shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within
the jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its
use changed without full compliance with the terms of this article and other
applicable regulations.
   (C)   The interpretation and application of this article, and all provisions
shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the City Council; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (D)   This article is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this
article and another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 24-24) (Ord. 780, passed 1-18-1988)
§ 24-25. BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency on its Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM), Community No.
400341, dated January 17, 1997, and any revisions thereto are hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this article.
(Prior Code, § 24-25) (Ord. 780, passed 1-18-1988)
§ 24-26. WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this article is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions, greater floods can and will occur, and flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This article does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This article
shall not create liability on the part of the community or any official or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
article or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 24-26) (Ord. 780, passed 1-18-1988)
§§ 24-27 THROUGH 24-55. RESERVED.
ADMINISTRATION
§ 24-56. DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Inspector is hereby appointed the floodplain administrator to
administer and implement the provisions of this article and other appropriate
sections of 44 C.F.R. (National Flood Insurance Program regulations) pertaining
to floodplain management.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the floodplain administrator include,
but are not limited to:
      (1)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this article;
      (2)   Review permit applications to determine whether proposed building
sites will be reasonably safe from flooding;
      (3)   Review, approve, or deny applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter;
      (4)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state, or local
governmental agencies (including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1344) from which prior approval is
required;
      (5)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (i.e., where there appears to
be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions), the
floodplain administrator shall make the necessary interpretation;
      (6)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state
coordinating agency which is the state’s Water Resources Board, prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
      (7)   Ensure that the flood-carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained; and
      (8)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with § 24-25, the floodplain administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available from a
federal, state, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
24-176 through
24-178 of this article.
(Prior Code, § 24-56) (Ord. 780, passed 1-18-1988)
§§ 24-57 THROUGH 24-85. RESERVED.
§ 24-86. DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the
provisions of this article.
(Prior Code, § 24-86) (Ord. 780, passed 1-18-1988)
§ 24-87. PERMIT PROCEDURES; APPROVAL OR DENIAL.
   (A)   Application for a development plan shall be presented to the
floodplain administrator on forms furnished by him or her and may include, but
not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, and the location of the foregoing in relation to areas of
special flood hazard. Additionally, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor,
including basement, of all new and substantially improved structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed;
      (3)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of §
24-177(B);
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
      (5)   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with §
24-56(B).
   (B)   Approval or denial of a development permit by the floodplain
administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this article and the
following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The cost of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including the maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
      (10)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan for
that area.
(Prior Code, § 24-87) (Ord. 780, passed 1-18-1988)
§§ 24-88 THROUGH 24-117. RESERVED.
§ 24-118. APPEAL BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   The Appeal Board, as established by 82 O.S. § 1616(B), shall hear and render
judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this article.
(Prior Code, § 24-118) (Ord. 780, passed 1-18-1988)
§ 24-119. DUTIES.
   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when it is
alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination made
by the floodplain administrator in the enforcement or administration of this
article.
(Prior Code, § 24-119) (Ord. 780, passed 1-18-1988)
§ 24-120. APPEAL BY AGGRIEVED PERSON.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal such
decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 24-120) (Ord. 780, passed 1-18-1988)
§ 24-121. RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The floodplain administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
(Prior Code, § 24-121) (Ord. 780, passed 1-18-1988)
§§ 24-122 THROUGH 24-140. RESERVED.
§ 24-141. EXCEPTIONS TO PROCEDURES IN THIS ARTICLE.
   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation, or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
a state inventory of historic places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this article.
(Prior Code, § 24-141) (Ord. 780, passed 1-18-1988)
§ 24-142. LOTS ONE-HALF ACRE OR LESS.
   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial improvements to
be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous to and
surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base flood
level, providing the relevant factors in §
24-87(B) have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-
half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
(Prior Code, § 24-142) (Ord. 780, passed 1-18-1988)
§ 24-143. CONDITIONS TO GRANTING VARIANCES.
   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
article, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
article.
(Prior Code, § 24-143) (Ord. 780, passed 1-18-1988)
§ 24-144. VARIANCES WITHIN DESIGNATED FLOODWAYS.
   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any increase
in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
(Prior Code, § 24-144) (Ord. 780, passed 1-18-1988)
§ 24-145. PREREQUISITES FOR GRANTING VARIANCES.
   Prerequisites for granting variances are as follows.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (B)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
      (1)   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (C)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
(Prior Code, § 24-145) (Ord. 780, passed 1-18-1988)
§ 24-146. NEW CONSTRUCTION AND SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENTS.
   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and substantial
improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use, provided that:
   (A)   The criteria outlined in § 24-176 are met; and
   (B)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(Prior Code, § 24-146) (Ord. 780, passed 1-18-1988)
§§ 24-147 THROUGH 24-175. RESERVED.
STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
§ 24-176. GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards, the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements.
   (A)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed or
modified and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (E)   All new or replacement water supply systems shall be designated to
minimize or eliminate the infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate the infiltration of floodwaters into the system and
discharge from the system into floodwaters.
   (G)   Onsite waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Prior Code, § 24-176) (Ord. 780, passed 1-18-1988)
§ 24-177. SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth in §§
24-25,
24-56(B)(8), and
24-178, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated to or above the base floor elevation. A registered professional
engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the
floodplain administrator that the standard of this subsection (A), as proposed
in §
24-87(A)(1), is satisfied.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to above the
flood level, or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be
designed so that below the base flood level, the structure is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or architect
shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications, and plans for
the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of construction
are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined in this
section. A record of such certification which includes the specific elevation
(in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are floodproofed shall
be maintained by the floodplain administrator.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   All manufactured homes to be placed within zone A shall be
installed using methods and practices which minimize flood damage. For the
purpose of this requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored
to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may
include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground
anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable state or local anchoring
requirements for resisting wind forces.
      (2)   All manufactured homes shall be in compliance with subsection (A)
above of this section.
(Prior Code, § 24-177) (Ord. 780, passed 1-18-1988)
§ 24-178. STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals, including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions, shall be consistent with §§
24-21 through
24-23.
   (B)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions, including
manufactured home parks and subdivisions, shall meet development permit
requirements of this section and §§
24-86,
24-87,
24-176, and
24-177.
   (C)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development, including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions, which is greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is lesser,
if not otherwise provided pursuant to §§
24-25 or
24-56(B)(8).
   (D)   All subdivision proposals, including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions, shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals, including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions, shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damage.
(Prior Code, § 24-178) (Ord. 780, passed 1-18-1988)
CHAPTER 25: RESERVED
   [Reserved]
CHAPTER 26: HEALTH
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   ADMINISTRATION
      
III.   CITY HOSPITAL
      
IV.   HOSPITALS AND HEALTHCARE
      
V.   CITY OWNED/OPERATED PROPERTY TO BE TOBACCO-FREE
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   26-1 through 26-18 reserved
§§ 26-1 THROUGH 26-18. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: ADMINISTRATION
Section
Generally
   26-19 through 26-39 reserved
Health Department
   
26-40.   County Health Department designated to enforce health ordinances
   
26-41.   Obstructing health officer
   
26-42.   Violations
   
26-43.   Penalty
   26-44 through 26-74 reserved
GENERALLY
§§ 26-19 THROUGH 26-39. RESERVED.
ADMINISTRATION
§ 26-40. COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT DESIGNATED TO ENFORCE HEALTH ORDINANCES.
   Anywhere in this code where the term HEALTH OFFICER is used, it shall be
construed to mean the Director of the County Health Department or his or her
duly designated representative. It is the intent and purpose of the Mayor and
City Council to delegate the enforcement of the health ordinances of this city
as set out in this section, and any such decisions rendered under this section
shall be subject to review by the governing board upon an appeal from an
offender.
(Prior Code, § 26-40)
§ 26-41. OBSTRUCTING HEALTH OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully obstruct or interfere with
any health officer or physician charged with the enforcement of the health laws
of this city.
(Prior Code, § 26-41)
§ 26-42. VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully violate or refuse or omit
to comply with any lawful order, direction, prohibition, rule, or regulation of
the Board of Health, or any officer charged with the enforcement of such order,
direction, prohibition, rule, or regulation.
(Prior Code, § 26-42)
§ 26-43. PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this article or any law or code
adopted by reference in this article is guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
1-14. In addition thereto, such person may be enjoined from continuing such
violations.
(Prior Code, § 26-43)
§§ 26-44 THROUGH 26-74. RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: CITY HOSPITAL
Section
   
26-75.   Establishment of the Hospital Board
   
26-76.   Treasurer of the Hospital Board
   
26-77.   Authority of the Hospital Board
   
26-78.   Hospital Board meetings
   
26-79.   Hospital Board to appoint qualified staff
   
26-80.   Donations to city hospital
   
26-81.   Annual report
   
26-82.   Hospital building and equipment
Statutory reference:
   Municipal hospitals, see 11 O.S. §§ 30-101 et seq.
§ 26-75. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE HOSPITAL BOARD.
   (A)   Created. There is hereby created the Alva Hospital Board (Hospital
Board).
   (B)   Membership; terms of office. The Hospital Board shall consist of seven
members to be appointed by the Mayor, with the approval of the City Council.
One member shall be a member of the medical staff of Share Medical Center, who
shall be chosen by the medical staff of Share Medical Center and appointed by
the Mayor, subject to the approval of the City Council, and shall serve a term
of one year. One member shall be a member of the City Council who shall serve
for a period concurrent with his or her term at the time he or she is
appointed. Every other member shall serve a term of five years, except the
member of the City Council and except the medical member, who shall serve
concurrently with his or her term as representative of the medical staff, and
until their successors shall be appointed and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 26-75) (Ord. 792, passed 8-12-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Hospital board, see 11 O.S. § 30-102
§ 26-76. TREASURER OF THE HOSPITAL BOARD.
   The City Treasurer shall act as treasurer of the Hospital Board and shall
deposit the funds thereof in a special account in the treasury to be designated
as the Hospital Fund.
(Prior Code, § 26-76) (Ord. 792, passed 8-12-1989)
§ 26-77. AUTHORITY OF THE HOSPITAL BOARD.
   The Hospital Board shall adopt rules and regulations for its own guidance
and for the governing and operation of the municipal hospital not inconsistent
with 11 O.S. §§ 30-101 et seq. The Hospital Board shall have exclusive control
of the expenditures of all moneys collected and deposited to the credit of the
Hospital Fund, for the hospital buildings under the care and custody of the
grounds, rooms, or buildings purchased, leased, or set apart for the hospital.
All money received by the Hospital Board on the account of the operation of the
hospital, or otherwise, shall be paid thereby to the City Treasurer, who shall
deposit the same in the Hospital Fund. Such moneys shall be paid out only upon
warrants authorized by the Hospital Board, drawn and signed by its Secretary,
and countersigned by its Chair. The Hospital Board shall have authority to
establish a petty cash fund, not to exceed the sum of $500 at any one time, for
the use of maintaining the hospital, which money shall be expended by the Chair
of the Hospital Board. The Board shall have authority to appoint a suitable
superintendent or administrator, or matron, or either, and necessary assistants
and nurses, and to fix their compensation. The Hospital Board shall also have
the authority to remove such appointees at will.
(Prior Code, § 26-77) (Ord. 792, passed 8-12-1989)
§ 26-78. HOSPITAL BOARD MEETINGS.
   The Hospital Board shall hold a meeting at least once a month and keep a
complete record of all its proceedings. Four members of the Hospital Board
shall constitute a legal quorum thereof. One of its members shall visit and
examine the hospital at least twice each month. No member of the Board shall
have a pecuniary interest, either directly or indirectly, in any purchase for
the hospital, that is, unless the purchase is made upon a competitive-bid
basis.
(Prior Code, § 26-78) (Ord. 792, passed 8-12-1989)
§ 26-79. HOSPITAL BOARD TO APPOINT QUALIFIED STAFF.
   It shall be the duty of the Hospital Board to appoint none other than
competent and experienced nurses and attendants for the hospital, and to employ
competent and experienced physicians and surgeons to care for and render
medical and surgical treatment to the patients of the hospital.
(Prior Code, § 26-79) (Ord. 792, passed 8-12-1989)
§ 26-80. DONATIONS TO CITY HOSPITAL.
   Any person desiring to make donations of money and/or personal or rental
property for the benefit of the municipal hospital or for the establishment,
maintenance, or endowment thereof, shall have the right to vest the title
thereto in the city, to be held and controlled thereby, when accepted according
to the terms of the donation, and as to such property, the city shall be held
and considered to be a special trustee.
(Prior Code, § 26-80)
§ 26-81. ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Hospital Board shall make, on or before July 1 in each year hereafter,
an annual report to the City Council, stating the condition of its trust on
June 30 of that year, the various sums of money and property received, how such
moneys have been expended and for what purpose, the financial condition of the
hospital, the number of its physicians, attendants, nurses, and employees, and
such other information and suggestions as it may deem of general interest.
(Prior Code, § 26-81) (Ord. 792, passed 8-12-1989)
§ 26-82. HOSPITAL BUILDING AND EQUIPMENT.
   The Hospital Board shall have the power, with the approval of the City
Council, to purchase grounds and erect thereon a suitable building for the
hospital and to suitably equip the same. The title to the grounds so purchased,
as well as any building thereon, shall be taken in the name of the city as
grantee.
(Prior Code, § 26-82) (Ord. 792, passed 8-12-1989)
ARTICLE IV: HOSPITALS AND HEALTHCARE
Section
   
26-83.   Definitions
   
26-84.   Hospitals
   
26-85.   Healthcare facilities
   26-86 through 26-114 reserved
§ 26-83. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HEALTHCARE CENTER OR FACILITY. A fixed and/or a mobile establishment with an
organized staff of healthcare professionals, with facilities that are equipped
and operated primarily for the purpose of performing the following, including,
but not limited to: radiology, oncology, surgical, imaging, cardiac, and
cardiopulmonary procedures, including, but not limited to, physician services,
and healthcare professionals or nursing services available, whenever a patient
is in the facility, which provides services or other accommodations for
patients for treatment, diagnosis, or recovery for a period of not to exceed 23
hours.
   HOSPITAL. Any institution, place, building, or agency, public or private,
whether organized for profit or not, devoted primarily to the maintenance and
operation of facilities of the diagnosis, treatment for care of patients
admitted for overnight stay or longer in order to obtain medical care, surgical
care, obstetrical care, or nursing care for illness, disease, injury,
infirmity, or deformity.
   NON-CITY. A hospital, healthcare center, or facility is not owned and/or
operated by the city, or that the hospital, healthcare center, or facility is
not a public trust with the city as sole beneficiary.
(Prior Code, § 26-83) (Ord. 2014-046, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 26-84. HOSPITALS.
   (A)   No new hospital shall be developed, either through construction or
conversion of existing space or an existing non-city hospital expanded in the
city unless a permit therefor has been issued by the City Clerk.
   (B)   Before developing a facility for use as a licensed hospital or
expanding an existing non-city hospital, the person, firm, or corporation
proposing to operate the hospital shall apply to the City Clerk for a permit
for the facility, which shall be in addition to any other required approvals.
The application for permit shall be in such form as the City Clerk shall
prescribe and shall include a demonstration of the development or expansion’s
probable impact on existing hospital and surgical services in the city,
including permitted facilities not yet completed.
   (C)   The application for permit shall be accompanied by a filing fee equal
to 5% of the capital cost of the proposed hospital plus $2,500, with a minimum
fee of $3,500 and a maximum fee chargeable hereunder of $50,000. It is intended
that the fee charged herein shall be used to cover the costs of the application
administration and evaluation by the city staff in an amount of $2,500. In
addition, the remainder of the application fee shall be used to pay all costs
for a feasibility study, to be conducted by a recognized healthcare industry
consulting firm, demonstrating the existence of the matters herein, declared
essential for determination by the City Council, prior to the issuance of such
a permit, as well as costs of publication and other matters required pursuant
to this article. Any portion of the application fee not so expended shall be
refunded to the applicant. If it is determined that costs of the feasibility
study shall exceed the amount submitted with the application fee, the City
Clerk or Business Manager, or his or her designee, shall notify the applicant,
in writing. Said applicant shall submit the additional amount requested within
ten days or the application shall be stayed until such time as the remainder of
the application fee is submitted to the City Clerk.
   (D)   Within two working days after receipt of the application fee, the City
Clerk shall provide the applicant with a notice of receipt and shall present to
the Business Manager or his or her designee the application for permit. Within
ten days after receiving a completed application for permit, the Business
Manager or his or her designee shall cause a paid public notice to be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the area where the hospital or
hospital expansion is to be located and in a newspaper of general circulation
in the area where the application is available for inspection. The notice shall
include the name and proposed location of the facility, a brief description of
the proposal, information on where the original application can be viewed, and
an explanation of how parties may file material to be considered along with the
application. The Business Manager or his or her designee shall also request
information on the firm conducting the feasibility study, with consideration
given to all costs related to said study.
   (E)   Any person or entity may submit written evidence and argument
regarding the proposed hospital to the Business Manager or his or her designee
to be reviewed by city staff, the Planning Commission, and Development
Commission. Written materials shall be submitted to the Business Manager or his
or her designee within 30 days after publication of the paid notice. The
Business Manager or his or her designee shall immediately provide these
materials to the applicant by certified mail or in person with the applicant
signing a receipt. The applicant shall have 15 days after receipt of the
materials to respond in writing to materials timely filed by other persons. The
Planning Commission and the Development Commission shall be provided with all
materials included in the application process described herein prior to a
meeting to be held within 60 days of the completion of this process. The
application and feasibility study shall be examined by the Planning Commission
and Development Commission, who shall make a recommendation to the City
Council.
   (F)   No permit to establish a hospital or expand an existing non-city
hospital shall be issued by the City Clerk unless, after reviewing the
application, the feasibility study, and timely filed written material and
responses, the Business Manager or his or her designee shall provide to the
City Council the following findings made by the Planning and Development
Commissioners.
      (1)   The proposed hospital will contribute to the orderly development of
hospital and surgical services in the city.
      (2)   The proposed hospital will not cause an undue financial or staffing
hardship on any existing provider of essential hospital or surgical services in
the city, including permitted facilities not yet completed, which hardship
shall be deemed potentially capable of causing the existing facility to alter
its services to such a degree that it will adversely impact the citizens of the
city.
      (3)   The proposed hospital can be adequately served by the city’s
existing utility systems and/or infrastructure.
      (4)   The proposed hospital or existing hospital expansion will not cause
an increase in the cost of medical care which would adversely impact the
citizens of the city. The findings of the Planning and Development Commissions
shall be summarized with appropriate documentation by the Business Manager or
his or her designee, with said findings to be provided to the City Council for
its consideration in determining the granting or denial of said permit.
   (G)   The Business Manager or his or her designee shall schedule the
application for permit for consideration by the City Council within 150 days
after publication of the paid notice. A permit shall be effective for 36 months
from the date of issue of the permit, during which time, an applicant shall
start construction or conversion work on the hospital or hospital expansion. At
the time the building permit is issued, the applicant shall submit a
construction schedule to the city. If construction or conversion work is not
started within the time required by this section, the permit shall be null and
void. The City Council, in approving or denying the application, will consider
the recommendation of the Planning and Development Commissions, but only grant
or deny the application subsequently to its consideration of those items
addressed in subsection (F) above.
   (H)   In the event the City Council approves the application for permit
submitted by the prospective builders, it shall be understood that all existing
requirements contained in the Alva Code of Ordinances, dealing with appropriate
zoning and building standards, shall be complied with by the permit recipient.
(Prior Code, § 26-84) (Ord. 2014-046, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 26-85. HEALTHCARE FACILITIES.
   (A)   No new healthcare facility shall be developed, either through
construction, expansion, or conversion of existing space, or an existing non-
city healthcare facility expanded in the city, unless a permit therefor has
been issued by the City Clerk.
   (B)   Before developing a facility for use as a licensed healthcare
facility, either fixed and/or mobile, or expanding an existing non-city
facility, the person or entity proposing to operate the healthcare facility
shall apply to the City Clerk for a permit for the facility in addition to any
other required approvals. The application for permit shall be in such form as
the City Clerk shall prescribe and shall include a demonstration of the
healthcare facility’s probable impact on the existing healthcare services in
the city, including permitted facilities not yet completed.
   (C)   The application for permit shall be accompanied by a filing fee equal
to 5% of the capital cost of the proposed healthcare facility plus $2,500 with
a minimum of $3,500 and a maximum fee chargeable hereunder of $50,000. It is
intended that the fee charged herein shall be used to cover the cost of the
application administration and evaluation by the city staff in an amount of
$2,500. In addition, the remainder of the application fee shall be used to pay
all costs for a feasibility study, to be conducted by a recognized healthcare
industry consulting firm, demonstrating the existence of the matters herein,
declared essential for determination by the City Council, prior to the issuance
of such a permit, as well as costs of publication and other matters required
pursuant to this article. Any portion of the application fee not so expended
shall be refunded to the applicant. If it is determined that costs of the
feasibility study shall exceed the amount submitted with the application fee,
the City Clerk or Business Manager, or his or her designee, shall notify the
applicant, in writing. Said applicant shall submit the additional amount
requested within ten days or the application shall be stayed until such time as
the remainder of the application fee is submitted to the City Clerk.
   (D)   Within two working days after receipt of the application fee, the City
Clerk shall provide the applicant with a notice of receipt and shall present to
the Business Manager or his or her designee the application for permit. Within
ten days after receiving a completed application for permit, the Business
Manager or his or her designee shall cause a paid public notice to be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the area where the hospital or
hospital expansion is to be located and in a newspaper of general circulation
in the area where the application is available for inspection. The notice shall
include the name and proposed location of the facility, a brief description of
the proposal, information on where the original application can be viewed, and
an explanation of how parties may file material to be considered along with the
application. The Business Manager or his or her designee shall also request
information on the firm conducting the feasibility study, with consideration
given to all costs related to said study.
   (E)   Any person or entity may submit written evidence and argument
regarding the proposed healthcare center or facility to the Business Manager or
his or her designee to be reviewed by city staff, the Planning Commission, and
the Development Commission. Written materials shall be submitted to the
Business Manager or his or her designee within 30 days after publication of the
paid notice. The Business Manager or his or her designee shall immediately
provide these materials to the applicant by certified mail or in person with
the applicant signing a receipt. The applicant shall have 15 days after receipt
of the materials to respond in writing to materials timely filed by other
persons. The Planning Commission and the Development Commission shall be
provided with all materials included in the application process described
herein prior to a meeting to be held within 60 days of the completion of this
process. The application and feasibility study shall be examined by the
Planning Commission and Development Commission, who shall make a recommendation
to the City Council.
   (F)   No permit to establish a healthcare center or facility or to expand an
existing non-city hospital shall be issued by the City Clerk unless, after
reviewing the application, the feasibility study, and timely filed written
material and responses, the Business Manager or his or her designee shall
provide to the City Council the following findings made by the Planning and
Development Commissioners.
      (1)   The proposed hospital will contribute to the orderly development of
hospital and surgical services in the city.
      (2)   The proposed hospital will not cause an undue financial or staffing
hardship on any existing provider of essential hospital or surgical services in
the city, including permitted facilities not yet completed, which hardship
shall be deemed potentially capable of causing the existing facility to alter
its services to such a degree that it will adversely impact the citizens of the
city.
      (3)   The proposed hospital can be adequately served by the city’s
existing utility systems and/or infrastructure.
      (4)   The proposed hospital or existing hospital expansion will not cause
an increase in the cost of medical care which would adversely impact the
citizens of the city. The findings of the Planning and Development Commissions
shall be summarized with appropriate documentation by the Business Manager or
his or her designee, with said findings to be provided to the City Council for
its consideration in determining the granting or denial of said permit.
   (G)   The Business Manager or his or her designee shall schedule the
application for permit for consideration by the City Council within 150 days
after publication of the paid notice. A permit shall be effective for 36 months
from the date of issue of the permit, during which time, an applicant shall
start construction or conversion work on the hospital or hospital expansion. At
the time the building permit is issued, the applicant shall submit a
construction schedule to the city. If construction or conversion work is not
started within the time required by this section, the permit shall be null and
void. The City Council, in approving or denying the application, will consider
the recommendation of the Planning and Development Commissions, but only grant
or deny the application subsequently to its consideration of those items
addressed in subsection (F) above.
   (H)   In the event the City Council approves the application for permit
submitted by the prospective builders, it shall be understood that all existing
requirements contained in the Alva Code of Ordinances, dealing with appropriate
zoning and building standards, shall be complied with by the permit recipient.
(Prior Code, § 26-85) (Ord. 2014-046, passed 11-3-2014)
§§ 26-86 THROUGH 26-114. RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: CITY OWNED/OPERATED PROPERTY TO BE TOBACCO-FREE
Section
   
26-115.   Definitions
   
26-116.   Prohibition of tobacco products and electronic smoking devices in
certain places
   
26-117.   Posting
   
26-118.   Violation and penalty
   
26-119.   Enforcement
§ 26-115. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE. An electronic and/or battery-operated device, the
use of which may resemble smoking that can be used to deliver an inhaled dose
of nicotine or other substances. ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE includes any such
device, whether manufactured, distributed, marketed, or sold as an electronic
cigarette, an electronic cigar, an electronic cigarillo, an electronic pipe, an
electronic hookah, or any other product name or descriptor.
   INDOOR WORKPLACE. Any indoor place of employment or employment-type service
for or at the request of another individual or individuals, or any public or
private entity, whether part-time or full-time and whether for compensation or
not. Such services shall include, without limitation, any service performed by
an owner, employee, independent contractor, agent, partner, proprietor,
manager, officer, director, apprentice, trainee, associate, servant, or
volunteer. An INDOOR WORKPLACE includes work areas, employee lounges,
restrooms, conference rooms, classrooms, employee cafeterias, hallways, any
other spaces used or visited by employees, and all space between a floor and
ceiling that is predominantly or totally enclosed by walls or windows,
regardless of doors, doorways, open or closed section shall apply to such
INDOOR WORKPLACE at any given time, whether or not work is being performed.
   OUTDOOR AREA. Any covered area, partially covered area, or area open to the
sky that is on a property owned by the city.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any enclosed indoor area where individuals other than
employees are invited or permitted; the term is synonymous with the phrase ANY
INDOOR PLACE USED BY OR OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
   RECREATIONAL AREA. Any area that is owned, controlled, or used by the city,
regardless of any fee or age requirement. The term RECREATIONAL AREA includes,
but is not limited to, parks, picnic areas, playgrounds, sports fields, golf
courses, walking paths, gardens, hiking trails, bike paths, riding trails,
swimming pools, roller-skating and ice-skating rinks, beaches surrounding
lakes, and skateboard parks.
   SMOKING. The carrying by a person of a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe, or
other lighted smoking device.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any substance containing tobacco leaf, including, but not
limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, hookah tobacco, snuff, chewing
tobacco, dipping tobacco, snus, bidis, or any other preparation of tobacco; and
any product or formulation of matter containing biologically active amounts of
nicotine that is manufactured, sold, offered for sale, or otherwise distributed
with the expectation that the product or matter will be introduced into the
human body. TOBACCO PRODUCT does not include any cessation product specifically
approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration for use in treating
nicotine or tobacco dependence.
   VAPOR PRODUCT. Any noncombustible products that may or may not contain
nicotine, that employ a mechanical heating element, battery, electronic
circuit, or other mechanism, regardless of shape or size, that can be used to
produce a vapor in a solution or other form. VAPOR PRODUCT shall include any
vapor cartridge or other container with or without nicotine or other form that
is intended to be used with an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or other similar products or devices.
VAPOR PRODUCT shall not include any products regulated by the United States
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, being 21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 26-115) (Ord. 2014-048, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 26-116. PROHIBITION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICES IN
CERTAIN PLACES.
   (A)   The possession of lighted tobacco in any form is a public nuisance and
dangerous to public health and is hereby prohibited when such possession is in
any indoor place used by or open to the public, public transportation, or any
indoor workplace, except where specifically allowed by law.
   (B)   All buildings and other properties, including indoor and outdoor
areas, and indoor workplaces owned or operated by this city, shall be entirely
tobacco-free, to include all forms of tobacco products, including electronic
smoking devices and vapor products.
   (C)   All indoor and outdoor recreational areas owned or operated by this
city shall be entirely tobacco-free, to include all forms of tobacco products,
including electronic smoking devices and vapor products.
(Prior Code, § 26-116) (Ord. 2014-048, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 26-117. POSTING.
   (A)   The city shall be responsible for posting a sign or decal, at least
four inches by two inches in size, at each entrance of city owned/operated
property, indicating the property is tobacco-free.
   (B)   The posting of signs or decals is the responsibility of the manager
and/or supervisor of the city-owned/operated facility.
(Prior Code, § 26-117) (Ord. 2014-048, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 26-118. VIOLATION AND PENALTY.
   Any person who knowingly violates this article is guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of $10, plus
applicable court costs.
(Prior Code, § 26-118) (Ord. 2014-048, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 26-119. ENFORCEMENT.
   The state or local governmental agency, or the person who owns or operates a
public place, shall, at a minimum, do the following in order to prevent smoking
in public places:
   (A)   Post signs at entrances to places where smoking is prohibited which
state that tobacco use is prohibited or that the indoor environment is free of
tobacco smoke; and
   (B)   Ask tobacco users to refrain from using any form of tobacco products,
including electronic smoking devices, upon observation of anyone violating the
provisions of this act.
(Prior Code, § 26-119) (Ord. 2014-048, passed 12-1-2014)
CHAPTER 27: RESERVED
   [Reserved]
CHAPTER 28: HUMAN RELATIONS
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   FAIR HOUSING
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   28-1 through 28-18 reserved
§§ 28-1 THROUGH 28-18. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
28-19.   Definitions
   
28-20.   Application and exemptions
   
28-21.   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
28-22.   Discrimination in financing or housing
   
28-23.   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
28-24.   Administration
   
28-25.   Education and conciliation
   
28-26.   Enforcement
   
28-27.   Investigations, subpoenas, giving of evidence
   
28-28.   Enforcement by private persons
   
28-29.   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
28-30.   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
Statutory reference:
   Fair housing law, see 25 O.S. §§ 1101 et seq.
§ 28-19. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. The act that is unlawful under §§ 28-21
through 28-23.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as
or designed or intended for occupation as a residence by one or more families
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure, or portion thereof.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, or otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant.
(Prior Code, § 28-19) (Ord. 2006-01, passed 4-3-2006)
§ 28-20. APPLICATION AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of subsection (B) below of this section, the
prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or rental of housing set forth
in this section shall apply to all dwellings, except as exempted by subsection
(B) below of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in § 28-21 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner, provided that
such private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family
houses at any one time; provided further, that in the case of the sale of any
such single-family house by a private individual owner not residing in such
house at the time of such sale or who was not the most recent resident of such
house prior to such sale, the exemption granted by this subsection (B) shall
apply only with respect to one such sale within any 24-month period; provided
further, that such bona fide private individual owner does not own any interest
in, nor is there owned or reserved on his or her behalf, under any express or
voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds
from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses at any one
time; provided further, that the sale or rental of any such single-family house
shall be excepted from the application of this article only if such house is
sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent, or
salesperson, or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of
selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such
facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or renting
dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker, agent, salesperson,
or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting, or mailing, after notice, of
any advertisement or written notice in violation of §
28-21(C). However, nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of
attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such
professional assistance as is necessary to perfect or transfer the title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of subsection (B) above of this section, a person
shall be deemed to be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as an
agent, other than for his or her personal residence, in providing sales or
rental facilities or sales or rental services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
   (D)   Nothing in this article shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, sex, color,
national origin, disability, or familial status. Nor shall anything in this
article prohibit a private club not, in fact, open to the public which, as an
incident to its primary purpose, provides lodgings which it owns or operates
for other than a commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of
such lodgings to its members or from giving preference to its members.
(Prior Code, § 28-20) (Ord. 2006-01, passed 4-3-2006)
§ 28-21. DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
28-20 and except as exempted by §
28-20(B), it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of or otherwise make unavailable or
deny a dwelling to any person because of race, sex, color, religion, national
origin, disability, or familial status;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith because of race, sex, color, religion,
national origin, disability, or familial status;
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published, any notice, statement, or advertisement with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, sex, color, religion, national origin,
disability, or familial status, or an intention to make any such preference,
limitation, or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, sex, color, religion,
national origin, disability, or familial status that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is, in fact, so
available; or
   (E)   To induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent any
dwelling, for profit, by representations regarding the entry or prospective
entry into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, sex,
color, religion, national origin, disability, or familial status.
(Prior Code, § 28-21) (Ord. 2006-01, passed 4-3-2006)
§ 28-22. DISCRIMINATION IN FINANCING OR HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company, or other corporation, association, firm, or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the
purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or maintaining a
dwelling or to discriminate against him or her in the fixing of the amount,
interest rate, duration, or other terms or conditions of such loan or other
financial assistance because of race, sex, color, religion, national origin,
disability, or familial status of such person or of any person associated with
him or her in connection with such loan or other financial assistance or the
purposes of such loan or other financial assistance or of the present or
prospective owners, lessees, tenants, or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings
in relation to which such loan or other financial assistance is to be made or
given, provided that nothing contained in this section shall impair the scope
or effectiveness of the exception contained in §
28-20(B) and(D).
(Prior Code, § 28-22) (Ord. 2006-01, passed 4-3-2006)
§ 28-23. DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, rental, or facility relating to
the business of selling or renting dwellings or to discriminate against him or
her in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation on
account of race, sex, color, religion, national origin, disability, or familial
status.
(Prior Code, § 28-23) (Ord. 2006-01, passed 4-3-2006)
§ 28-24. ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for administering the provisions of
this article shall be in the Business Manager of the city.
   (B)   The Business Manager may delegate any of these functions, duties, and
powers to employees of the city or to boards of such employees, including
functions, duties, and powers, with respect to investigating, conciliating,
hearing, determining, ordering, certifying, reporting, or otherwise acting as
to any work, business, or matter under this article. The Business Manager
shall, by rule, prescribe such rights of appeal from the decisions of the
city’s hearing examiners to other hearing examiners or to other officers in the
city, to boards of officers, or to said Business Manager as shall be
appropriate and in accordance with law.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies shall administer their programs
and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner to
affirmatively further the purposes of this article and shall cooperate with the
Business Manager to further such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 28-24) (Ord. 2006-01, passed 4-3-2006)
§ 28-25. EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION.
   Immediately after the enactment of this article, the Business Manager shall
commence such educational and conciliatory activities as will further the
purposes of this article. The Business Manager shall call conferences of
persons in the housing industry and other interested parties to acquaint them
with the provisions of this article and suggested means of implementing it and
shall endeavor, with their advice, to work out programs of voluntary compliance
and enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 28-25) (Ord. 2006-01, passed 4-3-2006)
§ 28-26. ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice or who believes that he or she will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter “person
aggrieved”) may file a complaint with the Business Manager. Complaints shall be
in writing and shall contain such information and be in such form as the
Business Manager requires. Upon receipt of such a complaint, the Business
Manager shall furnish a copy of the same to the person who allegedly committed
or is about to commit the alleged discriminatory housing practice. Within 30
days after receiving a complaint or within 30 days after the expiration of any
period of reference under subsection (C) below of this section, the Business
Manager shall investigate the complaint and give notice in writing to the
person aggrieved whether he or she intends to resolve it. If the Business
Manager decides to try to eliminate or correct the alleged discriminatory
housing practice by informal methods of conference, conciliation, and
persuasion, nothing said or done in the course of such informal endeavors may
be made public or used as evidence in a subsequent proceeding under this
article without the written consent of the persons concerned. Any employee of
the Business Manager who shall make public any information in violation of this
provision shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $200.
   (B)   A complaint under subsection (A) above of this section shall be filed
within 180 days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred.
Complaints shall be in writing and shall state the facts upon which the
allegations of a discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may be
reasonably and fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer to
the complaint against him or her and, with the leave of the Business Manager,
which shall be granted whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may
amend his or her answer at any time. Both complaints and answers shall be
verified.
   (C)   If, within 30 days after a complaint is filed with the Business
Manager, the Business Manager has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance
with this article, the person aggrieved may, within 30 days thereafter, file a
complaint with the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban
Development. The Business Manager will assist in this filing.
   (D)   If the Business Manager has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance
within 30 days of the complaint, the person aggrieved may, within 30 days
thereafter, commence a civil action in any appropriate court against the
respondent named in the complaint to enforce the rights granted or protected by
this article insofar as such rights relate to the subject of the complaint. If
the court finds that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is about
to occur, the court may enjoin the respondent from engaging in such practice or
order such affirmative action as may be appropriate.
   (E)   In any proceedings brought pursuant to this section, the burden of
proof shall be on the complainant.
   (F)   Whenever an action by an individual shall come to trial, the Business
Manager shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain voluntary compliance.
(Prior Code, § 28-26) (Ord. 2006-01, passed 4-3-2006)
§ 28-27. INVESTIGATIONS, SUBPOENAS, GIVING OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   In conducting an investigation, the Business Manager shall have access
at all reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals, and other
evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record, and copy such
materials and take and record the testimony or statement of such persons as are
reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation; provided
however, that the Business Manager first complies with the provisions of the
Fourth Amendment relating to unreasonable searches and seizures. The Business
Manager may issue subpoenas to compel his or her access to or the production of
such materials or the appearance of such persons and may issue interrogatories
to a respondent to the same extent and subject to the same limitations as would
apply if the subpoenas or interrogatories were issued or served in aid of a
civil action in the United States District Court for the district in which the
investigation is taking place. The Business Manager may administer oaths.
   (B)   Upon written application to the Business Manager, a respondent shall
be entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number of subpoenas by and in the
name of the Business Manager to the same extent and subject to the same
limitations as subpoenas issued by the Business Manager. Subpoenas issued at
the request of a respondent shall show on their face the name and address of
such respondent and shall state that they were issued at the respondent’s
request.
   (C)   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the Business Manager shall be
entitled to the same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings
in the United States District Courts. Fees payable to a witness summoned by a
subpoena issued at the request of a respondent shall be paid by the city.
Within five days after service of a subpoena upon any person, such person may
petition the Business Manager to revoke or modify the subpoena. The Business
Manager shall grant the petition if he or she finds that the subpoena requires
appearance or attendance at an unreasonable time or place, that it requires
production of evidence which does not relate to any matter under investigation,
that it does not describe with sufficient particularity the evidence to be
produced, that compliance would be unduly onerous, or for other good reason.
   (D)   In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the Business
Manager or other person at whose request it was issued may petition for its
enforcement in the Municipal or State Court for the district in which the
person to whom the subpoena was addressed resides, was served, or transacts
business.
   (E)   Any person who willfully fails or neglects to attend and testify or to
answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents, or other evidence,
if in his or her power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful order
of the Business Manager, shall be fined not more than $200. Any person who,
with intent to mislead the Business Manager, shall make or cause to be made any
false entry or statement of fact in any report, account, record, or other
document submitted to the Business Manager pursuant to the Business Manager’s
subpoena or other order or shall willfully neglect or fail to make or cause to
be made full, true, and correct entries in such reports, accounts, records, or
other documents or shall willfully mutilate, alter, or by any other means
falsify any documentary evidence shall be fined not more than $200.
   (F)   The City Attorney shall conduct all litigation in which the Business
Manager participates as a party or amicus curiae pursuant to this article.
(Prior Code, § 28-27) (Ord. 2006-01, passed 4-3-2006)
§ 28-28. ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   (A)   The rights granted herein by §§
28-20 through
28-23 may be enforced by civil actions in state or local courts of general
jurisdiction. A civil action shall be commenced within 180 days after the
alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred; provided however, that the
court shall continue such civil case brought pursuant to this section or §
28-26(D) from time to time before bringing it to trial if the court believes
that the conciliation efforts of the Business Manager are likely to result in
satisfactory settlement of the discriminatory housing practice complained of in
the complaint made to the Business Manager and which practice forms the basis
for the action in court; and provided however, that any sale, encumbrance, or
rental consummated prior to the issuance of any court order issued under the
authority of this article and involving a bona fide purchaser, encumbrances, or
tenant, without actual notice of the existence of the filing of a complaint or
civil action under the provisions of this article, shall not be affected.
   (B)   The court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any permanent
or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order, or other order and may
award to the plaintiff actual damages and not more than $1,000 punitive
damages, together with court costs and reasonable attorney’s fees in the case
of a prevailing plaintiff, provided that the plaintiff, in the opinion of the
court, is not financially able to assume said attorney’s fees.
(Prior Code, § 28-28) (Ord. 2006-01, passed 4-3-2006)
§ 28-29. INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of any right granted or protected
by §§
28-20,
28-21,
28-22, or
28-27. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil action.
(Prior Code, § 28-29) (Ord. 2006-01, passed 4-3-2006)
§ 28-30. PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force, willfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with, or attempts to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person, because of his or her race, sex, color, religion, national
origin, disability, or familial status and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, contracting, or negotiating
for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any dwelling or
applying for or participating in any service, organization, or facility
relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person, because he or she is or has been, or in order to
intimidate such person or any other person or class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating without discrimination on account of race, sex,
color, religion, national origin, disability, or familial status in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in subsection (A)
above of this section; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen, because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, sex, color, religion, national origin, disability, or familial status, in
any of the activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in
subsection (A) above of this section or from participating lawfully in speech
or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity to so participate,
shall be fined not more than $200; and if bodily injury results, shall be fined
not more than $200; and if death results, shall be subject to imprisonment for
any term of years or for life.
(Prior Code, § 28-30) (Ord. 2006-01, passed 4-3-2006)
CHAPTER 29: RESERVED
   [Reserved]
CHAPTER 30: LAW ENFORCEMENT
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
30-1.   Chief of Police; Assistant Chief of Police; police officers;
appointments; removal or discipline
   
30-2.   Powers and duties
   
30-3.   Chief of Police salary
   30-4 through 30-24 reserved
§ 30-1. CHIEF OF POLICE; ASSISTANT CHIEF OF POLICE; POLICE OFFICERS;
APPOINTMENTS; REMOVAL OR DISCIPLINE.
   (A)   The City Council shall appoint the Chief of Police, who shall hold
office until his or her respective successor has been appointed and qualified,
but is subject to removal at any time as provided by applicable law, city
ordinance, regulation, personnel policy of the Police Department or city, or
majority vote of the City Council, and further is subject to disciplinary
action as authorized by the personnel policy of the Police Department or
personnel policy of the city.
   (B)   There is hereby established a committee for the purpose of determining
the requisite qualifications for the position of Chief of Police; for screening
applicants for said position; conducting interviews of qualified applicants;
setting forth procedures for the screening process; and for making
recommendations to the City Council of approved candidates. The committee shall
not be empowered to hire or appoint a Chief of Police, but only to make
recommendations to the City Council for such purposes.
   (C)   The above-noted committee shall consist of the following members:
      (1)   Mayor or Acting Mayor;
      (2)   A member of the personnel committee, as selected by said committee;
and
      (3)   Business Manager, who shall serve as chairperson for the committee.
   (D)   The Chief of Police shall appoint an Assistant Chief of Police, and
such other police officers, as he or she deems necessary, subject to approval
by the Business Manager. The Assistant Chief of Police and other police
officers shall hold their offices unless removed therefrom by the Chief of
Police, or otherwise as provided by applicable law, ordinance, regulation,
personnel policy of the Police Department or city, or by majority vote of the
City Council.
   (E)   The committee created herein shall regularly review the position of
Chief of Police every two years following the appointment of the same, and
shall submit its findings to the City Council. The Council shall take whatever
action it deems reasonable and necessary for the continued employment or
termination of the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 30-1) (Ord. 2005-549, passed 1-3-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Election of Marshal in aldermanic cities, see 11 O.S. § 9-114
   Municipal police departments generally, see 11 O.S. §§ 34-101 et seq.
§ 30-2. POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   It is the duty of the Police Department to apprehend and arrest on
view or on warrant, and bring to justice all violators of the ordinances of the
city, federal, or state laws; to suppress all riots, affrays, and unlawful
assemblies which may come to their knowledge; and generally to keep and
preserve the peace; to serve all warrants, writs, executions, and other
processes properly directed and delivered to them; and in all respects to
perform all duties pertaining to the offices of police officers.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall be the head of the Police Department and
shall have such duties and responsibilities as granted police officers of the
Police Department, and all other duties and responsibilities reasonably
necessary to administer the Department.
   (C)   The Assistant Chief of Police and police officers appointed by the
Chief of Police shall perform such duties as required of them by the Chief of
Police, city ordinances, federal, state, and county regulations, and any other
actions required in the maintenance of good order and public peace.
(Prior Code, § 30-2) (Ord. 2005-549, passed 1-3-2005)
§ 30-3. CHIEF OF POLICE SALARY.
   The salary of the Chief of Police shall be determined and set by the
Business Manager, based upon the requisite skills and qualifications of the
Chief of Police, payable as in the manner of other city police.
(Prior Code, § 30-3) (Ord. 2005-549, passed 1-3-2005)
§§ 30-4 THROUGH 30-24. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
Section
   
30-25.   Complete record required
   
30-26.   Disposition of unclaimed property
   
30-27.   Property found by a private person
   
30-28.   Recovery by owner
Statutory reference:
   Disposal of liquor and gambling equipment seized by police officers, see 22
O.S. §§ 1261 et seq.
   Disposal of stolen or embezzled property coming into hands of police
officers, see 22 O.S. §§ 1321 et seq.
   Relating to finders of lost goods, see 15 O.S. §§ 511 et seq.
   Uniform Unclaimed Property Act, see 60 O.S. §§ 651 et seq.
§ 30-25. COMPLETE RECORD REQUIRED.
   All personal property which comes into the possession of any police officer,
which has been found or stolen or taken off the person or out of the possession
of any prisoner or person suspected of, or charged with, being a criminal, and
which is not known to belong to some person laying claim thereto, shall be, by
the officer securing possession thereof, delivered into the charge of the Chief
of Police. The Chief shall, in a permanent recordbook kept for that purpose,
make a record sufficient to identify the property, with the date and
circumstances of the receipt thereof, the name of the person from whom it was
taken, and the place where it was found; and the record shall also disclose the
subsequent disposal thereof, giving the date of sale, name and address of the
purchaser, and the amount for which it was sold.
(Prior Code, § 30-25)
§ 30-26. DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY.
   Any unclaimed personal property, other than animals, which remain in the
possession of the Chief of Police, unclaimed, or the ownership of which is not,
to him or her, satisfactorily established, for a period of 30 days, shall be
sold, and the proceeds of the sale shall be paid over to the City Clerk, who
shall issue a receipt therefor, and deposit the same to the credit of the
General Fund of the city, except such personal property as, in the opinion of
the Mayor, can be more advantageously used by some department or office of the
city government. Ten days before a sale of such unclaimed property, the Chief
of Police shall sign and have posted in a conspicuous place in the City Clerk’s
office, where it will be plainly visible to persons who visit that office,
notice of the time, place, and manner of such sale, and general description of
the property to be sold. However, if, in the opinion of the Mayor, all or any
portion of the personal property may be more advantageously used in any city
department or office, he or she shall so instruct the Chief of Police in
writing, and the Chief shall thereupon deliver the personal property designated
to that department or office of city government and make a permanent record of
its disposition.
(Prior Code, § 30-26)
§ 30-27. PROPERTY FOUND BY A PRIVATE PERSON.
   Any personal property found by a person other than a public official or
employee, which is delivered to any police officer for identification, if not
claimed or identified within 30 days, shall, within ten additional days
thereafter, if requested by the finder, be returned to him or her, and a record
of such disposal made thereof. If the finder does not request return of the
property to him or her within such additional ten days, then the Chief of
Police shall sell the property as if it had been found by a public official or
employee, or, on instruction by the Mayor, deliver it to some department or
office of the city government for its use.
(Prior Code, § 30-27)
§ 30-28. RECOVERY BY OWNER.
   If any property is sold as herein provided, and the owner thereof takes and
recovers possession of same from the purchaser, the amount paid therefor shall
be returned to the purchaser, upon verified claim being submitted and approved
by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 30-28)
CHAPTER 31: RESERVED
   [Reserved]
CHAPTER 32: MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
III.   OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC PEACE AND ORDER
      
IV.   OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC HEALTH, WELFARE, AND MORALS
      
V.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
VI.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
32-1.   Attempts to commit an offense
   
32-2.   Aiding in an offense
   32-3 through 32-22 reserved
Statutory reference:
   Crimes and offenses, see 21 O.S. §§ 1 et seq.
§ 32-1. ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE.
   Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the ordinances of the
city, and in such attempt, does any act toward the commission of such offense,
but fails or is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration thereof, is guilty
of an offense, and shall be punished in the following manner.
   (A)   If the offense so attempted is punishable by a fine, the offender
convicted of such attempt is punishable by a fine not exceeding one-half the
largest fine which may be imposed upon a conviction of the offense so
attempted.
   (B)   If the offense so attempted is punishable by imprisonment and by a
fine, the offender convicted of such attempt may be punished by both
imprisonment and fine, not exceeding one-half the longest term of imprisonment
and the fine not exceeding one-half the largest fine which may be imposed upon
a conviction for the offense so attempted.
(Prior Code, § 32-1)
Statutory reference:
   Attempt to commit an offense, see 21 O.S. § 42
§ 32-2. AIDING IN AN OFFENSE.
   When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a
particular offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who
counsels or aids another in the violation of any provision or section of this
chapter is guilty of an offense or misdemeanor and punishable in the same
manner as the principal offender.
(Prior Code, § 32-2)
Statutory reference:
   Aiding or abetting, see 29 O.S. § 7-203
§§ 32-3 THROUGH 32-22. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
32-23.   Petit larceny prohibited
   
32-24.   Receiving stolen property
   
32-25.   Injuring automobiles and other vehicles
   
32-26.   Destroying or injuring buildings and other property
   
32-27.   Placing signs on property of another
   
32-28.   Throwing or shooting at persons or property
   
32-29.   Tampering with or damaging public utilities
   
32-30.   Unlawful intrusion upon land
   
32-31.   Illegal entrance
   
32-32.   Throwing advertising on street prohibited
   
32-33.   Throwing injurious substances
   
32-34.   Injury to plants and trees
   
32-35.   Public streets and trees
   
32-36.   Trespass prohibited
   
32-37.   Parking on property of another
   
32-38.   Interference with fire hydrants
   32-39 through 32-64 reserved
§ 32-23. PETIT LARCENY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   PETIT LARCENY is the taking of personal property of value of $500 or
less, accomplished by fraud or stealth and with intent to deprive another
thereof, but it does not include the taking of such property from the person of
another.
   (B)   Petit larceny is unlawful, and any person who commits petit larceny
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not
less than $10 or more than $500, or imprisonment in the county jail not to
exceed six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment, at the discretion of
the court.
(Prior Code, § 32-23)
Statutory reference:
   Petit larceny defined, see 21 O.S. § 1704
   Punishment, see 21 O.S. § 1706
§ 32-24. RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful to buy or receive, in any manner, upon any
consideration, any personal property of any value whatsoever that has been
stolen, embezzled, obtained by false pretenses or robbery, knowing or having
reasonable cause to believe the same to have been stolen, embezzled, obtained
by false pretense or robbery, or who conceals, withholds, or aids in concealing
or withholding such property from the owner.
   (B)   Any person who, without making reasonable inquiry, buys, receives,
conceals, withholds, or aids in concealing or withholding any property which
has been stolen, embezzled, obtained by false pretense or robbery, or otherwise
feloniously obtained, under such circumstances as should cause such person to
make reasonable inquiry to ascertain that the person from whom such property
was bought or received had the legal right to sell or deliver it, shall be
presumed to have bought or received such property knowing it to have been
stolen or wrongfully obtained. This presumption may, however, be rebutted by
proof.
(Prior Code, § 32-24)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 21 O.S. § 1713
§ 32-25. INJURING AUTOMOBILES AND OTHER VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in or upon any automobile or
motor vehicle, or to deface or injure such automobile or motor vehicle, or to
molest, drive, or attempt to drive any automobile, for joyriding or any other
purpose, or to manipulate or meddle with any machinery or appliances thereof
without the consent of the owner of such automobile or motor vehicle. Any
person violating this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 and not
more than $500 or by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than one
year, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 32-25)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 21 O.S. §§ 1787 and 1788
§ 32-26. DESTROYING OR INJURING BUILDINGS AND OTHER PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to maliciously destroy, injure, deface,
besmear, or molest any structure, building, outbuilding, fence, or any other
property, real or personal, public or private, belonging to another; or to use
any such property wrongfully to the detriment of the owner or other person
entitled to its use; or to interfere wrongfully with the use of any such
property by its owner or any other person entitled to its use. If the damage,
defacement, or destruction causes a loss which is valued at less than $2,500,
the violation will be punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 32-26)
Statutory reference:
   Malicious injury to property, see 21 O.S. § 1760
§ 32-27. PLACING SIGNS ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER.
   It is unlawful for any person to place, stick, tack, paste, post, paint,
mark, write, or print any sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement,
bill placard, device, or inscription upon any public or private building,
fence, sidewalk, bridge, viaduct, post, automobile, other vehicle, or other
property of another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 32-27)
Statutory reference:
   Attaching objects to utility poles, see 21 O.S. § 1838
§ 32-28. THROWING OR SHOOTING AT PERSONS OR PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any stone, shot, or other
object into or across any street or alley, or in any place where he or she is
likely to hit another person wrongfully or to injure property, or to throw or
shoot any stone, shot, or other object at any person, vehicle, structure,
electric light, or other property of another (whether public or private),
except in case where such is done in defense of oneself, of another person, or
of property.
(Prior Code, § 32-28)
§ 32-29. TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   It is unlawful for any person to connect or attach any kind of pipe, wire,
or other contrivance to any pipe, line, wire, or other conductor carrying gas,
water, cable, telecommunications services, or electricity and belonging to a
public utility (whether publicly or privately owned), in such a manner as to
enable him or her to consume or use the gas, water, cable, telecommunications
services, or electricity without it passing through the meter or any other way
so as to evade payment.
(Prior Code, § 32-29)
Statutory reference:
   Injury to pipes and wires of utility services, see 21 O.S. § 1786
   Larceny of cable services and the like, see 21 O.S. § 1737
   Unlawful procurement of telecommunications services, see 21 O.S. § 1515
§ 32-30. UNLAWFUL INTRUSION UPON LAND.
   It is unlawful for any person to intrude or squat upon any lot or piece of
land within the city without a license or authority from the owner thereof, or
to erect or occupy thereon any hut, hovel, shanty, or other structure without
such license or authority, or to place, erect, or occupy within the bounds of
any street, alley, or avenue of the city, any hut, shanty, hovel, or other
structure without authority of law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 32-30)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 21 O.S. § 1353
§ 32-31. ILLEGAL ENTRANCE.
   It is illegal for any person to enter upon the property of another or into
an area or structure on such property (whether such property, area, or
structure is public or private) when such entrance is plainly forbidden by
signs or otherwise or when the property, area, or structure is enclosed, except
when such entrance is in the line of duty, or with the expressed or tacit
consent of the owner or person in charge, or otherwise by authority of law or
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 32-31)
Statutory reference:
   Trespass upon posted property, see 21 O.S. § 1835
§ 32-32. THROWING ADVERTISING ON STREET PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw, leave, or deposit, or cause to be
thrown, left, or deposited upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public
area any handbill, circular, or other advertising matter.
(Prior Code, § 32-32)
Statutory reference:
   Dumping or throwing of trash on property, see 21 O.S. § 1761.1
§ 32-33. THROWING INJURIOUS SUBSTANCES.
   It is unlawful for any person to purposely or premeditatedly put or throw
upon the person or property of another, or upon any animal, any acid,
corrosive, or other irritating or harmful substance, or human or animal waste
or urine, with intent to injure or harass the person, property, or animal.
(Prior Code, § 32-33)
Statutory reference:
   Dumping or throwing of trash on property, see 21 O.S. § 1761.1
   Throwing trash near highways, see 21 O.S. § 1205
§ 32-34. INJURY TO PLANTS AND TREES.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully and without authority cut, pull,
pluck, or otherwise injure any flowers, flowering plants, shrubs, or trees
growing in or around any park or public street within the city, or willfully or
without authority to tear down, remove, cut, or otherwise injure or destroy any
gate or fence enclosing any such park or ground, or willfully injure or destroy
any stand, bench, seat, or other property situated upon such park or ground.
(Prior Code, § 32-34)
Statutory reference:
   Malicious injury to property, see 21 O.S. § 1760
§ 32-35. PUBLIC STREETS AND TREES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Willfully or wantonly cut, deface, or in any way injure any tree or
sapling standing or growing in any of the streets, alleys, or public places
within the city;
      (2)   Attach any guy wires, telephone, telegraph, or electric wire, or
any wire to any live tree;
      (3)   Dig any hole, ditch, or trench in any public street, road, avenue,
or alley, or any other public premises or ground within, belonging to, or under
the supervision or control of the city;
      (4)   Take or remove any dirt, earth, or any substance from any street,
road, alley, or other public place in the city; or to cut, break, or otherwise
injure any pavement, curb, or gutter therein; or
      (5)   Connect any driveway to any street or other public place without
first securing permission from the City Inspector so to do.
   (B)   Any such digging, removing, or driveway connection shall be done under
the supervision of the Street Superintendent or City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 32-35)
Statutory reference:
   Injuring fruit or ornamental trees, see 21 O.S. § 1773
   Malicious injury to property and the like, see 21 O.S. § 1768
§ 32-36. TRESPASS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any property other than public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Property which is dedicated to public use and over which
the federal, state, or municipal government or any subdivision thereof
exercises control.
      TRESPASS. Each and every actual entry upon the premises of an owner or
other person in lawful possession of the premises without the express or the
implied consent of the owner or other person in lawful possession. The term
TRESPASS shall also mean remaining upon the premises of an owner or other
person in lawful possession after having been told to leave the premises by the
owner, or the agent, or employee of the owner, or other person in lawful
possession of the premises. The term TRESPASS shall also be defined as the act
of remaining on private property at any time other than during posted hours of
business operation after having been directed to vacate such property, however,
this sentence shall not apply to any person who is authorized by the owner or
by a person in lawful possession of such premises, nor shall the provisions of
this sentence apply to commercial property unless the hours of business
operations are posted upon such premises. TRESPASS shall also be defined as the
act of returning to private property before the posted time of opening for
business operation on the next business day after having been directed to
vacate such premises under the terms of this definition.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to trespass on private property.
(Prior Code, § 32-36)
Statutory reference:
   Trespass on posted property, see 21 O.S. § 1835
§ 32-37. PARKING ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER.
   It is unlawful for any person to park an automobile or other vehicle, or to
place any structure or object on the driveway, yard, or property of another
without the expressed or tacit consent of the owner or person in charge, or
otherwise by authority of law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 32-37)
§ 32-38. INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, except one duly authorized by the city
utility personnel or a member of the Fire Department, to open, turn on or off,
interfere with, attach any pipe or hose to, or connect anything with any fire
hydrant or stop cock belonging to the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct access to any fire hydrant
by placing around or thereon brick, lumber, dirt, shrubs, or other thing, or in
any other manner obstructing access to a fire hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 32-38)
§§ 32-39 THROUGH 32-64. RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC PEACE AND ORDER
Section
   
32-65.   Disturbing the peace
   
32-66.   Insulting signs; unlawful literature or language
   
32-67.   Literature or language ridiculing religion
   
32-68.   Fireworks regulated
   
32-69.   Storing and keeping explosives
   
32-70.   Carrying weapons; exceptions
   
32-71.   Reckless conduct
   
32-72.   Discharging firearms and BB guns
   
32-73.   Loud noise or music prohibited; amplified sound
   
32-74.   Political advertising on rights-of-way
   32-75 through 32-93 reserved
§ 32-65. DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   It is unlawful to disturb or alarm the peace of another or others by
doing any of the acts set out in subsection (B) below of this section.
   (B)   DISTURBING THE PEACE is the doing of any of the following in such a
manner as would foreseeably alarm or disturb the peace of another or others:
      (1)   Using obscene, offensive, abusive, profane, vulgar, threatening,
violent, or insulting language or conduct which would be considered “fighting
words” directed towards any person who would reasonably be expected to become
outraged and which is calculated, or of which the natural consequence is, to
cause a breach of the peace or an assault as defined in §
32-66(B);
      (2)   Engaging in a fistic encounter;
      (3)   Lewdly exposing one’s person, or private parts thereof, in any
public place or in any place where there are present other persons to be
offended or annoyed thereby;
      (4)   Pointing any pistol or any other deadly weapon, whether loaded or
not, at any other person, either in anger or otherwise;
      (5)   Holding an unlawful assembly of two or more persons, including
being assembled together and acting in concert, to do any unlawful act against
the peace or to the terror of others, or preparing for or moving toward such
acts, or otherwise assembling unlawfully or riotously;
      (6)   Interrupting any lawful assembly of people by making noise, by
rude, indecent, or improper behavior, by profane, improper, or loud language,
or in any other manner, either within the place of assembly or within hearing
distance thereof;
      (7)   Making unnecessarily loud, offensive noises;
      (8)   Disturbing any congregation or assembly of persons meeting for
religious worship by making noise, by rude, indecent, or improper behavior, by
profane, improper, or loud language, or in any other manner, either within the
place of worship or within hearing distance thereof; or
      (9)   Committing any other act in such a manner as to unreasonably
disturb or alarm the public.
(Prior Code, § 32-65)
Statutory reference:
   Disturbance by loud noise and the like, see 21 O.S. § 1362
   Disturbing religious meeting, see 21 O.S. § 915
§ 32-66. INSULTING SIGNS; UNLAWFUL LITERATURE OR LANGUAGE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person within the city to display any sign,
emblem, badge, flag, or device, which in its common acceptance is insulting,
profane, or abusive to the citizens of the city, and which is calculated, or of
which the natural consequence is, to cause a breach of the peace or an assault.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully use, utter, publish,
circulate, or distribute any profane, violent, abusive, or insulting language
or literature where:
      (1)   A natural consequence of the language or literature is to cause a
breach of the peace or an assault; or
      (2)   The language or literature, in its common acceptance, is calculated
to cause a breach of the peace or an assault.
(Prior Code, § 32-66)
§ 32-67. LITERATURE OR LANGUAGE RIDICULING RELIGION.
   It is unlawful for any person to utter, publish, distribute, or circulate
any literature or language within the corporate limits of the city that casts
profane ridicule on any deity, or any religion, which would be considered
“fighting words” directed towards any person who would reasonably be expected
to become outraged and which, in its common acceptance, is calculated or where
the natural consequence is to cause a breach of the peace or an assault.
(Prior Code, § 32-67)
§ 32-68. FIREWORKS REGULATED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to fire, set off, or discharge any
fireworks of any kind or description in, at, or upon any of the public streets,
avenues, alleys, sidewalks, or public parks within the corporate limits of the
city at any time.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to offer for retail sale and sell within
the city at any time except from a period of ten days immediately prior to July
4 in any year, any firecrackers of any description, sky rockets, Roman candles,
torpedoes, flash salutes, flash firecrackers, or other fireworks or substances
designed for fireworks, except as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 32-68) (Ord. 99-833, passed 11-1-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate fireworks, see 11 O.S. § 22-110
   Bottle rockets prohibited, see 68 O.S. § 1624
   State fireworks license required, see 68 O.S. §§ 1625 et seq.
§ 32-69. STORING OR KEEPING EXPLOSIVES.
   It is unlawful for any person to store or keep within the city any
nitroglycerin, dynamite, gunpowder, or any other highly explosive material or
substance, except that gunpowder may be kept in quantities of not to exceed
five pounds where the same is securely kept.
(Prior Code, § 32-69)
Statutory reference:
   Storage of explosives, see 63 O.S. § 128.2
§ 32-70. CARRYING WEAPONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to carry concealed upon or about his or her
person any pistol, revolver, dagger, bowie knife, dirk knife, switchblade
knife, spring-type knife, metal knuckle, or any other dangerous or deadly
weapon or instrument, except when doing so in the line of duty or as may be
permitted by law.
(Prior Code, § 32-70)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate carrying of concealed weapons, see 11 O.S. § 22-110
   Carrying concealed weapons, see 21 O.S. § 1289.24
   Other state firearms acts, see 21 O.S. §§ 1289.1 et seq.
§ 32-71. RECKLESS CONDUCT.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in reckless conduct while having in
his or her possession any shotgun, rifle, or pistol, such actions consisting of
creating a situation of unreasonable risk and probability of death or great
bodily harm to another, and demonstrating a conscious disregard for the safety
of another person.
(Prior Code, 32-71)
Statutory reference:
   Reckless conduct prohibited, see 21 O.S. § 1289.11
§ 32-72. DISCHARGING FIREARMS AND BB GUNS.
   No person shall discharge any species of firearm in the city, except when
doing so in the line of duty, when lawfully doing so in defense of oneself, of
another person, or of property, or when otherwise authorized by law or
ordinance. It is unlawful to discharge an air rifle or BB gun in the city.
(Prior Code, § 32-72)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit discharge of firearms, see 11 O.S. § 22-110
§ 32-73. LOUD NOISE OR MUSIC PROHIBITED; AMPLIFIED SOUND.
   It is unlawful for any person to disturb the peace and quietude of any part
of the city by operating, having operated, or permitting to be operated any
contrivance, whether electric or not, with or without a loudspeaker, in such a
manner as to emit loud music, noise, or words. However, this section shall not
prohibit religious bodies from playing chimes, bells, carillons, or other
religious music.
(Prior Code, § 32-73)
Statutory reference:
   Disturbance by loud or unusual noise, see 21 O.S. § 1362
§ 32-74. POLITICAL ADVERTISING ON RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   A POLITICAL ADVERTISING SIGN is defined as any sign, poster, or
placard printed, painted, made, or designed for the purpose of furthering or
advertising the candidacy of any person who is, or intends to become, or may be
a candidate for the election to any public office, whether such public office
be in the local, state, or federal government, or any subdivision thereof.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to erect or display any advertising sign
or advertising of any other character upon any public utility easement within
the city.
   (C)   No person shall place, tack, nail, staple, or glue any advertising
sign on any telephone, telegraph, electric, or street-lighting pole within this
city.
   (D)   Any advertising sign erected, placed, or displayed in violation of the
provisions hereof shall be a public nuisance. No property right shall exist in
such sign erected, placed, or displayed in violation of the provisions hereof,
and such sign may be removed and destroyed by any person.
(Prior Code, § 32-74)
§§ 32-75 THROUGH 32-93. RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC HEALTH, WELFARE, AND MORALS
Section
   
32-94.   Public intoxication and drinking prohibited
   
32-95.   Intoxicated person in a public place
   
32-96.   Possession; transportation of intoxicating beverages
   
32-97.   Intoxicating liquors
   
32-98.   Narcotics prohibited
   
32-99.   Prostitution
   
32-100.   Disorderly house
   
32-101.   Maintaining or leasing a disorderly house
   
32-102.   Residents and visitors to disorderly house
   
32-103.   Nudity; improper dress; indecent exposure
   
32-104.   Obscenity regulations – Definitions
   
32-105.   Same – Prohibited conduct
   
32-106.   Loitering
   
32-107.   Curfew for minors
   
32-108.   Sleeping on the streets; depots
   
32-109.   Aggressive or obstructive begging prohibited
   
32-110.   Gambling prohibited
   
32-111.   Being about place where gambling is going on
   
32-112.   Harmful deception
   
32-113.   False or bogus checks
   32-114 through 32-139 reserved
§ 32-94. PUBLIC INTOXICATION AND DRINKING PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to drink intoxicating liquor or beverage upon
or in any street, alley, or other public place within the city.
(Prior Code, § 32-94)
Statutory reference:
   Intoxicated physician, see 21 O.S. § 831
   Intoxicated railroad engineer and the like, see 21 O.S. § 1254
§ 32-95. INTOXICATED PERSON IN A PUBLIC PLACE.
   (A)   An intoxicated person in a public place, as defined in 37 O.S. § 8,
who appears to be in need of help, if the person consents to the offered help,
may be assisted to:
      (1)   His or her home;
      (2)   An alternative facility pursuant to the provisions of this section;
or
      (3)   An approved treatment facility by a peace officer or an emergency
service patrol.
   (B)   A person who appears to be intoxicated, and as a result of such
intoxication, is unconscious in a public place or reasonably appears to be in
danger of harming himself or herself or others, may be taken into protective
custody by a peace officer or an emergency service patrol and immediately
brought to an approved treatment facility for medical or nonmedical
detoxification.
      (1)   The peace officer or the emergency service patrol, in detaining the
person and taking the person to an approved treatment facility, is taking the
person into protective custody and shall make every reasonable effort to
protect the person’s health and safety.
      (2)   In taking the person into protective custody, the detaining officer
may take reasonable steps for self-protection. No record shall be made which
indicates that the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (C)   If the state’s Department of Mental Health and Substance Abuse
Services, or the governing body of any municipality, has approved a program
alternative to statutory or municipal requirements of prosecution and
imprisonment of such person, until the capacity to accommodate intoxicated
persons has been exceeded in the facility wherein such alternative program is
located, the arresting officer and other public officials involved in an arrest
pursuant to this section shall utilize such alternative treatment program upon
the voluntary approval of the intoxicated person and the receiving facility
rather than proceed under the statutory or municipal laws pertaining to
prosecution and imprisonment of intoxicated persons.
      (1)   A facility in which the program is located may make application to
the state’s Department of Mental Health and Substance Abuse Services for
approval, but no such program or facility wherein such program is located shall
claim or advertise to be a certified treatment facility unless duly certified
as such by the state’s Department of Mental Health and Substance Abuse
Services.
      (2)   All facilities acquiring the approval of an alternative program
shall establish their own capacity for the number of persons to be accommodated
in the program.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the State Department of Health to
investigate all complaints concerning general sanitation made in the form of a
sworn affidavit against such municipally approved alternative facilities.
      (4)   In event the complaints are found to be true, the State
Commissioner of Health shall have the power to order improvements or closure.
   (D)   A person who is brought to an alternative facility or an approved
treatment facility may be admitted as a consumer by the administrator in charge
of the facility or referred to another treatment facility.
   (E)   A person may not be detained at the approved treatment facility when
the person either is no longer unconscious, or no longer appears likely to be
of harm to self or others. If the person remains unconscious or likely to harm
himself or herself or others, the person may be detained for no more than 12
hours, excluding weekends and legal holidays, after admission unless a petition
for an order directing the commitment of the person to an approved treatment
facility has been filed according to the mental health law provisions and
procedures for commitment. The person may consent to remain in the facility as
long as the administrator or physician in charge believes appropriate.
   (F)   If a person is admitted to an approved treatment facility under this
section, the person may notify relatives of the admission or another person
may, with the consent of the admittee, notify relatives of the admission.
(Prior Code, § 32-95)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 43A O.S. § 3-428
§ 32-96. POSSESSION; TRANSPORTATION OF INTOXICATING BEVERAGES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to be in
possession of any intoxicating beverage or low-point beer. It is unlawful for
any person to consume or possess with the intent to consume intoxicating
beverages or low-point beer while such person is upon any public street, road,
or highway or in any public place within the city limits.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian of a person under the age of
18 years to permit such person to be in possession of an intoxicating beverage
or low-point beer.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly transport in any moving
vehicle upon a public highway, street, or alley any intoxicating beverage or
low-point beer, except in the original container, which shall not have been
opened and from which the original cap or seal shall not have been removed,
unless the opened container be in the rear trunk or rear compartment. The rear
trunk or compartment shall include the spare tire compartment in a station
wagon or panel truck or any outside compartment which is not accessible to the
driver or any other person in the vehicle while it is in motion.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, intoxicating beverage and low-point
beer shall be as defined by 37A O.S. § 1-103.
(Prior Code, § 32-96)
Statutory reference:
   Intoxicating liquor within one-half mile of polling place on election day
prohibited and the like, see     26 O.S. § 7-110
§ 32-97. INTOXICATING LIQUORS.
   It is unlawful:
   (A)   For any person to barter, sell, give away, or otherwise furnish to
another any intoxicating beverage or low-point beer of any kind, except as
permitted by law;
   (B)   To have in possession or under control any intoxicating liquor or low-
point beer, except as permitted by law, or to transport or in any manner convey
from place to place in the city any intoxicating beverage or low-point beer,
except as permitted by law;
   (C)   To loiter in a place where intoxicating beverage or low-point beer is
sold, bartered, given away, or otherwise furnished contrary to law; or
   (D)   To keep, maintain, aid, or abet in keeping or maintaining a place
where intoxicating beverage or low-point beer is sold, bartered, given away, or
otherwise furnished in violation of law.
(Prior Code, § 32-97)
Statutory reference:
   Definition, see 37A O.S. §§ 1-103 and 7-102
§ 32-98. NARCOTICS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person:
      (1)   To appear or be upon or in any street, alley, place of business, or
other public place while under the influence of marijuana, opium, or other
narcotic;
      (2)   To use, have, or possess marijuana, opium, or other narcotic upon
or in any street, alley, place of business, or other public place within the
city;
      (3)   To use marijuana, opium, or other narcotic in any place within the
city, except as legally prescribed by a physician licensed to practice in the
state;
      (4)   To loiter about a place where marijuana, opium, or other narcotic
is sold or furnished illegally; or
      (5)   To sell or furnish illegally to another person marijuana, opium, or
any other narcotic.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the term NARCOTIC shall have the same
meaning as CONTROLLED DANGEROUS SUBSTANCE as defined in the Controlled
Dangerous Substances Act, 63 O.S. § 2-101.
(Prior Code, § 32-98)
Statutory reference:
   Controlled Dangerous Substances Act, see 63 O.S. §§ 2-101 et seq.
§ 32-99. PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Be a prostitute;
      (2)   Solicit, induce, entice, or procure another to commit or engage in
any act of prostitution;
      (3)   Engage in any act of prostitution;
      (4)   Knowingly let premises for purposes of prostitution;
      (5)   Conduct a business or premises for prostitution;
      (6)   Accept or receive the proceeds of any act of prostitution; or
      (7)   Be a party to an act of prostitution or solicitation of
prostitution in the limits of the city.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LETTING PREMISES FOR LEWDNESS. The granting of the right of use or the
leasing of any premises, knowing that they are to be used for the practice of
lewdness or allowing the continued use of the premises with that knowledge.
      LETTING PREMISES FOR PROSTITUTION. The granting of the right of use or
the leasing of any premises, knowing that they are to be used for the practice
of prostitution, or allowing the continued use of the premises with that
knowledge.
      PROSTITUTION. The giving of the body for sexual intercourse or sodomy for
hire or money.
      SOLICITING FOR PROSTITUTES. The soliciting, inviting, inducing,
directing, or transporting of a person to any place with the intention of
promoting prostitution.
(Prior Code, § 32-99)
Statutory reference:
   Engaging in prostitution, see 21 O.S. § 1029
   Procure another for prostitution and the like, see 21 O.S. § 1081
§ 32-100. DISORDERLY HOUSE.
   A DISORDERLY HOUSE means any structure or vehicle by which the peace,
comfort, health, welfare, or decency of the public is disturbed by reason of
the people therein committing or resorting to any of the following acts:
   (A)   The sale, distribution, possession, or use of any controlled dangerous
substance, the sale, distribution, possession, or use of which is declared
unlawful by state statute;
   (B)   The violation of any of the ordinances of this city or statutes of
this state regulating the sale, distribution, possession, or use of alcoholic
beverages, including beer containing more than 0.5% alcohol by volume;
   (C)   The performance of any sexual act declared unlawful by state statute
or city ordinance, including, but not limited to, soliciting for purposes of
prostitution; or
   (D)   The violation of any state statute or city ordinance prohibiting
gambling.
(Prior Code, § 32-100)
Statutory reference:
   Bawdy or disorderly house, see 21 O.S. § 1025
§ 32-101. MAINTAINING OR LEASING A DISORDERLY HOUSE.
   (A)   No person shall keep or maintain, or aid, abet, or assist in keeping
and maintaining a disorderly house.
   (B)   No owner, lessee, lessor, or other person, partnership, or corporation
having control over any house, building, structure, tent, vehicle, mobile home,
or recreational vehicle shall knowingly use, lease, sublease, or otherwise
permit the use of same for the purpose of keeping therein any disorderly house,
and knowing or ascertaining that such house, building, structure, tent,
vehicle, mobile home, or recreational vehicle is so occupied as a disorderly
house, no persons, partnership, or corporation shall continue to grant
permission to so use such premises as a disorderly house.
(Prior Code, § 32-101)
§ 32-102. RESIDENTS AND VISITORS TO DISORDERLY HOUSE.
   No person shall knowingly reside in, enter into, or remain in a disorderly
house. In any prosecution for violation of this section, the city shall have
the burden to prove such knowledge by direct evidence only and not by
circumstantial evidence. This section shall not apply to physicians or officers
in the discharge of their professional or official duties.
(Prior Code, § 32-102)
§ 32-103. NUDITY; IMPROPER DRESS; INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Appear in any public place in the city in a state of nudity;
   (B)   Appear in any public place in the city in any offensive, indecent, or
lewd dress; or
   (C)   Make an indecent exposure of his or her person.
(Prior Code, § 32-103)
Statutory reference:
   Indecent exposure, see 21 O.S. § 1021
§ 32-104. OBSCENITY REGULATIONS – DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §
32-105, the following definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
   AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC. The matter or performance may be purchased or
attended on a subscription basis, on a membership fee arrangement, or for a
separate fee for each item or performance.
   DISSEMINATE. To transfer possession of, with or without consideration.
   KNOWINGLY. Being aware of the character and the content of the material.
   MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper, or other printed or written
material, or any picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture, or other
pictorial representation, or any statue or other figure, or any recording,
transcription, or mechanical, chemical, or electrical reproduction, or any
other articles, equipment, or machines.
   NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals or pubic area with
less than a fully opaque covering, or the depiction of covered male genitals in
a discernible turgid state.
   OBSCENE. To the average person applying contemporary community standards:
      (1)   The predominant appeal of the matter, taken as a whole, is to
prurient interest; i.e., shameful or morbid interest in sexual conduct, nudity,
or excretion;
      (2)   The matter depicts or describes, in a patently offensive manner,
sexual conduct regulated by 21 O.S. §§ 1 et seq.; and
      (3)   The work, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political, or scientific value.
   PERFORMANCE. Any preview, play, show, skit, film, dance, or other exhibition
performed before an audience.
   PROMOTE. To cause, permit, procure, counsel, or assist.
   SERVICE TO PATRONS. The provision of services to paying guests in
establishments providing food and beverages, including, but not limited to,
hosting, hat checking, cooking, bartending, serving, table setting and
clearing, waiter and waitressing, and entertaining.
(Prior Code, § 32-104)
§ 32-105. SAME – PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)    It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Knowingly disseminate, sell, offer for sale, publish, display,
distribute, make available to the public, or buy any obscene material;
      (2)   Knowingly engage in commerce for commercial gain with materials
depicting and describing explicit sexual conduct, nudity, or exhibition
utilizing displays, circulars, advertisements, and other public sales efforts
that promote such commerce primarily on the basis of their prurient appeal;
      (3)   Knowingly engage or participate in any obscene performance made
available to the public; or
      (4)   Provide service to patrons in such a manner as to expose to public
view:
         (a)   His or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal
region, or pubic hair region;
         (b)   Any device, costume, or covering which gives the appearance of
or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region, or
pubic hair region;
         (c)   Any portion of the female breast at or below the areola thereof;
or
         (d)   Knowingly promote the commission of any of the above listed
unlawful acts.
   (B)   Each complete or partial display or other material exhibition of any
motion picture film or other material shall be deemed to constitute a separate
offense. The provisions of §§ 10-410 and 10-411 shall not apply to a
projectionist, assistant projectionist, usher, or cashier, provided such person
has no financial interest in the motion picture theater so long as that person
is not acting as director or manager of the theater.
(Prior Code, 32-105)
§ 32-106. LOITERING.
   It is unlawful in the limits of the city for any person to loiter or remain
in or wander about a public or private place for any of the following purposes:
   (A)   For the purpose of gambling with cards, dice, or other gambling
paraphernalia;
   (B)   For the purpose of engaging in prostitution, or soliciting
prostitution, or soliciting for an act of lewdness;
   (C)   For the purpose of engaging in theft, or breaking and entering any
building, property, or automobile of another;
   (D)   For the purpose of injuring, destroying, molesting, or defacing any
property of another;
   (E)   For the purpose of assaulting any person;
   (F)   For the purpose of begging or soliciting alms, provided that this
section shall not apply to persons soliciting alms for bona fide religious,
charitable, or eleemosynary organizations with the authorization of such
organizations; or
   (G)   For the purpose of selling, purchasing, trading, or otherwise
exchanging, procuring, or making available illegal drugs or contraband.
(Prior Code, § 32-106)
§ 32-107. CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18, but shall not include any person
who is legally emancipated or certified as an adult.
      PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a minor:
         (a)   As a natural or adoptive parent;
         (b)   As a legal guardian;
         (c)   As a person who stands in loco parentis; or
         (d)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the
court.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground, or
place to which the general public has access and a right to resort for
business, entertainment, or other lawful purpose. A PUBLIC PLACE shall include,
but not be limited to, any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley,
cafe, theater, drug store, pool room, shopping center, and any other place
devoted to amusement or entertainment of the general public. It shall also
include the front or immediate area of the above. It shall also include the
front or immediate area adjacent to the above.
   (B)   Hours. It is unlawful for any minor to remain, loiter, wander, stroll,
or play in any public place on foot or to cruise about without a set
destination in or on any motorized or nonmotorized vehicle in, about, or upon
any public place in the city at night during the period ending 5:00 a.m. and
beginning:
      (1)   At 10:30 p.m. for minors under 16 years of age;
      (2)   At 10:30 p.m. on Sunday through Thursday for minors 16 years of age
or older; provided, from the day the city school system dismisses for summer
vacation each year, until the day prior to school beginning for the fall
semester in the school system, at 12:00 midnight on Sunday through Thursday for
minors 16 years of age or older; and
      (3)   At 12:30 a.m. on Saturday morning and Sunday morning for minors 16
years of age or older.
   (C)   Exceptions. The following shall constitute valid exceptions to
subsection (B) above of this section:
      (1)   At any time the minor is accompanied by a parent or other adult
person having custody and control of such minor;
      (2)   The minor is on an emergency errand as directed by his or her
parent or other adult person having custody and control of such minor;
      (3)   If the minor is legally employed, for the period from one-half hour
before to one-half hour after work, while traveling the most direct route
between his or her home and place of employment. This exception shall also
apply if the minor is in a public place during curfew hours in the course of
his or her employment. To qualify for this exception, the minor shall possess a
written, notarized statement from the employer attesting to the place and hours
of employment, which shall be displayed upon request by a police officer;
      (4)   Until the hour of 12:30 a.m. on any day of the week if the minor is
on the property of or the sidewalk where such minor resides, or on the sidewalk
of adjacent neighbor, not communicating an objection;
      (5)   If the minor is returning directly home from a school activity or
an activity of a religious or other voluntary association, or a place of public
entertainment such as a movie, play, or school related event, or sporting
event. This exception shall apply for one-half hour after completion of such
event;
      (6)   If the minor is exercising First Amendment rights protected by the
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, speech, or assembly,
provided the minor first has given notice to the Chief of Police by delivering
a written communication signed by the minor and counter signed by the parent of
the minor which specifies when, where, in what manner, and for what First
Amendment purpose the minor will be on the streets during the curfew period;
      (7)   Upon being petitioned, the City Council or the Chief of Police may
authorize by regulation a relaxation of the curfew where reasonably necessary
and when determined to be consistent with the public interest and the purposes
of this section; and
      (8)   Whenever the minor is engaged in interstate or intrastate vehicular
travel with consent of parent. This contemplates normal travel and clearly
exempts bonafide interstate and intrastate movement through the city.
   (D)   Violations.
      (1)   A police officer who has probable cause to believe that a minor is
in violation of this section shall take such minor into custody. The minor’s
parent or other adult person having custody and control of the minor shall be
immediately notified. The minor shall be released into the custody of his or
her parent, or adult having custody and control of such minor, at which time,
said parent or adult custodian shall be given a copy of this section, the
notice provided hereinafter in subsection (D)(2) below of this section, and
shall be required to sign a promise to reappear form. If no such parent or
adult custodian takes custody of the minor, he or she may be referred to
attendant care services pursuant to state law, released to a responsible adult
or other relative, or such other actions as the officer deems necessary. If
attendant care services are used, any associated fees shall be the
responsibility of the parent or adult having custody and control of said minor.
      (2)   In the case of two or more violations of this section by a minor,
the minor shall be referred to juvenile authorities. Additionally, the police
shall send the minor’s parent or adult custodian written notice of the
violation, by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by serving such
notice personally on such person, warning them that further violations may
result in the filing of a charge against such parent or adult custodian for
violation of subsection (D)(3) below of this section.
      (3)   No parent or other adult having custody and control of a minor
shall knowingly permit or, through lack of proper parental supervision, allow
such minor to violate the provisions of subsection (B) above of this section.
In any prosecution for the violation of the provisions of this section, proof
that the minor violated subsection (B) above of this section, together with
proof that the parent or other adult having custody and control of such minor
was given written notice of a previous violation of subsection (B) above of
this section as provided by subsection (D)(2) above of this section, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the parent or adult
having custody and control of such minor permitted such minor to violate
subsection (B) above of this section and shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
offense.
   (E)   Penalty. If, after notice pursuant to subsection (D) above of this
section of a first violation by a minor, a parent, or other custodian, violates
said section (by a second or subsequent violation), the parent or other adult
having custody and control of a minor shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $70 for the first offense and/or
community service; second and subsequent offense shall be punished by a fine
not exceeding $100 and/or community service.
(Prior Code, § 32-107) (Ord. 2001-838, passed 5-7-2001)
§ 32-108. SLEEPING ON THE STREETS; DEPOTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and
sunrise, to sleep on any street, in any other public place, or on any property
of another without the express or tacit consent of the owner or person in
charge of such place.
   (B)   It is unlawful for a person to loiter on or about the premises of any
public or private school or other public building, or in or about a depot of a
public carrier.
(Prior Code, § 32-108)
§ 32-109. AGGRESSIVE OR OBSTRUCTIVE BEGGING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      AGGRESSIVELY BEG. To beg with the intent to intimidate another person
into giving money or goods.
      BEG. To ask or solicit for money or goods as a charity, whether by word,
bodily gestures, signs, or other means.
      INTIMIDATE. To engage in conduct which would make a reasonable person
fearful or feel compelled to react. Among the circumstances which may be
considered in determining whether the conduct is intended to INTIMIDATE another
person into giving money or goods are:
         (a)   Touching the person solicited;
         (b)   Following the person solicited, or persisting in begging after
the person solicited has declined the request;
         (c)   Using profane or abusive language toward the person solicited;
or
         (d)   Using violent or threatening gestures toward the person
solicited.
      OBSTRUCT PEDESTRIAN OR VEHICULAR TRAFFIC. To walk, stand, sit, lie, or
place an object in such a manner as to block passage by another person or a
vehicle, or to require another person or a driver of a vehicle to take
unreasonable evasive action to avoid physical contact.
      PUBLIC PLACE. An area generally visible to public view and includes
alleys, bridges, buildings, driveways, parking lots, parks, plazas, sidewalks,
and streets open to the general public, including those that serve food or
drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and entrances to buildings or
dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
      UNREASONABLE EVASIVE ACTION. Causing a vehicle to depart from the lane of
traffic in which it is traveling to change lanes, to straddle lanes, or to
enter onto a swale to obtain passage; it also means causing a pedestrian to
leave the sidewalk or to make contact with a wall or fence bordering the
sidewalk.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for a person to intentionally:
      (1)   Aggressively beg; or
      (2)   Obstruct pedestrian or vehicular traffic while begging.
   (C)   Permitted activities. Acts authorized as an exercise of one’s
constitutional rights include picketing, legal protest, and acts authorized by
a permit duly issued by a lawful authority which do not constitute obstruction
of pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Penalties. The first violation of this provision shall be punishable
by a fine of not more than $100 and 30 days’ imprisonment; second and
subsequent violations shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $200 and
60 days’ imprisonment.
   (E)   Alternative programs. Nothing herein shall limit the discretion of the
police, court personnel, and municipal judges from referring individuals
suspected, charged, or convicted of a violation of this provision to treatment
programs or facilities as an alternative to prosecution or imprisonment,
provided that the individual freely consents.
(Prior Code, § 32-109)
§ 32-110. GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person or agent or employee thereof to do any
of the following:
      (1)   To play, to open, or cause to be opened, or to operate, carry on,
or conduct, whether for hire or not, any game of faro, monte, poker, roulette,
craps, any banking, percentage, or other game played with dice, cards, or any
device, for money, checks, chips, credit, or any other thing of value;
      (2)   To set up, operate, or permit to be operated any slot machine or
other device whatsoever where money, checks, chips, credit, or any other things
of value are played, when the act of playing the same might result in a gain or
loss to the party playing;
      (3)   To gamble knowingly in any other manner; or
      (4)   To knowingly permit his or her premises, houses, lot, or other
property to be used in connection with, or for, any act declared unlawful in
this section.
   (B)   It is unlawful and an offense against the city for any person to play
any roulette wheel or slot machine, or any other device or machine wherein the
element of chance is involved by posing or winning money, credits, checks, or
any other representatives of value.
(Prior Code, § 32-110)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit gambling, see 11 O.S. § 22-108
   Gambling, see 21 O.S. §§ 941 through 948 and 981 through 987
§ 32-111. BEING ABOUT PLACE WHERE GAMBLING IS GOING ON.
   It is unlawful for any person to be about in the immediate vicinity where
persons are gambling, whether by playing games, operating a slot machine or
other device, or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 32-111)
§ 32-112. HARMFUL DECEPTION.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another, whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation, or otherwise, when such deception results in
or contributes to the loss, damage, harm, or injury of the person deceived or
of a third party, or results in or contributes to the benefit of the deceiver.
(Prior Code, § 32-112)
Statutory reference:
   Obtaining property by trick or deception, see 21 O.S. § 1541.1
§ 32-113. FALSE OR BOGUS CHECKS.
   It is unlawful for any person, with intent to cheat and defraud, to obtain
or attempt to obtain from any person any money, property, or valuable thing of
the value of $500 or less by means of any false or bogus check or by any other
written or printed or engraved instrument or spurious coin. The term FALSE OR
BOGUS CHECK shall include checks or orders given for money or property which
are not honored on account of insufficient funds of the maker to pay same, as
against the maker or drawer thereof, or because the check or order was drawn on
a closed account or on a nonexistent account when such checks or orders are
given in exchange for money or property, in exchange for any benefit or thing
of value or as a down payment for the purchase of any item of which the
purchaser is taking immediate possession, as against the maker or drawer
thereof. The making, drawing, issuing, or delivering of a check, draft, or
order, payment of which is refused by the drawee, shall be prima facie evidence
of intent to defraud and the knowledge of insufficient funds in or credit with
such bank or other depository. Such maker or drawer shall not have paid the
drawee the amount due thereon, together with the protest fees, and the check or
order shall be presented for payment within five days from the date the same is
presented for payment; and provided further, that said check or order is
presented for payment within 30 days after same is delivered and accepted.
(Prior Code, § 32-113)
Statutory reference:
   Defined, see 21 O.S. § 1541.4
   Obtaining property and the like valued less than $500 by bogus or false
checks prohibited, see 21 O.S. § 1541.1
§§ 32-114 THROUGH 32-139. RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
32-140.   Assault and battery prohibited
   32-141 through 32-163 reserved
§ 32-140. ASSAULT AND BATTERY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ASSAULT. Any willful and unlawful attempt or offer with force or violence
to do a corporal hurt to another.
      BATTERY. Any willful and unlawful use of force or violence upon the
person of another.
   (B)   It is unlawful to commit an assault and battery within the city.
(Prior Code, § 32-140)
Statutory reference:
   Assault and assault and battery, see 21 O.S. § 644
   Assault and battery defined, see 21 O.S. § 642
   Assault and battery upon school employee, see 70 O.S. § 5-146 and 21 O.S. §
650.7
§§ 32-141 THROUGH 32-163. RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
Section
   
32-164.   Resisting an officer
   
32-165.   Refusing or failing to assist an officer
   
32-166.   Assault or battery upon police or other law officer
   
32-167.   Rescuing prisoners
   
32-168.   Escape of prisoners
   
32-169.   Impersonating an officer or employee
   
32-170.   False alarms
   
32-171.   False representation to an officer
   
32-172.   Removal of barricades
   
32-173.   Resisting public officials
§ 32-164. RESISTING AN OFFICER.
   (A)   It is unlawful to resist, oppose, or assault, or in any way interfere
with the Chief of Police or any person duly authorized to act as such, while
the officer or person is discharging or attempting to discharge his or her
official duties within the limits of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to warn or signal another so as to
assist such other person to flee, escape, or evade an officer seeking to make
an arrest or for any person to bar or lock any door or barrier in the face of
or in front of an approaching officer.
   (C)   Resisting an officer is the intentional opposition or resistance to,
or obstruction of, an individual acting in his or her official capacity, and
authorized by law to make a lawful arrest or seizure of property, or to serve
any lawful process or court order, when the offender knows or has reason to
know that the person arresting, seizing property, or serving process is acting
in his or her official capacity.
   (D)   The term OBSTRUCTION OF shall, in addition to its common meaning,
include:
      (1)   Flight by one sought to be arrested before the arresting officer
can restrain him or her and after notice is given that he or she is under
arrest;
      (2)   Any violence toward or any resistance or opposition to the
arresting officer after the arrested party is actually placed under arrest and
before he or she is under arrest; and
      (3)   Refusal by the arrested party to give his or her name and make his
or her identity known to the arresting officer.
(Prior Code, § 32-164)
Statutory reference:
   Resisting or assault and battery upon police officers, see 21 O.S. § 649
§ 32-165. REFUSING OR FAILING TO ASSIST AN OFFICER.
   (A)   An officer of the city making or about to make an arrest, or executing
or about to execute a warrant or other process, in accordance with the
ordinances of the city or with state or federal law, or suppressing or about to
suppress a riot, affray, or unlawful assembly, may call upon persons to assist
him or her in making such arrest, executing such process, or suppressing such
riot, affray, or unlawful assembly.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person lawfully called upon thus to assist an
officer of the city to refuse or fail to do so. Every person who, after having
been lawfully commanded to aid any officer in arresting any person or in
retaking any person who has escaped from legal custody, or in executing any
legal process, willfully neglects or refuses to aid such officer, is guilty of
a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 32-165)
Statutory reference:
   Aid to police officer, see 21 O.S. § 537
§ 32-166. ASSAULT OR BATTERY UPON POLICE OR OTHER LAW OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person, without justifiable or excusable cause, to
knowingly commit any assault, battery, or assault and battery upon the person
of a police officer or other officer of the law while in the performance of his
or her duties. A violation of this section is punishable by imprisonment in the
county jail not exceeding six months, or by a fine not exceeding $500, or by
both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 32-166)
Statutory reference:
   Assault and the like on law enforcement officer, see 21 O.S. § 649
§ 32-167. RESCUING PRISONERS.
   It is unlawful for any person, in any illegal manner, to set at liberty,
rescue, or attempt to set at liberty any prisoner from any officer or employee
of the city having legal custody of the same or from the city jail or other
place of confinement by the city, or to assist such prisoner in any manner to
escape from such prison or custody either before or after conviction, including
escape from a vehicle of confinement.
(Prior Code, § 32-167)
§ 32-168. ESCAPE OF PRISONERS.
   It is unlawful for any person confined in the city jail or other place of
confinement by the city, or working upon the streets or other public places of
the city in pursuance of any judgment, or otherwise held in legal custody by
authority of the city, to escape or attempt to escape from any such jail,
prison, or custody.
(Prior Code, § 32-168)
§ 32-169. IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE.
   It is unlawful for any person to impersonate any officer or employee of the
city, falsely represent himself or herself to be an officer or employee of the
city, or exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions, or
powers of an officer or employee of the city without being duly authorized to
do so.
(Prior Code, § 32-169)
§ 32-170. FALSE ALARMS.
   It is unlawful for any person to turn in a false alarm of any nature or in
any manner to deceive or attempt to deceive the Fire Department or Police
Department or any officer or employee thereof with reference to any fire alarm
or reported fire, accident, or other emergency or knowingly to cause the Fire
Department or Police Department or its officers or employees to make a useless
run.
(Prior Code, § 32-170)
Statutory reference:
   False report of fire, see 21 O.S. § 1851
§ 32-171. FALSE REPRESENTATION TO AN OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person, or any agent or employee thereof, knowingly
to make any material misrepresentation to any officer, employee, or agency of
the city government in any official application to, or official dealing or
negotiation with, such officer or agency; or to commit perjury before any
tribunal or officer of the city.
(Prior Code, § 32-171)
Statutory reference:
   False report of fire, see 21 O.S. § 1851
   False statement regarding tax, see 21 O.S. § 351
§ 32-172. REMOVAL OF BARRICADES.
   It is unlawful for any person, except by proper authority, to remove any
barricade or obstruction placed by authority of the city to keep traffic off
any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk, or other area.
(Prior Code, § 32-172)
Statutory reference:
   Closing roadways, see 47 O.S. § 11-1302
   Roadblocks, see 21 O.S. § 540B
§ 32-173. RESISTING PUBLIC OFFICIALS.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or willingly to:
   (A)   Resist, oppose, or obstruct the Chief of Police, any other police
officer, the Municipal Judge, or any other officer or employee of the city in
the discharge of his or her official duties;
   (B)   Threaten or otherwise intimidate, or attempt to intimidate, any such
officer or employee from the discharge of his or her official duties; or
   (C)   Assault or beat, or revile, abuse, be disrespectful to, use abusive or
indecent language toward or about, any such officer or employee while such
officer or employee is in the discharge of his or her official duties.
(Prior Code, § 32-173)
Statutory reference:
   Execution of process, see 21 O.S. § 539
   Resisting executive officer, see 21 O.S. § 268
CHAPTER 33: RESERVED
   [Reserved]
CHAPTER 34: MUNICIPAL COURT
   Article
      
I.   MUNICIPAL COURT
ARTICLE I: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
34-1.   Definitions
   
34-2.   Organization and operation
   
34-3.   Jurisdiction of Court
   
34-4.   Municipal Judge; qualifications
   
34-5.   Term of Municipal Judge
   
34-6.   Alternate Municipal Judge
   
34-7.   Acting Municipal Judge
   
34-8.   Appointment of Municipal Judge and alternate Municipal Judge
   
34-9.   Compensation
   
34-10.   Removal of Municipal Judge
   
34-11.   Vacancy in office of Municipal Judge
   
34-12.   Disqualification of Municipal Judge
   
34-13.   Court Marshal
   
34-14.   Clerk of the Municipal Court; duties
   
34-15.   Prosecuting Attorney; duties; conflict of interest
   
34-16.   Bond of Municipal Judge and Court Clerk
   
34-17.   Rules of Court
   
34-18.   Enforcement of rules
   
34-19.   Written complaints to prosecute ordinance violations
   
34-20.   Traffic ordinance violations; procedures for issuing citation;
custody, arrest
   
34-21.   Creation of Traffic Violations Bureau
   
34-22.   Summons for arrest
   
34-23.   Form of arrest warrant
   
34-24.   Procedures for bail or bond
   
34-25.   Deposit of driver’s license as bail for traffic violations
   
34-26.   Arraignment and pleadings by defendant
   
34-27.   Trials and judgments
   
34-28.   Suspension of sentence
   
34-29.   Imprisonment, community service
   
34-30.   Fines and costs
   
34-31.   Conduct of sessions of Court; notice
Statutory reference:
   Municipal court not of record, see 11 O.S. §§ 27-101 et seq.
§ 34-1. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The peace officer in charge of the police force of the
municipality.
   CITY CLERK. The Clerk of this municipality, including any deputy or member
of the office staff of the Clerk while performing duties of the Clerk’s office.
   GOVERNING BODY. The City Council.
   MUNICIPAL COURT. The Municipal Court of the city.
   MUNICIPAL JUDGE. The Judge of the Municipal Court, including any acting
judge or alternate judge thereof as provided for by the statutes of this state
and this article.
   MUNICIPALITY or THIS MUNICIPALITY. The city.
   THIS JUDICIAL DISTRICT. The district court judicial district of the state
wherein the government of this municipality is situated.
(Prior Code, § 34-1)
§ 34-2. ORGANIZATION AND OPERATION.
   This article shall govern the organization and operation of the Municipal
Court of the city, as put into operation by resolution duly passed on January
7, 1969, and filed in accordance with law as authorized by 11 O.S. §§ 27-101
and 27-102. To the extent of conflict between any provisions of this article
and the provisions of any ordinance of this city, the provisions of this
article shall control. The Municipal Court shall be operative on and after
January 13, 1969.
(Prior Code, § 34-2)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal courts not of record, organization, rules, and procedures, see 11
O.S. §§ 27-101 to 27-131
§ 34-3. JURISDICTION OF COURT.
   The Municipal Court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and
determine all prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of this
municipality is charged, including any such prosecutions transferred to the
Municipal Court in accordance with applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 34-3)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 27-103
§ 34-4. MUNICIPAL JUDGE; QUALIFICATIONS.
   There shall be one Municipal Judge of the Municipal Court appointed by the
Mayor with the consent of the City Council. The Municipal Judge need not be a
licensed attorney-at-law, but if not, he or she must be a resident of this
municipality, of the age of 25 years or older, and of good moral character. The
Municipal Judge who is a licensed attorney may engage in the practice of law in
other courts, but he or she shall not accept employment inconsistent with his
or her duties as Municipal Judge or arising out of facts which give rise to or
are connected with cases within the jurisdiction of the Court, pending therein,
or which might become the subject of proceedings therein.
(Prior Code, § 34-4)
Statutory reference:
   Judge of the Municipal Court, see 11 O.S. § 27-104
§ 34-5. TERM OF MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
   The official term of the Municipal Judge shall be two years, expiring on
June 1 in each odd-numbered year. Each Municipal Judge shall serve until his or
her successor is appointed and qualified unless removed by the vote of a
majority of all members of the governing body for such cause as is provided for
by law for the removal of public officers.
(Prior Code, § 34-5)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 27-104
§ 34-6. ALTERNATE MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
   (A)   There shall be appointed for each Municipal Judge of the Municipal
Court an alternate judge with the same qualifications as the Municipal Judge.
The appointment shall be for the same term and made in the same manner as the
Municipal Judge.
   (B)   The alternate Municipal Judge shall sit as acting Municipal Judge of
the Municipal Court in any case if the Municipal Judge is:
      (1)   Absent from the Court;
      (2)   Unable to act as Municipal Judge; or
      (3)   Disqualified from acting as Municipal Judge in the case.
(Prior Code, § 34-6)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 27-106
§ 34-7. ACTING MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
   If, at any time, there is no Municipal Judge or alternate Municipal Judge,
duly appointed and qualified, available to sit as Municipal Judge, the Mayor
shall appoint some person, possessing the qualifications required by this
article, for the Municipal Judge, who shall preside as acting Municipal Judge
over the Municipal Court in the disposition of pending matters until such time
as a Municipal Judge or alternate Municipal Judge shall be available.
(Prior Code, § 34-7)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 27-106
§ 34-8. APPOINTMENT OF MUNICIPAL JUDGE AND ALTERNATE MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
   Municipal Judges and alternate Municipal Judges shall be appointed by the
Mayor with the consent of the governing body. A proposed appointment shall be
submitted in writing to the governing body at the next to last regularly
scheduled meeting prior to the day upon which the appointment is to take
effect, and shall be acted upon at the next regularly scheduled meeting. The
governing body may decide upon the proposed appointment by a majority vote of
all members. Failure of decision upon a proposed appointment shall not prevent
action thereon at a later regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body
unless the Mayor, in writing, withdraws the proposed appointment.
(Prior Code, § 34-8)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment of alternate or acting Municipal Judge, see 11 O.S. § 27-106
§ 34-9. COMPENSATION.
   (A)   A Municipal Judge, other than an alternate Municipal Judge or an
acting Municipal Judge, shall receive a salary as set by the governing body by
motion or resolution, paid in the same manner as the salaries of other
officials of this municipality.
   (B)   An alternate Municipal Judge or an acting Municipal Judge shall be
paid an amount as set by the governing body for each day devoted to the
performance of his or her duties, except that the total payments so calculated
during any month shall not exceed the salary of the Municipal Judge. An
alternate or acting Municipal Judge who sits for an entire month shall receive
the amount specified in this article as the salary of the Municipal Judge.
(Prior Code, § 34-9)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see 11 O.S. § 27-104
§ 34-10. REMOVAL OF MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
   (A)   Municipal Judges shall be subject to removal from office by the
governing body for the causes prescribed by the Constitution and laws of this
state for the removal of public officers. Proceedings for removal shall be
instituted by the filing of a verified written petition setting forth facts
sufficient to constitute one or more legal grounds for removal. Petitions may
be signed and filed by:
      (1)   The Mayor; or
      (2)   Twenty-five or more qualified electors of this municipality.
Verification of the number or qualifications of electors shall be executed by
one or more of the petitioners.
   (B)   The governing body shall set a date for hearing the matter and shall
cause notice thereof, together with a copy of the petition, to be served
personally upon the Municipal Judge at least ten days before the hearing. At
the hearing, the Municipal Judge shall be entitled to:
      (1)   Representation by counsel;
      (2)   Present testimony and cross-examine the witnesses against him or
her; and
      (3)   Have all evidence against him or her presented in open hearing.
   (C)   So far as they can be applicable, the provisions of the State
Administrative Procedures Act governing individual proceedings, 75 O.S. §§ 309
through 317 shall govern removal proceedings hereunder. Judgment of removal
shall be entered only upon individual votes, by a majority of all members of
the governing body, in favor of such removal.
(Prior Code, § 34-10)
Editor’s note:
   For removal of judges from office, see Oklahoma Constitution Art. II, § 11
and Art. VII, § A-1
Statutory reference:
   Removal of judge, see 11 O.S. § 27-104
§ 34-11. VACANCY IN OFFICE OF MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
   (A)   A vacancy in the office of Municipal Judge shall occur if the
incumbent:
      (1)   Dies;
      (2)   Resigns;
      (3)   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office; or
      (4)   Is removed, and the removal proceedings have been affirmed finally
in judicial proceedings or are no longer subject to judicial review.
   (B)   Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of Municipal Judge, the
Mayor shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired term in the same
manner as an original appointment is made.
(Prior Code, § 34-11)
Statutory reference:
   Filling vacancies, see 11 O.S. § 27-107
§ 34-12. DISQUALIFICATION OF MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
   In prosecutions before the Municipal Court, no change of venue shall be
allowed, but the Municipal Judge before whom the case is pending may certify
his or her disqualification, or he or she may be disqualified from sitting
under the terms, conditions, and procedure provided by law for Municipal Courts
of record. If a Municipal Judge is disqualified, the matter shall be heard by
an alternate or acting judge appointed as provided in this article.
(Prior Code, § 34-12)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 27-105
§ 34-13. COURT MARSHAL.
   All writs or process of the Municipal Court shall be directed to the Chief
of Police of this municipality, in his or her official title, who shall be the
principal officer of the Municipal Court.
(Prior Code, § 34-13)
Statutory reference:
   Court Marshal, see 11 O.S. § 27-110
§ 34-14. CLERK OF THE MUNICIPAL COURT; DUTIES.
   The City Clerk, or a deputy designated by him or her, shall be the Clerk of
the Municipal Court. He or she shall assist the Municipal Judge in recording
the proceedings of the Municipal Court and in preparing writs, processes, and
other papers. He or she shall administer oaths required in proceedings before
the Municipal Court. He or she shall enter all pleadings, processes, and
proceedings in the dockets of the Municipal Court. He or she shall perform such
other clerical duties relating to the proceedings of the Municipal Court as the
Municipal Judge shall direct. He or she shall receive and receipt for
forfeitures, fines, deposits, and sums of money payable to the Municipal Court.
He or she shall pay to the Treasurer of this municipality at least twice
monthly all money so received by him or her, except such special deposits or
fees as shall be received to be disbursed by him or her for special purposes.
All money paid to the Treasurer shall be placed in the General Fund of the
municipality, or in such other funds as the governing body may direct, and it
shall be used in the operation of the municipal government in accordance with
budgetary arrangements governing the fund in which it is placed.
(Prior Code, § 34-14)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of Clerk, see 11 O.S. § 27-109
§ 34-15. PROSECUTING ATTORNEY; DUTIES; CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   The Attorney for this municipality, or his or her duly designated assistant,
shall be the prosecuting officer of the Municipal Court. He or she shall also
prosecute all alleged violations of the ordinances of the city. He or she shall
be authorized, in his or her discretion, to prosecute and resist appeal,
proceedings in error, and review from this Municipal Court to any other court
of the state, and to represent this municipality in all proceedings arising out
of matters in this Municipal Court.
(Prior Code, § 34-15)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of City Attorney, see 11 O.S. § 27-108
§ 34-16. BOND OF MUNICIPAL JUDGE AND COURT CLERK.
   The Court Clerk of the Municipal Court shall give bond, in the form provided
by 11 O.S. § 27-111, in the sum which is on file in the City Clerk’s office.
When executed, the bond shall be submitted to the governing body for approval.
When approved, it shall be filed with the Clerk of this municipality and
retained in the municipal archives.
(Prior Code, § 34-16)
Statutory reference:
   Bond of Clerk, see 11 O.S. § 27-111
§ 34-17. RULES OF COURT.
   The Municipal Judge may prescribe rules, consistent with the laws of the
state and with the ordinances of this city, for the proper conduct of the
business of the Municipal Court.
(Prior Code, § 34-17)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 27-114
§ 34-18. ENFORCEMENT OF RULES.
   Obedience to the orders, rules, and judgments made by the Municipal Judge or
by the Municipal Court may be enforced by the Municipal Judge, who may fine or
imprison for contempt committed as to him or her while holding court, or
committed against process issued by him or her, in the same manner and to the
same extent as the district courts of this state.
(Prior Code, § 34-18)
§ 34-19. WRITTEN COMPLAINTS TO PROSECUTE ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS.
   All prosecutions for violations of ordinances of this municipality shall be
styled “The City of Alva vs. (naming defendant or defendants).” Except as
provided hereinafter, prosecution shall be initiated by the filing of a written
complaint, subscribed and verified by the person making complaint, and setting
forth concisely the offense charged and approved for filing by the City
Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 34-19)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 11 O.S. § 27-115
§ 34-20. TRAFFIC ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS; PROCEDURES FOR ISSUING CITATION;
CUSTODY, ARREST.
   (A)   If a police officer observes facts which he or she believes constitute
a violation of the traffic ordinances of this municipality, committed by a
resident thereof, in lieu of arresting such a person, he or she may take his or
her name, address, operator’s license number, and registered license number of
the motor vehicle involved and any other pertinent and necessary information
and may issue him or her, in writing in the form prescribed by the Mayor or his
or her duly designated delegate, a traffic citation embracing the above
information and also stating the traffic violation alleged to have occurred,
and notifying him or her to answer to the charge against him or her at a time,
not later than ten days thereafter, specified in the citation. The officer,
upon receiving the written promise of the alleged violator, endorsed on the
citation to answer as specified, may then release the person from custody. If
the person to whom a citation is issued fails to answer as prescribed in the
citation, a complaint shall be filed and the case shall be prosecuted as
otherwise provided in this article.
   (B)   If the alleged traffic violation is committed by a nonresident or
resident of this municipality, the police officer may:
      (1)   Release the person after obtaining sufficient information as set
out in subsection (A) above of this section, pending his or her appearance on a
day certain in Municipal Court, as specified in the citation after the person:
         (a)   Posts cash bail;
         (b)   Deposits with the arresting officer a guaranteed arrest bond
certificate; or
         (c)   Deposits with the arresting officer a valid license to operate
motor vehicle in exchange for a receipt therefor issued by the arresting
officer as provided in § 34-25.
      (2)   Take the person in custody and demand that bond for the offense
charged be posted according to the provisions of this article; or
      (3)   Take the person into custody under arrest. The arrested person
either shall be taken immediately before the Municipal Judge for further
proceedings according to law or shall have bail fixed for his or her release in
accordance with the provisions of this article. Upon providing bail as fixed,
and upon giving his or her written promise to appear upon a day certain, as
provided in subsection (A) above of this section, the person shall be released
from custody.
   (C)   If the alleged offense be a violation of an ordinance restricting or
regulating the parking of vehicles, including any regulations issued under such
an ordinance, and the operator be not present, the police officer shall place
on the vehicle, at a place reasonably likely to come to the notice of the
operator, a citation conforming substantially to that prescribed in subsection
(A) or (B) above of this section, with such variation as the circumstances
require; the operator of this vehicle shall be under the same obligation to
respond to the citation as if it had been issued to him or her personally under
subsection (A) or (B) above of this section.
(Prior Code, § 34-20) (Ord. 738, passed 7-17-1978)
Statutory reference:
   Traffic procedures generally, see 22 O.S. §§ 1115.1 et seq.
§ 34-21. CREATION OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   A Traffic Violations Bureau hereby is established as a division of the
office of the Clerk of the Municipal Court, to be administered by the Clerk, or
by subordinates designated by him or her for that purpose. Persons who are
cited for violation of one of the traffic regulatory ordinances of this
municipality which are listed in the schedule of fines adopted by the City
Council, may elect to pay a fine in the Traffic Violations Bureau according to
the schedule of fines to be determined by the governing body.
   (B)   The Municipal Court may adopt rules to carry into effect this section.
Payment of a fine under this section shall constitute a final determination of
cause against the defendant. If a defendant who has elected to pay a fine under
this section fails to do so, prosecution shall proceed under the provisions of
this article.
(Prior Code, § 34-21) (Ord. 737, passed 7-17-1978)
§ 34-22. SUMMONS FOR ARREST.
   (A)   Upon the filing of a complaint charging violation of any ordinance,
the Municipal Judge, unless he or she determines to issue a warrant of arrest,
or unless the defendant previously has been issued a citation or has been
arrested and has given bond for appearance, he or she shall issue a summons,
naming the person charged, specifying his or her address or place of residence,
if known, stating the offense with which he or she is charged and giving him or
her notice to answer the charge in the Municipal Court on a certain day, ten
days (Sundays and holidays excepted) after the summons is served upon him or
her, and including such other pertinent information as may be necessary.
   (B)   The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to the defendant
personally. If he or she fails to appear and to answer the summons within the
prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for his or her arrest, as provided
by this article.
(Prior Code, § 34-22)
§ 34-23. FORM OF ARREST WARRANT.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in the ordinances of this municipality,
upon the filing of a complaint approved by the endorsement of the Attorney of
this municipality or by the Municipal Judge, there shall be issued a warrant of
arrest, in substantially the following form:
Before ____________, Municipal Judge of the City of Alva, Oklahoma.
CITY OF ALVA, PLAINTIFF
VS.
____________DEFENDANT
The City of Alva, Oklahoma, to the Police Chief of the City
GREETINGS:
Whereas, ____________ has made complaint in writing under oath before me, the
undersigned Municipal Judge of the City of Alva, Oklahoma, that ____________
did on the ____________ day of ____________/____________/____________,
20____________ at and within the corporate limits of the City of Alva,
Oklahoma, then and there willfully and unlawfully ____________/____________/
____________ ____________ ____________
____________ ____________ in violation of Section ____________ of Ordinance
Number ____________, of said City in such case made and provided:
Now, therefore, you are hereby commanded to forthwith arrest the said
____________/____________/____________ ____________ and bring him before me to
answer to said charge, and hereof fail not.
Witness my hand at my office in Alva, Oklahoma, this ____________ day of
____________/____________/____________, 20____________.
____________ ____________ ____________
Municipal Judge of the City of Alva,
Oklahoma.
 
   (B)   It is the duty of a duly constituted member of the police force of
this municipality, or through any other person lawfully authorized so to act,
to execute the warrant as promptly as possible.
(Prior Code, § 34-23)
§ 34-24. PROCEDURES FOR BAIL OR BOND.
   Upon arrest, or upon appearance without arrest in response to citation or
summons, or at any time before trial, before or after arraignment, the
defendant shall be eligible to be released upon giving bail for his or her
appearance in an amount and upon conditions fixed by this article or the
Municipal Judge, who shall prescribe appropriate rules of the Municipal Court
for the receipt of bail. In case of arrests made at night or under other
conditions or emergency or when the Municipal Judge is not available, the rules
shall authorize the Chief of Police, or his or her designated representative,
to accept a temporary cash bond of not less than $10 nor more than the maximum
monetary penalty provided by ordinance for the offense charged.
(Prior Code, § 34-24)
Statutory reference:
   Acceptable methods of bail (cash, guaranteed arrest bond certificate), see
11 O.S. § 27-117
§ 34-25. DEPOSIT OF DRIVER’S LICENSE AS BAIL FOR TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   In addition to the other methods for providing or posting of bail
authorized in this article upon arrest for traffic violations, the defendant
may deposit with the police officer a valid license to operate a motor vehicle
in exchange for a receipt therefor issued by the police officer. The receipt
issued by the police officer shall be recognized as an operator’s license and
shall authorize the operation of a motor vehicle until the time and date of the
hearing indicated on the receipt or traffic citation, but not to exceed 20
days. The operator’s license and traffic citation shall be delivered by the
police officer to the Clerk of the Municipal Court.
   (B)   Any person who applies for a duplicate license to operate a motor
vehicle while his or her license is deposited in accordance with subsection (A)
above of this section shall be fined $20 and court costs. Each such application
shall constitute a separate violation. In order for the fine to be applicable
to a violator applying for a duplicate license, notice of the provisions of
subsection (B) of this section shall be included in receipt issued pursuant to
this section. The receipt for deposit of the driver’s license shall contain
essentially the following notice:
 
“NOTICE”
“This receipt for deposit of a valid license to operate a motor vehicle
constitutes a temporary operator’s license until your hearing date on
____________, but in no case shall this temporary license remain in effect more
than 20 days. Keep this receipt in your possession at all times while operating
a motor vehicle.”
“Application for a duplicate license to operate a motor vehicle while your
license is deposited as bail is a crime punishable by a fine of $20 and court
costs. Each such application constitutes a separate offense.”
 
(Prior Code, § 34-25) (Ord. 738, passed 7-17-1978)
§ 34-26. ARRAIGNMENT AND PLEADINGS BY DEFENDANT.
   Upon making his or her appearance before the Municipal Court, the defendant
shall be arraigned. The Municipal Judge, or the Attorney of the municipality,
shall read the complaint to the defendant, inform him or her of his or her
legal rights, including the right of trial by jury, if available, and of the
consequences of conviction, and ask him or her whether he or she pleads guilty
or not guilty. If the defendant pleads guilty, the Municipal Court may proceed
to judgment and sentence or may continue the matter for subsequent disposition.
If the plea is not guilty, and the case is not for jury trial, the Municipal
Court may proceed to try the case, or may set it for hearing at a later date.
(Prior Code, § 34-26)
Statutory reference:
   Arraignment, see 11 O.S. § 27-116
§ 34-27. TRIALS AND JUDGMENTS.
   (A)   Before trial commences, either party, upon good cause shown, may
obtain a reasonable postponement thereof.
   (B)   The defendant must be present in person at the trial.
   (C)   In all trials, as to matters not covered in this article, or by the
statutes relating to municipal criminal courts, or by rules duly promulgated by
the Supreme Court of the state, the procedure applicable in trials of
misdemeanors in the district courts shall apply to the extent that they can be
made effective.
   (D)   If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted after the trial, the
Municipal Court must render judgment thereon, fixing the penalty within the
limits prescribed by the applicable ordinance, and imposing sentence
accordingly.
   (E)   At the close of trial, judgment must be rendered immediately by the
Municipal Judge, who shall cause it to be entered in his or her docket.
   (F)   If judgment is of acquittal, and the defendant is not to be detained
for any other legal cause, he or she must be discharged at once.
   (G)   A judgment that the defendant pay a fine may also direct that he or
she be imprisoned until the fine is satisfied at the rate of one day
imprisonment for each $5 of fine. If the defendant is without means to pay the
fine or costs, the Municipal Judge may direct the total amount due to be
entered upon the court minutes and to be certified to the district court of the
county wherein the situs of government is situated where it shall be entered
upon the district court judgment docket and shall have the full force and
effect of a district court judgment. Thereupon, the same remedies shall be
available for the enforcement of the judgment as are available to any other
judgment creditor.
(Prior Code, § 34-27)
§ 34-28. SUSPENSION OF SENTENCE.
   After conviction and sentence, the Municipal Judge may suspend sentence, in
accordance with the provisions of, and subject to the conditions and procedures
imposed by 11 O.S. §§ 27-123 and 27-124.
(Prior Code, § 34-28)
Statutory reference:
   Power to modify, reduce, suspend, or defer sentence, see 11 O.S. § 27-122.1
(B) and (C)
§ 34-29. IMPRISONMENT, COMMUNITY SERVICE.
   (A)   If, after conviction, judgment of imprisonment is entered, a copy
thereof, certified by the City Clerk, shall be delivered to the Chief of
Police, the Sheriff of the county, or other appropriate police officer. Such
copy shall be sufficient warrant for execution of the sentence.
   (B)   Any person fined for violation of a municipal ordinance who is
financially able but refuses or neglects to pay the fine or costs may be
compelled to satisfy the amount owed by working on the streets, alleys,
avenues, areas, and public grounds of the municipality, subject to the
direction of the Street Commissioner or other proper officer, at a rate per day
as the governing body may prescribe by ordinance, but not less than $25 per day
for useful labor, until the fine or costs are satisfied.
   (C)   Whenever any person is convicted in Municipal Court for violation of a
municipal ordinance, the Municipal Court may order the defendant to a term of
community service or remedial action in lieu of fine or in conjunction with
imprisonment. If the defendant fails to perform the required community service
or if the conditions of community service are violated, the Municipal Judge may
impose a sentence of imprisonment, not to exceed the maximum sentence allowable
for the violation for which the defendant was convicted.
(Prior Code, § 34-29)
Statutory reference:
   Community service in lieu of fine or in conjunction with imprisonment, see
11 O.S. § 27-122.2
   Execution of sentence, see 11 O.S. § 27-122.1
§ 34-30. FINES AND COSTS.
   If judgment of conviction is entered, the City Clerk of the Municipal Court
shall tax the costs to the defendant, but the total amount of fine and costs
may not exceed $70, plus the fees and mileage of jurors and witnesses.
(Prior Code, § 34-30)
Statutory reference:
   Costs, see 11 O.S. § 27-126
§ 34-31. CONDUCT OF SESSIONS OF COURT; NOTICE.
   The Municipal Judge of the Municipal Court shall conduct regular sessions of
the Municipal Court. Notice of the sessions shall be given as prescribed in the
state’s Open Meetings Law, 25 O.S. §§ 301 through 314.
(Prior Code, § 34-31)
Statutory reference:
   Oklahoma Open Meetings Law, see 25 O.S. §§ 301 et seq.
CHAPTER 35: RESERVED
   [Reserved]
CHAPTER 36: PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
III.   ZONING REGULATIONS
      
IV.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
V.   JOINT INCREMENT DISTRICTS
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   36-1 through 36-18 reserved
§§ 36-1 THROUGH 36-18. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Generally
   36-19 through 36-39 reserved
Planning Commission
   
36-40.   Created
   
36-41.   Term of office; provision for vacancies
   
36-42.   Ex officio members
   
36-43.   Quorum
   
36-44.   Meetings; organization and rules
   
36-45.   Power to employ staff; duties
   
36-46.   Powers and duties
   
36-47.   Purposes of plan
   
36-48.   Subdivision of land
   
36-49.   Zoning
   
36-50.   Uniformity of regulations
   
36-51.   Comprehensive Plan; purpose of zoning regulations
   36-52 through 36-77 reserved
Development Commission
   
36-78.   Created; membership; compensation
   
36-79.   Members; quorum
   
36-80.   Powers and duties
   
36-81.   Expenses; budget
   
36-82.   To make recommendations
   36-83 through 36-107 reserved
Statutory reference:
   Planning Commission, see 11 O.S. §§ 45-101 et seq.
GENERALLY
§§ 36-19 THROUGH 36-39. RESERVED.
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 36-40. CREATED.
   There is hereby created within and for the city a Planning Commission, which
shall consist of six members, all of whom shall be residents of the city,
nominated by the Mayor and confirmed by the City Council. The appointed members
of the Commission shall be nominated and appointed solely with reference to
their fitness and without reference to party affiliation, and shall serve
without compensation, except as hereinafter provided. Members may be removed by
the Mayor or the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 36-40)
Statutory reference:
   Planning Commission authorized, see 11 O.S. § 45-101
§ 36-41. TERM OF OFFICE; PROVISION FOR VACANCIES.
   Each appointed member of the City Planning Commission shall hold office for
a term of three years, or until his or her successor takes office. When a
vacancy occurs, the appointment shall be made to fill the unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 36-41)
§ 36-42. EX OFFICIO MEMBERS.
   The Mayor and the City Engineer shall be ex officio members of the City
Planning Commission, but shall receive no compensation other than their affixed
salary of their office.
(Prior Code, § 36-42)
§ 36-43. QUORUM.
   Four members of the City Planning Commission shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business. However, no action shall be taken and be binding
upon the City Planning Commission unless concurred in by not less than a
majority of all members comprising the City Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 36-43)
§ 36-44. MEETINGS; ORGANIZATION AND RULES.
   The members of the City Planning Commission shall elect from their members a
Chair, Vice-Chair, and Secretary, and shall adopt rules for the transaction of
business. The terms of the Chair, Vice-Chair, and Secretary shall be one year
with eligibility for reelection. The Commission shall keep a record of its
regulations, transactions, findings, and determinations, which record shall be
a public record.
(Prior Code, § 36-44)
§ 36-45. POWER TO EMPLOY STAFF; DUTIES.
   The members of the City Planning Commission shall serve without pay, and it
shall be the duty of such Commission to prepare from time to time plans for the
systematic development and betterment of the municipality as a place of
residence or for business. It shall have the power and authority to employ
planners, engineers, attorneys, clerks, or other help deemed necessary, subject
to the approval of the City Council. The salary and compensation of such
employees shall be fixed by the City Council and shall be paid out of the City
Treasury as other officers and employees, and the necessary expenses incurred
by the Council shall be paid out of the City Treasury as other legal expense of
the city government. The Commission may incur necessary expenses within the
limits of its appropriation to carry out its purposes and responsibility.
(Prior Code, § 36-45)
§ 36-46. POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall have the power and the duty to prepare
and recommend to the City Council for adoption a Comprehensive Plan for the
physical development of the city. In conducting its work, the Planning
Commission may consider and investigate any subject matter tending to the
development and betterment of such municipality and may make recommendations as
it may deem advisable concerning the adoption thereof to the City Council. The
Planning Commission may make or cause to be made surveys, studies, maps, and
plans in the conduct of its activities.
   (B)   Before final action is taken by the City Council on the location or
design of any public building, statue, memorial, park, boulevard, street and
alley, playground, public grounds, bridge, or change in any location of any
street or alley, such question shall be submitted to the Planning Commission
for investigation and report.
   (C)   In the preparation of the Comprehensive Plan, the Planning Commission
may from time to time prepare and recommend to the City Council for adoption
parts thereof, which parts shall cover one or more major geographical divisions
of the city or one or more major elements of the Comprehensive Plan. The
Planning Commission may from time to time recommend extending, amending, or
changing any portion of the Comprehensive Plan.
(Prior Code, § 36-46)
§ 36-47. PURPOSES OF PLAN.
   In the preparation of the city’s Comprehensive Plan, the Planning Commission
shall make careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of present conditions
and future growth of the city and with due regard to its relation to
neighboring territory. The Plan shall be made with the general purpose of
guiding and accomplishing a coordinated, adjusted, and harmonious development
of the city and its environs which will, in accordance with present and future
needs, best promote health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity, and
general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of
development; including, among other things, adequate provisions for traffic,
the promotion of safety from fire and other dangers, adequate provision for
light and air, the promotion of healthful and convenient distribution of
population, the promotion of good civic design and arrangement, and wise and
efficient expenditure of public funds.
(Prior Code, § 36-47)
§ 36-48. SUBDIVISION OF LAND.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may prepare and recommend to the City Council
for adoption rules and regulations governing the subdivision of land within the
corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   All plans, plats, or replats of land laid out in two or more lots,
plats, or parcels, or streets, alleys, or other ways intended to be dedicated
to public use within the corporate limits of the city shall first be submitted
to the Planning Commission for its recommendation. The Planning Commission
shall, with the help of appropriate city officials, check the proposed
dedications or subdivision of land to ensure compliance with the rules and
regulations governing subdivisions of land and with other elements of the
Comprehensive Plan for the city.
   (C)   The disapproval of any such plan, plat, or replat by the City Council
shall be deemed a refusal of the dedications shown thereon.
   (D)   No plat or replat of subdivision of land, or dedication of street or
alley or other easement shall be entitled to record unless it bears the
signature of the Mayor, attested by the City Clerk, certifying the approval and
acceptance thereof by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 36-48)
§ 36-49. ZONING.
   The Planning Commission shall have the power to prepare and to recommend to
the City Council for adoption a zoning plan to regulate and restrict the
height, number of stories, and size of buildings and other structures, the
percentage of lot that may be occupied, the size of yards, courts, and other
open spaces, the density of population, the location and use of buildings,
structures, and land for trade, industry, residences, and other purposes.
(Prior Code, § 36-49)
§ 36-50. UNIFORMITY OF REGULATIONS.
   The Planning Commission may recommend the division of the city into
districts of such number, size, and area as may be deemed best suited to carry
out the zoning plan. All such regulations shall be uniform for each class or
kind of buildings throughout each district, but the regulations in one district
may differ from those in other districts.
(Prior Code, § 36-50)
§ 36-51. COMPREHENSIVE PLAN; PURPOSE OF ZONING REGULATIONS.
   Zoning regulations shall be made in accordance with a Comprehensive Plan and
designed to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire,
panic, and other dangers; to promote health and the general welfare; to provide
adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding of land; to avoid undue
concentration of population; and to facilitate the adequate provisions of
transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks, and other public requirements.
Such regulations shall be made with reasonable consideration, among other
things, as to the character of the district and its peculiar suitability for
particular uses, and with a view of conserving the value of buildings and
encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the city.
(Prior Code, § 36-51)
§§ 36-52 THROUGH 36-77. RESERVED.
DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 36-78. CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; COMPENSATION.
   There is created a City Development Commission, composed of five members,
appointed by the Mayor, with each member to serve a term of five years, and
until their successors shall be appointed and qualified. Vacancies shall be
filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Mayor. Members shall serve
without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 36-78)
§ 36-79. MEMBERS; QUORUM.
   Members may be removed by the Mayor only for inefficiency, neglect of duty,
or malefaction in office. The Commission shall select one member to act as
Chair and one member to act as Secretary. Three members of the Commission shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. However, no action shall
be taken which is binding upon the Commission unless concurred in by not less
than a majority of all members comprising the City Development Commission.
(Prior Code, § 36-79)
§ 36-80. POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The duties of the Development Commission shall be to explore, investigate,
and encourage future commercial and industrial development in the city,
advising the City Council and the Mayor of any requirements created by
development of any commercial or industrial expansion and probable costs
thereof, and to perform any other duties assigned to such Commission by the
City Council and Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 36-80)
§ 36-81. EXPENSES; BUDGET.
   The Development Commission shall have the power to incur costs for travel
expense, keeping of records, and any secretarial and clerical expenses
necessary to carry out its duties, insofar as there are funds available from a
budget account set up by the City Council, with the Commission prohibited from
incurring any expenses in excess of its allowed budget.
(Prior Code, § 36-81)
§ 36-82. TO MAKE RECOMMENDATIONS.
   The Development Commission shall make recommendations to the City Council
and Mayor concerning commercial and industrial development in the city.
(Prior Code, § 36-82)
§§ 36-83 THROUGH 36-107. RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
   
36-108.   Zoning ordinances
   
36-109.   Provisions of zoning ordinances in force
   
36-110.   Copies of zoning ordinances on file
   36-111 through 36-133 reserved
§ 36-108. ZONING ORDINANCES.
   The zoning ordinances of the city printed as Appendix B to this code is the
official zoning ordinance of the city and may be cited as such.
(Prior Code, § 36-108)
Statutory reference:
   State laws applicable to zoning, see 11 O.S. §§ 43-101 et seq., 44-101 et
seq., and 45-101 et seq.
§ 36-109. PROVISIONS OF ZONING ORDINANCES IN FORCE.
   All of the provisions included in the zoning ordinance, Appendix B to this
code, are hereby continued in full force and effect whether such provisions are
included therein in the forms as originally adopted, or are included therein in
amended form, or composed wholly or partially of new material as provided by
law.
(Prior Code, § 36-109)
§ 36-110. COPIES OF ZONING ORDINANCES ON FILE.
   Not less than one copy of the zoning ordinances as amended is on file in the
City Clerk’s office and is available for inspection by the public during normal
working hours.
(Prior Code, § 36-110)
§§ 36-111 THROUGH 36-133. RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
36-134.   Subdivision regulations adopted
   
36-135.   Provisions of subdivision regulations continued in force
   
36-136.   Copies on file
   36-137 through 36-157 reserved
§ 36-134. SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   The subdivision ordinance printed as Appendix A to this code adopted by the
City Council is the official subdivision regulations of the city, and may be
cited as such.
(Prior Code, § 36-134) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
Statutory reference:
   Powers to adopt subdivision regulations, see 11 O.S. § 45-104
§ 36-135. PROVISIONS OF SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS CONTINUED IN FORCE.
   All of the provisions adopted as the city’s official subdivision
regulations, Appendix A to this code, are hereby continued in full force and
effect whether such provisions are included therein in the form as originally
adopted, or are included therein in amended form, or composed wholly or
partially of new material as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 36-135) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 36-136. COPIES ON FILE.
   Not less than one copy of the city’s subdivision regulations as amended is
on file in the office of the City Clerk and available for inspection by the
public during normal working hours.
(Prior Code, § 36-136)
§§ 36-137 THROUGH 36-157. RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: JOINT INCREMENT DISTRICTS
Section
   
36-158.   Authorization
   
36-159.   Project plan described
   
36-160.   Review Committee action confirmed
   
36-161.   City action confirmed
   
36-162.   County action confirmed
   
36-163.   Increment District described
   
36-164.   Name of district
   
36-165.   Creation
   
36-166.   Effective date
   
36-167.   Boundaries of project area
   
36-168.   Boundaries of Increment District
   
36-169.   City findings
   
36-170.   Project and Increment Districts authorized
   
36-171.   Sales tax increment
   
36-172.   Ad valorem increment
   
36-173.   Increments to be apportioned
   
36-174.   Tax apportionment
   
36-175.   Direction of apportionment
§ 36-158. AUTHORIZATION.
   In order to develop the eligible project area, the city elects to utilize
Article X, § 6C of the Constitution of the state and the state’s Local
Development Act, being 62 O.S. §§ 850 through 869, which authorize the use of
local taxes for specific public investments, assistance in development
financing, and as a revenue source for other public entities in the area, and
which provide for the direction of apportionment of local taxes to plan,
finance, and carry out development of unproductive, undeveloped,
underdeveloped, or blighted areas as determined by the governing body of a
city, town, or county.
(Ord. 2021-002, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 36-159. PROJECT PLAN DESCRIBED.
   As used herein, PROJECT PLAN shall mean the document dated June 25, 2018,
and comprised of one cover sheet, six pages of text, five exhibits labeled
Exhibits A, B, C, D, and E, and titled “Alva Arena Economic Development Project
Plan.”
(Ord. 2021-002, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 36-160. REVIEW COMMITTEE ACTION CONFIRMED.
   The membership of the Review Committee and all actions taken and all
recommendations and findings made in connection with the project plan and with
regard to the Increment District by the Review Committee and the Planning
Commission are hereby ratified and confirmed.
(Ord. 2021-002, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 36-161. CITY ACTION CONFIRMED.
   The action of the city in enacting Ordinance No. 2018-003 that approved and
adopted the project plan, established the project area, and established the
Increment District, is hereby ratified and confirmed.
(Ord. 2021-002, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 36-162. COUNTY ACTION CONFIRMED.
   The action of the County Commissioners in enacting Resolution # 20-21-34
that approved and adopted the project plan, established the project area, and
established the Increment District, is hereby ratified and confirmed.
(Ord. 2021-002, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 36-163. INCREMENT DISTRICT DESCRIBED.
   For identification purposes, the Increment Distinct is described on Exhibit
B and shown on Exhibit C of the project plan.
(Ord. 2021-002, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 36-164. NAME OF DISTRICT.
   For identification purposes, the name of the Increment District, an ad
valorem and sales tax increment district as set forth in the project plan,
shall be Joint Increment District Number One, City of Alva and Woods County
(“Increment District”).
(Ord. 2021-002, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 36-165. CREATION.
   The Increment District is hereby created as of the date the ordinance from
which this article is derived is adopted.
(Ord. 2021-002, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 36-166. EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The date of creation, official designation, naming of the Increment District
and, accordingly, the commencement of the respective period of apportionment,
is within ten years of the effective date of the project plan.
(Ord. 2021-002, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 36-167. BOUNDARIES OF PROJECT AREA.
   The boundaries of the project area of the project plan are described on
Exhibit A of the project plan, and shown on Exhibit C of the project plan, and
are hereby designated and adopted as described in § 6 of Ordinance No. 2018-003
and § 6 of Resolution #20-21-34.
(Ord. 2021-002, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 36-168. BOUNDARIES OF INCREMENT DISTRICT.
   The boundaries of the Increment District are described on Exhibit B and
shown on Exhibit C, of the project plan, and are hereby designated and adopted
as described in § 7 of Ordinance No. 2018-003 and § 7 of Resolution # 20-21-34.
(Ord. 2021-002, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 36-169. CITY FINDINGS.
   The city hereby finds, determines, and reaffirms:
   (A)   The project area, including the Increment District, is an enterprise
area as defined by the Act;
   (B)   The financial impacts of the proposed project plan and project on the
affected taxing jurisdictions and business activities within the Increment
District are positive and that the economic benefits for the community as a
whole offset any adverse impacts;
   (C)   The improvement of the project area is likely to enhance the value of
other real property in the area and to promote the general public interest;
   (D)   The project plan complies with the guidelines of 62 O.S. § 852,
including specifically divisions (1) and (2);
   (E)   The aggregate net assessed value of the taxable property in all
increment districts within the city, as determined pursuant to the Act, does
not exceed 35% of the total net assessed value of the taxable property within
the city;
   (F)   The aggregate net assessed value of the taxable property in all
increment districts within the city, as determined pursuant to the Act, does
not exceed 25% of the total net assessed value of any affected school districts
located within the city;
   (G)   The land within all increment districts within the city does not
exceed 25% of the total land area of the city; and
   (H)   The project plan is feasible and conforms to the city’s Comprehensive
Plan.
(Ord. 2021-002, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 36-170. PROJECT AND INCREMENT DISTRICTS AUTHORIZED.
   The following project and Increment District authorizations are hereby
ratified:
   (A)   The Alva Arena Authority, a public trust, shall be the principal
entity responsible for implementation and is authorized to carry out and
administer the provisions of the project plan and to exercise all powers
necessary or appropriate thereto pursuant to 62 O.S. § 854, although the city
and county including the power to make minor amendments to the project plan in
accordance with 62 O.S. § 858(D);
   (B)   Both the city and county shall have the authority to assist in
carrying out the provisions of the project plan and to incur project costs with
respect to improvements and operations within their responsibilities, in
accordance with budgetary allocations for such activities approved in
accordance with the project plan;
   (C)   The Alva Arena Authority, a public trust, shall also have the
authority to carry out certain provisions of the project plan, including the
authority to:
      (1)   Issue tax apportionment bonds or notes, or both;
      (2)   Pledge revenues from current and future fiscal years to repayment;
      (3)   Incur project costs pursuant to § VIII of the project plan;
      (4)   Provide funds to or reimburse the city or county for the payment of
project costs or other costs incurred in support of the implementation of the
project; and
      (5)   Incur the cost of issuance of bonds for payment of such costs and
to accumulate appropriate reserves, if any, in connection with them.
   (D)   The Chair of the Alva Arena Authority, or his or her designee, shall
be the person in charge of implementation of the project plan in accordance
with the provisions, authorizations, and respective delegations of
responsibilities contained in the project plan. The Chair or his or her
designee is authorized to empower one or more designees to exercise
responsibilities in connection with project implementation.
(Ord. 2021-002, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 36-171. SALES TAX INCREMENT.
   The sales tax increment from the Increment District shall be 50% of the
City’s 2% undedicated sales and use taxes generated by events hosted at the new
Alva Arena, as measured by the attendance at events hosted by the arena. The
annual sales tax increment shall be calculated as the sum of:
   (A)   One percent of the product of the total number of non-local arena
event attendee days and an original daily expenditure amount of $100 subject to
city sales and use taxes (which daily expenditure amount shall be increased
annually by a percentage equal to the lesser of 2% or the then-applicable
percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U)
published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, United States Department of
Labor); and
   (B)   One percent of the product of the total number of local Arena event
attendee days and an original daily expenditure amount of $40 subject to city
sales and use taxes (which daily expenditure amount shall be increased annually
by a percentage equal to the lesser of 2% or the then-applicable percentage
increase in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U) published
by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, United States Department of Labor).
(Ord. 2021-002, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 36-172. AD VALOREM INCREMENT.
   The ad valorem increment shall be the portion of ad valorem taxes collected
on taxable property within the Increment District attributed to the valuation
of such property, in aggregate, that is in excess of the base assessed value of
taxable property within the Increment District. The base assessed value of
taxable property within the Increment District shall be determined by the
County Assessor within 90 days of the date the ordinance from which this
article is derived is adopted.
(Ord. 2021-002, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 36-173. INCREMENTS TO BE APPORTIONED.
   The sales tax increment and ad valorem increment from the Increment District
shall be apportioned and paid into an apportionment fund and may be pledged in
accordance with Oklahoma Constitution, Article X, § 6C(B), for a period not to
exceed 25 fiscal years from the date of the ordinance from which this article
is derived is adopted, as provided by law, or the period required for payment
of the project costs authorized by § VIII of the project plan, whichever is
less.
(Ord. 2021-002, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 36-174. TAX APPORTIONMENT.
   During each respective period of apportionment, the Tax Apportionment Fund:
   (A)   Shall be available to pay project costs under § VIII of the project
plan;
   (B)   Shall constitute special funds of the Alva Arena Authority; and
   (C)   Shall not be subject to annual appropriation as a part of the General
Fund of the city.
(Ord. 2021-002, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 36-175. DIRECTION OF APPORTIONMENT.
   Pursuant to Oklahoma Constitution, Article X, § 6C, the direction of
apportionment shall continue beyond the current fiscal year for the duration of
the Increment District, or the period required for the payment of project costs
authorized by the project plan, whichever is less.
(Ord. 2021-002, passed 8-16-2021)
CHAPTER 37: RESERVED
   [Reserved]
CHAPTER 38: PUBLIC BUILDINGS AND PLACES
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   CEMETERIES
      
III.   PARKS
      
IV.   LIBRARY
      
V.   ALVA PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   38-1 through 38-18 reserved
§§ 38-1 THROUGH 38-18. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: CEMETERIES
Section
   
38-19.   Cemetery established
   
38-20.   Board of Trustees created
   
38-21.   Cemetery Care Fund
   
38-22.   Conveyances
   
38-23.   Violations
   38-24 through 38-49 reserved
Statutory reference:
   Municipal cemeteries, see 11 O.S. §§ 26-101 et seq.
§ 38-19. CEMETERY ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created and established a municipal cemetery of the city to
be known as the Alva Municipal Cemetery, which cemetery shall be owned and
operated by the city as hereinafter set forth.
(Prior Code, § 38-19)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal operation of cemeteries, see 11 O.S. §§ 26-101 et seq.
§ 38-20. BOARD OF TRUSTEES CREATED.
   There is hereby created a Board of Trustees of the city cemetery consisting
of three members, to be appointed by the Mayor of the city, with approval of
the City Council, who shall serve a term of six years each and until their
successors shall be appointed and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 38-20)
§ 38-21. CEMETERY CARE FUND.
   There is hereby created a fund to be known as the Cemetery Care Fund, which
fund shall be invested under the direction of the Board of Trustees with the
approval of the Council, the interest and income therefrom to be used in the
improving, caring for, and embellishing the lots, walks, drives, parks, and
other necessary improvements of the cemetery. Of all moneys received from the
sale of lots and interments, not less than 25% thereof shall be placed in the
Fund.
(Prior Code, § 38-21)
Statutory reference:
   Cemetery Care Fund, establishment and use, see 11 O.S. § 26-109
§ 38-22. CONVEYANCES.
   It shall be the duty of the Mayor to sign all certificates of conveyance of
lots sold in the cemetery, and it shall be the duty of the City Clerk to
countersign all such certificates of conveyance under the seal of the city,
showing the price for which the lots are sold, specifying the names of the
persons to whom the lots are sold, and describing the lots by number.
(Prior Code, § 38-22)
§ 38-23. VIOLATIONS.
   Trespassing upon the grounds of the cemetery or desecration thereof or other
violation, or any willful violation of any of the rules and regulations made by
the City Council or this article shall be deemed a misdemeanor. Any person,
upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to a fine as provided in §
1-14.
(Prior Code, § 38-23)
§§ 38-24 THROUGH 38-49. RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: PARKS
Section
   
38-50.   Autos prohibited in parks off roadways
   
38-51.   City parks shall be subject to limited hours of operation; extension
of hours; exceptions
   
38-52.   Fishing regulations, requirements, restrictions, and exceptions at
Hatfield Park Pond and other lakes or ponds owned or operated by the city
   38-53 through 38-73 reserved
§ 38-50. AUTOS PROHIBITED IN PARKS OFF ROADWAYS.
   All types of self-propelled motor vehicles, including automobiles, trucks,
motorcycles, and any type of motor scooter are hereby prohibited from being
operated in the city park, except on and over regular established roadways in
the park. City and other authorized maintenance vehicles are excluded from the
provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 38-50) (Ord. 715, passed 6-3-1974)
§ 38-51. CITY PARKS SHALL BE SUBJECT TO LIMITED HOURS OF OPERATION; EXTENSION
OF HOURS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   All city parks owned or operated by the city, within or without the
city limits, except the Alva Recreation Complex (ARC), shall be open to the
general public from 6:00 a.m. until 11:00 p.m., daily.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than city personnel
conducting city business therein, to occupy or be present in any such city park
during any hours the parks are not open to the public.
   (C)   The Chief of Police or the City Council shall have the authority to
determine earlier or later opening and closing time of the city parks to
accommodate special events and activities occurring therein. Any such request
to extend the hours of usage shall be made in writing to the Chief of Police,
with the reasons for such request set forth specifically therein, and must be
approved in advance by the Chief of Police or the City Council.
   (D)   Any member of the City Police Department may issue a citation to any
person who has violated this section of the law, and require such person to
immediately vacate the park premises, or may arrest any person who has violated
this section, or refuses to vacate the park premises as ordered, without
warrant, and the Municipal Court shall have jurisdiction of all such
violations.
   (E)   Violation of this section of the code shall be a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, punishable by a fine of not more than $97, and costs.
   (F)   The following shall be exempted from the scheduled hours of operation
set forth herein:
      (1)   Baseball fields, softball fields, football fields, and soccer
fields within the city parks, including the spectator and parking areas, while
such fields are being used for organized sporting events, provided, any
organization hosting any such organized sporting event shall file with the City
Clerk a schedule of dates and proposed usage of such fields. Such schedule
shall be approved by the Chief of Police or the City Council prior to any such
events;
      (2)   Any municipal swimming pool lying within a city park shall be
excluded while the pool is being used for organized and scheduled swimming
activities or events; and
      (3)   The Alva Recreation Complex (ARC) is excluded from compliance
herein.
(Prior Code, § 38-51) (Ord. 2012-31, passed 3-19-2012)
§ 38-52. FISHING REGULATIONS, REQUIREMENTS, RESTRICTIONS, AND EXCEPTIONS AT
HATFIELD PARK POND AND OTHER LAKES OR PONDS OWNED OR OPERATED BY THE CITY.
   (A)   Except as modified herein, all state fishing regulations, including,
but not limited to, permit and license requirements, shall be in effect at the
Hatfield Park Pond and other lakes or ponds owned or operated by the city.
   (B)   All persons fishing at the Hatfield Park Pond, or other lakes or ponds
owned or operated by the city, shall have a valid state fishing license, unless
exempt, and shall obey all state fishing regulations.
   (C)   Fishing is limited to not more than two rods and reels, per person,
with no more than three hooks per line (treble hooks are considered one hook).
All other fishing methods are prohibited.
   (D)   No trotlines, throwlines, limblines, juglines, or yo-yos shall be
permitted.
   (E)   No snagging, seining, netting, cast netting, trawl nets, hand nets,
spearing, gigging, grabhooking, or noodling (hand fishing) shall be permitted.
Bow fishing is prohibited.
   (F)   There shall be no introduction of fish to any pond or lake owned or
operated by the city, by the public, or any source other than those approved by
the State Department of Wildlife Conservation and the city.
   (G)   No person shall deposit unused bait of any character, including, but
not limited to, minnows, small fish, worms, flesh of animals, or any other
deleterious matter which might decay in the waters of any city owned or
operated pond or lake, or upon the lands adjacent thereto.
   (H)   Fishing shall be from the banks and fishing piers only. The use of
flotation devices, including float tubes, canoes, row boats, and other similar
flotation devices powered by electric motor, oars, paddles, or other human
powered means are specifically prohibited.
   (I)   Swimming is prohibited at any city owned or operated pond or lake.
   (J)   Until April 30, 2013, all fish caught must be returned to the water
immediately (catch and release). Effective May 1, 2013, the following daily
fishing limits shall apply.
 
Bass                             3
Channel catfish and blue catfish 7
Crappie                          3
Flathead catfish                 7
Trout                            6
 
   (K)   All fish caught must be returned to the water immediately or they will
count as part of the daily limits.
   (L)   Any member of the Alva Police Department may issue a citation to any
person who has violated this section of the law, and may require such person to
immediately vacate the premises, or may arrest any person who has violated this
section, or refuses to vacate the premises as ordered, without warrant, and the
Municipal Court shall have jurisdiction of all such violations.
   (M)   State game rangers and other representatives of the State Department
of Wildlife Conservation with enforcement powers are authorized to enforce any
regulations contained herein, and all other applicable state fishing
regulations.
   (N)   Violation of this section of the code shall be a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, punishable by a fine of not more than $100, and costs.
(Prior Code, § 38-52) (Ord. 2012-33, passed 6-18-2012)
§§ 38-53 THROUGH 38-73. RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: LIBRARY
Section
   
38-74.   Purpose
   
38-75.   Library established
   
38-76.   Board of Directors; term; removal
   
38-77.   Officers; rules
   
38-78.   Library personnel, budget, and duties; compensation
   
38-79.   Finances
   
38-80.   Annual report
   
38-81.   Annual appropriations
   38-82 through 38-105 reserved
§ 38-74. PURPOSE.
   It is the desire and intent of the City Council to provide free public
library service to the residents of the city, the state, and the nation.
(Prior Code, § 38-74) (Ord. 817, passed 6-3-1996)
§ 38-75. LIBRARY ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a Library Department of the city.
(Prior Code, § 38-75) (Ord. 817, passed 6-3-1996)
§ 38-76. BOARD OF DIRECTORS; TERM; REMOVAL.
   (A)   The public library shall be governed by a Board of Directors
consisting of seven members selected with reference to their fitness for such
office by the Mayor and City Council. All Library Board Directors shall serve
thereon without compensation.
   (B)   The Board members shall hold office for a term of three years from
July 1 following their appointment. Terms expire on June 30. Vacancies in the
Library Board of Directors shall be filled in the same manner as original
appointment for the unexpired term.
   (C)   Any member of the Board of Directors may be removed by the appointing
authority for misconduct or neglect of duty.
(Prior Code, § 38-76) (Ord. 817, passed 6-3-1996)
§ 38-77. OFFICERS; RULES.
   Immediately after the initial appointment, and after July 1 thereafter, the
Board of Directors shall meet and organize by electing one Director as
President, one Director as Secretary, and by electing such other officers as
the Board may deem necessary. The Secretary need not be a member of the Board.
They shall adopt such rules and regulations for their own guidance and for the
governance and operation of the library as may be expedient and not
inconsistent with the ordinances of the city and laws of the state, subject to
approval of the Mayor and Council of the city.
(Prior Code, § 38-77) (Ord. 817, passed 6-3-1996)
§ 38-78. LIBRARY PERSONNEL, BUDGET, AND DUTIES; COMPENSATION.
   The Board may recommend suitable applicants, subject to appointment by the
Business Manager, for the position of librarian, assistants, and other
personnel. Compensation for these positions shall be set and approved by the
Business Manager, as with other city agencies. The librarian shall be the
administrative officer of the library. The Board shall recommend an annual
budget to the Business Manager. The Board shall set the policy of the library,
supervise, and care for the grounds, rooms, or buildings constructed, leased,
or set aside for the library subject to approval of the Business Manager.
(Prior Code, § 38-78) (Ord. 817, passed 6-3-1996)
§ 38-79. FINANCES.
   All moneys received by the Board on account of the library, including, but
not limited to, moneys paid as a result of fines accrued, shall be paid to the
City Treasurer, who shall deposit the same in the Municipal Treasury in an
account designated the “Library Fund” of the general funds of the city. Such
moneys shall be paid out only upon a claims request submitted to the City
Council for approval with warrants to be disbursed per policies as set for all
city funds.
(Prior Code, § 38-79) (Ord. 817, passed 6-3-1996)
§ 38-80. ANNUAL REPORT.
   (A)   The Library Board of Directors shall make, on or before August 15 in
each year, an annual report to the Mayor and the City Council. Such report
shall include:
      (1)   The condition of its trust on June 30;
      (2)   The various sums of money and property received by the library and
how such moneys have been expended;
      (3)   Statistics on the general character and number of books and
periodicals which are on hand, are lost, have been added, by purchase, gift, or
otherwise, and have been loaned out; and
      (4)   The number of persons making use of the library during the year.
   (B)   A similar report shall be filed at the time with the State Department
of Libraries on forms supplied by the Department.
(Prior Code, § 38-80) (Ord. 817, passed 6-3-1996)
§ 38-81. ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS.
   The Mayor and City Council shall annually appropriate to the library from
funds available to the city such moneys as are deemed necessary to operate and
maintain the public library for the education and cultural enrichment of the
citizens of the city.
(Prior Code, § 38-81) (Ord. 817, passed 6-3-1996)
§§ 38-82 THROUGH 38-105. RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: ALVA PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD
Section
Generally
   38-106 through 38-123 reserved
Alva Parks and Recreation Board
   
38-124.   Creation
   
38-125.   Members
   
38-126.   Selection of Chair and Secretary; meetings; quorum
   
38-127.   Board duties
   
38-128.   Preparation of budget
   
38-129.   Funding
   
38-130.   Annual report
GENERALLY
§§ 38-106 THROUGH 38-123. RESERVED.
ALVA PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD
§ 38-124. CREATION.
   There is hereby created the Alva Parks and Recreation Board. The Board shall
consist of seven members to be appointed by the Mayor, with approval of the
City Council. One Board member shall be a member of the City Council. The
initial Board shall consist of the current members of the Alva Recreational
Complex Board, whose terms shall be staggered in compliance with the schedule
set forth in §
38-125. The Mayor shall be responsible for initially setting the terms of each
member in accordance with the schedule, except the City Councilmember.
(Ord. 2022-003, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 38-125. MEMBERS.
   Two members shall serve an initial term of one year; two members will serve
an initial term of two years; and two members will serve an initial term of
three years. Thereafter, each member shall serve a term of three years and
until his or her successor shall be appointed and qualified, except the member
of the City Council, who shall serve only for a period concurrent with his or
her council term at the time of appointment. Board members shall serve at the
pleasure of the Mayor and the City Council and may be removed at the discretion
of the Mayor, subject to the approval of the City Council. Vacancies shall be
filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Mayor of the city. Members
shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 2022-003, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 38-126. SELECTION OF CHAIR AND SECRETARY; MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   The Board shall choose one of its members as its Chair and one member as its
Secretary. Minutes of all meetings of the Board shall be maintained by the
Secretary in written form. Copies of the minutes of each meeting shall be filed
with the Business Officer of the city. The Board may adopt and from time to
time amend rules of procedure. The Board shall be required to meet at least
quarterly, and shall comply with all requirements of the state’s Open Meeting
Act, 25 O.S. §§ 301 et seq. Four members shall constitute a legal quorum
thereof.
(Ord. 2022-003, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 38-127. BOARD DUTIES.
   The Board, as created in § 38-124, shall have charge of and control of the
municipally acquired or developed parks and recreation venues, including, but
not limited to, the Alva Recreation Complex, the municipal pool, Hatfield Park,
and Bud Rose Park, except employees thereof, who shall be subject to the
supervision and control of the city, and subject to the rules of conduct and
regulations pertaining to other city employees. The Board shall be authorized
to make rules and regulations governing the management, improvement,
maintenance, operation, and regulation of said parks and recreation venues. No
real property shall be disposed of by the Board by sale, lease, or otherwise,
except by the authority of the City Council; however, the Board may lease
space, area, or improvements, and grant concessions on the grounds proper, for
purposes incidental to the operation of the parks and recreation venues.
(Ord. 2022-003, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 38-128. PREPARATION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   Prior to June 1 each year, the Board shall prepare a budget for
finances for the ensuing fiscal year. The budget shall include the following:
      (1)   Estimated revenues, divided as follows:
         (a)   Federal and state grants;
         (b)   Sales tax revenues;
         (c)   Miscellaneous revenues;
         (d)   Fund from the city;
         (e)   Contributions from third parties or other entities; and
         (f)   Carryover of any funds from the prior fiscal year.
      (2)   Estimated expenditures, divided as follows:
         (a)   Personal services;
         (b)   Services other than personal;
         (c)   Supplies and materials;
         (d)   Equipment;
         (e)   Real estate and improvement; and
         (f)   Miscellaneous expenditures.
   (B)   Such budget shall be submitted not later than June 1 to the City
Council for action of approval or disapproval. The Board shall not approve any
claims or incur any obligations for expenditure unless there is unencumbered
cash in the Commission Fund to the credit of the Board with which to pay the
same.
(Ord. 2022-003, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 38-129. FUNDING.
   Funding for the Board and the management, improvement, maintenance,
operation, and regulation of said parks and recreation venues shall be provided
through the one-half cent sales tax designated for that purpose by Ordinance
No. 99-827, funds received from the city, federal, and state grants, and
contributions received from third parties or other entities. For the purpose of
financing the necessary expenditures in carrying out the purpose of this
division, there is hereby created in the city accounts and Treasury a special
fund to be designated as the “Alva Parks and Recreation Fund,” wherein the
aforesaid revenues shall be deposited, appropriated, and used in conformity
herewith, including funds previously designated as the “Alva Recreation Complex
Fund.”
(Ord. 2022-003, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 38-130. ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Board shall, as soon as reasonably possible after the end of each fiscal
year, prepare and present to the City Council a comprehensive annual report of
its activities and finances.
(Ord. 2022-003, passed 6-21-2022)
CHAPTER 39: RESERVED
   [Reserved]
CHAPTER 40: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   STREETS
      
III.   SIDEWALKS, DRIVEWAYS, AND CURBINGS
      
IV.   USE AND OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
V.   STREET TREES AND OTHER PLANTS
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   40-1 through 40-18 reserved
§§ 40-1 THROUGH 40-18. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: STREETS
Section
Generally
   40-19 through 40-40 reserved
Naming Streets and Numbering Houses
   
40-41.   Certain streets named
   
40-42.   Mayor and City Clerk to certify names
   
40-43.   Houses to be numbered
   
40-44.   Streets running north and south
   
40-45.   Mill Street and Noble Street unchanged
   
40-46.   To retain identity
   
40-47.   Every 25 feet of front to be numbered
   
40-48.   Houses to be numbered
   
40-49.   Number to be used
   
40-50.   Failure to number houses; Mayor may act
   40-51 through 40-73 reserved
GENERALLY
§§ 40-1 THROUGH 40-40. RESERVED.
NAMING STREETS AND NUMBERING HOUSES
§ 40-41. CERTAIN STREETS NAMED.
   The name of each and every street running east and west known and designated
before 1954, as “A,” “B,” “C,” “D,” “E,” “F,” “G,” “H,” and “I” streets
consecutively, in the city shall be and the same are hereby renamed to be
hereafter known and designated as follows:
   (A)   “A” Street shall be Mill Street;
   (B)   “B” Street shall be Santa Fe Street;
   (C)   “C” Street shall be Choctaw Street;
   (D)   “D” Street shall be Flynn Avenue;
   (E)   “E” Street shall be Barnes Avenue;
   (F)   “F” Street shall be Center Street;
   (G)   “G” Street shall be Church Street;
   (H)   “H” Street shall be Locust Street;
   (I)   “I” Street shall be Maple Street; and
   (J)   The street running east and west, south of “I” Street and north of
Northwestern State College, shall be Oklahoma Boulevard.
(Prior Code, § 40-41)
§ 40-42. MAYOR AND CITY CLERK TO CERTIFY NAMES.
   It is hereby made the duty of the Mayor and the City Clerk to cause all
proper and legal certificates of the change of the names of the streets of the
city as provided in this section to be certified under seal of the city and
filed and made a part of the recorded plat of the city, and of the additions
thereto.
(Prior Code, § 40-42)
§ 40-43. HOUSES TO BE NUMBERED.
   All residences and business houses fronting upon public streets in the city
shall be numbered, and the same are numbered in conformity with the following
provisions.
   (A)   Odd numbers shall be given to residences and business houses on the
west side of streets running north and south, and even numbers to those on the
east side thereof; and odd numbers on the south side of streets running east
and west, and even numbers to those houses on the north side thereof.
   (B)   On the streets running north and south in the city, numbering shall
commence with number 100, on the east side thereof and on the northwest corner
of the block on the east side of each of such streets at its intersection with
“A” Street or Mill Street, as the same is by this division named, and with the
number 101 on the west side of such streets opposite the point designated for
numbers 100 in each of such streets of the city, and the numbering shall
increase north and south from the points on each street at the rate of 100
numbers for each block distance or space between two streets.
   (C)   On streets running east and west in the city, numbering shall commence
with number two on the north side of each such street, on the southeast corner
of block on the north side of each and every such street at its intersection
with Noble Street in the city, and with number one on the south side of such
streets and opposite to number two at the point of intersection aforesaid, and
shall increase west at the rate of 100 numbers for each distance of one block
or space between two streets.
   (D)   On east and west running streets east of Noble Street, numbering shall
commence with 100 on the north side of each such street, on the southwest
corner of the block of each and every such street at its intersection with
Noble Street in the city, and with 101 on the south side of such streets
opposite the point designated for numbers 100 in each of such streets of the
city, and the numbering shall increase east from such points at the rate of 100
numbers for each distance of one block or space between two streets.
(Prior Code, § 40-43)
§ 40-44. STREETS RUNNING NORTH AND SOUTH.
   All streets running north from “A” Street (by §
40-41 named and designated as Mill Street) shall bear the prefix “North,” and
all streets running east from Noble Street shall bear the prefix “East.”
(Prior Code, § 40-44)
§ 40-45. MILL STREET AND NOBLE STREET UNCHANGED.
   Mill Street and Noble Street named as such shall not be changed within the
city limits, because of their use as base lines for the naming and numbering of
streets for the entire city.
(Prior Code, § 40-45)
§ 40-46. TO RETAIN IDENTITY.
   The future extension of Mill Street or Noble Street within or outside the
city limits, upon the future extension of the streets, shall retain their
identity as such named streets.
(Prior Code, § 40-46)
§ 40-47. EVERY 25 FEET OF FRONT TO BE NUMBERED.
   Every 25 feet of street front or building line on each and every block,
within the city, shall be numbered and bear its respective numbers as provided
for in this division.
(Prior Code, § 40-47)
§ 40-48. HOUSES TO BE NUMBERED.
   The owner or occupant of each and every residence or business house in the
city shall, within 90 days from the first publication of this division, place
on his or her building in a conspicuous place, in accordance with the
provisions of this division, the proper number in figures no less than three
inches in height.
(Prior Code, § 40-48)
§ 40-49. NUMBER TO BE USED.
   The number used shall be that which the main door or entryway is placed upon
the 25-foot section of the street. In case the entryway covers the 25-foot
line, then the smaller number shall be used. This shall apply in all cases to
all occupants.
(Prior Code, § 40-49)
§ 40-50. FAILURE TO NUMBER HOUSES; MAYOR MAY ACT.
   If any owner or occupant of any building within the city shall fail or
refuse to number his or her building within the time herein provided, then it
shall be the duty of the Mayor of the city to have the building numbered and
the number thereof placed conspicuously in the front thereof, and report the
costs of the same in all such instances to the City Clerk, who shall certify
the costs as a tax upon the lot occupied by the building, to the County Clerk,
to be placed upon the tax roll of the county and collected according to law.
Nothing in this section shall preclude the Mayor and City Council from
withholding the certification of such costs to the County Clerk, and at the
time of general tax levy, making other provisions for the payment of such costs
so reported by the Mayor of the city.
(Prior Code, § 40-50)
§§ 40-51 THROUGH 40-73. RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: SIDEWALKS, DRIVEWAYS, AND CURBINGS
Section
   
40-74.   Construction of sidewalks, driveways, and curbings; permits
   
40-75.   Application to be submitted to City Engineer
   
40-76.   City Engineer to check application and report
   
40-77.   City Clerk to issue permit
   40-78 through 40-97 reserved
§ 40-74. CONSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS, DRIVEWAYS, AND CURBINGS; PERMITS.
   For the purpose of securing a uniform system of sidewalks, driveways, and
curbings in the city with respect to location and grade of sidewalks,
driveways, and curbings hereafter constructed in the city, it shall be unlawful
for any person to construct or build any sidewalks, driveways, or curbings on
the streets in the city without first filing an application with the City
Clerk, setting forth the location and grade of the proposed sidewalks,
driveways, or curbings, and obtaining a permit to make the improvements from
the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 40-74)
§ 40-75. APPLICATION TO BE SUBMITTED TO CITY ENGINEER.
   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk, upon receiving the application, to
immediately submit the same to the City Engineer for approval or corrections.
(Prior Code, § 40-75)
§ 40-76. CITY ENGINEER TO CHECK APPLICATION AND REPORT.
   Upon receiving an application from the City Clerk, it shall be the duty of
the City Engineer to immediately check the application as to the proper
location and grade, and report thereon to the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 40-76)
§ 40-77. CITY CLERK TO ISSUE PERMIT.
   The City Clerk shall, upon receiving approval or corrections from the City
Engineer, issue a permit to the applicant, authorizing the improvements upon
the grade and location as approved and fixed by the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 40-77)
§§ 40-78 THROUGH 40-97. RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: USE AND OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
40-98.   Unlawful to store merchandise on streets
   
40-99.   Unlawful to use streets as a place to store or park
   
40-100.   Property owners may grow grass on parking
   
40-101.   Unlawful to deposit refuse on streets and alleys
   
40-102.   Unlawful to haul or drag trees over streets
   
40-103.   City personnel exempted from § 40-102
   
40-104.   Unlawful to obstruct sidewalks
   
40-105.   Injuring streets
   
40-106.   Cutting and patching of streets and alleys
   
40-107.   Penalty
   40-108 through 40-127 reserved
§ 40-98. UNLAWFUL TO STORE MERCHANDISE ON STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person to keep, place, or store upon any parking or
any street within the corporate limits of the city any machinery, automobiles,
trucks, tractors, junk, or trash of any kind or character.
(Prior Code, § 40-98)
§ 40-99. UNLAWFUL TO USE STREETS AS A PLACE TO STORE OR PARK.
   It is unlawful for any person to use any street or parking within the
corporate limits of the city as a place for keeping or parking any machinery,
automobiles, tractors, trucks, junk, or trash of any kind or character.
(Prior Code, § 40-99)
§ 40-100. PROPERTY OWNERS MAY GROW GRASS ON PARKING.
   Abutting property owners of any parking easement within the corporate limits
of the city shall be permitted to grow grass, trees, or flowers upon the
parking.
(Prior Code, § 40-100)
§ 40-101. UNLAWFUL TO DEPOSIT REFUSE ON STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   It is unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of the city to
deposit any rubbish, garbage, junk, cans, vegetable or animal refuse, slop, old
machinery, waste, or any kind or character of rubbish, junk, or refuse in or
upon any of the streets or alleys in the city.
(Prior Code, § 40-101)
§ 40-102. UNLAWFUL TO HAUL OR DRAG TREES OVER STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person to haul or otherwise transport any trees, tree
trunks, bushes, or other inanimate objects by dragging the same behind any
truck, tractor, or other vehicle on, over, or along the streets, alleys, or
other public thoroughfares of the city.
(Prior Code, § 40-102)
§ 40-103. CITY PERSONNEL EXEMPTED FROM § 40-102.
   The officers and employees of the city, in the furtherance of their official
duties, are expressly exempted from the operation of this article.
(Prior Code, § 40-103)
§ 40-104. UNLAWFUL TO OBSTRUCT SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct any of the sidewalks of the
city by placing thereon any object or property, or using any such sidewalk for
storage purpose, or in any manner so obstructing such sidewalk as to interfere
with the free use thereof by pedestrians.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit the temporary use of said
sidewalks for the purpose of display and/or sale of merchandise so long as a
walkway of at least four feet in width in the center of the sidewalk remains
free and clear of any property or merchandise. Merchandise and property placed
next to the curb must be placed in such a manner as to not obstruct or impede
the normal parking of vehicles, nor obstruct or impede the ability of
pedestrians to gain access to the sidewalk from their vehicle. In areas where
the sidewalk and curbline are not clearly defined, there shall be a minimum of
four feet between the building or displayed merchandise and parked vehicles.
   (C)   No property or merchandise shall be placed on the sidewalk in any
manner that would block the view or access to a fire hydrant.
   (D)   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit the temporary use of such
sidewalk for the moving in or out of merchandise or other articles when
necessary. Necessary material for the repair of any building may be temporarily
placed upon the sidewalk when so authorized by the City Mayor or Marshal.
   (E)   Sidewalks, at all times, shall be kept free and clear of litter,
weeds, and grass.
(Prior Code, § 40-104) (Ord. 766, passed 7-1-1985)
§ 40-105. INJURING STREETS.
   It is unlawful to drive or move any vehicle or other object over the streets
of the city when the vehicle or object injures or would injure the surface of
the street.
(Prior Code, § 40-105)
§ 40-106. CUTTING AND PATCHING OF STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   It is unlawful to cut or trench any street or alley without first
obtaining a permit to do so.
   (B)   The permit fee shall be in an amount on file in the City Clerk’s
office, plus the contractor must post a bond in an amount on file in the City
Clerk’s office with the city at the time the contractor obtains the permit.
   (C)   The street or alley must be patched within seven days after
excavation, or the city will patch it and the bond will be forfeited.
   (D)   Patching procedure:
      (1)   Pavement must be sawed to form straight edges, and to allow a
minimum of six inches of undisturbed soil on each side of the trench;
      (2)   The trench must be backfilled with fill sand and compacted as it is
being filled;
      (3)   The concrete will be six inches thick and will be “High Early”
(eight sack mix);
      (4)   Before placing the concrete, the contractor shall call the Street
Superintendent or the City Building Inspector for inspection; and
      (5)   For unpaved streets and alleys, backfill will be the same material
which was removed and will be compacted as it is being placed into the trench
or will be settled by flooding with water. The contractor shall be responsible
for checking the excavations site after seven days and adding any fill to bring
the site back to grade.
   (E)   The contractor will be responsible to barricade the site, in such a
manner as to not endanger the public, from the time of excavation until the
concrete has obtained the strength to support traffic (approximately three to
five days).
(Prior Code, § 40-106) (Ord. 784, passed 10-19-1988)
§ 40-107. PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in §
1-14.
(Prior Code, § 40-107)
§§ 40-108 THROUGH 40-127. RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: STREET TREES AND OTHER PLANTS
Section
Generally
   40-128 through 40-152 reserved
Regulation of Privately Owned Trees and Plants
   
40-153.   Owners to maintain trees
   
40-154.   Overhanging trees regulated
   
40-155.   Failure of owner or occupant to comply; city may act
   
40-156.   Penalty
   40-157 through 40-180 reserved
Regulations of City Owned Trees and Plants
   
40-181.   Establishing an Advisory Community Tree Board
   
40-182.   Appointment of Board members
   
40-183.   Members serve without compensation
   
40-184.   Responsibilities of Board
   
40-185.   Board meetings
GENERALLY
§§ 40-128 THROUGH 40-152. RESERVED.
REGULATION OF PRIVATELY OWNED TREES AND PLANTS
§ 40-153. OWNERS TO MAINTAIN TREES.
   It is hereby declared to be the intent and purpose of this division to
provide for clear and unimpeded use and view of the streets, avenues, alleys,
and sidewalks within the city by vehicular and pedestrian traffic. For the
furtherance of such intent and purpose, it is declared to be the duty and
obligation of the owner or occupant of any real estate within the city to
maintain trees, shrubs, or bushes growing along or adjacent to any such street,
avenue, alley, or sidewalk, and whether in the parkway or otherwise, in such
condition as not to interfere with such clear and unimpeded use or view.
(Prior Code, § 40-153)
§ 40-154. OVERHANGING TREES REGULATED.
   To accomplish the declared intent and purpose of this division, no tree
shall be permitted to overhang such street, avenue, alley, or sidewalk lower
than 12 feet as to the street, avenue, or alley and eight feet as to the
sidewalk, and it shall be the duty of such property owner or occupant to so
trim such trees to conform to the provisions of this article.
(Prior Code, § 40-154)
§ 40-155. FAILURE OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT TO COMPLY; CITY MAY ACT.
   (A)   In the event any such owner or occupant shall fail, refuse, or neglect
to so trim such trees within ten days after service of a notice to do so, the
city, by and through its agents, servants, and employees, may go upon the
premises and trim the trees and other vegetation growing thereon to conform to
the provisions hereof, and the costs and expenses incident thereto may be
recovered in a proper civil action instituted by the city against the owner or
occupant of the premises.
   (B)   The notice herein provided for shall be issued under the hand of the
City Clerk and be served by the Police Department upon the person to whom the
same is directed.
(Prior Code, § 40-155)
§ 40-156. PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this division shall be guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in § 1-14.
(Prior Code, § 40-156)
§§ 40-157 THROUGH 40-180. RESERVED.
REGULATION OF CITY OWNED TREES AND PLANTS
§ 40-181. ESTABLISHING AN ADVISORY COMMUNITY TREE BOARD.
   There is hereby created and established an Advisory Community Tree Board for
the city, which shall consist of five members, who shall be appointed by the
Mayor with the approval of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 40-181) (Ord. 805, passed 12-20-1993)
§ 40-182. APPOINTMENT OF BOARD MEMBERS.
   The terms of the five members to be appointed by the Mayor shall be three
years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any member,
the successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of the term.
(Prior Code, § 40-182) (Ord. 805, passed 12-20-1993)
§ 40-183. MEMBERS SERVE WITHOUT COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 40-183) (Ord. 805, passed 12-20-1993)
§ 40-184. RESPONSIBILITIES OF BOARD.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the Board to study, investigate,
counsel, and develop a written plan for the care, preservation, trimming,
planting, replanting, removal, or disposition of city owned trees and shrubs in
public ways, streets, and alleys. Such plan will be presented to the City
Council and, upon its acceptance and approval, shall constitute the official
comprehensive city tree plan.
   (B)   The Board shall review annually and update, if needed, the
comprehensive city tree plan. The Board shall prepare and present an annual
work plan to the City Council for its acceptance and approval.
(Prior Code, § 40-184) (Ord. 805, passed 12-20-1993)
§ 40-185. BOARD MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Board shall choose its own officers and keep a journal of its
proceedings. A majority of the members shall be a quorum for the transaction of
business.
   (B)   All minutes and documents generated will be presented and filed with
the City Clerk. The Board will be responsible for submitting all forms and
information that is requested by any city, county, state, or national agency or
organization, at which time, all forms or information must be approved by the
City Council before submission.
(Prior Code, § 40-185) (Ord. 805, passed 12-20-1993)
CHAPTER 41: RESERVED
   [Reserved]
CHAPTER 42: TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
      
III.   VEHICLE EQUIPMENT; INSPECTION
      
IV.   SPEED REGULATIONS
      
V.   DRIVING; OVERTAKING; PASSING
      
VI.   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
      
VII.   STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
      
VIII.   LOADING
      
IX.   TURNING MOVEMENTS
      
X.   PEDESTRIANS
      
XI.   BICYCLES AND MOTORIZED SCOOTERS
      
XII.   IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
      
XIII.   RAILROADS
      
XIV.   VEHICLES FOR HIRE
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
42-1.   Traffic code controlling
   
42-2.   Definitions
   
42-3.   State traffic code adopted by reference
   
42-4.   Obedience to traffic code
   
42-5.   Violation; penalty
   42-6 through 42-30 reserved
Statutory reference:
   Traffic rules and regulations, see 47 O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.
§ 42-1. TRAFFIC CODE CONTROLLING.
   Except as specifically provided by law as set forth in this chapter, the
state traffic code, 47 O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq. shall be controlling in the use of
city streets, alleys, thoroughfares, parks, parkways, or any other public
right-of-way or municipally owned land, by pedestrians and by vehicles of every
kind, whether self-propelled or otherwise and whether moving or at rest.
(Prior Code, § 42-1)
Statutory reference:
   State traffic laws, see 47 O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.
§ 42-2. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. Any narrow highway ordinarily located in the interior portion of
platted blocks and ordinarily used for service or delivery purposes at the rear
of stores, dwellings, or buildings.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. When equipped as prescribed in 47 O.S. § 1-103
(B), means:
      (1)   Vehicles of Fire Departments;
      (2)   Ambulances or vehicles specified pursuant to 63 O.S. § 1-2512 of
licensed ambulance service providers;
      (3)   State vehicles of law enforcement agencies;
      (4)   County vehicles of sheriffs and full-time commissioned deputies;
      (5)   Municipal vehicles of Police Departments;
      (6)   Vehicles owned and operated by the United States Marshals Service
or the Federal Bureau of Investigation;
      (7)   Vehicles of State National Guard units designated by the Adjutant
General for support to civil authorities; or
      (8)   Vehicles owned and operated by any local organization for emergency
management as defined by 63 O.S. § 683.3.
   BICYCLE. A device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having two tandem wheels. As used in this chapter, the term BICYCLE shall
include tricycles, quadcycles, or similar human-powered devices, electric-
assisted bicycles, and motorized bicycles unless otherwise specifically
indicated.
   BICYCLE, ELECTRIC-ASSISTED. Any bicycle with:
      (1)   Two or three wheels; and
      (2)   Fully operative pedals for human propulsion and equipped with an
electric motor:
         (a)   With a power output not to exceed 1,000 watts;
         (b)   Incapable of propelling the device at a speed of more than 30
mph on level ground; and
         (c)   Incapable of further increasing the speed of the device when
human power alone is used to propel the device at a speed of 30 mph or more.
   BICYCLE, MOTORIZED. Any bicycle having:
      (1)   Fully operative pedals for propulsion by human power;
      (2)   An automatic transmission; and
      (3)   A combustion engine with a piston or rotor displacement of 150
cubic centimeters or less, regardless of the number of chambers in the engine,
which is capable of propelling the bicycle at a maximum design speed of not
more than 30 mph on level ground.
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten passengers and
used for the transportation of persons, and every motor vehicle, other than a
taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway if
there are buildings within 600 feet of the highway in use for business or
industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks, or office
buildings, railroad stations, and public buildings which occupy at least 300
feet of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides of the
highway.
   CENTER LANE. Any clearly marked center lane. If the CENTER LANE is not
marked and no cars are parked on the roadway, then the CENTER LANE is equally
distanced between the curbs or traveled portion of the roadway. If vehicles are
parked on one side of the roadway only, then the CENTER LANE is equally
distanced from the side of the parked vehicles toward the street and curb on
the opposite roadway. If vehicles are parked on each side of the roadway, then
the CENTER LANE is equally distanced from the edges of the parked vehicles.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Every vehicle designed, maintained, or used primarily
for the transportation of property.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE, CLASS A. Any combination of vehicles, except a class D
motor vehicle, with a gross combined weight rating of 26,001 or more pounds,
provided the gross vehicle weight rating of the vehicle being towed is in
excess of 10,000 pounds.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street, or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same, except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
such highway, street, or roadway.
   CROSSWALK. Part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
street measured from the curbs; or in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway. The term CROSSWALK also means any portion of a roadway
at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by
lines or other markings on the surface.
   DOUBLE PARK. Parking or stopping a vehicle on the roadway side of another
vehicle already parked adjacent to the edge or curbing of the roadway.
   DRIVER or OPERATOR. A person who drives or is in actual physical control of
a vehicle.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseeable occurrence of temporary duration causing or
resulting in an abnormal increase in traffic volume, cessation or stoppage of
traffic movement, or creation of conditions hazardous to normal traffic
movement, including fire, storm, accident, riot, or spontaneous assembly of
large numbers of pedestrians in such a manner as to impede the flow of traffic.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police vehicles, and
ambulances.
   HIGHWAY. See STREET or HIGHWAY.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curblines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadway
of two streets, which join one another at, or approximately at, right angles,
or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different streets join at any
other angle, may come in conflict; or
      (2)   Where a street includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of such divided street by an intersecting street
shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION. In the event such intersecting
street also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of
two roadways of such streets shall be regarded as separate INTERSECTIONS.
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LIMIT LINES. Boundaries of parking areas, loading zones, and nontraffic
areas and lines indicating the proper place for stopping where stops are
required.
   LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY. See CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or material. A FREIGHT
CURB LOADING ZONE is a loading zone for the exclusive use of vehicles during
the loading or unloading of freight; a PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE is a loading
zone for the exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of
passengers.
   MOTORCYCLE, MOTOR SCOOTER, and MOTOR BICYCLE. A motor vehicle, other than a
tractor, having a seat or saddle for the use of the driver and designed to
travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground, but excluding
a tractor.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled or any vehicle which is
propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails. As used in this chapter, the term MOTOR VEHICLE shall not
include:
      (1)   Implements of husbandry, as defined in 47 O.S. § 1-125;
      (2)   Electric personal assistive mobility devices as defined in 47 O.S.
§ 1-114A;
      (3)   Motorized wheelchairs, as defined in 47 O.S. § 1-136.3; or
      (4)   Vehicles moved solely by human or animal power.
   OFFICIAL TIME. Whenever certain hours are named herein, Central Standard
Time, or Daylight Saving Time, as may be in current use in the city.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. All signs, signals, markings, and devices
not inconsistent with this chapter, placed or erected by authority of a public
body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning,
or guiding traffic.
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of, and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading merchandise or passengers, provided such loading and
unloading is in an authorized place.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the Municipal Police Department, or any
officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or to make arrests for
violation of traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR ROADWAY. A way or place in private ownership or leading to
property in private ownership and used for vehicular traffic by the owner and
those having expressed or implied permission from the owner.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars other than streetcars
operated upon stationary rails.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, diesel, electric, or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed, and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed, ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the shoulders. If a street includes two or more
separate roadways, the term ROADWAY, as used herein, shall refer to any such
roadway, separately, but not to all such roadways collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times, while set
apart as a SAFETY ZONE.
   SCHOOL ZONE. All streets or portions of streets immediately adjacent to a
school, or school ground, where same is adjacent and for a distance of 300 feet
in each direction.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curblines or lateral lines of
the roadway and adjacent property lines, intended for use of pedestrians.
   STAND or STANDING. Any stopping of a vehicle, whether occupied or not.
   STOP or STOPPING. 
      (1)   When required, means the complete cessation from movement.
      (2)   When prohibited, means any halting, even momentarily, of a vehicle,
whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the direction of a police officer or traffic
signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way,
publicly maintained, when any part thereof is opened to the use of the public
for purposes of vehicular travel.
   THROUGH STREET OR HIGHWAY. A street, boulevard, or highway or portion
thereof at the entrances to which:
      (1)   Vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is required
by law to come to a full stop before entering or crossing; and
      (2)   Traffic control devices are erected as provided in this chapter.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, and other
conveyances, either singularly or together, while using any highway or street
for purpose of travel.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES OR SIGNALS. Any device legally authorized and used
for the purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street which
is built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of a quarter mile or
more.
   U-TURN. A turn by which a vehicle reverses its course of travel on the same
street.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway or street, except devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 42-2)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, state traffic code, see 47 O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.
§ 42-3. STATE TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of the state Motor Vehicle Code, 47 O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq. and
the rules of the road, 47 O.S. §§ 10-101 et seq., are hereby adopted and
incorporated herein by reference, and are enforceable by the city within the
city limits as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 42-3)
Statutory reference:
   State motor vehicle code, see 47 O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.
   State rules of the road, see 47 O.S. §§ 10-101 et seq.
§ 42-4. OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CODE.
   (A)   It is an offense against the city for any person to do any act
forbidden or to fail to perform any act required by this chapter.
   (B)   It is an offense against the city for the parent or legal guardian of
any child or for the guardian of any ward to authorize or knowingly permit any
such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   It is an offense for any person to authorize or knowingly to permit
any vehicle registered in his or her name to be driven or to stand or to be
parked in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 42-4)
Statutory reference:
   Responsibility of parent or guardian, see 47 O.S. § 11-1201
§ 42-5. VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Every person violating any of the provisions of this chapter containing the
traffic laws of the city shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined or punished as provided in §
1-14.
(Prior Code, § 42-5)
§§ 42-6 THROUGH 42-30. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
42-31.   Enforcement of traffic laws; establishment of Traffic Control Division
   
42-32.   Direction of traffic by hand or voice
   
42-33.   Direction of traffic by unauthorized persons
   
42-34.   Obedience to police
   
42-35.   Emergency and experimental regulations
   
42-36.   Pushcarts, riding animals, or driving animal drawn vehicles to comply
with code
   
42-37.   Use of coasters, rollerskates, and similar devices restricted
   
42-38.   Public officers and employees to obey traffic regulations
   
42-39.   Persons working on streets; exceptions
   
42-40.   Construction and maintenance zones
   
42-41.   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
42-42.   Operation of vehicles on approach of authorized emergency vehicles
   
42-43.   Following fire apparatus prohibited
   
42-44.   Crossing fire hose
   
42-45.   Possession of valid driver’s license required
   
42-46.   Operation of vehicle on invalid license prohibited
   
42-47.   Unlawful to operate vehicle without state vehicle license
   
42-48.   Permitting unauthorized person to drive prohibited
   
42-49.   Accidents
   
42-50.   Issuance of citation tags
   
42-51.   Failure to obey citation
   
42-52.   Failure to comply with traffic citations attached to parked vehicle
   
42-53.   Presumption in reference to illegal parking
   
42-54.   Illegal cancellation of traffic citations
   
42-55.   Disposition and records of traffic citations, warrants, and complaints
   
42-56.   Court records; abstract to be sent to State Department of Public
Safety
   
42-57.   Eluding police officer prohibited
   
42-58.   Noise control upon braking or slowing
   42-59 through 42-89 reserved
§ 42-31. ENFORCEMENT OF TRAFFIC LAWS; ESTABLISHMENT OF TRAFFIC CONTROL
DIVISION.
   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department or any
officers that are assigned by the Chief of Police to enforce all street traffic
laws of this city and all the state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic
in this city. Officers of the Department shall make arrests for traffic
violations, investigate accidents, and cooperate with other officers in the
administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions, and to carry out those duties specially imposed upon the
Department by this chapter and any other traffic ordinances of this city.
(Prior Code, § 42-31)
§ 42-32. DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC BY HAND OR VOICE.
   (A)   Officers of the Police Department or any officers designated by the
Chief of Police are hereby authorized to direct traffic by voice, hand, or
signal in conformance with traffic laws and ordinances. In the event of a fire
or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers
of the Police Department may direct traffic as conditions may require,
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws and ordinances.
   (B)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire or other
emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic in the
immediate vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 42-32)
Statutory reference:
   Police officers directing traffic, see 47 O.S. § 11-103
§ 42-33. DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC BY UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS.
   No unauthorized person shall direct or attempt to direct traffic, except in
case of an emergency where no officer is present.
(Prior Code, § 42-33)
§ 42-34. OBEDIENCE TO POLICE.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control, or regulate traffic.
(Prior Code, § 42-34)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-103
§ 42-35. EMERGENCY AND EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The City Council, by motion or resolution, is empowered to adopt
regulations necessary to make effective the provisions of the traffic
ordinances of this city and to make temporary or experimental regulations to
cover emergencies or special conditions. No such temporary or experimental
regulation shall remain in effect for more than 90 days.
   (B)   The city’s Business Manager may have traffic control devices tested
under actual conditions of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 42-35)
§ 42-36. PUSHCARTS, RIDING ANIMALS, OR DRIVING ANIMAL DRAWN VEHICLES TO COMPLY
WITH CODE.
   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding an animal or driving any
animal driven vehicle upon a roadway, and every person driving any animal drawn
vehicle, shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to the
provisions of this chapter applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except
those provisions of this chapter which by their very nature can have no
application.
(Prior Code, § 42-36)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-104
§ 42-37. USE OF COASTERS, ROLLERSKATES, AND SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED.
   No person upon rollerskates, or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle, or similar device, shall go upon any roadway, except while crossing a
street on a crosswalk; and when so crossing, such person shall be subject to
all of the duties applicable to pedestrians. This section shall not apply upon
any street while set aside as a play street as authorized by ordinances of this
city.
(Prior Code, § 42-37)
§ 42-38. PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by or used in the service of the United States government, any state,
county, city, or governmental unit or agency, as well as to other vehicles. It
is unlawful for any such driver to violate any of the provisions of this
chapter, except as otherwise permitted in this chapter by state statute. This
chapter shall not apply to the military forces of the United States and
organizations of the National Guard when performing any military duty.
(Prior Code, § 42-38)
Statutory reference:
   Government drivers to obey state rules of road, see 47 O.S. § 16-103
§ 42-39. PERSONS WORKING ON STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this chapter, except
those relating to reckless driving and driving while intoxicated, shall not
apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment while actually
engaged in work upon the surface of a street, or to persons, motor vehicles,
and other equipment while actually engaged in the construction, maintenance, or
repair of public utilities. All street or highway and public utility operations
shall be protected by adequate warning signs, signals, devices, or flag
persons. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any of the persons and
vehicles exempted by this section when traveling to and from such work.
(Prior Code, § 42-39)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-105
§ 42-40. CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE ZONES.
   (A)   City personnel or contractors, while repairing or improving the
streets of the city, and city personnel and utility companies, when installing,
improving, or repairing lines or other utility facilities in the streets, are
hereby authorized as necessary, subject to control by the City Council, to
close any street or section thereof to traffic during such repair, maintenance,
or construction. In exercising this authority, the appropriate personnel,
contractor, or utility company shall erect or cause to be erected proper
control devices and barricades to warn and notify the public that the street
has been closed to traffic.
   (B)   When any street has been closed to traffic under the provisions of
subsection (A) above of this section and traffic control devices or barricades
have been erected, it is unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle through,
under, over, or around such traffic control devices or barricades, or otherwise
to enter the closed area. The provisions of this subsection (B) shall not apply
to persons entering the closed area or zone for the protection of lives or
property. Persons having their places of residence or places of business within
the closed area may travel, when possible to do so, through the area at their
own risk.
   (C)   Whenever construction, repair, or maintenance of any street or utility
line or facility is being performed under traffic, the city personnel,
contractor, or utility company concerned shall erect, or cause to be erected,
traffic control devices to warn and guide the public. Every person using the
street shall obey all signs, signals, markings, flag persons, or other traffic
control devices which are placed to regulate, control, and guide traffic
through the construction or maintenance area.
(Prior Code, § 42-40)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1302(A) through (C)
§ 42-41. AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or ordinance, or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire
alarm, may exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to
the conditions stated in this section.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may do any of the
following when in pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law or
ordinance or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as life or property is not
endangered;
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement; or
      (5)   Disregard regulations governing turning in specific directions.
   (C)   (1)   The exemptions granted in this section to an authorized
emergency vehicle shall apply only when the driver of any such vehicle is
properly and lawfully making use of an audible signal or of flashing red or
blue lights or a combination of flashing red and blue lights meeting the
requirements of 47 O.S. § 12-218, except that an authorized emergency vehicle
operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a red or blue
light visible from in front of the vehicle.
      (2)   This subsection (C) shall not be construed as requiring a peace
officer operating a police vehicle properly and lawfully in response to a crime
in progress to use audible signals.
   (D)   (1)   The exemptions in subsections (B)(3) and (B)(5) above of this
section shall be granted to a law enforcement officer operating an authorized
emergency vehicle for law enforcement purposes without using audible and visual
signals required by this section as long as the action does not endanger life
or property if the officer is following a suspected violator of the law with
probable cause to believe that:
         (a)   Knowledge of the presence of the officer will cause the suspect
to:
            1.   Destroy or lose evidence of a suspected felony;
            2.   End a suspected continuing felony before the officer has
obtained sufficient evidence to establish grounds for arrest; or
            3.   Evade apprehension or identification of the suspect or the
vehicle of the suspect.
         (b)   Because of traffic conditions, vehicles moving in response to
the audible or visual signals may increase the potential for a collision.
      (2)   The exceptions granted in this subsection (D) shall not apply to an
officer who is in actual pursuit of a person who is eluding or attempting to
elude the officer in violation of 21 O.S. § 540A.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall not relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the
consequences of his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 42-41)
Statutory reference:
   Emergency vehicle driving rules, see 47 O.S. § 11-106
§ 42-42. OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making
use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws of this
state, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible
signal only, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and
shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any intersection, and shall
stop and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has
passed, except when otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed to require a peace officer
operating a police vehicle properly and lawfully in response to a crime in
progress to use audible signals nor shall this section operate to relieve the
driver of an authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons using the highway.
(Prior Code, § 42-42)
Statutory reference:
   Approach of emergency vehicles, see 47 O.S. § 11-405
   Authorized emergency vehicles and their equipment, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-106 and
12-218
§ 42-43. FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS PROHIBITED.
   The driver of any vehicle, other than one on official business, shall not
follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than 500
feet or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where fire apparatus
has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(Prior Code, § 42-43)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1108(a)
§ 42-44. CROSSING FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a Fire Department
when laid down on any street or private driveway, to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department official in command.
(Prior Code, § 42-44)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1109
§ 42-45. POSSESSION OF VALID DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle on the highways without
having in his or her possession at all times, when operating such motor
vehicle, an unrevoked or unsuspended driver’s license for the class of vehicle
being operated as required by the laws of the state, unless such person is
specifically exempted from such laws by the provisions thereof. No person
charged with violating this section shall be convicted if he or she produces in
court a valid driver’s license for the class of vehicle being operated issued
to him or her and valid at the time of his or her arrest. No person shall be
permitted to possess more than one valid license at any time.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle in any manner in violation of
any restriction that may be imposed in a restricted license issued to him or
her with respect to the type of, or special mechanical control devices required
on a motor vehicle or any other restriction applicable to the licensee as the
state may determine.
(Prior Code, § 42-45)
Statutory reference:
   Driver’s licenses, see 47 O.S. § 6-101
§ 42-46. OPERATION OF VEHICLE ON INVALID LICENSE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle when his or her privilege to do so
is cancelled, suspended, revoked, or denied. Any person convicted of violating
this section shall be punished by a fine as provided in § 1-14. Each act of
driving on the streets or highways as prohibited by this section shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 42-46)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 6-303
§ 42-47. UNLAWFUL TO OPERATE VEHICLE WITHOUT STATE VEHICLE LICENSE.
   It is unlawful to operate a vehicle of any kind upon a street of the city
without a state vehicle license as may be required by law or to fail to display
the state vehicle license as may be required by law.
(Prior Code, § 42-47)
Statutory reference:
   Driver’s license required, see 47 O.S. § 6-101
§ 42-48. PERMITTING UNAUTHORIZED PERSON TO DRIVE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall authorize or knowingly permit any vehicle owned by him or
her or under his or her control to be driven upon any highway by any person who
is not authorized under the provisions of the laws of the state to operate such
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 42-48)
§ 42-49. ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in a
nonfatal injury to any person shall immediately stop his or her vehicle at the
scene of such accident, or as close thereto as possible, but shall then
forthwith return to and in every event shall remain at the scene of the
accident until he or she has given his or her correct name, address, and the
registration number of the vehicle he or she is driving and, upon request,
exhibit his or her driver license and his or her security verification form, as
defined in 47 O.S. § 7-600, to the person injured or the driver or occupant of,
or person attending, any vehicle collided with, and shall render to any person
injured in such accident reasonable assistance, including the carrying or
making arrangement for the carrying of such persons to a physician, surgeon, or
hospital for medical and surgical treatment if it is apparent that this
treatment is necessary, or if such is requested by the injured person. Each
such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is necessary.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
resulting in the death of any person shall immediately stop such vehicle at the
scene of such accident or as close thereto as possible but shall then forthwith
return to and in every event shall remain at the scene of the accident until he
or she has fulfilled the requirements of 47 O.S. § 10-104. Each such stop shall
be made without obstructing traffic more than is necessary.
   (C)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting only in
damage to a vehicle which is driven or attended by any person shall immediately
stop such vehicle at the scene of such accident or as close thereto as possible
but shall forthwith return to and in every event shall remain at the scene of
such accident until he or she has fulfilled the requirements of 47 O.S. § 10-
103. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary.
   (D)   Any driver of any vehicle involved in an accident who could be cited
for any traffic offense where said accident resulted in the immediate death or
great bodily injury, as defined in 21 O.S. § 646(B), of any person shall submit
to drug and alcohol testing as soon as practicable after such accident occurs.
The traffic offense violation shall constitute probable cause for purposes of
47 O.S. § 752, and the procedures found in 47 O.S. § 752 shall be followed to
determine the presence of alcohol or controlled dangerous substances within the
driver’s blood system.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to
or death of any person shall immediately, by the quickest means of
communication, give notice of such accident to the Police Department if such
accident occurs within the city or the nearest office of the state highway
patrol after complying with the requirements of 47 O.S. § 10-104.
   (F)   Any driver who provides information required by this section which is
intentionally inaccurate shall be subject to the provisions of 47 O.S. § 10-
103.
   (G)   Any person failing to stop or to comply with any of the requirements
of this section and applicable provisions of 47 O.S. §§ 10-101 et seq. shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, may be fined as provided
in §
1-14.
(Prior Code, § 42-49)
Statutory reference:
   Accidents and reports, see 47 O.S. §§ 10-101 et seq.
§ 42-50. ISSUANCE OF CITATION TAGS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and directed to supply police
officers with citation tags in sets, each set consisting of an original and at
least two duplicate copies, for the purpose of giving notice to persons
violating any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Notice may be given by delivering the tags to the violator or by
affixing them to the vehicle involved in the violation.
   (C)   Each citation tag shall direct the violator to appear and to present
such tag at a designated place on or before a date and hour specified thereon.
Each tag shall bear the registration number of the vehicle.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to abridge the power of a
police officer to arrest any violator and take him or her into custody.
   (E)   The Business Manager may require that the police officers use citation
tags furnished by the Finance Department and that such tags be serially
numbered, and may regulate the use and handling of the citation tags.
(Prior Code, § 42-50)
§ 42-51. FAILURE TO OBEY CITATION.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to violate his or her
written promise to appear, give to an officer upon the issuance of a traffic
citation, regardless of the disposition of the charge for which the citation
was originally issued.
(Prior Code, § 42-51)
§ 42-52. FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH TRAFFIC CITATIONS ATTACHED TO PARKED VEHICLE.
   If a violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing, or parking under
the traffic laws or ordinances does not appear in response to a traffic
citation affixed to such motor vehicle within a period of five days, the Clerk
of the Municipal Court may send to the owner of the motor vehicle to which the
traffic citation was affixed a letter informing him or her of the violation and
warning him or her that in the event such letter is disregarded for a period of
five days, a warrant of arrest may be issued. On any occasion where two or more
such traffic citations have been affixed on the same motor vehicle and the
traffic citations have been disregarded, a warrant of arrest may be issued
without sending the letter provided in this section.
(Prior Code, § 42-52)
§ 42-53. PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
   (A)   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was,
at the time of the parking, the registered owner of the vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
the vehicle was the person who parked or placed the vehicle at the point where,
and for the time during which, the violation occurred.
   (B)   The presumption in subsection (A) above of this section shall apply
only when the procedure as prescribed in this article has been followed.
(Prior Code, § 42-53)
§ 42-54. ILLEGAL CANCELLATION OF TRAFFIC CITATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cancel or solicit the cancellation of
any traffic citation in any manner other than as provided by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 42-54)
§ 42-55. DISPOSITION AND RECORDS OF TRAFFIC CITATIONS, WARRANTS, AND
COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Every police officer upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of the motor vehicle laws of this state or any
traffic law of this city, shall deposit the original and a duplicate copy of
the citation with his or her immediate superior officer, who shall cause the
original to be delivered to the Municipal Court.
   (B)   Upon the filing of the original citation in the Municipal Court, the
citation may be disposed of only by trial in court or by other official action
by a Municipal Judge of the Court, including forfeiture of bail or by payment
of a fine.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall maintain a record of all warrants issued by
the Municipal Court which are delivered to the Police Department for service,
and of the final disposition of the warrants.
   (D)   No member of the Police Department or other officer or public employee
shall dispose of, alter, or deface a traffic citation or any copy thereof, or
the record of the issuance or disposition of any traffic citation, complaint,
or warrant, in a manner other than as required in this article.
(Prior Code, § 42-55)
§ 42-56. COURT RECORDS; ABSTRACT TO BE SENT TO STATE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC
SAFETY.
   (A)   The Municipal Judge shall keep a record of every traffic citation
deposited with or presented to the Court and shall keep a record of every
official action by the court or its Traffic Violations Bureau in reference
thereto, including, but not limited to, a record of every conviction,
forfeiture of bail, judgment of acquittal, and the amount of fine or
forfeiture.
   (B)   Within ten days after the conviction or forfeiture of bail of a person
upon a charge of violating any provision of this article or other law
regulating the operation of vehicles on highways, the Municipal Judge or Clerk
of the Municipal Court in which the conviction was had or bail was forfeited
shall prepare and immediately forward to the State Department of Public Safety
a certified abstract of the Court’s record of the case. An abstract need not be
made of any conviction involving the illegal parking or standing of a vehicle.
   (C)   The abstract must be made upon a form furnished by the State
Department of Public Safety and shall include the name and address of the party
charged, the number of his or her operator’s or chauffeur’s license, the
registration number of the vehicle involved, the nature of the offense, the
date of hearing, the plea, the judgment, whether bail was forfeited, and the
amount of the fine or forfeiture.
(Prior Code, § 42-56)
§ 42-57. ELUDING POLICE OFFICER PROHIBITED.
   No person operating a motor vehicle who has received a visual or audible
signal directing the operator to bring his or her vehicle to a stop shall
willfully increase his or her speed or extinguish his or her lights, or in any
other manner attempt to or actually elude such law enforcement officer. A
VISUAL OR AUDIBLE SIGNAL, for the purpose of this section, means a red light
and a siren from a law enforcement officer driving a motor vehicle with
insignia showing the same to be an official police, sheriff, or highway patrol
car.
(Prior Code, § 42-57)
§ 42-58. NOISE CONTROL UPON BRAKING OR SLOWING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, including, but not
limited to, motor carriers, trucks, semitrailers, and tractor trailers, to
cause their vehicle to brake or slow by any method which increases the noise
emission levels of the engine, including, but not limited to, the method
commonly known as “Jake braking,” wherein engine compression is used to slow
the vehicle in lieu of applying the clutch or brakes.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
punishable by fine pursuant to §
1-14.
   (C)   Notice of the section shall be posted at the corporate city limits.
(Prior Code, § 42-58) (Ord. 2002-846, passed 7-1-2002)
§§ 42-59 THROUGH 42-89. RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: VEHICLE EQUIPMENT; INSPECTION
Section
   
42-90.   Certain vehicles prohibited; vehicles injurious to streets
   
42-91.   Obstructive and dangerous vehicles
   
42-92.   Equipment
   
42-93.   Mufflers and cut-outs
   
42-94.   Width, height, length, and load
   42-95 through 42-118 reserved
§ 42-90. CERTAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED; VEHICLES INJURIOUS TO STREETS.
   No vehicle or object which injures or is likely to injure the surface of a
street shall be driven or moved on any street.
(Prior Code, § 42-90)
§ 42-91. OBSTRUCTIVE AND DANGEROUS VEHICLES.
   No person shall drive any vehicle in such condition, so constructed, or so
loaded, as to cause delay or be likely to cause delay in traffic, or as to
constitute a hazard to persons or property, except by permit issued by the
Chief of Police and in accordance with the terms of such permit.
(Prior Code, § 42-91)
§ 42-92. EQUIPMENT.
   Every vehicle operated upon the streets of the city shall be equipped as
required by law. It is unlawful to operate a vehicle upon a street of the city
which is not equipped as required by law. It is unlawful to fail to use such
equipment in the manner required by law, or to use it in a manner prohibited by
law. It is unlawful to operate a vehicle which has equipment prohibited by law
upon a street of the city.
(Prior Code, § 42-92)
Statutory reference:
   Equipment, see 47 O.S. §§ 12-101 et seq.
§ 42-93. MUFFLERS AND CUT-OUTS.
   No motor vehicles with an internal combustion engine shall be operated
within the city unless the exhaust from such engine is muffled by a suitable
and sufficient muffler. No muffler cut-out or exhaust or vacuum whistle shall
be used on any motor vehicle while operating within the city, except that
exhaust whistles may be used on authorized emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 42-93)
§ 42-94. WIDTH, HEIGHT, LENGTH, AND LOAD.
   No person shall drive or convey through any street any vehicle the width,
length, weight, or load of which exceeds that authorized by state law, except
in accordance with a permit issued by state authority or by the Chief of
Police.
(Prior Code, § 42-94)
Statutory reference:
   Size, weight, and load, see 47 O.S. §§ 14-101 et seq.
§§ 42-95 THROUGH 42-118. RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: SPEED REGULATIONS
Section
   
42-119.   Speed limits generally; exceptions
   
42-120.   School zones
   
42-121.   Speed never to exceed that which is reasonable or prudent for
existing conditions
   
42-122.   Minimum speed requirements; exception
   
42-123.   Obedience to maximum and minimum speed limits
   42-124 through 42-144 reserved
§ 42-119. SPEED LIMITS GENERALLY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven at a greater speed than 25 mph upon any
street or highway within the city except:
      (1)   Emergency vehicles being lawfully driven as provided in this code;
      (2)   When a different speed limit is otherwise designated and posted; or
      (3)   When a different speed limit is established in this code.
   (B)   The City Council, by motion or resolution, may reduce or increase the
speed limits provided in this code, and when it does so, appropriate signs
shall be placed on such streets or parts of streets indicating the lower or
higher speed limit.
(Prior Code, § 42-119)
Statutory reference:
   Local authority to set speed limits, see 47 O.S. §§ 15-102 and 11-803
   Minimum speed rules generally, see 47 O.S. § 11-801
§ 42-120. SCHOOL ZONES.
   No vehicle shall be driven at a greater speed than 20 mph between the hours
of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on any street adjacent to any school in a designated
school zone on days when school is in session, unless a different speed limit
or time is otherwise designated and posted.
(Prior Code, § 42-120)
Statutory reference:
   Speed in school zones, see 47 O.S. § 11-806.1
§ 42-121. SPEED NEVER TO EXCEED THAT WHICH IS REASONABLE OR PRUDENT FOR
EXISTING CONDITIONS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle at a speed greater or less than is
reasonable or prudent under the conditions then existing, taking into
consideration among other things, the conditions of the vehicle, the traffic,
roadway surface or width, the amount of light or darkness, the presence of
pedestrians in or near the roadways, and the obstruction of views. No person
shall drive any vehicle at a speed greater than will permit him or her to bring
it to a stop within the assured clear distance ahead.
(Prior Code, § 42-121)
Statutory reference:
   Careful and prudent speed, see 47 O.S. § 11-801(A)
§ 42-122. MINIMUM SPEED REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTION.
   No vehicle shall be driven at such an unreasonably slow speed in relation to
the effective maximum speed allowed so as to constitute a hazard or to
interfere with the normal movement of other traffic, except when the slow speed
is unavoidable.
(Prior Code, § 42-122)
§ 42-123. OBEDIENCE TO MAXIMUM AND MINIMUM SPEED LIMITS.
   Where official signs and markings give notice of both maximum and minimum
speed limits in effect on any street, no vehicle shall be driven at rates in
excess of the maximum nor slower than the minimum except as required by an
authorized officer or in obedience to posted official signs.
(Prior Code, § 42-123)
§§ 42-124 THROUGH 42-144. RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: DRIVING; OVERTAKING; PASSING
Section
   
42-145.   Changing lanes
   
42-146.   Driving on right side of roadway required; exceptions
   
42-147.   When overtaking on the right is permitted
   
42-148.   Overtaking a vehicle on the left
   
42-149.   Limitations on overtaking on the left; exception
   
42-150.   Overtaking and passing bicycle
   
42-151.   Passing vehicles proceeding in opposite directions
   
42-152.   One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands
   
42-153.   Following too closely
   
42-154.   No passing zones
   
42-155.   Driving through funeral or other procession prohibited; exceptions
   
42-156.   Drivers in a procession
   
42-157.   Funeral processions to be identified
   
42-158.   Overtaking and passing in school zones
   
42-159.   Overtaking and passing school bus
   
42-160.   School bus requirements; lights; signs; painting
   
42-161.   Driving of vehicles on sidewalk prohibited; exception
   
42-162.   Limitations on backing vehicle
   
42-163.   Limitation on use of motorcycles, bicycles, and motor scooters
   
42-164.   Required motorcycle equipment, headgear
   
42-165.   Special speed limitation on motorcycles and motor scooters
   
42-166.   Clinging to vehicles prohibited
   
42-167.   Entering and leaving controlled-access highways
   
42-168.   Reckless driving
   
42-169.   Careless or negligent driving, stopping, or parking
   
42-170.   Requirement of any person driving a vehicle on a public way to
operate same in a careful and prudent manner
   
42-171.   Driving while under the influence of intoxicating substances
   
42-172.   Transporting of low-point beer except in original, unopened container
prohibited; exception
   
42-173.   Unlawful transportation of intoxicating beverage; penalty
   
42-174.   Attention to driving required
   
42-175.   Speed contest prohibited
   
42-176.   Permits required for parades and processions
   
42-177.   Driving through safety zone
   
42-178.   Starting parked vehicle
   
42-179.   Opening and closing vehicle doors
   
42-180.   Obstruction to driver’s view or driving mechanism
   
42-181.   Boarding or alighting from vehicles
   
42-182.   Unlawful riding
   
42-183.   Railroad trains not to block streets
   
42-184.   Private service drives
   
42-185.   Truck weights, driving and route restrictions
   
42-186.   Loads on vehicles
   
42-187.   Vehicle approaching or entering intersection
   
42-188.   Vehicle turning left at intersection
   
42-189.   Vehicle approaching a yield right-of-way sign
   
42-190.   Vehicle entering through highway
   
42-191.   Vehicles facing stop, slow, warning, or caution signal
   
42-192.   Through streets
   
42-193.   Intersections where stop or yield required
   
42-194.   Reserved
   
42-195.   Vehicle entering stop intersection
   
42-196.   Vehicle entering yield intersection
   
42-197.   Vehicle entering highway from private road or driveway
   
42-198.   Vehicles entering traffic from parking
   
42-199.   Emerging from the alley, driveway, or building
   
42-200.   Stop when traffic obstructed
   
42-201.   Obedience to signal indicating approach of train
   
42-202.   Certain vehicles to stop at all railroad grade crossings
   
42-203.   Mandatory use of seat belts
   
42-204.   Child passenger restraint system required for certain vehicles;
exemptions
   42-205 through 42-313 reserved
§ 42-145. CHANGING LANES.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic, in addition to all other rules consistent with this section, the
following requirements shall apply.
   (A)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practical entirely within a
single lane.
   (B)   A vehicle shall not be moved from the lane until the driver has first
ascertained that the movement can be made with safety and then given a signal,
not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the vehicle, of his or her
intention to change lanes.
   (C)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes, a vehicle shall not
be driven in the center lane, except when overtaking and passing another
vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and the center lane is clear of
traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn or where the
center lane is, at the time, allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the
direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of the
allocation.
   (D)   A TWO-WAY LEFT-TURN LANE is a lane near the center of the highway set
aside for use by vehicles making left turns in both directions from or into the
roadway. Two-way left-turn lanes shall be designated by distinctive roadway
markings consisting of parallel double yellow lines, interior line dashed and
exterior line solid, on each side of the lane. A vehicle shall not be driven in
a designated two-way left-turn lane except when preparing for or making a left
turn from or into a roadway. Vehicles turning left from the roadway shall not
be driven in the two-way left-turn lane for more than 200 feet while preparing
for and making the turn. A vehicle turning left onto the roadway may utilize
the two-way left-turn lane as a staging area by stopping and waiting for
traffic proceeding in the same direction to clear before merging into the
adjacent lanes of travel. A left turn shall not be made from any other lane
where a two-way left-turn lane has been designated; provided however, this
section shall not prohibit driving across a two-way left-turn lane when moving
from a service drive onto such marked roadway.
   (E)   Upon a roadway which is divided into four or more lanes, a vehicle
proceeding at less than the maximum posted speed, except when reduced speed is
necessary for safe operation, shall not impede the normal flow of traffic by
driving in the left lane. The vehicle shall be driven in the right-hand lane,
except when overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction or when preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a
private road or driveway.
   (F)   Official signs may be erected directing slow-moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
(Prior Code, § 42-145)
Statutory reference:
   Driving on roadways laned for traffic, see 47 O.S. § 11-309
§ 42-146. DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven to
the right of the center of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing other vehicles proceeding in the same
direction under the laws governing such movement;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic; or
      (5)   Upon a roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic.
   (B)   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
shall be driven in the right-hand lane when available for traffic, or as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, and may be
temporarily driven upon the right-hand shoulder for the purpose of permitting
other vehicles to pass. This subsection (B) shall not apply when overtaking and
passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when preparing for
a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or driveway.
   (C)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the centerline of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic control devices designating certain lanes to the left side of the
center of the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use such
lanes, or except as permitted under subsection (A)(2) above of this section.
However, this subsection (C) shall not be construed as prohibiting the crossing
of the centerline in making a left turn into or from an alley, private road, or
driveway.
(Prior Code, § 42-146)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-301
§ 42-147. WHEN OVERTAKING ON THE RIGHT IS PERMITTED.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      (2)   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied by
parked vehicles of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles in
each direction; or
      (3)   Upon a one-way street or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lanes of moving vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main-traveled
portion of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 42-127)
Statutory reference:
   Overtaking on the right, see 47 O.S. § 11-304
§ 42-148. OVERTAKING A VEHICLE ON THE LEFT.
   The following requirements shall govern the overtaking and passing of
vehicles proceeding in the same direction, subject to those limitations,
exceptions, and special requirements hereinafter stated.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the street or roadway until safely clear of
the overtaken vehicle.
   (B)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his or
her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   (C)   Every driver who intends to pass another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction, which requires moving his or her vehicle from one lane of
traffic to another, shall first see that such movement can be made with safety
and shall proceed to pass only after giving a proper signal by hand or
mechanical device.
(Prior Code, § 42-148)
Statutory reference:
   Overtaking vehicle on left, see 47 O.S. § 11-303
§ 42-149. LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON THE LEFT; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
street or roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit the completion of the
overtaking and passing without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In
every instance, the overtaking vehicle must return to the right-hand side of
the roadway before coming within 100 feet of any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction.
   (B)   No vehicle at any time shall be driven to the left side of the roadway
under the following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade, or upon a curve in the
street or highway where the driver’s view along the street or highway is
obstructed within such distance as to create a hazard in the event another
vehicle might approach from the opposite direction;
      (2)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct, or tunnel; or
      (3)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing, unless otherwise indicated by official traffic
control devices.
   (C)   The limitations in subsection (B) above of this section shall not
apply upon a one-way roadway; nor under the conditions described in 47 O.S. §
11-301(A)(2), nor to the driver of a vehicle turning left into or from an
alley, private road, or driveway.
(Prior Code, § 42-149)
Statutory reference:
   Limitations on overtaking vehicle on left, see 47 O.S. § 11-305
§ 42-150. OVERTAKING AND PASSING BICYCLE.
   (A)   When overtaking and passing a bicycle proceeding in the same
direction, a person driving a motor vehicle shall exercise due care by leaving
a safe distance between the motor vehicle and the bicycle of not less than
three feet until the motor vehicle is safely past the overtaken bicycle.
   (B)   If a person violates the provisions of subsection (A) above of this
section and the violation results in a collision causing serious physical
injury to another person, the person shall be subject to a fine of not more
than $500.
   (C)   If a person violates the provisions of subsection (A) above of this
section and the violation results in the death of another person, the person
shall be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000, in addition to any other
penalties prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 42-150)
Statutory reference:
   Overtaking and passing bicycle, see 47 O.S. § 11-1208
§ 42-151. PASSING VEHICLES PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right. Upon roadways having a width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least one-
half the main-traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(Prior Code, § 42-151)
§ 42-152. ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   The City Council, by motion or resolution, may designate any road,
street, alley, or highway, or any separate roadway under its jurisdiction, for
one-way traffic and shall cause appropriate signs giving notice thereof to be
erected.
   (B)   Whenever the City Council designates any street or alley or part
thereof as a one-way street or alley, the City Council shall have placed and
maintained signs giving notice thereof; and no such regulation shall be
effective unless such signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of
lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every intersection where the
movement of traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
   (C)   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys and parts
of alleys so designated as one-way streets and alleys, vehicular traffic shall
move only in the direction indicated when signs indicating the direction of
traffic are erected and maintained at every intersection where movement in the
opposite direction is prohibited.
   (D)   Upon roadways designated and sign-posted for one-way traffic, a
vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
   (E)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven only
to the right of such island.
(Prior Code, § 42-152)
Statutory reference:
   One-way roads and rotary islands, see 47 O.S. § 11-308
§ 42-153. FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   (A)   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more
closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
   (B)   The driver of any truck or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle when
traveling upon a roadway outside of a business or residential district and
which is following another truck or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle
shall, whenever conditions permit, leave sufficient space so that an overtaking
vehicle may enter and occupy such space without danger, except that this shall
not prevent a motor truck or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle from
overtaking and passing any like vehicle or another vehicle.
   (C)   No vehicle which has more than six tires in contact with the road
shall approach from the rear of another vehicle which has more than six tires
in contact with the road closer than 300 feet except when passing such vehicle.
   (D)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business or
residential district in a caravan or motorcade, whether or not towing other
vehicles, shall be so operated as to allow sufficient space between each such
vehicle or combination of vehicles so as to enable any other vehicle to enter
and occupy such space without danger. The distance between such vehicles shall
be a minimum of 200 feet under all conditions. This provision shall not apply
to funeral processions.
(Prior Code, § 42-153)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-310
§ 42-154. NO PASSING ZONES.
   (A)   The State Department of Highways, as regards state and federal
highways, and the City Council as regards all other streets, are hereby
authorized to determine those portions of any highway where overtaking and
passing to the left would be especially hazardous, and may, by appropriate
signs or markings on the roadway, indicate the beginning and end of such zones.
When such signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily
observant person, every driver shall obey the directions thereof.
   (B)   Where signs or markings are in place to define a no-passing zone as
set forth in subsection (A) above of this section, no driver shall, at any
time, drive to the left side of the roadway within the no-passing zone or on
the left side of any pavement striping designed to mark the no-passing zone
throughout its length.
(Prior Code, § 42-154)
Statutory reference:
   No passing zones, see 47 O.S. § 11-307
§ 42-155. DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL OR OTHER PROCESSION PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral
or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles
are conspicuously designated as required in §
42-157. This provision shall not apply at intersections where traffic is
controlled by traffic control signals or police officers.
(Prior Code, § 42-155)
Statutory reference:
   Local powers to regulate processions, see 47 O.S. § 15-102
§ 42-156. DRIVERS IN A PROCESSION.
   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the
right-hand edge of the roadway as practical and shall follow the vehicle ahead
as close as is practical and safe.
(Prior Code, § 42-156)
§ 42-157. FUNERAL PROCESSIONS TO BE IDENTIFIED.
   A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall be identified as such
by the display upon the outside of each vehicle such identifying insignia as
may be determined and designated by the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 42-157)
§ 42-158. OVERTAKING AND PASSING IN SCHOOL ZONES.
   (A)   No driver of a vehicle shall pass any other vehicle which is in motion
and being driven in the same direction in any school zone between the hours of
8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on all days when schools are in session.
   (B)   Wherever a school zone is located on a multiple lane street which is
divided into three or more clearly marked lanes for traffic or where the right
half of the roadway has been divided into two or more lanes, or on one-way
streets, vehicles shall be allowed to pass slower moving vehicles being driven
in the same direction where passing does not involve a change of lane movement.
(Prior Code, § 42-158)
§ 42-159. OVERTAKING AND PASSING SCHOOL BUS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle meeting or overtaking a school bus that is
stopped to take on or discharge school children, and on which the red loading
signals are in operation, is to stop the vehicle before it reaches the school
bus and not proceed until the loading signals are deactivated and then proceed
past such school bus at a speed which is reasonable and with due caution for
the safety of such school children and other occupants. Any person convicted of
violating the provisions of this subsection (A) shall be punished by a fine of
not less than $100.
   (B)   Visual signals meeting the requirements of 47 O.C. § 12-228 shall be
actuated by the driver of said school bus whenever, but only whenever, such
vehicle is stopped on the highway for the purpose of receiving or discharging
school children.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway with separate roadways need not
stop upon meeting or passing a school bus which is on a different roadway or
when upon a controlled-access highway and the school bus is stopped in a
loading zone which is a part of or adjacent to such highway and where
pedestrians are not permitted to cross the roadway.
   (D)   If the driver of a school bus witnesses a violation of the provisions
of subsection (A) above of this section, within 24 hours of the alleged
offense, the driver shall report the violation, the vehicle color, license tag
number, and the time and place such violation occurred to the law enforcement
authority of the municipality where the violation occurred. The law enforcement
authority of a municipality shall issue a letter of warning on the alleged
violation to the person in whose name the vehicle is registered. The office of
the Attorney General shall provide a form letter to each municipal law
enforcement agency in this state for the issuance of the warning provided for
in this subsection (D). Such form letter shall be used by each such law
enforcement agency in the exact form provided for by the office of the Attorney
General. A warning letter issued pursuant to this subsection (D) shall not be
recorded on the driving record of the person to whom such letter was issued.
Issuance of a warning letter pursuant to this section shall not preclude the
imposition of other penalties as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 42-159)
Statutory reference:
   Meeting or overtaking stopped school bus, see 47 O.S. § 11-705
§ 42-160. SCHOOL BUS REQUIREMENTS; LIGHTS; SIGNS; PAINTING.
   (A)   The provisions of § 42-159 shall be applicable only if the school bus
is painted yellow and bears upon the front and rear thereon a plainly visible
sign containing the words “SCHOOL BUS” in letters not less than eight inches in
height which can be removed or covered when the vehicle is not in use as a
school bus.
   (B)   The school bus shall be equipped with four red, alternately flashing
warning signal lights, two of which shall be located as high and widely spaced
as practicable on the same level on the front of the vehicle and two of which
shall be located as high and widely spaced as practicable on the same level on
the rear of the vehicle. The lights shall be a minimum of four inches in
diameter and shall be widely separated. These lights shall be visible at 500
feet in normal sunlight.
(Prior Code, § 42-160)
Statutory reference:
   Special lighting equipment, see 47 O.S. § 12-228
§ 42-161. DRIVING OF VEHICLES ON SIDEWALK PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall drive any vehicle within or upon any sidewalk area, except
at a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 42-161)
§ 42-162. LIMITATIONS ON BACKING VEHICLE.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the vehicle unless such movement can
be made with reasonable safety and without interfering with any other traffic.
No vehicle shall be backed into an intersection. No vehicle shall be backed
upon any street or highway, except for such distance as may be necessary to
permit the vehicle to enter the proper driving lane from a parked position.
Such backing shall be done only after the driver of said vehicle has
ascertained that such movement can be made without endangering other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 42-162)
Statutory reference:
   Limitation on backing up, see 47 O.S. § 11-1102
§ 42-163. LIMITATION ON USE OF MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, AND MOTOR SCOOTERS.
   (A)   No driver of a two-wheel or three-wheel motor vehicle or bicycle shall
carry any other person upon or within such vehicle on any street or highway,
except as provided in this section.
      (1)   If any two-wheel or three-wheel motor vehicle with a wheel diameter
of 12 inches or greater or any bicycle shall have either a double seating
device with double footrests or a side car attachment providing a separate
seating space within such sidecar attachment for each person riding therein so
that such person shall be seated entirely within the body of the side car, then
it shall be permissible for an operator who has attained the age of 16 years or
older to carry a passenger.
      (2)   A demonstration ride by a licensed dealer or his or her employee is
permissible.
   (B)   No motorcycle or motor scooter shall be ridden upon any sidewalk of
the city.
   (C)   No rider of a motorcycle, bicycle, or motor scooter shall hold on to
any moving vehicle for the purpose of being propelled.
   (D)   A person operating a motor scooter, motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or
motor bicycle shall ride only on the permanent and regular seat attached
thereto. An operator of a motorcycle, motor scooter, or motor bicycle shall not
carry any other person nor shall any other person ride on the vehicle unless it
is designed to carry more than one person, in which event, a passenger may ride
only upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two persons, or upon
another seat firmly attached to the rear or side of the operator.
   (E)   No driver of a motorcycle or motor scooter shall pass other vehicles
in between lanes of traffic traveling in the same direction. Authorized
emergency vehicles are excepted from the provisions of this subsection (E).
   (F)   No person shall operate any motorcycle or any motor scooter at a speed
greater than the speed limit legally posted. In no event, nor at any time, may
an operator under the age of 16 years operate a motorcycle or motor scooter at
a speed greater than 35 mph.
   (G)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a motor-driven cycle,
including a motor scooter or motor-driven bicycle, on a street in this city
during a time when state law prohibits the operation of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 42-163)
Statutory reference:
   Motorcycle equipment, see 47 O.S. § 12-601
§ 42-164. REQUIRED MOTORCYCLE EQUIPMENT, HEADGEAR.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      HEAD LAMP. Shall not include passing lamp.
      PASSING LAMP. An auxiliary front low-beam lamp which emits a white light.
   (B)   In addition to other requirements prescribed by this article and state
law, by federal law or by local ordinance, all motorcycles, except when
operated on actual trail rides conducted outside of public roads and highways,
shall be equipped with:
      (1)   Two rearview mirrors, containing a reflective surface of not less
than three inches in diameter, mounted one on each side of the motorcycle and
positioned so as to enable the operator to clearly view the roadway to the rear
of the vehicle;
      (2)   A windshield of sufficient quality, size, and thickness to protect
the operator from foreign objects, except that in lieu of such windshield, the
operator shall wear goggles or other protective eyewear which meets American
National Standards Institute (ANSI) Standard Z87.1 and provides positive
retention, or a face shield of material and design to protect the operator from
foreign objects;
      (3)   A properly operating speedometer capable of registering at least
the maximum legal speed limit for that motorcycle;
      (4)   A fender over each wheel. All fenders shall be of the type provided
by the manufacturer;
      (5)   A horn which shall comply with the requirements of 47 O.S. § 12-
401; and
      (6)   A muffler or other effective noise-suppressing system which shall
comply with the requirements of 47 O.S. § 12-402.
   (C)   No person under 18 years of age shall operate or ride upon any
motorcycle unless such person is properly wearing a crash helmet of a type
which complies with standards established by 49 C.F.R. § 571.218.
   (D)   Handlebars on motorcycles shall not be higher than eye level of the
operator.
   (E)   Stop lamps:
      (1)   Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one stop lamp
meeting the requirements of this section.
      (2)   The stop lamp required by this section:
         (a)   Shall be mounted on the rear of the motorcycle;
         (b)   Shall display a red or amber light, or any shade of color
between red and amber, visible from a distance of not less than 500 feet to the
rear in normal sunlight; and
         (c)   Shall be actuated upon application of the brakes.
   (F)   Tail lamps:
      (1)   Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one tail lamp
mounted on the rear on the vertical centerline of the motorcycle which shall
emit a red light plainly visible from a distance of 1,000 feet to the rear,
provided that in the case of a combination of vehicles, only the tail lamp on
the rearmost vehicle need actually be seen from the distance specified.
      (2)   Every tail lamp shall be located at a height of not more than 60
inches nor less than 15 inches.
      (3)   Either a tail lamp or a separate lamp with a white light shall be
so constructed and placed as to illuminate the rear license plate and render it
clearly legible from a distance of 50 feet to the rear. Any tail lamp, together
with any separate lamp for illuminating the rear license plate, shall be
lighted whenever the headlamp or driving lamp is lighted. The operation of a
motorcycle upon which the license plate is surrounded or framed, partially or
in whole, by any additional lamp or otherwise lighted by any additional lamp,
shall be a violation of this subsection (F).
   (G)   Head lamp:
      (1)   Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one head lamp
emitting a white light which shall comply with the applicable requirements and
limitations of 47 O.S. §§ 12-203, 12-203.4, 12-227, 12-228, and 12-602.1.
      (2)   Every head lamp upon every motorcycle shall be located at a height
of not more than 54 inches nor less than 22 inches to be measured as set forth
in 47 O.S. § 12-202(B).
(Prior Code, § 42-164)
Statutory reference:
   Head lamp, see 47 O.S. § 12-602
   Required equipment for off-road vehicle, see 47 O.S. § 12-609
   Stop lamps, see 47 O.S. § 12-605
   Tail lamp, see 47 O.S. § 12-603
§ 42-165. SPECIAL NEED LIMITATION ON MOTORCYCLES AND MOTOR SCOOTERS.
   No person shall operate any motorcycle or any motor scooter at a speed
greater than the speed limit legally posted. In no event, nor at any time, may
an operator under the age of 16 years operate a motorcycle or motor scooter,
including a motor driven bicycle, at a speed greater than 35 mph, or at any
time or any speed when prohibited by state law.
(Prior Code, § 42-165)
Statutory reference:
   Speed limits, motorcycles, see 47 O.S. § 11-805
§ 42-166. CLINGING TO VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, motorized scooter, coaster, roller
skates, sled, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any
moving vehicle upon a roadway.
(Prior Code, § 42-166)
Statutory reference:
   Clinging to vehicles, see 47 O.S. § 11-1204
§ 42-167. ENTERING AND LEAVING CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAYS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access highway,
except at entrances and exits established by public authority.
(Prior Code, § 42-167)
§ 42-168. RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any vehicle in a careless or wanton manner without
regard for the safety of persons or property, or in violation of the conditions
outlined in 47 O.S. § 11-801, is guilty of reckless driving. Every person
convicted of reckless driving shall be punished upon a first conviction by
imprisonment for a period of not less than five days nor more than 90 days, or
by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500, or by both such fine and
imprisonment; on a second or subsequent conviction, punishment shall be
imprisonment for not less than ten days nor more than six months, or by a fine
of not less than $150 nor more than $1,000, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 42-168)
Statutory reference:
   Reckless driving, see 47 O.S. § 11-901
§ 42-169. CARELESS OR NEGLIGENT DRIVING, STOPPING, OR PARKING.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive, use, operate, park, cause to be
parked, or stop any vehicle in a careless or negligent manner, or in such a
manner as to endanger life, limb, person, or property, or as to interfere with
the lawful movement of traffic or use of the streets.
(Prior Code, § 42-169)
Statutory reference:
   Reckless driving, see 47 O.S. § 11-901
§ 42-170. REQUIREMENT OF ANY PERSON DRIVING A VEHICLE ON A PUBLIC WAY TO
OPERATE SAME IN A CAREFUL AND PRUDENT MANNER.
   Any person driving a vehicle on a public road or way shall drive the same in
a careful and prudent manner and at a careful and prudent speed not greater
than nor less than is reasonable and proper, having due regard to the traffic,
surface, and width of the public way and any other conditions then existing. No
person shall drive any vehicle upon a highway at a speed greater than will
permit the driver to bring it to a stop within the assured clear distance
ahead.
(Prior Code, § 42-170)
Statutory reference:
   Careful and prudent speed, see 47 O.S. § 11-801(A)
§ 42-171. DRIVING WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF INTOXICATING SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   It is unlawful and punishable as provided in this section for any
person to drive, operate, or be in actual physical control of a motor vehicle
within this state, whether upon public roads, highways, streets, turnpikes,
other public places, or upon any private road, street, alley, or lane which
provides access to one or more single-family or multi-family dwellings, who:
      (1)   Has a blood or breath alcohol concentration, as defined in 47 O.S.
§ 756, of eight hundredths or more at the time of a test of such person’s blood
or breath administered within two hours after the arrest of such person;
      (2)   Is under the influence of alcohol;
      (3)   Is under the influence of any intoxicating substance other than
alcohol which may render such person incapable of safely driving or operating a
motor vehicle; or
      (4)   Is under the combined influence of alcohol and any other
intoxicating substance which may render such person incapable of safely driving
or operating a motor vehicle.
   (B)   The fact that any person charged with a violation of this section is
or has been lawfully entitled to use alcohol or a controlled dangerous
substance or any other intoxicating substance shall not constitute a defense
against any charge of violating this section.
   (C)   Any person who is convicted of a violation of the provisions of this
section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor for the first offense and shall
participate in an assessment and evaluation by an assessment agency or
assessment personnel certified by the State Department of Mental Health and
Substance Abuse Services pursuant to 43A O.S. § 3-460 and shall follow all
recommendations made in the assessment and evaluation and be punished by
imprisonment in jail for not less than ten days nor more than one year. Any
person convicted of a violation for a first offense shall be fined not more
than $1,000.
(Prior Code, § 42-171)
Statutory reference:
   Controlled Dangerous Substances Act, see 63 O.S. §§ 2-101 et seq.
   Driving under the influence of intoxicating substances, see 47 O.S. § 11-902
   D.U.I. offenses, revocation of license, see 47 O.S. § 6-205
   D.U.I. testing, see 47 O.S. §§ 751 et seq.
§ 42-172. TRANSPORTING OF LOW-POINT BEER EXCEPT IN ORIGINAL, UNOPENED CONTAINER
PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly transport in any moving vehicle
upon a public highway, street, or alley any low-point beer containing more than
0.05% alcohol by volume and not more than 3.2% alcohol by weight except in the
original container which shall not have been opened and from which the original
cap or seal shall not have been removed unless the opened container is in the
rear trunk or rear compartment, which shall include the spare tire compartment
in a station wagon or panel truck, or any outside compartment which is not
accessible to the driver or any other person in the vehicle while it is in
motion.
(Prior Code, § 42-172)
§ 42-173. UNLAWFUL TRANSPORTATION OF INTOXICATING BEVERAGE; PENALTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly transport in any vehicle upon a
public highway, street, or alley within the city any alcoholic beverage, except
in the original container which shall not have been opened and the seal upon
which shall not have been broken and from which the original cap or cork shall
not have been removed, unless the opened container is in the rear trunk or rear
compartment, which shall include the spare tire compartment in a vehicle
commonly known as a station wagon or panel truck, or any outside compartment
which is not accessible to the driver or any person in the vehicle while it is
in motion.
(Prior Code, § 42-173)
§ 42-174. ATTENTION TO DRIVING REQUIRED.
   The operator of every vehicle, while driving, shall devote his or her full
time and attention to such driving. No law enforcement officer shall issue a
citation under this section unless the operator of the vehicle is involved in
an accident.
(Prior Code, § 42-174)
Statutory reference:
   Attention to driving, see 47 O.S. § 11-901b
§ 42-175. SPEED CONTEST PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall engage in, aid, or abet any motor vehicle speed
contest or exhibition of speed on any street or highway.
   (B)   No person shall, for the purpose of facilitating or aiding, or as an
incident to any motor vehicle speed contest upon any street or highway, in any
manner obstruct or place any barricade or obstruction upon any street or
highway.
   (C)   When three or more persons assemble to witness or participate in an
unlawful speed contest, such assembly is an unlawful assembly, and any person
who participates in such unlawful assembly is guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 42-175)
§ 42-176. PERMITS REQUIRED FOR PARADES AND PROCESSIONS.
   No funeral, procession, or parade containing 200 or more persons or 50 or
more vehicles, except the military forces of the United States and the military
forces of this state, shall occupy, march, or proceed along any street except
in accordance with a permit issued by the Chief of Police and such other
regulations as are set forth herein which may apply.
(Prior Code, § 42-176)
Statutory reference:
   Local powers to regulate processions, see 47 O.S. § 15-102
§ 42-177. DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   No vehicle shall, at any time, be driven through or within a safety zone or
island.
(Prior Code, § 42-177)
Statutory reference:
   Driving through safety zone, see 47 O.S. § 11-1301
§ 42-178. STARTING PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(Prior Code, § 42-178)
Statutory reference:
   Starting parked vehicle, see 47 O.S. § 11-603
§ 42-179. OPENING AND CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so; nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers.
(Prior Code, § 42-179)
Statutory reference:
   Opening and closing vehicle doors, see 47 O.S. § 11-1105
§ 42-180. OBSTRUCTIONS TO DRIVER’S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three, as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere
with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides or to interfere with his or her
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 42-180)
Statutory reference:
   Obstruction of driver’s view, see 47 O.S. § 11-1104(a) and (b)
§ 42-181. BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
(Prior Code, § 42-181)
§ 42-182. UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall allow and no person shall ride on any
such vehicle outside the passenger compartment upon any portion thereof not
designed or intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply
to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, to persons so
riding on private property or for parades or special events, nor shall this
section apply to passengers riding on the bed of a pickup in space intended for
merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 42-182)
Statutory reference:
   Passengers riding outside passenger compartment, see 47 O.S. § 11-1114
§ 42-183. RAILROAD TRAINS NOT TO BLOCK STREETS.
   It is unlawful for the directing officer or the operator of any railroad
train to direct the operation of or to operate the same in such a manner as to
prevent the use of any street for purposes of travel for a period of time
longer than five minutes, except that this provision shall not apply to trains
or cars in motion other than those engaged in switching. This section shall not
apply in case of engine failure or train accidents within the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 42-183)
§ 42-184. PRIVATE SERVICE DRIVES.
   No vehicle or animal shall be driven through any private service driveway or
private service area, except for the purpose of obtaining service or
merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 42-184)
§ 42-185. TRUCK WEIGHTS, DRIVING AND ROUTE RESTRICTIONS.
   The City Council may prescribe routes through the city for the use of trucks
in general, trucks of particular kinds, and/or other vehicles which are not
ordinary private passenger vehicles, passing through the city. Appropriate and
adequate signs shall be placed along such routes so that drivers of such
vehicles may follow the routes. When such signs are so erected and in place,
the driver of a truck or other vehicle for which a route has been prescribed,
as provided above, while passing through the city, shall keep on such route and
shall not deviate therefrom except in case of emergency. Drivers of such
vehicles shall follow such routes so far as practicable also when driving
within the city and not merely through the city.
(Prior Code, § 42-185)
§ 42-186. LOADS ON VEHICLES.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the vehicle
is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping,
shifting, leaking, blowing, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand
may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other
substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining the
roadway.
   (B)   No person shall operate on any highway any vehicle with any load
unless the load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to prevent
the covering or load from becoming loose, detached, or in any manner a hazard
to other users of the highway. Any vehicle loaded with sand, cinders, or other
loose material susceptible to blowing or escaping by reason of wind shall have
the load covered or dampened so as to prevent the blowing or escaping of the
load from the vehicle.
   (C)   This section shall apply to trucks loaded with livestock, poultry, or
agricultural products only, except baled agricultural products, provided that
any such truck shall be so constructed or loaded as to prevent such livestock
or poultry from escaping therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 42-186)
Statutory reference:
   Loads on vehicles, see 47 O.S. § 14-105
§ 42-187. VEHICLE APPROACHING OR ENTERING INTERSECTION.
   (A)   When two vehicles enter or approach an uncontrolled intersection from
different highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on
the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right as otherwise
stated in this article; however, the driver of a vehicle on a street which is
not a state or federal highway approaching an intersection with a state or
federal highway shall stop and yield the right-of-way to a vehicle which has
entered the intersection or which is so close thereto as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
   (B)   The right-of-way rule declared in subsection (A) above of this section
is modified at through highways as otherwise stated in this article.
(Prior Code, § 42-187)
Statutory reference:
   Right-of-way at intersections, see 47 O.S. § 11-401
§ 42-188. VEHICLE TURNING LEFT AT INTERSECTION.
   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the left
shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard. After so yielding and having given signal when and as
required by this code, the driver may make the left turn, and the drivers of
all other vehicles approaching the intersection from the opposite direction
shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle making the left turn.
(Prior Code, § 42-188)
Statutory reference:
   Vehicle turning left, see 47 O.S. § 11-402
§ 42-189. VEHICLE APPROACHING A YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY SIGN.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield right-of-way sign shall slow to
a reasonable speed for existing conditions of traffic and visibility, or shall
stop if necessary as provided in 47 O.S. § 11-703(e), yielding the right-of-way
to any pedestrian legally crossing the roadway on which the driver is driving
and to all vehicles in the intersection or approaching on the intersecting
street or highway so close as to constitute an immediate hazard. Said driver
having so yielded may proceed, and the drivers of all other vehicles
approaching the intersection shall yield to the vehicle so proceeding; provided
however, that if such driver is involved in a collision with a pedestrian in a
crosswalk or vehicle in the intersection after driving past a yield sign
without stopping, such collision shall be deemed prima facie evidence of the
driver’s failure to yield the right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 42-189)
Statutory reference:
   Vehicle entering yield intersection, see 47 O.S. § 11-403(C)
§ 42-190. VEHICLE ENTERING THROUGH HIGHWAY.
   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or a traffic control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop as required by this code at the entrance to a through
highway and shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered
the intersection from the through highway, or which are approaching so closely
on the through highway as to constitute an immediate hazard. The driver having
so yielded may proceed, and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the
intersection shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle so proceeding.
(Prior Code, § 42-190)
Statutory reference:
   Vehicle entering stop intersection, see 47 O.S. § 11-403(B)
§ 42-191. VEHICLES FACING STOP, SLOW, WARNING, OR CAUTION SIGNAL.
   If two or more vehicles face stop, slow, warning, or caution signs or
signals at an intersection on two or more intersecting cross streets and are
approaching as to enter the intersection at the same time, the following rules
shall apply.
   (A)   If each vehicle is required to stop, the vehicle coming from the right
shall have the right-of-way.
   (B)   If each vehicle is required to slow, the vehicle coming from the right
shall have the right-of-way.
   (C)   If each vehicle is required to take caution, the vehicle coming from
the right shall have the right-of-way.
   (D)   If one vehicle is required to stop and the other to slow or take
caution, the one slowing or taking caution shall have the right-of-way.
   (E)   If one vehicle is required to slow and the other to take caution, the
one required to take caution shall have the right-of-way.
   (F)   In any event, a vehicle which has already entered the intersection
shall have the right-of-way over one which has not entered the intersection.
(Prior Code, § 42-191)
Statutory reference:
   Vehicle entering stop, slow, warning, or caution sign intersection, see 47
O.S. § 11-403(D)
§ 42-192. THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   The City Council may designate any street or part of a street a
through street.
   (B)   Whenever the City Council designates and describes a through street,
the Business Manager shall have placed and maintained a stop sign, or yield
sign, if deemed more appropriate, shall be placed and maintained on every
street intersecting a through street, or intersecting that portion thereof,
unless traffic at such intersection is controlled at all times by traffic
control signals.
   (C)   At the intersection of two such through streets or at the intersection
of a through street and a heavy traffic street not so designated, stop signs
shall be erected at the approaches of either of the streets as may be
determined by the Business Manager if deemed desirable.
(Prior Code, § 42-192)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to designate through streets, see 47 O.S. § 1148
§ 42-193. INTERSECTIONS WHERE STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED.
   The City Council, by motion or resolution, is hereby authorized to determine
and designate intersections upon other than through streets where particular
hazards exist and to determine whether:
   (A)   Vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any such stop
intersection, in which event, it shall cause to be erected a stop sign at every
such place a stop is required; or
   (B)   Vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles on a different
street as provided in this code, in which event, it shall cause to be erected a
yield sign at every place where yield is required.
(Prior Code, § 42-193)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to designate, see 47 O.S. § 1148
§ 42-194. RESERVED.
§ 42-195. VEHICLE ENTERING STOP INTERSECTION.
   Except when directed by a police officer or traffic control signal, every
driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection, indicated by a stop sign,
shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection.
If there is no crosswalk, the driver shall stop at a clearly marked stop line
before entering the intersection. If there is no marked stop line, then the
driver shall stop at the point nearest the intersecting road where the driver
has a view of approaching traffic on an intersecting roadway before entering
the intersection. A driver after having stopped shall yield the right-of-way to
any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another highway or road, or
which is approaching so close as to constitute an immediate hazard; but the
driver having so yielded may then proceed, and the driver of all other vehicles
approaching the intersection shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle so
proceeding.
(Prior Code, § 42-195)
Statutory reference:
   Yield intersections, see 47 O.S. § 11-403(B)
§ 42-196. VEHICLE ENTERING YIELD INTERSECTION.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in observance to
such sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing condition or shall
stop if necessary and shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian legally
crossing the roadway on which he or she is driving and to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another road so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard. The driver having so yielded may then proceed, and drivers of
all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield to the vehicle so
proceeding. A driver who enters a yield intersection without stopping and has
or causes a collision with a pedestrian at a crosswalk or a vehicle in the
intersection shall prima facie be considered not to have yielded as required
herein. The provisions of this section shall not release the drivers of other
vehicles approaching the intersection at such a distance as not to constitute
an immediate hazard from the duty to drive with due care to avoid a collision.
The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, if required for safety to
stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk of the near side of the
intersection before entering the intersection; if there is no crosswalk, the
driver shall stop at a clearly marked stop line or, if there is not a stop
line, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a
view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
(Prior Code, § 42-196)
Statutory reference:
   Yield intersections, see 47 O.S. § 11-403(C)
§ 42-197. VEHICLE ENTERING HIGHWAY FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of the vehicle about to enter, leave, or cross a highway from or
into a private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on the highway.
(Prior Code, § 42-197)
Statutory reference:
   Vehicles entering highway, see 47 O.S. § 11-404
§ 42-198. VEHICLES ENTERING TRAFFIC FROM PARKING.
   Any vehicle attempting to reenter traffic while parked at the curb shall
yield the right-of-way to oncoming traffic in the street approaching from the
rear. The parked vehicle shall proceed into the line of traffic only after the
driver has given the appropriate signal which indicates his or her intention of
turning from the curb and into the line of traffic. The vehicle shall in no
event enter the line of traffic until the driver has ascertained that no hazard
exists.
(Prior Code, § 42-198)
§ 42-199. EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY, OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway, or building shall
stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the
sidewalk area extending across any alleyway or driveway, and shall yield the
right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon
entering the roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching
on the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 42-199)
Statutory reference:
   Emerging from alley and the like, see 47 O.S. § 11-704
§ 42-200. STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control signal
indication to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 42-200)
§ 42-201. OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL INDICATING APPROACH OF TRAIN.
   (A)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver of
such vehicle shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the
nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not proceed until he or she can do so
safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
      (1)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
      (2)   A crossing gate is lowered or when a human flag person gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
      (3)   A railroad train approaching within approximately 1,500 feet of the
highway crossing emits a signal audible from such distance and such railroad
train, by reason of its speed or nearness to such crossing, is an immediate
hazard;
      (4)   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity to such crossing; or
      (5)   The tracks at the crossing are not clear.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed, or fail to obey the directions of a law
enforcement officer at the crossing.
   (C)   The operator of any class A, B, or C commercial vehicle not required
to stop at all railroad crossings, as prescribed in 47 O.S. § 11-702, shall
slow down and check that the tracks are clear of an approaching train.
(Prior Code, § 42-201)
Statutory reference:
   Obedience to signal regarding train, see 47 O.S. § 11-701
§ 42-202. CERTAIN VEHICLES TO STOP AT ALL RAILROAD GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   The driver of any motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire, or of
any school bus carrying any school child, or of any vehicle carrying explosive
substances or flammable liquids as a cargo or part of a cargo, before crossing
at grade any tracks of a railroad, shall stop such vehicle within 50 feet but
not less than 15 feet from the nearest rail of such railroad, and while so
stopped, shall listen and look in both directions along such track for any
approaching train and for a signal indicating the approach of a train, except
as hereinafter provided, and shall not proceed until he or she can do so
safely. After stopping as required herein and upon proceeding when it is safe
to do so, the driver of any such vehicle shall only in such gear of the vehicle
that there will be no necessity for changing gears while traversing such
crossing, and the driver shall not shift gears while crossing tracks.
   (B)   No stop need be made at any such crossing where a police officer or
traffic control signal directs traffic to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 42-202)
Statutory reference:
   Certain commercial vehicles to stop at railroad crossing, see 47 O.S. § 11-
702
§ 42-203. MANDATORY USE OF SEAT BELTS.
   (A)   Every operator and front seat passenger of a passenger car operated in
this city shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened safety belt system,
required to be installed in the motor vehicle when manufactured pursuant to 49
C.F.R. § 571.208, Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208. For the purpose of
this section, the term PASSENGER CAR shall include the passenger compartment of
pickups, vans, minivans, and sport utility vehicles. The term PASSENGER CAR
shall not include trucks, truck-tractors, recreational vehicles, motorcycles,
or motorized bicycles. The term PASSENGER CAR shall not include a vehicle used
primarily for farm use which is registered and licensed pursuant to the
provisions of 47 O.S. § 1134.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to an operator or passenger of any
passenger car in which the operator or passenger possesses an exemption from
the provisions of this section. The exemption shall be in the form of a
restriction appearing on the driver’s license of the person and shall remain in
effect until the expiration date of the driver’s license. Nothing in this
subsection (B) shall be construed to prevent the person from applying for
another exemption as provided for in this section. The issuance of an
attestation by a physician and the subsequent issuance of an exemption by the
State Commissioner of Public Safety, in good faith, shall not give rise to, nor
shall the physician and the state thereby incur, any liability whatsoever in
damages or otherwise, to any person injured by reason of failure of the person
to wear a safety seat belt system.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to an operator of a motor vehicle while
performing official duties as a route carrier of the U.S. Postal Service.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to any passenger vehicle which was
manufactured or assembled before the 1966 models, unless such vehicle is not
equipped with a properly adjusted and fastened safety seat belt system.
   (E)   Fines and court costs for violating the provisions of this section
shall not exceed $20.
(Prior Code, § 42-203) (Ord. 791, passed 2-20-1988; Ord. 825, passed 6-1-1988;
Ord. 2002-849, passed 10-7-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Mandatory Seat Belt Use Act, see 47 O.S. §§ 12-416 et seq.
§ 42-204. CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEM REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN VEHICLES;
EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Every driver, when transporting a child under six years of age in a
motor vehicle operated on the roadways, streets, or highways of this state,
shall provide for the protection of said child by properly using a child
passenger restraint system. For purposes of this section and 47 O.S. § 11-1113,
the term CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEM means an infant or child passenger
restraint system which meets the federal standards as set by 49 C.F.R. §
571.213.
   (B)   Children at least six years of age but younger than 13 years of age
shall be protected by use of a child passenger restraint system or a seat belt.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   The driver of a school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle, or other
motor vehicle not required to be equipped with safety belts pursuant to state
or federal laws;
      (2)   The driver of an ambulance or emergency vehicle;
      (3)   The driver of a vehicle in which all of the seat belts are in use;
      (4)   The transportation of children who, for medical reasons, are unable
to be placed in such devices; or
      (5)   The transportation of a child who weighs more than 40 pounds and
who is being transported in the back seat of a vehicle while wearing only a lap
safety belt when the back seat of the vehicle is not equipped with combination
lap and shoulder safety belts, or when the combination lap and shoulder safety
belts in the back seat are being used by other children who weigh more than 40
pounds. Provided however, for purposes of this subsection, the term BACK SEAT
shall include all seats located behind the front seat of a vehicle operated by
a licensed child care facility or church. Provided further, there shall be a
rebuttable presumption that a child has met the weight requirements of this
subsection if, at the request of any law enforcement officer, the licensed
child care facility or church provides the officer with a written statement
verified by the parent or legal guardian that the child weighs more than 40
pounds.
   (D)   A law enforcement officer is hereby authorized to stop a vehicle if it
appears that the driver of the vehicle has violated the provisions of this
section and to give an oral warning to said driver. The warning shall advise
the driver of the possible danger to children resulting from the failure to
install or use a child passenger restraint system or seat belts in the motor
vehicle.
   (E)   A violation of the provisions of this section shall not be admissible
as evidence in any civil action or proceeding for damages.
   (F)   In any action brought by or on behalf of an infant for personal
injuries or wrongful death sustained in a motor vehicle collision, the failure
of any person to have the infant properly restrained in accordance with the
provisions of this section shall not be used in aggravation or mitigation of
damages.
   (G)   Any person convicted of violating subsections (A) or (B) above of this
section shall be punished by a fine of $50 and shall pay all court costs
therefor. Revenue from such fine shall be apportioned to the Department of
Public Safety Revolving Fund and used by the state highway safety office to
promote the use of child passenger restraint systems as provided in 47 O.S. §
11-1113. This fine shall be suspended and the court costs limited to a maximum
of $15 in the case of the first offense upon proof of purchase or acquisition
by loan of a child passenger restraint system; provided the State Department of
Public Safety shall not assess points to the driving record of any person
convicted of a violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 42-204)
Statutory reference:
   Child passenger restraint system required for certain vehicles, see 47 O.S.
§ 11-1112
§§ 42-205 THROUGH 42-313. RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI: TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
Section
   
42-314.   Authority to install
   
42-315.   Uniform requirements
   
42-316.   Obedience to traffic devices
   
42-317.   When traffic devices required for enforcement purposes
   
42-318.   Traffic control signal legend
   
42-319.   Flashing signals
   
42-320.   Pedestrian-activated school crossing signals
   
42-321.   Pedestrian-actuated school crossing signals
   
42-322.   Pedestrian control signals
   
42-323.   Unauthorized traffic devices prohibited
   
42-324.   Defacement of traffic devices
   
42-325.   Play streets – Authority to establish
   
42-326.   Same – Restriction on use
   
42-327.   Designation of crosswalks and safety zones
   
42-328.   Traffic lanes
   42-329 through 42-359 reserved
Statutory reference:
   Traffic control devices, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-201 et seq.
§ 42-314. AUTHORITY TO INSTALL.
   The City Council, by motion or resolution, shall have placed and maintained
traffic control signs, signals, and devices when and as required under the
traffic ordinances of this city to make effective the provisions of such
ordinances, and may have placed and maintained such additional traffic control
signs, signals, and devices as it may deem necessary to regulate traffic under
the traffic ordinances of this city or under state law or to guide or warn
traffic.
(Prior Code, § 42-314)
Statutory reference:
   Traffic control devices, see 47 O.S. § 11-201
§ 42-315. UNIFORM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All traffic control signs, signals, and devices shall conform to the
Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices approved by the State Department of
Public Safety.
   (B)   All signs, signals, and devices required hereunder for a particular
purpose shall, so far as practicable, be uniform as to type and relative
location throughout the city. All traffic control devices erected and not
inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this article shall be official
traffic control devices.
(Prior Code, § 42-315)
§ 42-316. OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DEVICES.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic control device applicable thereto, placed in accordance with the
provisions of this article, unless otherwise directed by a traffic or police
officer, subject to the exemptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 42-316)
Statutory reference:
   Drivers to obey traffic devices, see 47 O.S. § 11-201(a)
§ 42-317. WHEN TRAFFIC DEVICES REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT PURPOSES.
   No provision of this article for which official traffic control devices are
required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and
place of the alleged violation, an official device is not in proper position
and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. If a
particular section does not state that official traffic control devices are
required, such section shall be effective even though no devices are erected or
in place.
(Prior Code, § 42-317)
Statutory reference:
   Signs posted, see 47 O.S. § 11-201(b)
§ 42-318. TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   (A)   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting
different colored lights or colored lighted arrows successively one at a time,
or in combination, only the colors green, red, and yellow shall be used, except
for special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend, and said lights shall
indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as follows.
      (1)   Green indication.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal, except when
prohibited under 47 O.S. § 11-1302, may proceed straight through or turn right
or left unless a sign at such place prohibits either such turn. But vehicular
traffic, including vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the right-of-way
to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection or an
adjacent crosswalk at the time such signal is exhibited.
         (b)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal, shown alone or in
combination with another indication, may cautiously enter the intersection only
to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or such other movement as is
permitted by other indications shown at the same time. Such vehicular traffic
shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
         (c)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal, as
provided in 47 O.S. § 11-203, pedestrians facing any green signal, except when
the sole green signal is a turn arrow, may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
      (2)   Steady yellow indication.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow or yellow
arrow signal is thereby warned that the related green movement is being
terminated or that a red indication will be exhibited immediately thereafter.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow
signal, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian control signal as provided in
47 O.S. § 11-203, are thereby advised that there is insufficient time to cross
the roadway before a red indication is shown, and no pedestrian shall then
start to cross the roadway.
      (3)   Steady red indication.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal alone
shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection, and shall remain standing until an indication to
proceed is shown, except as provided in subsection (A)(3)(b) below of this
section.
         (b)   Except when a sign is in place prohibiting a turn, vehicular
traffic facing any steady red signal may cautiously enter the intersection to
turn right or to turn left from a one-way street into a one-way street after
stopping as required by subsection (A)(3)(a) above of this section. Such
vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within
an adjacent crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
         (c)   In order to prohibit right turns or left turns as prescribed in
subsection (A)(3)(b) above of this section on the red signal after the required
stop, a municipality must erect clear, concise signs informing drivers that
such turns are prohibited. The Highway Department shall specify the design of
the sign to be used for this purpose, and it shall be used uniformly throughout
the state.
         (d)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian control signal, as
provided in 47 O.S. § 11-203, pedestrians facing a steady circular red signal
alone shall not enter the roadway.
   (B)   If an official traffic control signal is erected and maintained at a
place other than an intersection, the provisions of this section shall be
applicable, except as to those provisions which by their nature can have no
application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking on the
pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of any
such sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal.
(Prior Code, § 42-318)
Statutory reference:
   Signal legend, see 47 O.S. § 11-202
§ 42-319. FLASHING SIGNALS.
   (A)   Whenever a flashing red or yellow signal is illuminated, it shall
require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
      (1)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or, if
none, then before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the requirements of law applicable after making a stop at a stop
sign.
      (2)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection, or past such signal only with caution.
   (B)   This section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings. The conduct
of drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed
as set forth in 47 O.S. § 11-701.
(Prior Code, § 42-319)
Statutory reference:
   Flashing signals, see 47 O.S. § 11-204
§ 42-320. PEDESTRIAN-ACTIVATED SCHOOL CROSSING SIGNALS.
   Whenever a pedestrian-activated school crossing signal is provided, it
requires obedience by vehicular traffic and pedestrians as follows.
   (A)   Flashing yellow.
      (1)   When a yellow lens is illuminated with rapid intermittent flashes,
drivers or operators of vehicles may proceed through the intersection or pass
such signal only with caution.
      (2)   Pedestrians shall not proceed in conflict with traffic, but may
activate the signal control switch, and shall wait until steady red alone is
shown before entering the roadway or intersection controlled by the signal.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
or stop signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and such vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection or pass the signal when
the red or stop signal is exhibited.
      (2)   No pedestrian shall enter the roadway or intersection on which the
signal controls vehicular traffic until steady red alone is shown.
   (C)   Steady red.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, and shall remain standing until
flashing yellow is shown alone.
      (2)   Pedestrians may proceed across the road controlled by the signal,
and shall be given the right-of-way by the drivers of all vehicles.
   (D)   Steady red and steady yellow combined.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the
flashing yellow signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and that such
vehicular traffic shall remain standing until the flashing yellow is shown
alone.
      (2)   Pedestrians are thereby warned that the flashing yellow signal is
about to be shown, and shall not enter the signal-controlled roadway or
intersection, or in a direction which conflicts with the movement of vehicular
traffic; but any pedestrian who has partially completed his or her crossing
shall proceed to the nearest sidewalk or safety island, and shall be given the
right-of-way by the drivers of all vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 42-320)
§ 42-321. PEDESTRIAN-ACTUATED SCHOOL CROSSING SIGNALS.
   Whenever a pedestrian-actuated school crossing signal is provided, it shall
require obedience by vehicular traffic and pedestrians in accordance with 47
O.S. §§ 11-202 and 11-203, which are §§ 42-318 and 42-322.
(Prior Code, § 42-321)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-205
§ 42-322. PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words “Walk” or
“Wait” or “Don’t Walk” are in place, such signals shall indicate as follows.
   (A)   Walk. Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway in
the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way in the
direction of the signal by the drivers of all vehicles.
   (B)   Wait or don’t walk. No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in
the direction of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed
his or her crossing on the walk signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety
island while the wait signal is showing.
(Prior Code, § 42-322)
Statutory reference:
   Pedestrian control signals, see 47 O.S. § 11-203
§ 42-323. UNAUTHORIZED TRAFFIC DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be
or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic control device or
railroad sign or signal or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic or
which projects any flashing or revolving beams of light, or which hides from
view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic control
device or any railroad sign or signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit, upon any highway any traffic sign, signal, or device bearing thereon
any commercial advertising.
   (C)   This section shall not prohibit the erection upon private property
adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information which are
of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (D)   Every prohibited sign, signal, marking, or device is declared to be a
public nuisance and may be removed without notice.
(Prior Code, § 42-323)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-206
§ 42-324. DEFACEMENT OF TRAFFIC DEVICES.
   (A)   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact
alter, destroy, deface, molest, interfere, tamper, injure, knock down, remove,
or have in his or her possession any official traffic control device, including
any 911 emergency telephone service route markers or any railroad sign or
signal or an inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any part thereof.
   (B)   This article shall not apply to any of the following persons when
acting within the scope and duty of their employment:
      (1)   Any officer, agent, independent contractor, employee, servant, or
trustee of any governmental agency; or
      (2)   Any officer, agent independent contractor, employee, servant, or
trustee of any contractor, public utility, or railroad company.
(Prior Code, § 42-324)
Statutory reference:
   Interference with traffic control devices, see 47 O.S. § 11-207(A)
§ 42-325. PLAY STREETS – AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH.
   The Business Manager, subject to any directions given by the City Council,
shall have authority to declare any street or part thereof a play street and to
have placed appropriate signs or devices in the roadway indicating and helping
to protect the same.
(Prior Code, § 42-325)
§ 42-326. SAME – RESTRICTION ON USE.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part thereof
as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street or
portion thereof, except drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences
are within such closed area; and then, any such driver shall exercise the
greatest care in driving upon any such street or portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 42-326)
§ 42-327. DESIGNATION OF CROSSWALKS AND SAFETY ZONES.
   The City Council, by motion or resolution, may:
   (A)   Designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks, or lines upon
the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where, in its opinion,
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at such
other places as it may deem necessary; and
   (B)   Establish safety zones or islands of such kind and character and at
such places as it may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 42-327)
§ 42-328. TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   The City Council, by motion or resolution, may have traffic lanes
marked upon the roadway of any street where a regular alignment of traffic is
necessary.
   (B)   Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it is unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane, except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement or otherwise authorized by
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 42-328)
Statutory reference:
   Lane use controls, see 47 O.S. § 11-204.1
§§ 42-329 THROUGH 42-359. RESERVED.
ARTICLE VII: STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
Section
   
42-360.   Illegal parking declared public nuisance
   
42-361.   Application of standing or parking regulations
   
42-362.   Parking time limits may be established; signs
   
42-363.   Parking more than 24 or 72 hours
   
42-364.   Brakes; motor not to be left running
   
42-365.   Signs or markings indicating angle parking
   
42-366.   Obedience to angle parking signs or markings
   
42-367.   Parking in spaces marked off
   
42-368.   Permits for loading or unloading at an angle to the curb
   
42-369.   Hazardous or congested places; stopping, standing, or parking
   
42-370.   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited in specified places
   
42-371.   Blocking of intersection or crosswalk prohibited
   
42-372.   Standing or parking on one-way roadway
   
42-373.   Parking prohibited at intersections
   
42-374.   Parking in alleys, blocking driveways, and the like
   
42-375.   Entry on private property; trespass; evidence; burden of proof
   
42-376.   Truck parking prohibited
   
42-377.   Double parking
   
42-378.   Parking for certain purpose prohibited
   
42-379.   Method of parking; standing, or parking close to curb
   
42-380.   Negligent parking
   
42-381.   Right-of-way to parallel parking space
   42-382 through 42-405 reserved
Statutory reference:
   Prohibited in certain areas, see 47 O.S. § 11-1003
§ 42-360. ILLEGAL PARKING DECLARED PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any vehicle in violation of any regulation contained in this article
governing, limiting, or prohibiting the parking or standing of a vehicle on any
street or public thoroughfare is hereby declared to constitute a public
nuisance, and each separate traffic citation issued as authorized herein for
such violation shall constitute a separate notice thereof to the owner or
operator of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 42-360)
§ 42-361. APPLICATION OF STANDING OR PARKING REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this article shall not be applicable when it is necessary
for a vehicle to stop to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or official traffic control device.
(Prior Code, § 42-361)
§ 42-362. PARKING TIME LIMITS MAY BE ESTABLISHED; SIGNS.
   The City Council, by motion or resolution, may establish parking time limits
or prohibit parking on designated streets or parts of streets and have
appropriate signs placed on the streets. When the signs are in place, it is
unlawful for any person to park a vehicle in violation of the sign. No such
time limits shall be effective unless a sign is erected and in place at the
time of the alleged violation.
(Prior Code, § 42-362)
§ 42-363. PARKING MORE THAN 24 OR 72 HOURS.
   No person shall park a vehicle on any street for a period of time longer
than 24 hours. No person shall park a vehicle on any public parking lot owned
or controlled by the city for a period of time longer than 72 hours; however,
the city’s Business Manager may, under such rules, regulations, or directions
as the City Council may establish, grant special permission for a person to
park a vehicle on a public parking lot owned or controlled by the city for a
period of time in excess of 72 hours. This section shall not affect parking
limits established for shorter periods.
(Prior Code, § 42-363)
§ 42-364. BRAKES; MOTOR NOT TO BE LEFT RUNNING.
   Adequate brakes shall be set on all parked vehicles. No driver of a motor
vehicle shall leave the vehicle with the motor running while parked.
(Prior Code, § 42-364)
§ 42-365. SIGNS OR MARKINGS INDICATING ANGLE PARKING.
   The City Council, by motion or resolution, shall determine upon what streets
and parts of streets angle parking shall be permitted, and shall have such
streets marked or signed.
(Prior Code, § 42-365)
§ 42-366. OBEDIENCE TO ANGLE PARKING SIGNS OR MARKINGS.
   On those streets which have been so signed or marked for angle parking, no
person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or
edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or markings.
(Prior Code, § 42-366)
§ 42-367. PARKING IN SPACES MARKED OFF.
   In an area where parking spaces have been marked off on the surface of the
street, a driver parking a vehicle shall park it within a parking space as thus
marked off, and not on or over a line delimiting a space.
(Prior Code, § 42-367)
§ 42-368. PERMITS FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING AT AN ANGLE TO THE CURB.
   (A)   The City Council is authorized to issue special permits to permit the
backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of loading or unloading
merchandise or materials subject to the terms and conditions of such permit.
Such permits may be issued either to the owner or lessee of real property or to
the owner of the vehicle, and shall grant to such person the privilege as
therein stated and authorized herein. The City Council may revoke such permits
at any time.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any permittee or other person to violate any of the
special terms or conditions of any such permit.
(Prior Code, § 42-368)
§ 42-369. HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES; STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING.
   (A)   The City Council is hereby authorized to determine and regulate by
proper signs the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles when such stopping,
standing, or parking would create an especially hazardous condition or would
cause unusual delay to traffic.
   (B)   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places, as
authorized in subsection (A) above of this section, no person shall violate
such signs.
(Prior Code, § 42-369)
§ 42-370. STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except in emergencies
or when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with
law or the directions of a police officer or traffic control device in any of
the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk, sidewalk area, or between the sidewalk and the
street;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign,
or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length has been indicated by signs or markings;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station, and
on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of the entrance when properly signposted;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or construction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel; or
      (13)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area or an unlawful distance away from a curb.
(Prior Code, § 42-370)
Statutory reference:
   Stopping, standing, parking in specified places, see 47 O.S. § 11-1003
§ 42-371. BLOCKING OF INTERSECTION OR CROSSWALK PROHIBITED.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control
signal indication to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 42-371)
§ 42-372. STANDING OR PARKING ON ONE-WAY ROADWAY.
   (A)   If a highway includes two or more separate roadways and traffic is
restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person shall stand or
park a vehicle upon the left-hand side of the one-way roadway unless signs are
erected to permit such standing or parking.
   (B)   The City Council may determine when standing or parking may be
permitted upon the left-hand side of any such one-way roadway and to erect
signs giving notice thereof.
(Prior Code, § 42-372)
§ 42-373. PARKING PROHIBITED AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The parking of vehicles at the curb where streets intersect shall be
prohibited 15 feet in advance of the crosswalk on the near side of such
intersection.
(Prior Code, § 42-373)
§ 42-374. PARKING IN ALLEYS, BLOCKING DRIVEWAYS, AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall park a vehicle within a street or alley in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of
the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic. No person shall stop,
stand, or park a vehicle within a street or alley in such position as to block
a driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Prior Code, § 42-374)
§ 42-375. ENTRY ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; TRESPASS; EVIDENCE; BURDEN OF PROOF.
   (A)   No person shall make an entry with any vehicle upon real property
owned or legally occupied by another without the owner’s or occupant’s consent,
except where such private property is provided as public parking and the
general use of the property is not restricted by signs or proper markings.
   (B)   Where entry is made upon real property owned or legally occupied by
another without the owner’s or occupant’s consent, except on unrestricted
public parking, and is complained of by the owner or legal occupant of the
premises, the burden is put upon the person making the entry to show that
permission for such entry was given.
(Prior Code, § 42-375)
§ 42-376. TRUCK PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to park any of the
following vehicles which exceed a weight limit of one ton on any street or
alley in the city, except as provided in subsection (B) below of this section:
      (1)   Truck;
      (2)   Bus;
      (3)   Tractor;
      (4)   Trailer;
      (5)   Truck-trailer, semitrailer, or combination of any of the above; or
      (6)   Any other commercial vehicle.
   (B)   The vehicles listed in subsection (A) above of this section may be
parked entirely on private property so long as they are not in the area
dedicated for use as a public street and so long as they do not obstruct the
usage of the streets by other vehicles and pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 42-376)
§ 42-377. DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   No driver shall double park or double stop a vehicle under the
following conditions:
      (1)   Within 50 feet of an intersection, except alley intersections, or
within ten feet of an alley intersection;
      (2)   Opposite a double parked or double stopped vehicle across the
street;
      (3)   When such double parking or double stopping would or does block or
interfere materially with the normal movement of traffic;
      (4)   When parking space adjacent to the curb is available;
      (5)   When directed by a police officer to move on; or
      (6)   In any position other than parallel to the curb and within two feet
of the adjacent vehicle parked next to the curb.
   (B)   A driver may double park or double stop a vehicle only as authorized
in this section. There must be a licensed driver in any vehicle while it is
double parked or double stopped.
   (C)   A driver may double stop for the purpose of, but only while actually
engaged in, the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers, subject,
however, to all the general conditions hereinabove set out.
   (D)   A driver may double park for the purpose of, but only while actually
engaged in, the expeditious loading or unloading of merchandise, subject,
however, to all the general conditions hereinabove set out. No such vehicle
shall be double parked longer than ten minutes.
(Prior Code, § 42-377)
§ 42-378. PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying the vehicle for sale;
   (B)   Displaying advertising or displaying merchandise or other things for
sale or selling merchandise or other things; or
   (C)   Washing, cleaning, or repairing the vehicle, except for repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 42-378)
§ 42-379. METHOD OF PARKING; STANDING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB.
   Except as otherwise provided in this article, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall be so stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle parallel to and within 18
inches of the right-hand curb. Any vehicle stopped or parked upon the left-hand
side of a one-way street where there are adjacent curbs shall be parked or
stopped with the left-hand wheels parallel to and within 18 inches of the left-
hand curb.
(Prior Code, § 42-379)
Statutory reference:
   Method of parking, see 47 O.S. § 11-1004(A)
§ 42-380. NEGLIGENT PARKING.
   No person shall park, cause to be parked, stop, or leave unattended any
vehicle as follows:
   (A)   In a careless or negligent manner;
   (B)   In such a manner as to endanger life, limb, person, or property; or
   (C)   In such manner as to endanger or interfere with the lawful traffic or
use of the streets.
(Prior Code, § 42-380)
§ 42-381. RIGHT-OF-WAY TO PARALLEL PARKING SPACE.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle intending to occupy a parallel parking space
where a backing movement is necessary and which is being vacated by another
vehicle shall stop his or her vehicle to the rear of the parking space until
the vacating vehicle has cleared and entered normal traffic. He or she then
shall be deemed to have the right-of-way to such parking space over any other
vehicle attempting to park therein.
   (B)   The first of two or more vehicles to reach the rear boundary of an
unoccupied parallel parking space where a backing movement is necessary to
occupy shall be deemed to have the right-of-way to such parking space.
(Prior Code, § 42-381)
§§ 42-382 THROUGH 42-405. RESERVED.
ARTICLE VIII: LOADING
Section
   
42-406.   Definitions
   
42-407.   Curb loading zones; designation
   
42-408.   Loading zones to be used only for designated purpose
   
42-409.   Stopping, standing, or parking in passenger curb loading zone
   
42-410.   Stopping, standing, or parking in freight curb loading zone
   
42-411.   Designation of public carrier stops and stands
   
42-412.   Use of bus and taxicab stands restricted
   
42-413.   Stopping, standing, and parking of buses and taxis
   42-414 through 42-439 reserved
§ 42-406. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE.
      (1)   A truck designated for delivery purposes with the name of the owner
or his or her business painted on both sides of the vehicle, regularly used
during normal business hours for the delivery and handling of merchandise or
freight and which bears a regular state commercial license tag; and
      (2)   A passenger vehicle used regularly and actually engaged during
normal business hours in the delivery and handling of merchandise or freight,
and which bears a special numbered license plate issued by the city at the rear
of the vehicle attached to the state license plate together with an identically
numbered decal issued vehicle.
   FREIGHT LOADING ZONES. All curb loading zones authorized and regularly used
exclusively for the loading and unloading of merchandise for storage, trade,
shipment, or resale.
   PASSENGER LOADING ZONES. All loading zones authorized and used regularly and
exclusively for the loading and unloading of passengers, except bus stops,
taxicab stands, and stands for other passenger common carrier vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 42-406)
§ 42-407. CURB LOADING ZONES; DESIGNATION.
   (A)   The City Council, by motion or resolution, may determine the location
of passenger and freight curb loading zones and shall have placed and
maintained appropriate signs indicating the zones and stating the hours during
which the provisions of this section are applicable.
   (B)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in violation of signs erected
in accordance with this section.
   (C)   If any loading zone is established on the request of any person, the
signs shall not be placed until the applicant pays to the city an amount of
money estimated by the City Council to be adequate to reimburse the city for
all costs of establishing and signing the same.
(Prior Code, § 42-407)
§ 42-408. LOADING ZONES TO BE USED ONLY FOR DESIGNATED PURPOSE.
   No curb loading zone authorized and established as a passenger loading zone
shall be used as a freight loading zone, and no freight loading zone shall be
used as a passenger loading zone, except as may be specifically provided by
law.
(Prior Code, § 42-408)
§ 42-409. STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING IN PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in a passenger curb loading
zone for any purpose or period of time other than for the expeditious loading
or unloading of passengers, during the hours when the regulations applicable to
such curb loading zones are effective, and then only for a period not to exceed
three minutes.
(Prior Code, § 42-409)
§ 42-410. STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING IN FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in a commercial curb
loading zone for any purpose or length of time other than for the expeditious
unloading and delivery or pickup and loading of materials during hours when the
provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case shall the stop
for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes. Vehicles using any
commercial loading zone shall be subject to the licensing requirements and
regulations provided by this article.
   (B)   The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place
marked as a freight curb loading zone for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not
interfere with any commercial vehicle which is waiting to enter the zone.
(Prior Code, § 42-410)
§ 42-411. DESIGNATION OF PUBLIC CARRIER STOPS AND STANDS.
   The City Council may establish loading zones for common carriers, including,
but not limited to, bus stops, bus stands, taxicab stands, and stands for other
passenger common carrier motor vehicles, on such public streets in such places
and in such number as it shall determine to be of the greatest benefit and
convenience to the public. Every such loading zone shall be designated by
appropriate signs.
(Prior Code, § 42-411)
§ 42-412. USE OF BUS AND TAXICAB STANDS RESTRICTED.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus
stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when any such stop or stand
has been officially designated and the appropriate signs are in place. The
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of
and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such
stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about
to enter the zone.
(Prior Code, § 42-412)
§ 42-413. STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING OF BUSES AND TAXIS.
   (A)   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle upon any
street at any place other than a bus stand so designated as provided herein.
   (B)   The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street at
any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their baggage
at any place other than designated as provided herein, except in case of an
emergency.
   (C)   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand, or passenger
loading zone on a public street in such a manner that the bus, when stopped to
load or unload passengers or baggage, shall be in a position with the right
front wheel of such vehicle not further than 18 inches from the curb and the
bus approximately parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the movement
of other vehicular traffic.
   (D)   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such vehicle upon
any street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so designated as provided
herein. This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking regulations
at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers.
(Prior Code, § 42-413)
§§ 42-414 THROUGH 42-439. RESERVED.
ARTICLE IX: TURNING MOVEMENTS
Section
   
42-440.   Turning markers or indicators
   
42-441.   Designation of restricted turns
   
42-442.   Obedience to no-turn signs
   
42-443.   U-turns
   
42-444.   Position and method of turning
   
42-445.   Turning movements and required signals
   
42-446.   Means of giving turn signals
   
42-447.   Method of giving hand and arm signals
   
42-448.   Turns into or from alleys
   42-449 through 42-479 reserved
§ 42-440. TURNING MARKERS OR INDICATORS.
   (A)   The City Council, by motion or resolution, is authorized to place
markers, buttons, or signs within or adjacent to intersections indicating the
course to be traveled by vehicles turning at such intersections. The course to
be traveled, as so indicated, may conform to or be other than as prescribed by
law.
   (B)   When authorized markers, buttons, or other indications are placed
within an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning
thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of such
indications.
(Prior Code, § 42-440)
§ 42-441. DESIGNATION OF RESTRICTED TURNS.
   The City Council is hereby authorized to determine those street
intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make right turns, left
turns, or U-turns, and shall have proper signs placed at the intersections. The
making of the turns may be prohibited between certain hours of any day and
permitted at other hours. Where turns are restricted during certain hours
pursuant to this section, the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs, or
they may be removed when turns are permitted.
(Prior Code, § 42-441)
§ 42-442. OBEDIENCE TO NO-TURN SIGNS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right turn, left
turn, or U-turn is permitted, the driver of a vehicle shall not disobey the
directions of any such sign.
(Prior Code, § 42-442)
§ 42-443. U-TURNS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction upon any street in the city at the following locations:
      (1)   At intersections controlled by traffic control devices or signals
unless such turns are specifically authorized;
      (2)   Where a police officer is directing traffic, except at the latter’s
direction; or
      (3)   At any other location where an official “no-U-turn” has been placed
and is maintained.
   (B)   A U-turn may be made only when it can be made in safety and without
interfering with other traffic. No person shall make a U-turn, except in the
following manner:
      (1)   By approaching the intersection as closely as practical to the
right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, the driver giving and continuing to
give a signal for a left turn until the turn is completed, proceeding to make
the turn across the intersection;
      (2)   In one continuous movement without stopping or backing the vehicle;
      (3)   By yielding the right-of-way at all times to all vehicles until
such turn is completed; and
      (4)   Without constituting a hazard to or interfering with any other
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 42-443)
§ 42-444. POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do as
follows.
   (A)   Right turns. Both the approach for a right turn and the execution of a
right turn shall be made as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge
of the roadway.
   (B)   Left turns. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at an
intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane
lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such
vehicle. After entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to
leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left-hand lane
lawfully available to traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway being
entered. Whenever practicable, when leaving a two-way roadway, the left turn
shall be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of
the intersection.
(Prior Code, § 42-444)
Statutory reference:
   Method of turning, see 47 O.S. § 11-601
§ 42-445. TURNING MOVEMENTS AND REQUIRED SIGNALS.
   (A)   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection, a public or private
road, or a driveway, unless the vehicle is in proper position upon the roadway
as required in § 42-444, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway,
or otherwise turn a vehicle from a direct course or move right or left upon a
roadway unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. No
person shall so turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the
manner hereinafter provided.
   (B)   A signal of intention to turn right or left, slow, or stop, when
required, shall be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet
traveled by the vehicle before turning or stopping.
   (C)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give
the signal.
   (D)   When any person is properly preparing for, attempting, or executing a
left turn, as described in subsection (A) above of this section, no other
person operating another vehicle immediately following the turning vehicle
shall pass or attempt to pass the turning vehicle to the left. Such other
person shall come to a complete stop if necessary at a safe distance behind the
person preparing for, attempting, or executing the turn or may proceed to the
right of the turning vehicle as provided by 47 O.S. § 11-304.
(Prior Code, § 42-445)
Statutory reference:
   Turning movements, see 47 O.S. § 11-604
§ 42-446. MEANS OF GIVING TURN SIGNALS.
   (A)   Any stop or turn signal, when required herein, shall be given either
by means of hand or arm, or by a signal lamp, except as provided in subsection
(B) below of this section.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped with, and
required signal shall be given by, signal lamps when the distance from the
center of the top of the steering post to the left outside limit of the body,
cab, or load of such motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches, or when the distance from
the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit of the body or
load thereof exceeds 14 feet. The latter measurement shall apply to any single
vehicle, also to any combination of vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 42-446)
Statutory reference:
   Signals by hand and arm or lamps, see 47 O.S. § 11-605
§ 42-447. METHOD OF GIVING HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   All signals herein required, given by hand and arm, shall be given from the
left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and such signals shall
indicate as follows:
   (A)   Left turn: hand and arm extended horizontally;
   (B)   Right turn: hand and arm extended upward; and
   (C)    Stop or decrease speed: hand and arm extended downward with palm to
the rear.
(Prior Code, § 42-447)
Statutory reference:
   Method of giving hand signals, see 47 O.S. § 11-606
§ 42-448. TURNS INTO OR FROM ALLEYS.
   (A)   No vehicles shall turn left when proceeding into or proceeding out of
an alley, except when necessary to enter a one-way street, and no vehicle shall
cross any street or highway when proceeding into or proceeding out of any
alley, except as provided in subsection (B) below of this section.
   (B)   Left turns may be made when proceeding out of an alley if a traffic
survey conducted by the traffic engineer shows that such turn may be made
safely and official signs are erected authorizing such turns.
   (C)   The foregoing provisions of this section shall not apply to bus
terminals used by licensed and authorized bus lines.
(Prior Code, § 42-448)
§§ 42-449 THROUGH 42-479. RESERVED.
ARTICLE X: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
42-480.   Pedestrians subject to traffic control signals
   
42-481.   Rights and duties of persons operating wheelchair or motorized
wheelchair
   
42-482.   Pedestrians’ right-of-way at crosswalks
   
42-483.   Pedestrians to use right half of crosswalks
   
42-484.   Crossing at right angles
   
42-485.   When pedestrians shall yield
   
42-486.   Pedestrians walking along roadways
   
42-487.   Pedestrians prohibited from soliciting rides, business, or donations
from vehicle occupants
   
42-488.   Drivers to exercise due care
   
42-489.   Crossing prohibited
   
42-490.   Obedience of pedestrians to railroad signals
   42-491 through 42-518 reserved
Statutory reference:
   Pedestrian regulations, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-501 et seq.
§ 42-480. PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals as
provided for in this code.
      (2)   At all other places, pedestrians shall be granted those rights and
be subject to the restrictions stated in this article.
   (B)   (1)   A pedestrian shall obey the instructions of any official traffic
control device specifically applicable to him or her, unless otherwise directed
by a police officer.
      (2)   At all other places, pedestrians shall be accorded the privileges
and shall be subject to the restrictions stated in this article.
(Prior Code, § 42-480)
Statutory reference:
   Pedestrian rights and duties, see 47 O.S. § 11-501
§ 42-481. RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF PERSONS OPERATING WHEELCHAIR OR MOTORIZED
WHEELCHAIR.
   Every person operating a wheelchair or a motorized wheelchair shall have all
of the rights and all of the duties applicable to a pedestrian contained in 47
O.S. §§ 11-101 et seq., except those provisions which by their nature can have
no application.
(Prior Code, § 42-481)
Statutory reference:
   Rights and duties of persons operating wheelchair or motorized wheelchair,
see 47 O.S. § 11-501.1
§ 42-482. PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHT-OF-WAY AT CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   (1)   When traffic control signals are not in place or not in
operation, the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way slowing down or
stopping, if need be, to so yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a
crosswalk when:
         (a)   The pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the
vehicle is traveling; or
         (b)   The pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite edge
of the roadway as to be in danger.
      (2)   The provisions of this subsection (A) are not applicable under
conditions where pedestrians are required to yield pursuant to this article.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety or
walk or run into the path of the vehicle which is so close that it is
impossible for the driver to yield.
   (C)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk, or any unmarked
crosswalk, or at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross a roadway, the
driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not overtake to
pass such stopped vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 42-482)
Statutory reference:
   Right-of-way in crosswalks, see 47 O.S. § 11-502
§ 42-483. PEDESTRIANS TO USE RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALK.
   Pedestrians, when crossing the street at a crosswalk, shall move, whenever
practicable, upon the right half of the crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 42-483)
§ 42-484. CROSSING AT RIGHT ANGLES.
   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at
right angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb, except
in a crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 42-484)
§ 42-485. WHEN PEDESTRIANS SHALL YIELD.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked or unmarked crosswalk at any intersection shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   The provisions of this section are not applicable where pedestrian
crossings are prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 42-485)
Statutory reference:
   Crossing at places other than crosswalk, see 47 O.S. § 11-503
§ 42-486. PEDESTRIANS WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall, when practical, walk only on the left side of the
roadway, or its shoulder, facing traffic which may approach from the opposite
direction, and shall yield to approaching vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 42-486)
Statutory reference:
   Pedestrians walking along roadways, see 47 O.S. § 11-506
§ 42-487. PEDESTRIANS PROHIBITED FROM SOLICITING RIDES, BUSINESS, OR DONATIONS
FROM VEHICLE OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride, donations, employment, or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall:
      (1)   Stand in any street, roadway, or park and stop, or attempt to stop,
and engage any person in any vehicle for the purpose of soliciting
contributions or the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or about
to be parked on a street;
      (2)   Sell or attempt to sell anything to any person in any vehicle;
      (3)   Hand or attempt to hand to any person in any vehicle any circular,
advertisement, handbill, or any political campaign literature, or any sample,
souvenir, or gift; or
      (4)   In any other manner, while standing in the street or roadway,
attempt to interfere with the normal flow of traffic for any other similar
purpose.
(Prior Code, § 42-487)
Statutory reference:
   Pedestrians soliciting rides and the like, see 47 O.S. § 11-507
§ 42-488. DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this article, every driver shall
exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway, and
shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall exercise
proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or incapacitated
person on the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 42-488)
Statutory reference:
   Drivers to exercise due care, see 47 O.S. § 11-504
§ 42-489. CROSSING PROHIBITED.
   Between adjacent intersections, at which traffic control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a crosswalk.
Pedestrians shall not cross any divided highway having a median in the center
thereof, except in a crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 42-489)
§ 42-490. OBEDIENCE OF PEDESTRIANS TO RAILROAD SIGNALS.
   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing gate
or barrier at a railroad grade crossing while such gate or barrier is closed or
is being opened or closed.
(Prior Code, § 42-490)
§§ 42-491 THROUGH 42-518. RESERVED.
ARTICLE XI: BICYCLES AND MOTORIZED SCOOTERS
Section
   
42-519.   Application of bicycle or motorized scooter regulations
   
42-520.   Application of traffic laws to bicycles or motorized scooters
   
42-521.   Obedience to traffic control devices
   
42-522.   Riding on bicycles or motorized scooter
   
42-523.   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
42-524.   Speed of bicycle or motorized scooter
   
42-525.   Emerging from alley or driveway
   
42-526.   Carrying articles
   
42-527.   Parking
   
42-528.   Riding on sidewalks
   
42-529.   Clinging to vehicles
   
42-530.   Lamps and equipment on bicycles
   
42-531.   Reflective material
   
42-532.   Overtaking and passing bicycle; violations; fines and penalties
   42-533 through 42-557 reserved
Statutory reference:
   Bicycles and certain motorized scooters, see 47 O.S. §§ 12-701 et seq.
   Bicycles or motorized scooters, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-1201 et seq.
§ 42-519. APPLICATION OF BICYCLE OR MOTORIZED SCOOTER REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this article shall apply whenever a bicycle or motorized
scooter is operated upon any street or upon any public way; or upon any path
set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, subject to those exceptions stated
in this article.
(Prior Code, § 42-519)
Statutory reference:
   Application of regulations, see 47 O.S. § 11-1201(C)
§ 42-520. APPLICATION OF TRAFFIC LAWS TO BICYCLES OR MOTORIZED SCOOTERS.
   Every person riding a bicycle or motorized scooter upon a roadway shall be
granted all the rights and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to the
driver of a vehicle by the laws of this state and the traffic provisions of
this code applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except as to special
regulations in this article and except as to those provisions of laws and
ordinances which by their nature are inapplicable to such persons.
(Prior Code, § 42-520)
Statutory reference:
   Traffic laws application, see 47 O.S. § 11-1202
§ 42-521. OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle or motorized scooter shall obey the
instructions of official traffic control signals, signs, and other control
devices applicable to vehicles unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating no right turn, left
turn, or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle or motorized
scooter shall disobey the directions of such sign, except where such person
dismounts from the bicycle or motorized scooter to make any such turn, in which
event, such person shall then obey the regulations applicable to the
pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 42-521)
§ 42-522. RIDING ON BICYCLES OR MOTORIZED SCOOTER.
   (A)   No person operating a bicycle or motorized scooter shall ride other
than upon or astride a permanent and regular attached seat.
   (B)   No bicycle or motorized scooter shall be used to carry more persons at
one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Prior Code, § 42-522)
Statutory reference:
   Riding regulations, see 47 O.S. § 11-202
§ 42-523. RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle or motorized scooter upon a roadway
at less than the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall ride as close as is safe to the right-hand curb
or edge of the roadway, except under any of the following situations:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction;
      (2)   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private
road or driveway;
      (3)   When reasonably necessary to avoid conditions and while exercising
due care, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Fixed or moving objects;
         (b)   Parked or moving vehicles;
         (c)   Pedestrians or animals;
         (d)   Surface hazards; or
         (e)   Any time it is unsafe to continue along the right-hand curb or
edge of the roadway.
      (4)   When riding in the right-turn-only lane.
   (B)   Any person riding a bicycle or motorized scooter upon a one-way street
or highway with two or more marked lanes of travel may ride as close as is safe
to the left-hand curb or edge of the street or highway.
   (C)   No person operating a bicycle or motorized scooter shall pass other
vehicles between lanes of traffic traveling in the same direction. Persons
riding bicycles or motorized scooters upon a roadway shall not ride more than
two abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive
use of bicycles or motorized scooters. Persons riding two abreast shall not
impede the normal and reasonable flow of traffic and, on a laned roadway, shall
ride within a single lane.
(Prior Code, § 42-523)
Statutory reference:
   Riding on roadway and the like, see 47 O.S. § 11-1205
§ 42-524. SPEED OF BICYCLE OR MOTORIZED SCOOTER.
   No person shall operate a bicycle or motorized scooter at a speed greater
than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Prior Code, § 42-524)
§ 42-525. EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle or motorized scooter emerging from an alley or
driveway shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across
the alley or driveway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on
the sidewalk or sidewalk area. Upon entering the roadway, the bicycle or
motorized scooter operator shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 42-525)
§ 42-526. CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle or motorized scooter shall carry any package,
bundle, or article which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand on
the handle bars.
(Prior Code, § 42-526)
Statutory reference:
   Carrying articles, see 47 O.S. § 11-1206
§ 42-527. PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle or motorized scooter upon a street other than
upon the roadway against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the
bicycle or motorized scooter or against the building or at the curb in such a
manner as to afford the least obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Prior Code, § 42-527)
§ 42-528. RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall ride a bicycle or motorized scooter upon a sidewalk
within a business district.
   (B)   The City Council, by motion or resolution, is authorized to have
erected signs on any sidewalk or roadway prohibiting the riding of bicycles or
motorized scooter thereon by any person; and when such signs are in place, no
person shall disobey the same.
   (C)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, such person
shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal
before overtaking and passing such pedestrian.
(Prior Code, § 42-528)
§ 42-529. CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, motorized scooter, coaster, rollerskates,
sled, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle
upon a roadway.
(Prior Code, § 42-529)
Statutory reference:
   Clinging to vehicles, see 47 O.S. § 11-1204
§ 42-530. LAMPS AND EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   Bicycles or motorized scooters in use at nighttime shall be equipped
with a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light from the front of the
bicycle and a red lamp on the rear emitting a red light visible from a distance
of at least 500 feet, and 1,000 feet if the speed limit is over 25 mph. Every
bicycle shall be equipped with a red reflector which shall be visible for 600
feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlamps on a
motor vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle or motorized scooter unless it is
equipped with a bell or other device capable of giving a signal audible for a
distance of a least 100 feet.
   (C)   A bicycle or motorized scooter shall not be equipped with, nor shall
any person use, any siren or whistle.
   (D)   Bicycles or motorized scooters shall be equipped with a brake which
will enable the operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean
pavement.
(Prior Code, § 42-530)
Statutory reference:
   Front and rear lamp, see 47 O.S. §§ 12-702 and 12-703
   Reflector, see 47 O.S. § 12-704
§ 42-531. REFLECTIVE MATERIAL.
   Every bicycle, when in use at the times described in 47 O.S. § 12-201(B),
shall be equipped with reflective material of sufficient size and reflectivity
to be visible from both sides for 600 feet when directly in front of lawful
lower beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 42-531)
Statutory reference:
   Reflective material, see 47 O.S. § 12-706
§ 42-532. OVERTAKING AND PASSING BICYCLE; VIOLATIONS; FINES AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   When overtaking and passing a bicycle proceeding in the same
direction, a person driving a motor vehicle shall exercise due care by leaving
a safe distance between the motor vehicle and the bicycle of not less than
three feet until the motor vehicle is safely past the overtaken bicycle.
   (B)   If a person violates the provisions of subsection (A) above of this
section, and the violation results in a collision causing serious physical
injury to another person, the person shall be subject to a fine of not more
than $500.
   (C)   If a person violates the provisions of subsection (A) above of this
section, and the violation results in the death of another person, the person
shall be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000, in addition to any other
penalties prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 42-532)
Statutory reference:
   Overtaking and passing bicycle, see 47 O.S. § 11-1208
§§ 42-533 THROUGH 42-557. RESERVED.
ARTICLE XII: IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
Section
   
42-558.   Purpose and effect of impoundment provisions
   
42-559.   Notice of removal; liability
   
42-560.   Place of impoundment
   
42-561.   Duration of impoundment
   
42-562.   Police granted authority to impound vehicles
   
42-563.   Disabled vehicles
   
42-564.   Vehicles on bridge
   
42-565.   Arrest and detention of driver of vehicle
   
42-566.   Vehicle constitutes traffic hazard
   
42-567.   Illegal trespass by vehicle
   
42-568.   Vehicles parked overtime
   
42-569.   Vehicles blocking fire exits or hydrants
   
42-570.   Vehicles parked in intersection
   
42-571.   Stolen vehicles; recovery by police
   
42-572.   Vehicles with outstanding traffic citations
   42-573 through 42-617 reserved
Statutory reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see 47 O.S. §§ 901 et seq.
   Removal of abandoned vehicles on private property, see 47 O.S. § 954A
   Removal of vehicles on state highways by highway patrol, see 47 O.S. § 955
§ 42-558. PURPOSE AND EFFECT OF IMPOUNDMENT PROVISIONS.
   The impoundment of vehicles under the authority of the provisions of this
article shall be construed as an enforcement procedure for protection of the
public peace, safety, and welfare, and the safeguarding of property, and shall
be used generally for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention
and abatement of public nuisances arising from traffic law violations,
protection of the public rights in the use of streets and thoroughfares from
obstructions placed and left in derogation of those rights, and for
safeguarding and protecting recovered stolen vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 42-558)
Statutory reference:
   Abandonment of vehicles unlawful, see 47 O.S. § 901
   Authorization to remove, see 47 O.S. § 902
§ 42-559. NOTICE OF REMOVAL; LIABILITY.
   Any police officer who has removed or directed the removal of any vehicle,
or an authorized person in such officer’s employing agency, shall within 72
hours of such removal, notify the State Department of Public Safety of such
removal. The notice of removal shall contain the name and address of the owner,
if known, the make, model, vehicle identification number, registration number,
date stored, place stored, and the officer’s estimated value. Upon receipt of
such notice of removal, the State Department of Public Safety must promptly
request the State Tax Commission or other appropriate motor license agent to
furnish the name and address of the owner of and any lienholder on the vehicle
and must, within five days from receipt of the requested information, send a
notice to the owner and any lienholder by regular mail, postage prepaid, at the
addresses furnished by the State Tax Commission or motor license agent, of the
vehicle’s location. This section shall not be construed to create any civil
liability upon the state, any agency of the state or the city, or any employee
thereof for failure to provide such notice to the owner or lienholder.
(Prior Code, § 42-559)
Statutory reference:
   Notice, liability, see 47 O.S. § 903
§ 42-560. PLACE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every vehicle that is impounded under the provisions of this article shall
be removed to the nearest garage or place of safekeeping designated by the
Business Manager, and to no other place.
(Prior Code, § 42-560)
§ 42-561. DURATION OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided, any vehicle impounded under the
authority of this article shall be stored and held safely until an order for
its release is received from an officer of the Traffic Violations Bureau or
other proper police officer.
   (B)   The order of release of an impounded vehicle shall be conditioned upon
the payment by the person to whom the release is issued of all impoundment
costs and accrued storage charges assessed against the vehicle.
   (C)   No order of release of an impounded vehicle shall be issued until all
fines and costs due the city because of traffic law or other law violations
involving the vehicle have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 42-561)
Statutory reference:
   Payment of costs, see 47 O.S. § 904
§ 42-562. POLICE GRANTED AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES.
   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized within the limits set
forth in this article to impound vehicles under the circumstances hereinafter
enumerated. No impoundment shall be valid unless made under order of an
authorized police officer and in strict adherence with the procedures required
in this article and state law.
(Prior Code, § 42-562)
§ 42-563. DISABLED VEHICLES.
   A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may be impounded under the
following circumstances:
   (A)   If left unattended and improperly parked on street or highway and
constitutes a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic;
or
   (B)   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated to
such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal and the
vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an obstruction to traffic or a hazard.
(Prior Code, § 42-563)
§ 42-564. VEHICLES ON BRIDGE.
   An unattended vehicle left upon any bridge, viaduct, or causeway or in any
tube or tunnel, where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic or
hazard, may be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 42-564)
§ 42-565. ARREST AND DETENTION OF DRIVER OF VEHICLE.
   Whenever the driver or person in charge of any vehicle is placed under
arrest and taken into custody and detained by police under circumstances which
leaves or will leave a vehicle unattended on any street or highway, the vehicle
may be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 42-565)
§ 42-566. VEHICLE CONSTITUTES TRAFFIC HAZARD.
   A vehicle left unattended upon any street, alley, or thoroughfare and so
parked illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic shall be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 42-566)
§ 42-567. ILLEGAL TRESPASS BY VEHICLE.
   (A)   An unattended vehicle found to be in violation of this code may be
impounded when the required complaint has been properly made and filed as
provided in this section.
   (B)   If a violation of the provisions of this code occurs, the owner or
legal occupant who complains shall sign a complaint against the person parking
the vehicle on the owner’s or legal occupant’s property, or if the identity of
the person parking the vehicle is unknown, then the complaint may be filed
against the registered owner of the vehicle. The complaint shall be verified
and shall allege that the complaining party is the owner or legal occupant of
the property upon which the vehicle is parked or standing.
   (C)   Upon filing of the complaint by the property owner or legal occupant,
and if there appears to be proper cause to believe the provisions of this code
have been violated, the Police Department shall cause the vehicle to be
impounded from the property and placed in storage.
(Prior Code, § 42-567)
§ 42-568. VEHICLES PARKED OVERTIME.
   Any unattended vehicle which has been parked for more than one hour in
excess of the time allowed for parking in any place shall be impounded, and any
vehicle parked in violation of this code, regarding more than 24 hours, shall
be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 42-568)
§ 42-569. VEHICLES BLOCKING FIRE EXITS OR HYDRANTS.
   Any vehicle illegally parked in such a manner that it blocks a fire escape
ladder, device, or exit, or blocks ready access to a fire hydrant, shall be
impounded.
(Prior Code, § 42-569)
§ 42-570. VEHICLES PARKED IN INTERSECTION.
   Any unattended vehicle illegally parked in any street intersection shall be
impounded. A disabled vehicle in an intersection with the person in charge of
the vehicle being present shall be moved out of the intersection and to the
nearest available legal parking space at the street curbing.
(Prior Code, § 42-570)
§ 42-571. STOLEN VEHICLES; RECOVERY BY POLICE.
   (A)   Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police and the registered
owner cannot be found within a reasonable time not exceeding one hour, or
cannot be determined by the registration papers or other identifying media in
the vehicle or from recovered information available from reports of stolen
cars, the vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized place for
impoundment, and the registered owner of the vehicle shall be notified of the
location of the place of impoundment as soon as possible by the Police
Department.
   (B)   If the registered owner is identified, located, and notified of the
recovery of the stolen vehicle, the owner shall be given the right to make his
or her own arrangement for the removal of the vehicle within the period of one
hour from the time he or she is actually notified of its recovery, and if the
owner is unable or unwilling to effect the removal within the time specified,
the vehicle may be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 42-571)
§ 42-572. VEHICLES WITH OUTSTANDING TRAFFIC CITATIONS.
   Any vehicle for which two or more citations has been issued, pursuant to
this code for violation of an ordinance, and has not been presented as
required, may be impounded if parked in violation of any provision of this
article.
(Prior Code, § 42-572)
§§ 42-573 THROUGH 42-617. RESERVED.
ARTICLE XIII: RAILROADS
Section
   
42-618.   Walking on tracks unlawful
   
42-619.   Climbing on trains prohibited
   
42-620.   Obstructing crossings unlawful
   
42-621.   Speed restrictions
   
42-622.   Unnecessary noises unlawful
   42-623 through 42-647 reserved
§ 42-618. WALKING ON TRACKS UNLAWFUL.
   Any person shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor if the person:
   (A)   Without consent of the owner or the owner’s agent, enters or remains
on railroad property, knowing that it is railroad property;
   (B)   Throws an object at a train, or rail-mounted work equipment; or
   (C)   Maliciously or wantonly causes in any manner the derailment of a
train, railroad car, or rail-mounted work equipment.
(Prior Code, § 42-618)
Statutory reference:
   Trespass on railroad property, see 21 O.S. § 1752.1
§ 42-619. CLIMBING ON TRAINS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Every person is forbidden to climb upon, hold on to, or in any manner
attach himself or herself to any locomotive, engine, or railway car within the
city, while the locomotive, engine, or car is in motion.
   (B)   Any person, other than a railway employee in the discharge of his or
her duty, who, without authority from the conductor of the train, rides, or
attempts to ride, on top of any car, coach, engine, or tender, on any railroad
in this state, or on the drawheads between the cars, or under cars or trussrods
or trucks, or in any freight car, or on the platform of any baggage car,
express car, or mail car, or any train in this state, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 42-619)
Statutory reference:
   Trespassing on trains, see 21 O.S. § 1365
§ 42-620. OBSTRUCTING CROSSINGS UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct any street, avenue, or crossing
within the city limits with any railway train, locomotive, or engine for a
longer period of time than five minutes.
(Prior Code, § 42-620)
§ 42-621. SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   It is unlawful for any railway company engineer, firefighter, or other
employee to run or operate any railroad engine, train, or car within the city
limits at a greater rate of speed than 30 mph.
(Prior Code, § 42-621)
§ 42-622. UNNECESSARY NOISES UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any engineer or other person, while operating a
locomotive within or through the city, to cause unnecessary or prolonged blasts
with a whistle on the locomotive or to allow or cause any unnecessary noises
from the locomotive. This section does not prohibit those sounds warning of the
train approaching a crossing as required in federal law.
(Prior Code, § 42-622)
§§ 42-623 THROUGH 42-647. RESERVED.
ARTICLE XIV: VEHICLES FOR HIRE
Section
Generally
   42-648 through 42-667 reserved
Taxicabs
   
42-668.   Definitions
   42-669 through 42-694 reserved
License
   
42-695.   Required
   
42-696.   Application
   
42-697.   Payment of fees; transferability; expiration
   
42-698.   Liability insurance policy or bond
   
42-699.   License to be issued
   
42-700.   Mechanical inspection
   
42-701.   Identification of vehicles
   
42-702.   Notification of discontinuance of service and published schedule of
rates and hours
   
42-703.   Cancellation of owner’s and operator’s license
   42-704 through 42-734 reserved
Taxicab Driver’s License
   
42-735.   Required; application; contents
   
42-736.   Driver’s license fees
   
42-737.   Required information on card; display; transferability; duplicate
   
42-738.   Cancellation, revocation, and suspension of taxicab driver’s license
Statutory reference:
   Authority to tax, see 11 O.S. §§ 22-106 and 22-118
   Financial responsibility requirements, see 47 O.S. § 8-104
   Insurance requirements, see 47 O.S. § 7-607
   Municipal regulation of taxicabs, see 11 O.S. § 22-118
GENERALLY
§§ 42-648 THROUGH 42-667. RESERVED.
TAXICABS
§ 42-668. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PASSENGER. A person merely riding in an automobile or vehicle, as
distinguished from one operating in the same.
   STREET. Any street, alley, avenue, land, court, or public place in the city.
   TAXICAB. Any and all motor vehicles used for the transportation or carrying
of passengers for hire within the corporate limits of the city except:
      (1)   Vehicles engaged in interstate commerce and vehicles properly and
legally licensed by the State Corporation Commission to do a carrying business
between established towns and cities within the state; and
      (2)   Intra-city buses operating under franchise.
(Prior Code, § 42-668)
Statutory reference:
   Taxicab defined, see 47 O.S. § 1-174
   Taxi licensing, city authority, see 11 O.S. §§ 22-106 and 22-118
§§ 42-669 THROUGH 42-694. RESERVED.
LICENSE
§ 42-695. REQUIRED.
   The operation of taxicabs upon the streets of the city is hereby found to be
a matter affecting the public interest and welfare. It is unlawful for any
person, either acting as an owner, principal, agent, employee, lessee, or
licensee, to operate or permit to be operated upon the streets of the city any
taxicab without first having procured a license therefor from the city as
hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 42-695)
§ 42-696. APPLICATION.
   In order to apply for such a license, as herein provided for the operation
of a taxicab for the carriage of persons for hire in the city, a written
application, verified by the applicant or his or her duly authorized agent,
shall be filed with the City Clerk on a blank form to be provided by the City
Clerk. The application shall contain the following information and any other
necessary and appropriate information as may be required by the City Clerk:
   (A)   Full name, address, and age of the applicant; and his or her permanent
business location; if a partnership, the name and address of all of the
partners; if a corporation, the names and addresses of the officers and
directors thereof;
   (B)   A complete description of each vehicle to be used, including the model
motor number; state license number; the seating capacity of each vehicle
proposed to be used; and a statement of the ownership of each vehicle;
   (C)   The trade name under which the applicant does or proposes to do
business;
   (D)   Property damage insurance and public liability insurance has or will
be secured to cover each vehicle proposed to be used upon the streets of the
city; and
   (E)   A written statement of the rates proposed to be charged, showing a
maximum rate by blocks and distances or zones.
(Prior Code, § 42-696)
§ 42-697. PAYMENT OF FEES; TRANSFERABILITY; EXPIRATION.
   (A)   No license shall be issued and delivered until the applicant shall
have paid to the City Clerk the following amounts:
      (1)   For the first taxicab or other vehicle used as a taxicab in the
transportation of passengers for hire: $10; and
      (2)   For each additional taxicab: the sum of $5 each.
   (B)   No refund of license fees shall be made for any reason.
   (C)   No license shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses shall expire on June 30 in each year.
(Prior Code, § 42-697)
§ 42-698. LIABILITY INSURANCE POLICY OR BOND.
   (A)   Before any license is issued for a taxicab, the owner or operator
thereof shall file with the City Clerk, to be approved by the City Council, an
insurance policy as follows:
      (1)   Issued by an insurance company licensed and authorized to do
business in the state;
      (2)   Provides liability insurance coverage for each and every taxicab
owned, operated, or leased by the applicant;
      (3)   Has liability coverage not less than $25,000 for one injury or
death; not less than $50,000 for each accident, and no less than $10,000 for
property damage in any one accident;
      (4)   Coverage effective whether the taxicab was, at the time of the
accident, driven by the owner, his or her agent, employee, lessee, or licensee;
      (5)   Endorsed thereon and on a form approved by the City Attorney;
      (6)   Provides that the policy cannot be canceled until written notice of
the proposed cancellation is filed with the City Clerk; and
      (7)   Provides that the policy is made for the use, benefit, and
protection of the city and for the use and benefit of any person who may suffer
injury, either to his or her person or property by reason of any accident or
omission of any applicant or his or her employees in the operation of any
taxicab or other vehicle used in the transportation of passengers for hire in
the city.
   (B)   The policy must be approved by the City Council and, if approved,
remain in full force and effect during the life of any such license issued.
   (C)   If, after the approval of the policy and after the issuance of a
license, such policy shall be allowed to lapse or shall not be renewed by the
payment of premiums, the City Council may cancel any license under the
provisions of this article after notice to the licensee and after an
opportunity to be heard.
(Prior Code, § 42-698)
§ 42-699. LICENSE TO BE ISSUED.
   (A)   Upon the filing of the application for such license, paying the
required fees, and filing the required insurance policy, the matter of the
hearing of the application shall come before the City Council at a regular
meeting within a reasonable time, at which the applicant shall:
      (1)   Show by proper proof of necessity, convenience, and requirement for
such license; and
      (2)   Furnish satisfactory information and proof that all taxicabs or
vehicles proposed to be licensed are in first class mechanical condition.
   (B)   In the event that the City Council determines that issuance of the
requested license or any of the units is in the public interest, necessity, and
convenience, an order shall be entered in the minutes to that effect, directing
the City Clerk to issue a license.
(Prior Code, § 42-699)
§ 42-700. MECHANICAL INSPECTION.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate any taxicab or any vehicle under
this article unless the same is in good mechanical and sanitary condition. Any
such taxicab or other vehicle so licensed under this article shall, at all
times, be available for inspection by any law enforcement officer or city
official for any violation of law or city ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 42-700)
§ 42-701. IDENTIFICATION OF VEHICLES.
   All taxicabs or vehicles shall be equipped with signs or markers so that the
identity thereof can be readily ascertained by any person, either in the
daytime or in the nighttime.
(Prior Code, § 42-701)
§ 42-702. NOTIFICATION OF DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE AND PUBLISHED SCHEDULE OF
RATES AND HOURS.
   (A)   The licensed holder shall give the City Clerk notification, in
writing, no more than three days after the discontinuance of a licensed taxicab
service in the city.
   (B)   The license holder shall notify the general public by means of a
notice in a newspaper of general circulation of the rates and hours of
operation of said taxi service. Notice shall be made no less than once each
quarter with a copy of said notice submitted to the City Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 42-702) (Ord. 760, passed 6-18-1984)
§ 42-703. CANCELLATION OF OWNER’S AND OPERATOR’S LICENSE.
   (A)   An owner or taxicab driver’s license herein provided for may be
canceled by the City Council for the following reasons:
      (1)   Any false or misleading statements made or caused to be made in the
application for or in connection with securing the issuance of the license
herein provided for;
      (2)   Employment of any driver not duly licensed as such, as herein
provided for;
      (3)   Violation of the provisions and terms of any ordinance of the city
or permitting violation thereof; and
      (4)   Upon receiving information that the insurance policy provided for
by this article has been, or will be, canceled.
   (B)   Notice in writing of the intention to cancel any owner and taxicab
driver’s license shall be given the licensee by the City Clerk, which notice
may be either served personally on the licensee by any police officer, or by
mailing the same to the licensee at the address given on the application, at
least three days before the date fixed for the cancellation thereof. The
licensee may appear before the City Council at the time fixed in the notice for
the cancellation and be heard upon the same.
(Prior Code, § 42-703)
§§ 42-704 THROUGH 42-734. RESERVED.
TAXICAB DRIVER’S LICENSE
§ 42-735. REQUIRED; APPLICATION; CONTENTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to act as a driver of a taxicab without
having a taxicab driver’s license issued by the City Clerk, such license to be
applied for in writing on such forms as the City Clerk may prescribe. The
application shall include:
      (1)   The name, age, sex, weight, height, color of eyes and hair of
applicant, his or her residence or address, and length of residence in the
city; and place or places of residence and employment during the past three
years;
      (2)   The number of times and places arrested or convicted for traffic
violations;
      (3)   The experience the applicant has had in driving motor vehicles;
      (4)   Whether or not the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony or
misdemeanor, giving particulars of each conviction;
      (5)   A health certificate, after examination by the city physician, to
the effect that the applicant is in good health and possesses normal faculties,
shall be furnished and attached to the application;
      (6)   Reference from three reputable persons who have known the applicant
for one year or more immediately prior to such application; and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant has been issued a state commercial
driver’s license and the number of such commercial driver’s or operator’s
license.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall cause an investigation to be made of the
facts set forth in the application and shall not approve the issuance of a
license to any person whose general reputation for integrity and
responsibility, or whose previous record as a law violator is such as to render
the applicant unfit for such occupation or who is, in the opinion of the city
physician, after investigation, not physically fit to drive or operate a
taxicab in the city.
   (C)   In the event any applicant is disapproved by the Chief of Police
because the Chief of Police finds such applicant unfit by reason of his or her
general reputation for integrity or responsibility, the applicant shall not be
eligible to apply for a driver’s license until six months thereafter; provided
however, any such person shall have the right to appeal to the City Council by
immediately notifying the City Clerk and thereafter presenting the matter at
the next regular meeting of the City Council, whose action shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 42-735)
§ 42-736. DRIVER’S LICENSE FEES.
   Each and every driver who makes application for and obtains a taxicab
driver’s license as a driver of a taxicab shall be required to pay to the City
Clerk a fee as set by the City Council by motion or resolution. The license
shall expire on June 30 next succeeding its issuance.
(Prior Code, § 42-736)
§ 42-737. REQUIRED INFORMATION ON CARD; DISPLAY; TRANSFERABILITY; DUPLICATE.
   The taxicab driver’s license shall be of a form prescribed by the City
Clerk. The driver’s name, license number, latest photograph of driver, and the
expiration date of the license shall be placed on the card, and shall be signed
by the licensee. Such license shall be displayed at all times by the driver in
a prominent place in the cab he or she may be operating. No driver’s license
shall be transferable. In the case of a loss of a license, and upon proper
proof and showing thereof, the City Clerk may issue, upon payment of a fee
which is on file in the City Clerk’s office, a duplicate, which fact shall be
certified to the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 42-737)
§ 42-738. CANCELLATION, REVOCATION, AND SUSPENSION OF TAXICAB DRIVER’S LICENSE.
   (A)   A taxicab driver’s license may be revoked by the Chief of Police upon
conviction of the licensee, after the issuance of the license, of a violation
of any federal or state law, or of any ordinance of the city.
   (B)   Whenever a driver’s license is revoked, the Chief of Police shall take
up the driver’s license and forward the same to the City Clerk, together with a
reason for such revocation.
   (C)   In case of revocation or suspension of the license, the driver shall
have the right to appeal to the City Council by immediately notifying the City
Clerk and thereafter presenting the matter at the next regular meeting of the
City Council, whose action thereon shall be final.
   (D)   The provisions of this section are supplementary to penalties provided
by other sections of this article.
   (E)   No person shall be allowed to ride in a taxicab except a bona fide
paying passenger en route to a definite destination.
(Prior Code, § 42-738)
CHAPTER 43: RESERVED
   [Reserved]
CHAPTER 44: UTILITIES
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      II.   RATES, CHARGES, BILLING PROCEDURE
      III.   WATER SERVICES
      IV.   SEWER SERVICES
      V.   SOLID WASTE
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   44-1 through 44-18 reserved
Statutory reference:
   Environmental Quality Act, see 27A O.S. §§ 1-1-101 et seq.
   Water and water rights, see 82 O.S. §§ 1B et seq.
§§ 44-1 THROUGH 44-18. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: RATES, CHARGES, BILLING PROCEDURE
Section
   
44-19.   Fees and billings in general
   
44-20.   Failure to pay utility bills, penalty, disconnection
   
44-21.   Fees and charges
   44-22 through 44-45 reserved
§ 44-19. FEES AND BILLINGS IN GENERAL.
   All fees and charges in connection with any customer’s use of the city’s
water or sanitary sewer facilities or systems, and the operation of city’s
collection and disposal of refuse and garbage, are billed in accordance with
applicable rates set by the Mayor and City Council. All fees and charges owing
for any of these utility services shall be billed on one monthly bill submitted
to the customer each month. The utility bills submitted under the terms of this
section shall be payable on or before the due date noted on the bill.
(Prior Code, § 44-19)
§ 44-20. FAILURE TO PAY UTILITY BILLS, PENALTY, DISCONNECTION.
   (A)   Upon failure of any customer to pay any part of a utility bill
submitted by the city for any utility services by the due date on the bill, the
following actions and penalties may result.
      (1)   A 10% penalty of all amounts owing on a utility bill is added to
any utility bill which is not paid by the fifteenth day following the billing
date.
      (2)   The authorized agents of the city may disconnect or discontinue any
or all utility services to the customer after mailing written notice to the
customer of the intent of the city to disconnect or discontinue any or all of
the utility services.
      (3)   The authorized agents of the city, upon direction of the Mayor and
City Council, may discontinue to furnish water to any customer refusing or
neglecting to pay all or any part of a utility bill submitted after mailing
written notice to the customer of the intent of the city to disconnect the
water service.
   (B)   If any utility service is discontinued or disconnected pursuant to
this section, the city or its agent shall not reconnect or reestablish service
until the full amount of any outstanding utility service bill is paid, plus the
penalty provided in this section, plus any applicable charges or expenses in
reconnecting or reestablishing the service.
(Prior Code, § 44-20)
§ 44-21. FEES AND CHARGES.
   The Mayor and City Council from time to time, by ordinance or resolution,
shall have the power to establish rates and charges governing all aspects of
the city utility services, including monthly service fees, connection fees and
charges, and deposits.
(Prior Code, § 44-21)
§§ 44-22 THROUGH 44-45. RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: WATER SERVICES
Section
Generally
   
44-46.   Water rates
   
44-47.   Rates and services charged to consumer outside the city limits
   
44-48.   City to furnish meter; customer to pay costs
   
44-49.   Special contracts for sale of water
   
44-50.   Water deposit
   
44-51.   Meter not to be transferred until deposit is made
   
44-52.   Withdrawal of deposit
   
44-53.   Reserved
   
44-54.   Six-inch water mains required in subdivisions
   44-55 through 44-81 reserved
Fluoride
   
44-82.   Fluoride abhorrent to tooth decay
   
44-83.   Fluoride not found in sufficient quantities in water
   
44-84.   Introduction of fluoride into water; beneficial
   
44-85.   City Clerk to procure approval of State Board of Health
   
44-86.   City Clerk to procure apparatus and to induce fluoride into the water
   44-87 through 44-115 reserved
GENERALLY
§ 44-46. WATER RATES.
   The monthly rates for water services shall be charged and collected from all
water consumers according to the schedule adopted by the Mayor and City
Council, which is on file in the City Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 44-46)
§ 44-47. RATES AND SERVICES CHARGED TO CONSUMER OUTSIDE THE CITY LIMITS.
   In compliance with applicable law, the city may only sell water to persons
outside the city limits under written contract, upon such terms and conditions
as may be agreed upon by negotiation between the city and each of the persons,
firms, or corporations.
(Prior Code, § 44-47)
§ 44-48. CITY TO FURNISH METER; CUSTOMER TO PAY COSTS.
   The city shall furnish a meter and connection tap for all water consumers,
which meter and tap shall remain the property of the city. The consumer shall
pay the actual cost of such meter and connection, together with any excavation
or other costs in connection therewith, before water shall be turned on. The
customer will be furnished an itemized statement of such actual cost. This
section shall not apply to any special right-of-way easement agreements now in
existence.
(Prior Code, § 44-48)
§ 44-49. SPECIAL CONTRACTS FOR SALE OF WATER.
   (A)   The Mayor of the city, subject to approval of the City Council, is
hereby authorized to enter into a contract with any person residing or located
outside the corporate limits of the city to sell and furnish to such person,
from its water supply, such surplus water as is not immediately required by the
city or its inhabitants.
   (B)   Such contract shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Be signed by the person to whom or to which such water is
furnished;
      (3)   Be conditioned that the person entering into such contract shall
pay all expenses of making connection and shall furnish all materials and labor
necessary at his or her own expense;
      (4)   Provide that the city shall not furnish or construct any pipelines
or conduits beyond the corporate limits of the city;
      (5)   Be conditioned that the city shall furnish such water only from its
surplus supply and only water as is not immediately required for the use of the
city or its inhabitants;
      (6)   Expressly state that such contract may be abrogated by the city at
any time the Mayor and City Council shall, by resolution duly adopted, declare
such water so being furnished under such contract is required by the city for
its own use and the use of its inhabitants; and
      (7)   Contain such other provisions as the Mayor and Council shall deem
necessary and proper to protect the interest of the city and its inhabitants.
(Prior Code, § 44-49)
§ 44-50. WATER DEPOSIT.
   Any person desiring to have a water meter installed shall deposit with the
City Clerk a sum as set by the Mayor and City Council as a deposit, which shall
be kept by the City Clerk and held as a security for the payment of water
bills. Such deposit shall not release the user from promptly paying the water
bill charged against such meter or such user.
(Prior Code, § 44-50)
§ 44-51. METER NOT TO BE TRANSFERRED UNTIL DEPOSIT IS MADE.
   No meter heretofore installed shall be transferred from the present user to
another person until such deposit has been made.
(Prior Code, § 44-51)
§ 44-52. WITHDRAWAL OF DEPOSIT.
   In case any person who makes such deposit wishes to discontinue the use of
such meter, he or she may withdraw such deposit. However, the person shall
first pay all water bills charged against the meter or such person.
(Prior Code, § 44-52)
§ 44-53. RESERVED.
§ 44-54. SIX-INCH WATER MAINS REQUIRED IN SUBDIVISIONS.
   Before any addition or subdivision can be annexed into the city, such
property so annexed must first meet specifications set by the Inspection Bureau
of the state requiring six-inch water mains in all areas of such addition or
subdivision so annexed.
(Prior Code, § 44-54)
§§ 44-55 THROUGH 44-81. RESERVED.
FLUORIDE
§ 44-82. FLUORIDE ABHORRENT TO TOOTH DECAY.
   It is hereby declared to be the consensus of scientific, dental, and medical
opinion that the presence of fluoride in the drinking water of the city is
abhorrent to tooth decay.
(Prior Code, § 44-82)
§ 44-83. FLUORIDE NOT FOUND IN SUFFICIENT QUANTITIES IN WATER.
   It is hereby declared that such chemical element is not found in sufficient
quantities in the natural water supply of the city being distributed to the
citizens of the city to be beneficial as a health measure.
(Prior Code, § 44-83)
§ 44-84. INTRODUCTION OF FLUORIDE INTO WATER; BENEFICIAL.
   It is hereby declared that fluoride can be introduced into the water
furnished to the citizens of the city and that the same is a measure which will
promote the public health and good of its citizens.
(Prior Code, § 44-84)
§ 44-85. CITY CLERK TO PROCURE APPROVAL OF STATE BOARD OF HEALTH.
   The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to procure the consent and
approval of the State Board of Health to the use of apparatus and equipment,
and the introduction of fluoride in the drinking water of the city furnished
and to be furnished to its citizens.
(Prior Code, § 44-85)
§ 44-86. CITY CLERK TO PROCURE APPARATUS AND TO INDUCE FLUORIDE INTO THE WATER.
   Upon securing the consent and approval of the State Board of Health, the
City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to provide all the means,
including machinery, apparatus, and equipment, and to proceed with the
introduction of approximately one part of fluoride to every 1,000,000 parts of
water, and not to exceed one and one-half parts of fluoride to every 1,000,000
parts of water, being furnished and distributed in and through the water supply
system of the city.
(Prior Code, § 44-86)
§§ 44-87 THROUGH 44-115. RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: SEWER SERVICES
Section
Generally
   
44-116.   Declaration of public utility
   
44-117.   Definitions
   
44-118.   Disposition of funds
   
44-119.   Check or back-flow valves required
   
44-120.   Service outside the city
   44-121 through 44-138 reserved
Sewer Use Regulations
   
44-139.   Prohibited discharges
   
44-140.   Chemical discharges
   
44-141.   Heavy metals and toxic materials
   
44-142.   Garbage
   
44-143.   Stormwater and other unpolluted drainage
   
44-144.   How to dispose of stormwater
   
44-145.   Temperature
   
44-146.   Radioactive wastes
   
44-147.   Chemical requirements
   
44-148.   Impairment of facilities
   
44-149.   Interceptors
   
44-150.   Owner to maintain interceptors
   
44-151.   Compliance with existing authority
   
44-152.   Approving authority requirements
   
44-153.   Approving authority review and approval
   
44-154.   Requirements for traps
   
44-155.   Requirements for building sewers; manhole
   
44-156.   Sampling and testing
   
44-157.   Power to enter property
   
44-158.   Authority to disconnect service
   
44-159.   Special agreements
   
44-160.   Damaging sewer system
   
44-161.   Notice
   
44-162.   Continuing prohibited discharges
   
44-163.   Penalty
   
44-164.   Failure to pay
   
44-165.   Violator responsible
   
44-166.   Regarding industrial users
   44-167 through 44-185 reserved
User Charge System
   
44-186.   Standard formula for calculating customer charges
   
44-187.   Surcharge for extra strength sewage
   
44-188.   Biennial review of operation and maintenance charges
   
44-189.   Surcharge on toxic pollutants and extraneous flows
   
44-190.   Distribution of charges
   
44-191.   Notice of portion of rates to cover wastewater services
   
44-192.   Record-keeping system
   
44-193.   Billing and penalties
   44-194 through 44-224 reserved
GENERALLY
§ 44-116. DECLARATION OF PUBLIC UTILITY.
   The sanitary sewage system of the city is hereby declared to be a public
utility, and a proper source of revenue for the upkeep and maintenance of the
system, and for other purposes.
(Prior Code, § 44-116) (Ord. 773, passed 1-6-1987)
§ 44-117. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Business Manager, the Mayor, or his or her duly
authorized representative.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen by weight, expressed
in milligrams per liter (mg/l), utilized in the biochemical oxidation of
organic matter under standard laboratory conditions for five days at a
temperature of 20°C.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal (also called house lateral and house connection).
   COD (CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). Measure of the oxygen consuming capacity of
inorganic and organic matter present in the water or wastewater expressed in
mg/l as the amount of oxygen consumed from a chemical oxidant in a specific
test, but not differentiating between stable and unstable organic matter and
thus not necessarily correlating with biochemical oxygen demand.
   COMMERCIAL USE. All use not for a dwelling or public building, and includes
all roominghouses and hotels having for rent more than four rooms.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A manhole giving access to a building sewer at some point
before the building sewer discharge mixes with other discharges in the public
sewer.
   CONTROL POINT. A point of access to a course of discharge before the
discharge mixes with other discharges in the public sewer.
   DWELLING. Any housing unit occupied by a single family, and in the case of
multiple units, each is a DWELLING.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable wastes and residue from preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food; and from the handling, processing, storage, and sale of
food products and produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Waste resulting from any process of industry,
manufacturing, trade, or business from the development of any natural resource,
or any mixture of the waste with water or normal wastewater, or distinct from
normal wastewater.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE CHARGE. The charge made on those persons who discharge
industrial wastes into the city’s sewerage system.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER (MG/L). The same as parts per million and is a weight-
to-volume ratio; the milligram-per-liter value multiplied by the factor 8.34
shall be equivalent to pounds per million gallons of water.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, ditch, lake, or other body of
surface water or groundwater.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater excluding industrial wastewater
discharged by a person into sanitary sewers and in which the average
concentration of total suspended solids is not more than 225 mg/l and BOD is
not more than 225 mg/l.
   OVERLOAD. The imposition of organic or hydraulic loading on a treatment
facility in excess of its engineered design capacity.
   pH. The logarithm (base ten) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration.
   PUBLIC BUILDINGS. The buildings of the state, the county, the city, and
school buildings.
   PUBLIC SEWER. Pipe or conduit carrying wastewater in which owners of
abutting properties shall have the use, subject to control by the city.
   SANITARY SEWER. A public sewer that conveys domestic wastewater or
industrial wastes, or a combination of both, and into which stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, and other unpolluted wastes are not intentionally passed.
   SEWAGE. All matter and material placed in the sanitary sewers of the city.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, wastewater, or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STANDARD MEASURE. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
latest edition, at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater as prepared, approved, and published
jointly by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works
Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A public sewer which carries stormwater and surface water and
drainage and into which domestic wastewater or industrial wastes are not
intentionally passed.
   STORMWATER. Rainfall or any other forms of precipitation.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Water and Wastewater Superintendent of the city, or his
or her duly authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids measured in mg/l that either float on the surface
of, or are in suspension in, water, wastewater, or other liquids, and which are
largely removable by a laboratory filtration device.
   TO DISCHARGE. Includes to deposit, conduct, drain, emit, throw, run, allow
to seep, or otherwise release or dispose of, or to allow, permit, or suffer any
of these acts of emission.
   TRAP. A device designed to skim, settle, or otherwise remove grease, oil,
sand, flammable wastes, or other harmful substances.
   UNPOLLUTED WASTEWATER. Water containing:
      (1)   No free or emulsified grease or oil;
      (2)   No acids or alkalis;
      (3)   No phenols or other substances producing taste or odor in receiving
water;
      (4)   No toxic or poisonous substances in suspension, colloidal state, or
solution;
      (5)   No noxious or otherwise obnoxious or odorous gases;
      (6)   Not more than an insignificant amount in mg/l each of suspended
solids and BODs, as determined by the State Water Quality Board; and/or
      (7)   Color not exceeding 50 units as measured by Platinum Cobalt method
of determination as specified in Standard Methods.
   WASTE. Rejected, unutilized, or superfluous substance in liquid, gaseous, or
solid form resulting from domestic, agricultural, or industrial activities.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. Includes all facilities for collection, pumping,
treating, and disposing of wastewater and industrial wastes.
   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge on all users of the public sewer
system whose wastes do not exceed in strength the concentration values
established as representative of normal wastewater.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. Any city-owned facilities, devices used for
receiving, processing, and treating wastewater, industrial waste, and sludges
from the sanitary sewers.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or human-made channel in which a flow of water
occurs, either continuously or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 44-117) (Ord. 773, passed 1-6-1987)
§ 44-118. DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   The funds derived from such fees shall be deposited in the general revenues
of the city to be used for the upkeep, repair, maintenance, and extension of
the sanitary sewage system, and for such other uses as the City Council may
deem fit.
(Prior Code, § 44-118)
§ 44-119. CHECK OR BACK-FLOW VALVES REQUIRED.
   All persons receiving sewer service from the city and having a sewer line
into the basement of their place of residence shall, within 30 days after May
6, 1974, install and maintain in working condition, a check valve in the line,
serving their basement, to prevent any reverse flow of sewage into their
basement from the main sewer line. All installations after the above date shall
have such check valve installed in connection with the sewer line before their
sewer installation will be approved and service furnished by the city.
(Prior Code, § 44-119) (Ord. 773, passed 1-6-1987)
§ 44-120. SERVICE OUTSIDE THE CITY.
   The city will accept sewage from persons located outside of the city limits
who are served by a sewer lift station located outside the city limits,
provided the following conditions are met.
   (A)   The users will install their own gathering system and lift station at
their own expense and maintain the gathering system at their own expense.
   (B)   The city will do routine, but not major, maintenance on and operate
the lift station; however, if the pumps, motors, or duplex electrical panel
require rebuilding or replacement, this will not be paid for by the city, but
shall be the responsibility of the users, and the city will discontinue service
until such rebuilding or replacement is completed.
   (C)   Users shall pay a monthly charge as set by the Mayor and City Council
for this service, which also includes acceptance of the sewage by the city,
which charge to be part of, and in addition to the bill for other city
services. If the charges are not paid in full as due, all city services may be
discontinued, as provided in § 44-193.
   (D)   No sewage will be accepted by the city which will damage the city
sewage system. Should nonacceptable sewage be introduced into the lines, then
the entire sewage system shall be disconnected from the city sewage lines until
corrected.
(Prior Code, § 44-120) (Ord. 773, passed 1-6-1987)
§§ 44-121 THROUGH 44-138. RESERVED.
SEWER USE REGULATIONS
§ 44-139. PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person may discharge to public sewers any waste which by itself or
by interaction with other wastes may:
      (1)   Injure or interfere with wastewater treatment processes facilities;
      (2)   Constitute a hazard to humans or animals; or
      (3)   Create a hazard in receiving waters of the wastewater treatment
plant effluent.
   (B)   All discharge shall conform to the requirements of this article.
(Prior Code, § 44-139) (Ord. 773, passed 1-6-1987)
§ 44-140. CHEMICAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No discharge to public sewers may contain:
      (1)   Cyanide greater than five-hundredths mg/l;
      (2)   Fluoride other than contained in the public water supply;
      (3)   Chlorides in concentrations greater than 250 mg/l;
      (4)   Gasoline, benzene, naptha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas; or
      (5)   Substances causing an excessive COD.
   (B)   No waste or wastewater discharged to public water may contain:
      (1)   Strong acid, iron pickling wastes, or concentrated plating
solutions, whether neutralized or not;
      (2)   Fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of
100 mg/l or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and 60°C);
      (3)   Objectionable or toxic substances, exerting an excessive chlorine
requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the composite
wastewater at the wastewater treatment works exceeds the limits established by
the approving authority for such materials; or
      (4)   Obnoxious, toxic, or poisonous solids, liquids, or gases in
quantities sufficient to violate the provisions of § 44-139.
   (C)   No waste, wastewater, or other substance may be discharged into public
sewers which has a pH lower than five and one-half or higher than nine and one-
half, or any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and/or personnel at the wastewater facilities.
   (D)   All waste, wastewater, or other substance containing phenols, hydrogen
sulfide, or other taste- and odor-producing substances shall conform to
concentration limits established by the approving authority. After treatment of
the composite wastewater, concentration limits may not exceed the requirements
established by state, federal, or other agencies with jurisdiction over
discharges to receiving waters.
(Prior Code, § 44-140) (Ord. 773, passed 1-6-1987)
§ 44-141. HEAVY METALS AND TOXIC MATERIALS.
   (A)   No discharge may contain concentration of heavy metals greater than
amounts specified in § 44-140(B).
   (B)   This maximum allowable concentrations of heavy metals in terms of mg/
l, determined on the basis of individual sampling in accordance with the
Standard Methods are:
Arsenic          0.05 mg/l
Barium           5.00 mg/l
Boron            1.00 mg/l
Cadmium          0.05 mg/l
Chromium (total) 0.10 mg/l
Copper           0.10 mg/l
Lead             0.10 mg/l
Manganese        1.00 mg/l
Mercury          0.005 mg/l
Nickel           1.00 mg/l
Selenium         0.05 mg/l
Silver           0.10 mg/l
Zinc             0.30 mg/l
 
   (C)   No other heavy metals or toxic materials may be discharged into public
sewer without a permit from the approving authority specifying conditions of
pretreatment, concentrations, volumes, and other applicable provisions.
   (D)   Prohibited heavy metals and toxic materials include, but are not
limited to:
      (1)   Beryllium;
      (2)   Bismuth;
      (3)   Cobalt;
      (4)   Molybdenum;
      (5)   Uranyl ion;
      (6)   Rhenium;
      (7)   Strontium;
      (8)   Tellurium;
      (9)   Herbicides;
      (10)   Fungicides; and
      (11)   Pesticides.
   (E)   Dilution of waste streams containing toxic materials and metals shall
not be construed to be treatment or disposal of the toxic materials or metals
and shall not be allowed at any point in the sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 44-141) (Ord. 773, passed 1-6-1987)
§ 44-142. GARBAGE.
   (A)   No person may discharge garbage into public sewers unless it is
shredded to a degree that all particles can be carried freely under the flow
conditions normally prevailing in public sewers. Particles greater than one-
half inch in any dimension are prohibited.
   (B)   The approving authority is entitled to review and approve the
installation and operation of any garbage grinder equipment with a motor of
three-fourths horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater.
(Prior Code, § 44-142) (Ord. 773, passed 1-6-1987)
§ 44-143. STORMWATER AND OTHER UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE.
   (A)   No person may discharge or cause to be discharged to public sanitary
sewers:
      (1)   Unpolluted stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, or
subsurface drainage;
      (2)   Unpolluted cooling water;
      (3)   Unpolluted industrial process waters; or
      (4)   Other unpolluted drainage.
   (B)   In compliance with the State Water Pollution Control Act (Amendments
of 1972), being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., and other statutes, the approving
authority may designate storm sewers and other water courses into which
unpolluted drainage described in subsection (A) above of this section may be
discharged.
   (C)   Any new conditions from inflow sources into the sanitary sewer
portions of the sewer system shall be prohibited.
   (D)   All new sewers shall be properly designed and constructed in
accordance with the State Health Department requirements.
   (E)   Connections shall be in accordance with the Southern Building Code
Congress International, Inc., Standard Plumbing Code, 1975.
(Prior Code, § 44-143) (Ord. 773, passed 1-6-1987)
§ 44-144. HOW TO DISPOSE OF STORMWATER.
   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to
a natural outlet approved by the Plumbing Inspector. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, upon approval of the Plumbing
Inspector, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 44-144) (Ord. 773, passed 1-6-1987)
§ 44-145. TEMPERATURE.
   No person may discharge liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than
150°F (65°C), or any substance which causes the temperature of the total
wastewater treatment plant influent to increase at a rate of 10°F or more per
hour, or a combined total increase of plant influent temperature to 110°F.
(Prior Code, § 44-145) (Ord. 773, passed 1-6-1987)
§ 44-146. RADIOACTIVE WASTES.
   (A)   No person may discharge radioactive wastes or isotopes into public
sewers without the permission of the approving authority.
   (B)   The approving authority may establish, in compliance with applicable
state and federal regulations, regulations for discharge of radioactive wastes
into public sewers.
(Prior Code, § 44-146) (Ord. 773, passed 1-6-1987)
§ 44-147. CHEMICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The admission into the public sewers of any of the following waters or
wastes shall be subject to the review and approval of the Plumbing Inspector:
      (1)   Having a five-day BOD greater than 300 parts per million by weight;
      (2)   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of suspended
solids;
      (3)   Containing any quantity of substances having the characteristics
described in §§
44-140 through
44-143,
44-145, and
44-146; or
      (4)   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average daily
sewage flow of the city.
   (B)   Where necessary in the opinion of the Plumbing Inspector, the owner
shall provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to:
      (1)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million and
the suspended solids to 350 parts per million;
      (2)   Reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents to within the
maximum limits provided for in §§
44-140 through
44-143,
44-145, and
44-146; and
      (3)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes.
   (C)   Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for approval of
the Plumbing Inspector and of the State Water Resources Board, and no
construction of such facilities shall be commenced until the approvals are
obtained in writing.
(Prior Code, § 44-147) (Ord. 773, passed 1-6-1987)
§ 44-148. IMPAIRMENT OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   No person may discharge into public sewers any substances capable of
causing:
      (1)   Obstruction to the flow in sewers;
      (2)   Interference with the operation of treatment processed of
facilities; or
      (3)   Excessive loading of treatment facilities.
   (B)   Discharges prohibited by §
44-147(A) include, but are not limited to, materials which exert or cause
concentrations of:
      (1)   Inert suspended solids greater than 250 mg/l, including, but not
limited to:
         (a)   Fuller’s earth;
         (b)   Lime slurries; and
         (c)   Lime residues.
      (2)   Dissolved solids greater than 500 mg/l, including, but not limited
to:
         (a)   Sodium chloride; and
         (b)   Sodium sulfate.
      (3)   Excessive discoloration, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Dye wastes; and
         (b)   Vegetable tanning solutions.
      (4)   BOD, COD, or clarion demand in excess of normal plant capacity.
   (C)   No person may discharge into public sewers any substance that may:
      (1)   Deposit grease or oil in the sewer lines in such a manner as to
clog the sewers;
      (2)   Overload skimming and grease handling equipment;
      (3)   Pass to the receiving waters without being effectively treated by
normal wastewater treatment processes due to the nonamenability of the
substance to bacterial action; or
      (4)   Deleteriously affect the treatment process due to excessive
quantities.
   (D)   No person may discharge any substance into public sewers which:
      (1)   Is not amenable to treatment or reduction by the processes and
facilities employed; or
      (2)   Is amenable to treatment only to such a degree that the treatment
plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of their agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
   (E)   The approving authority shall regulate the flow and concentration of
slugs when they may:
      (1)   Impair the treatment process;
      (2)   Cause damage to collection facilities;
      (3)   Incur treatment costs exceeding those for normal wastewater; or
      (4)   Render the waste unfit for stream disposal or industrial use.
   (F)   No person may discharge into public sewers solid or viscous substance
which may violate subsection (A) above of this section if present in sufficient
quantity or size including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Ashes;
      (2)   Cinders;
      (3)   Sand;
      (4)   Mud;
      (5)   Straw;
      (6)   Metal;
      (7)   Shavings;
      (8)   Glass;
      (9)   Rags;
      (10)   Feathers;
      (11)   Tar;
      (12)   Plastics;
      (13)   Wood;
      (14)   Unground garbage;
      (15)   Whole blood;
      (16)   Paunch manure;
      (17)   Hair and fleshings;
      (18)   Entrails;
      (19)   Paper products, either whole or ground by garbage grinders;
      (20)   Slops;
      (21)   Chemical residues;
      (22)   Paint residues; or
      (23)   Bulk solids.
(Prior Code, § 44-148) (Ord. 773, passed 1-6-1987)
§ 44-149. INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Plumbing Inspector, they are necessary for the proper handling
of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable
wastes, sand, and other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors
shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All
interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Plumbing Inspector
and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
   (B)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
They shall be of substantial construction, watertight, and equipped with easily
removable covers which, when bolted in place, shall be gastight and watertight.
(Prior Code, § 44-149) (Ord. 773, passed 1-6-1987)
§ 44-150. OWNER TO MAINTAIN INTERCEPTORS.
   Where installed, all grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be maintained
by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient operation at all
times.
(Prior Code, § 44-150) (Ord. 773, passed 1-6-1987)
§ 44-151. COMPLIANCE WITH EXISTING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Unless exception is granted by the approving authority, the public
sanitary sewer system shall be used by all persons discharging:
      (1)   Wastewater;
      (2)   Industrial waste; or
      (3)   Polluted liquids.
   (B)   Unless authorized by the State Department of Health, no person may
deposit or discharge any waste included in subsection (A) above of this section
on public or private property into or adjacent to any:
      (1)   Natural outlet;
      (2)   Watercourse;
      (3)   Storm sewer; or
      (4)   Other area within the jurisdiction of the city.
   (C)   The approving authority shall verify prior to discharge that wastes
authorized to be discharged will receive suitable treatment within the
provisions of laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, and orders of federal,
state, and local governments.
(Prior Code, § 44-151) (Ord. 773, passed 1-6-1987)
§ 44-152. APPROVING AUTHORITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   If discharges or proposed discharges to public sewers may:
      (1)   Deleteriously affect wastewater facilities, processes, equipment,
or receiving waters;
      (2)   Create a hazard to life or health; or
      (3)   Create a public nuisance.
   (B)   The approving authority shall require:
      (1)   Pretreatment to an acceptable condition discharge to the public
sewers;
      (2)   Control over the quantities and rates of discharge to the public
sewers; and
      (3)   Payment to cover the cost of handling and treating the wastes.
   (C)   The approving authority is entitled to determine whether a discharge
or proposed discharge is included under §
44-151(A).
   (D)   The approving authority shall reject wastes when:
      (1)   It determines that a discharge or proposed discharge is included
under §
44-151(A); and
      (2)   The discharger does not meet the requirements of §
44-151(A).
(Prior Code, § 44-152) (Ord. 773, passed 1-6-1987)
§ 44-153. APPROVING AUTHORITY REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   If pretreatment or control is required, the approving authority shall
review and approve design and installation of equipment and processes.
   (B)   The design and installation of equipment and processes must conform to
all applicable statutes, codes, ordinances, and other laws.
   (C)   Any person responsible for discharges requiring pretreatment, flow-
equalizing, or other facilities shall provide and maintain the facilities in
effective operating condition at his or her own expense.
(Prior Code, § 44-153) (Ord. 773, passed 1-6-1987)
§ 44-154. REQUIREMENTS FOR TRAPS.
   (A)   Discharges requiring a trap include:
      (1)   Grease or waste containing grease in excessive amounts;
      (2)   Oil;
      (3)   Sand;
      (4)   Flammable wastes; and
      (5)   Other harmful ingredients.
   (B)   Any person responsible for discharge requiring a trap shall, at his or
her own expense, and as required by the approving authority:
      (1)   Provide equipment and facilities of a type and capacity approved by
the approving authority;
      (2)   Locate the trap in a manner that provides ready and easy
accessibility for cleaning and inspection; and
      (3)   Maintain the trap in effective condition.
(Prior Code, § 44-154) (Ord. 773, passed 1-6-1987)
§ 44-155. REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDING SEWERS; MANHOLE.
   Any person responsible for discharges through a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall, at his or her own expense and as required by the
approving authority:
   (A)   Install an accessible and safely located control manhole;
   (B)   Install meters and other appurtenances to facilitate observation,
sampling, and measurement of the wastes; and
   (C)   Maintain the equipment and facilities.
(Prior Code, § 44-155) (Ord. 773, passed 1-6-1987)
§ 44-156. SAMPLING AND TESTING.
   (A)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this article shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided or upon suitable samples
taken and said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building is connected.
Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the
effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of
hazards to life, limb, and property. Cost of sampling of discharge will be paid
by industry, and analysis of samples shall be performed by a qualified
individual or laboratory independent of the industrial user.
   (B)   All tests will comply with the testing requirements of the State
Department of Health and the Environmental Protection Agency. Records of all
tests will be kept on file with the city.
(Prior Code, § 44-156) (Ord. 773, passed 1-6-1987)
§ 44-157. POWER TO ENTER PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identifications are entitled to enter any public
or private property at any reasonable time for the purpose of enforcing this
article.
   (B)   Anyone acting under this authority shall observe the establishment’s
rules and regulations concerning safety, internal security, and fire
protection.
   (C)   Except when caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain
safe conditions, the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to
its property by city employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the sampling operation.
   (D)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification are entitled to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a negotiated easement for the purposes
of:
      (1)   Inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, or repair;
      (2)   Maintenance of any portion of the sewerage system lying within the
easements; and
      (3)   Conducting any other authorized activity. All activities shall be
conducted in full accordance with the terms of the negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
   (E)   No person acting under authority of this provision may inquire into
any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper,
or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind a
source of discharge to the public sewers.
(Prior Code, § 44-157) (Ord. 773, passed 1-6-1987)
§ 44-158. AUTHORITY TO DISCONNECT SERVICE.
   (A)   The city may terminate water and wastewater disposal service and
disconnect a customer from the system when:
      (1)   Acids or chemicals damaging to sewer lines or treatment process are
released to the sewer causing rapid deterioration of these structures or
interfering with proper conveyance and treatment of wastewater;
      (2)   A governmental agency informs the city that the wastewater
treatment plant is no longer of a quality permitted, and it is found that the
customer is delivering wastewater to the city’s system that cannot be
sufficiently treated or requires treatment that is not provided by the city as
normal domestic treatment;
      (3)   Discharges wastewater at an uncontrolled, variable rate in
sufficient quantity to cause an imbalance in the wastewater treatment system;
      (4)   Fails to pay monthly bills for water and sanitary sewer services
when due; or
      (5)   Repeats a discharge of prohibited waste to public sewers.
   (B)   If service is discontinued pursuant to subsection (A)(2) above of this
section, the city shall:
      (1)   Disconnect the customer;
      (2)   Supply the customer with the governmental agency’s report and
provide the customer with all pertinent information; and
      (3)   Continue disconnection until such time as the customer provides
additional pretreatment or other facilities designed to remove the
objectionable characteristic from his or her wastes.
(Prior Code, § 44-158) (Ord. 773, passed 1-6-1987)
§ 44-159. SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this article shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern
whereby any industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted
by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the industrial
concern.
(Prior Code, § 44-159) (Ord. 773, passed 1-6-1987)
§ 44-160. DAMAGING SEWER SYSTEM.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is a part of the city sewage works. Any person violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under the charge of
disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 44-160) (Ord. 773, passed 1-6-1987)
§ 44-161. NOTICE.
   The city shall serve persons discharging in violation of this article,
except §
44-159, with written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a
reasonable time limit for satisfactory compliance.
(Prior Code, § 44-161) (Ord. 773, passed 1-6-1987)
§ 44-162. CONTINUING PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person may continue discharging in violation of this article beyond the
time limit provided by the notice.
(Prior Code, § 44-162) (Ord. 773, passed 1-6-1987)
§ 44-163. PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who continues prohibited discharges is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, is punishable by a fine of not more than $200
for each act of violation and for each day of violation.
   (B)   In addition to proceeding under authority of §
44-162, the city is entitled to pursue all other criminal and civil remedies to
which it is entitled under authority of statutes or other ordinances against a
person continuing prohibited discharge.
(Prior Code, § 44-163) (Ord. 773, passed 1-6-1987)
§ 44-164. FAILURE TO PAY.
   In addition to sanctions provided for by this article, the city is entitled
to exercise sanctions provided for by the other ordinances of the city for
failure to pay the bill for water and sanitary sewer service when due.
(Prior Code, § 44-164) (Ord. 773, passed 1-6-1987)
§ 44-165. VIOLATOR RESPONSIBLE.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall become
liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the city by
reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 44-165) (Ord. 773, passed 1-6-1987)
§ 44-166. REGARDING INDUSTRIAL USERS.
   At the present time, there are not significant industrial users in the city.
If an industrial user should desire to locate in the city and make use of the
sewerage system, an industrial cost recovery system will be initiated at the
time to compensate for his or her use of the system.
(Prior Code, § 44-166)
§§ 44-167 THROUGH 44-185. RESERVED.
USER CHARGE SYSTEM
§ 44-186. STANDARD FORMULA FOR CALCULATING CUSTOMER CHARGES.
   (A)   All users of the sanitary sewer system shall be charged a fee which is
on file in the City Clerk’s office per month for each 100 cubic feet of metered
water consumption. Users not on a metered water basis, an estimated water
consumption will be made by the Utility Superintendent (who is responsible for
the wastewater treatment and collection system, or his or her authorized
assistant or representative) by comparing the nonmetered user with a metered
user of a similar class.
   (B)   (1)   The charges shall be on a volume basis as the BOD, suspended
solids, and other pollutant concentrations discharged by all users are
approximately equal. Users shall be charged on a volume basis in accordance
with the following formula:
   Cu=Ct/Vt(Vu)+Cb
      (2)   Where:
         (a)   Cu = A user’s charge for operation and maintenance per unit of
time;
         (b)   Ct = Total operation and maintenance (O&M) costs per unit of
time;
         (c)   Vt = Total volume contribution from all users per unit of time;
         (d)   Vu = Volume contribution from a user per unit of time; and
         (e)   Cb = Annual debt service and all cost apportioned equally to
users.
(Prior Code, § 44-186) (Ord. 779, passed 5-4-1987)
§ 44-187. SURCHARGE FOR EXTRA STRENGTH SEWAGE.
   (A)   When the BOD exceeds 225 mg/l, the suspended solids exceeds 225 mg/l,
and other pollutant concentrations from a user exceed the range of
concentration of these pollutants in normal domestic sewage, a surcharge shall
be added to the basic charge, and shall be calculated by the following formula:
   Cs=[Bc(B)+Sc(S)+Pc(P)]Vu
   (B)   Where:
      (1)   Cs = A surcharge for wastewaters of excessive strength;
      (2)   Bc = O&M cost for treatment of a unit of BOD;
      (3)   B = Concentration of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) from a user
above a base level;
      (4)   Sc = Operation and maintenance (O&M) cost for treatment of a unit
of suspended solids;
      (5)   S = Concentration of suspended solids from a user above a base
level;
      (6)   Pc = O&M cost for treatment of a unit of any pollutant;
      (7)   P = Concentration of any pollutant from a user above a base level;
and
      (8)   Vu = Volume contribution from a user per unit of time.
(Prior Code, § 44-187) (Ord. 779, passed 5-4-1987)
§ 44-188. BIENNIAL REVIEW OF OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE CHARGES.
   (A)   The user charge ordinance shall be reviewed not less than every two
years, regarding the wastewater contribution and maintenance, and the approved
user charge system.
   (B)   The user charges shall be reviewed to accomplish the following:
      (1)   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and
maintenance costs among users;
      (2)   Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operation and
maintenance costs necessary for the proper operation and maintenance (including
replacement) of treatment works; and
      (3)   All excess revenues collected from users shall be applied to the
cost of operation and maintenance attributable to the class for the next year
and rates shall be adjusted accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 44-188) (Ord. 779, passed 5-4-1987)
§ 44-189. SURCHARGE ON TOXIC POLLUTANTS AND EXTRANEOUS FLOWS.
   Each user that discharges any toxic pollutant which causes an increase in
the cost of managing the effluent of the treatment works shall pay for such
increased costs.
(Prior Code, § 44-189) (Ord. 779, passed 5-4-1987)
§ 44-190. DISTRIBUTION OF CHARGES.
   The costs of all operation and maintenance for all extraneous flow not
directly attributable to users such as infiltration/inflow shall be distributed
among users in the same percentage of actual use of water of each user.
(Prior Code, § 44-190) (Ord. 779, passed 5-4-1987)
§ 44-191. NOTICE OF PORTION OF RATES TO COVER WASTEWATER SERVICES.
   Each user must be notified, at least annually, in conjunction with the
regular bill of the rate and that portion of the user charge which is
attributable to the wastewater treatment services.
(Prior Code, § 44-191) (Ord. 779, passed 5-4-1987)
§ 44-192. RECORD-KEEPING SYSTEM.
   A record-keeping system shall be established to document compliance with
federal regulations pertaining to the sewer use ordinance and user charge
ordinance set forth in §§ 44-139 through 44-224.
(Prior Code, § 44-192) (Ord. 779, passed 5-4-1987)
§ 44-193. BILLING AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Users will be billed on a monthly basis with payment day 15 days after
the date of billing. Sewer users will be billed on the same notice as water
charges and will be designated as a separate entry.
   (B)   Users of the wastewater system not on metered water service will be
billed monthly on an individual notice for wastewater disposal at the rate
established by the Utility Superintendent.
   (C)   Users with delinquent accounts of five days will be notified in
writing by the Utility Superintendent that water or wastewater services will be
terminated unless the account is paid. The Utility Superintendent will utilize
the law enforcement agency to assist as required in the control and management
of the user charge schedule.
(Prior Code, § 44-193) (Ord. 779, passed 5-4-1987)
§§ 44-194 THROUGH 44-224. RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: SOLID WASTE
Section
Generally
   
44-225.   Definitions
   
44-226.   Mandatory collection service
   
44-227.   Service outside the three-mile radius
   
44-228.   Request for garbage and rubbish service from city
   
44-229.   Exception to the standard charge
   
44-230.   Application to state or political subdivision
   
44-231.   Collection of garbage and rubbish by city
   
44-232.   Payment of monthly charges for collection and disposition of garbage
and rubbish
   
44-233.   Collection requirements
   44-234 through 44-259 reserved
Receptacles
   
44-260.   Requirements
   
44-261.   Placement of receptacles
   44-262 through 44-285 reserved
Collection
   
44-286.   Collection practices
   
44-287.   Unlawful disposals in landfill area
   
44-288.   Dump fees at landfill
   
44-289.   Charges for collection and disposal of garbage
GENERALLY
§ 44-225. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Every accumulation of animal, poultry, or vegetable matter, the
carcasses of small animals or dead fowl, and all refuse matter from all public
and private establishments and residences. It shall not be construed to mean
sewage, body wastes, and recognized industrial byproducts or wastes.
   RUBBISH. Glass, broken ware, discarded clothing and shoes, trash, tin cans,
bottles, papers, tree limbs, grass and weed cuttings, and such other refuse as
may be termed the natural accumulation of resident families, with all such
RUBBISH properly contained or bundled as prescribed by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 44-225)
§ 44-226. MANDATORY COLLECTION SERVICE.
   Each residence or business that is within the city limits or that is within
three miles of the city that has a city water meter will be required to pay the
city’s monthly charge for collection and disposition of garbage and rubbish,
except as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 44-226) (Ord. 804, passed 10-18-1993; Ord. 2007-08, passed 6-18-
2007)
§ 44-227. SERVICE OUTSIDE THE THREE-MILE RADIUS.
   Those residences or businesses that have a city meter and live beyond the
three-mile radius of the city limits shall not be required to pay for charges
for the collection of garbage and rubbish unless the city and the owner of the
water meter both are in agreement thereto.
(Prior Code, § 44-227) (Ord. 804, passed 10-18-1993; Ord. 2007-08, passed 6-18-
2007)
§ 44-228. REQUEST FOR GARBAGE AND RUBBISH SERVICE FROM CITY.
   Customers for garbage and rubbish service by the city shall file an
application for such service with the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 44-228)
§ 44-229. EXCEPTIONS TO THE STANDARD CHARGE.
   Upon an annual written request for exemption submitted to the Business
Manager’s office, a committee comprised of the Mayor, Business Manager, and
Chair of the Sanitation Committee will be allowed to make exceptions to §
44-228 if said water meter is used only for agricultural purposes or gardening
purposes.
(Prior Code, § 44-229) (Ord. 804, passed 10-18-1993; Ord. 824, passed 10-6-
1997; Ord. 2006-05, passed 10-16-2006; Ord. 2007-08, passed 6-18-2007)
§ 44-230. APPLICATION TO STATE OR POLITICAL SUBDIVISION.
   The state and political subdivision thereof shall be charged for collection
and disposition of garbage and rubbish pursuant to a separate fee schedule
approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 44-230) (Ord. 2007-08, passed 6-18-2007)
§ 44-231. COLLECTION OF GARBAGE AND RUBBISH BY CITY.
   (A)   Charges and rates for the city’s collection of garbage and rubbish
will be set by the Mayor and City Council. A copy of the current rates shall be
kept on file in the City Clerk’s office.
   (B)   Except as herein otherwise authorized, all refuse accumulated in the
city shall be collected, conveyed, and disposed of by the city, and not by any
other person or business.
   (C)   Actual producers of refuse, or the owners of premises upon which their
own refuse has accumulated, which are used for commercial purposes other than
multiple dwellings, are permitted to personally collect, convey, and dispose of
such refuse, provided such producers or owners comply with the provisions of
this article and with any other governing law or ordinances.
   (D)   All refuse accumulated in the city shall be collected, conveyed, and
disposed of by the city under the supervision of the city, which shall have the
authority to make regulations concerning the days of collection, type, and
location of waste containers and such other matters pertaining to the
collection, conveyance, and disposal as it shall find necessary, and to change
and modify the same, provided that such regulations are not contrary to the
provisions of the article.
(Prior Code, § 44-231) (Ord. 824, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 44-232. PAYMENT OF MONTHLY CHARGES FOR COLLECTION AND DISPOSITION OF GARBAGE
AND RUBBISH.
   (A)   Billings for garbage and refuse service shall be rendered at the same
time and on the same bills issued for water services, but shall be shown as a
separate item from the charge for water. If garbage and refuse service is
commenced or terminated during a period for which bills will be rendered,
billing shall be prorated on a daily basis.
   (B)   All monthly charges to customers for collection and disposition of
garbage and rubbish, who are not customers for water from the city, shall be
billed by the city in the same manner as water customers. The monthly bill for
such collection and disposition of garbage and rubbish shall carry the same due
date, grace period, and penalties as are carried on the monthly water bills
issued by the city.
   (C)   The garbage and refuse service charge shall be due and payable from
and after the date on the bill on which such charge is shown. Payment shall be
made to the city, but the city shall not accept payment for any garbage and
sewer service charge without payment of the water bill on which said charge is
shown, nor shall the city accept any water bill without payment also of any
garbage and refuse service charge shown thereon.
(Prior Code, § 44-232) (Ord. 804, passed 10-18-1993)
§ 44-233. COLLECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   The following requirements are herewith set up by the city in the collection
of garbage and rubbish.
   (A)   Where alley access is available, residential customers are required to
place trash containers on the alley outside of any yard fence or enclosed
structure.
   (B)   Where alley access is not available, residential customers are
required to place containers no further back than the back line of the dwelling
and outside of any yard fence or enclosed structure.
   (C)   Corner lot customers who do not have alley access may have their
garbage or rubbish picked up from the side street, provided the containers are
placed not further back on the lot than the back line of the dwelling and
outside of any yard fence or enclosed structure.
   (D)   Rocks and dirt shall not be placed in trash containers, and pickup
services will not be provided on these materials.
   (E)   Tree trimmings, hedge clippings, and similar material shall be cut to
lengths not to exceed four feet and separately tied in bundles not more than
two feet thick before being deposited for collection, or be placed in
containers.
   (F)   All grass clippings and yard trimmings shall be placed in a disposable
plastic bag of sufficient strength to contain the contents when lifted. Bags of
grass clippings and yard trimmings shall be placed in the front of each yard
for pick up each Wednesday.
   (G)   Failure to comply with any of these provisions in regards to the
collection of garbage and refuse shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed
$50 per occurrence, per day.
(Prior Code, § 44-233) (Ord. 806, passed 3-21-1994; Ord. 824, passed 10-6-1997)
§§ 44-234 THROUGH 44-259. RESERVED.
RECEPTACLES
§ 44-260. REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Refuse containers.
      (1)   Refuse containers shall be provided by the owner, tenant, lessee,
or occupant of the premises. Containers shall be maintained in good condition.
Any container that does not conform to the provisions of this article or that
may have ragged or sharp edges or any other defect liable to hamper or injure
the person collecting the contents thereof shall be promptly replaced upon
notice. The city shall have the authority to refuse collection services for
failure to comply with this article.
      (2)   Garbage containers shall be made of metal or other approved
material equipped with tightfitting covers and shall be watertight, with a
capacity of not more than 35 gallons. They shall be of a type approved by the
city and kept in clean, neat, and sanitary condition at all times.
      (3)   Rubbish containers shall be of a kind suitable for collection
purposes and shall be of such weight that they can be handled by one person.
   (B)   Storing of refuse.
      (1)   No person shall place any refuse in any street, alley, or other
public place on any private property whether owned by said person or not,
except in proper containers for collection or under express approval granted by
the city. Nor shall any person throw or deposit any refuse in any stream or
other body of water.
      (2)   Any unauthorized accumulation of refuse on any premises is hereby
declared to be a nuisance and is hereby prohibited.
      (3)   No person shall cast, place, sweep, or deposit anywhere within the
city any refuse in such a manner that it may be carried or deposited by the
elements upon any street, sidewalk, alley, sewer, parkway, or other public
place, or into any occupied premises.
(Prior Code, § 44-260) (Ord. 806, passed 3-21-1994; Ord. 824, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 44-261. PLACEMENT OF RECEPTACLES.
   The placing, maintenance, or keeping of any can or container for garbage,
trash, or other refuse upon the portion of any lot dedicated to the use of
streets, commonly known as parking, in any residential area of the city is
hereby prohibited, and declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 44-261)
§§ 44-262 THROUGH 44-285. RESERVED.
COLLECTION
§ 44-286. COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   (A)   Frequency of collection. Refuse shall be collected at least twice a
week in residential areas and more often as directed by the city, and shall be
collected from commercial establishments as determined by the city.
   (B)   Limitation of quantity. The city shall authorize the collection of a
reasonable accumulation of refuse of each family during a collection period for
the standard charge and a reasonable accumulation of refuse of hotels,
restaurants, and other businesses and commercial institutions at a fair charge
based upon the average weight or volume. The city shall have the authority to
refuse to collect unreasonable amounts or to make an additional charge for such
amounts.
   (C)   Special refuse problems; contagious disease refuse. The removal of
wearing material, bedding, or other refuse from homes or other places where
highly infectious or contagious diseases have prevailed should be performed
under the supervision and direction of the city. Such refuse shall not be
placed in containers for regular collection.
(Prior Code, § 44-286) (Ord. 824, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 44-287. UNLAWFUL DISPOSALS IN LANDFILL AREA.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to permit, allow, or dispose of sewage
or the refuse from any septic tank, liquefying closet, or chemical closet in
the city-regulated disposal area or any city-regulated landfill.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to permit or allow the disposition of
any dead animal in the city regulated disposal area or city regulated landfill,
except that this section shall not prohibit the disposition of dead cats, dogs,
fowl, or other animals the same size or smaller in the sanitary landfill.
(Prior Code, § 44-287)
§ 44-288. DUMP FEES AT LANDFILL.
   The City Council is hereby authorized to set up, by proper resolution, fees
at the sanitary landfill operated by the city covering various types of
vehicles dumping garbage, rubbish, and trash at the sanitary landfill.
(Prior Code, § 44-288) (Ord. 824, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 44-289. CHARGES FOR COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE.
   The garbage and rubbish rate classifications shall be as follows.
   (A)   Charges for trash pickup.
      (1)   Residential.
         (a)   Residents who are inside or within a three-mile radius of the
city limits and who receive city water services will pay a monthly service
charge which is on file in the City Clerk’s office. Trash will be picked up
twice a week with a limit of no more than four containers per customer; or
         (b)   Residents who are outside the three-mile radius of the city
limits and who do not receive city water services will pay a monthly service
charge which is on file in the City Clerk’s office. Trash will be picked up
once a week with a limit of no more than one two-yard container or eight
regular containers per customer.
      (2)   Commercial. Commercial businesses that are inside or within a
three-mile radius of the city limits and that receive city water services will
pay a monthly service charge which is on file in the City Clerk’s office. Trash
will be picked up twice a week with a limit of no more than eight containers
per customer.
   (B)   Charges for dumpsters. Charges for dumpsters provided by the city for
commercial businesses shall be on file in the City Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 44-289) (Ord. 806, passed 3-21-1994; Ord. 824, passed 10-6-1997)
APPENDIX A: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
Record of the Ordinance
   
1.   Presentation
   
2.   Booklet
   
3.   Public examination
   
4.   Repealer
   
5.   Emergency clause
Introduction
   
1.10.   Title
   
1.20.   Purposes and authority
   
1.30.   Jurisdiction
   
1.40.   Compliance required
General
   
10.10.   Procedure
   
10.20.   Conformance to Comprehensive Plan
   
10.30.   Suitability of the land
Procedure: Sketch Plat
   
15.10.   Purpose of sketch plat procedure
   
15.20.   Submittal of sketch plat
   
15.30.   Action on sketch plat
   
15.40.   Waiver of sketch plat requirement
Procedure: Preliminary Approval
   
20.10.   Submittal of preliminary plat
   
20.20.   Reservation of land for public facilities or public utilities
   
20.30.   Planning Commission action on preliminary plat
   
20.40.   Transmittal of preliminary plat to City Council
   
20.50.   City Council action on preliminary plat
   
20.60.   Distribution of copies of preliminary plat
Procedure: Final Approval
   
25.10.   Preparation and submittal of final plat
   
25.20.   Completion of improvements
   
25.30.   Submittal of improvement plans
   
25.40.   Planning Commission action on final plat
   
25.50.   Transmittal of final plat to City Council
   
25.60.   City Council action on final plat
   
25.70.   Time limit on submittal of final plat
   
25.80.   Recording of final plat and distribution of copies
Procedure: Limited Replats
   
30.10.   Delegation of authority by the City Council
   
30.20.   Approval by Planning Commission agent
   
30.25.   Certifying of delegation
   
30.30.   Referral to Planning Commission
   
30.40.   Report to Planning Commission
   
30.50.   Report to City Council
Plat and Improvement Plan Requirements
   
35.10.   Form of plat: sketch plat
   
35.20.   Form of plat: preliminary plat
   
35.30.   Form of plat: final plat
   
35.40.   Form of plat: limited replat
   
35.50.   Information to be shown on plats and limited replats
   
35.60.   Information to be submitted with the plat
   
35.70.   Improvement plans and related information
Subdivision Design Standards
   
40.10.   General
   
40.20.   Planned development districts
   
40.30.   Streets
   
40.35.   Alleys
   
40.40.   Blocks
   
40.50.   Lots
   
40.60.   Building setback lines
   
40.70.   Easements and dedications for public use
Subdivision Improvement Requirements
   
50.10.   General requirements
   
50.20.   Streets and drainage: general
   
50.25.   Street improvements
   
50.30.   Sidewalks
   
50.35.   Street signs
   
50.40.   Storm drainage
   
50.50.   Water supply
   
50.60.   Sanitary sewerage
   
50.70.   Survey monuments
   
50.80.   Underground wires and cables
Variances
   
60.10.   Variances authorized
   
60.20.   Variance procedures
Administration and Enforcement
   
70.10.   Administration
   
70.20.   Plats Committee
   
70.30.   Areas for use in common
   
70.40.   Planned development districts
   
70.50.   Fees
   
70.60.   Permits withheld on unapproved plats
   
70.70.   Violation and penalty
Amendments and Rules
   
80.10.   Amendments
   
80.20.   Rules
Interpretation and Definitions
   
90.10.   References
   
90.20.   Construction
   
90.40.   Definitions
   
90.41.   Terms beginning with “A”
   
90.42.   Terms beginning with “B”
   
90.43.   Terms beginning with “C”
   
90.45.   Terms beginning with “E”
   
90.46.   Terms beginning with “F”
   
90.48.   Terms beginning with “H”
   
90.49.   Terms beginning with “I”
   
90.52.   Terms beginning with “L”
   
90.53.   Terms beginning with “M”
   
90.56.   Terms beginning with “P”
   
90.58.   Terms beginning with “R”
   
90.59.   Terms beginning with “S”
   
90.60.   Terms beginning with “T”
   
90.66.   Terms beginning with “Z”
Legal Status Provisions
   
95.10.   Minimum requirements
   
95.20.   Repeal of conflicting regulations
   
95.30.   Separability
   
95.40.   When effective
Statutory reference:
   Subdivision and platting of land, see 11 O.S. §§ 41-101 et seq.
RECORD OF THE ORDINANCE
§ 1. PRESENTATION.
   Whereas, heretofore, on March 1, 1971, the City Council, in regular session,
had presented to it and therefore did consider a resolution of the Planning
Commission recommending the adoption of “City of Alva, Oklahoma: Subdivision
Regulation, November 15, 1970.”
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 1) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 2. BOOKLET.
   Whereas, the city, with consulting assistance, has compiled said regulation
into booklet form bearing the above title and it is the determination of the
Council to hereby adopt said regulation for the city, and to give them the
force of the law.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 2) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 3. PUBLIC EXAMINATION.
   There shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk three conformed, true,
and complete copies of said regulations, available to all members of the public
for examination and inspection.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 3) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 4. REPEALER.
   All regulations, ordinances, orders, resolutions, or parts thereof in
conflict with these subdivision regulations, or inconsistent therewith, are
hereby repealed to the extent necessary to give these regulations full force
and effect.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 4) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 5. EMERGENCY CLAUSE.
   (A)   An emergency is hereby declared to exist by reason of which it is
deemed necessary for the immediate preservation of the public health, safety,
best interests, and general welfare that this ordinance shall take effect and
be in full force and effect immediately upon its passage and approval,
according to law.
   (B)   Passed and approved March 15, 1971: Subdivision Ordinance for the City
of Alva, Oklahoma, an ordinance establishing regulations for the subdividing
and platting or land; providing for submitting plats for approval; describing
procedures; setting forth plat requirements, subdivision design standards, and
improvement requirements; providing for administration; providing penalties for
violation hereof; repealing all other ordinances or parts of ordinances in
conflict herewith to the extent of such conflict; and declaring an emergency.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 5) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
INTRODUCTION
§ 1.10. TITLE.
   The title of this appendix shall be the Alva Subdivision Ordinance. This
appendix is referred to hereinafter as “these regulations.”
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 1.10) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 1.20. PURPOSES AND AUTHORITY.
   These regulations are enacted in order to promote the health, safety,
morals, and general welfare of present and future residents of the locality and
to bring about the coordinated, efficient, and economical development of the
locality as authorized by 11 O.S. §§ 43-101 et seq., and subsequent amendments
thereto.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 1.20) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 1.30. JURISDICTION.
   These regulations shall apply to subdividing, as defined herein. The
territorial jurisdiction of these regulations shall be as established by law
and as may be established by agreement with respect to other territories. Such
jurisdiction as of the effective date hereof is the territory within the
boundaries of the locality.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 1.30) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 1.40. COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   From the effective date hereof, all subdividing within the territorial
jurisdiction hereof shall be in compliance with these regulations. All plans,
plats, or replats of land laid out in lots or plats, and the streets, alleys,
or other portions of the same, intended to be dedicated to public or private
use, within the corporate limits of the locality, shall first be submitted to
the Planning Commission for its approval or rejection, and before such plans,
plats, or replats shall be entitled to record in the office of the County
Clerk, they shall be approved by the City Council. The disapproval of any such
plan, plat, or replat by the City Council shall be deemed a refusal of the
proposed dedication shown thereon. The City Council may reverse or modify any
determination made by the Planning Commission under these regulations.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 1.40) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
PROCEDURE: GENERAL
§ 10.10. PROCEDURE.
   To obtain approval of a proposed subdivision, the subdivider shall prepare
and submit to the Planning Commission a sketch plat, a preliminary plat, and a
final plat of the tract or parcel of land proposed to be subdivided, except as
provided in §
15.40 and in §§
30.10 through
30.50.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 10.10) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 10.20. CONFORMANCE TO COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   Every subdivision platted under these regulations shall conform to the
Comprehensive Plan, unless said plan is in conflict with an ordinance, in which
case, the latter shall prevail.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 10.20) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 10.30. SUITABILITY OF THE LAND.
   Land in FF or FW zoning districts shall not be platted for uses not
permitted in such districts. Any land deemed by the Planning Commission to be
topographically unsuitable for residential use shall not be platted for
residential occupancy, nor shall such land be platted for any other use which
may continue such conditions or increase danger to health, safety, life, or
property, unless steps approved by the Planning Commission are taken to
diminish the above mentioned hazards to a level deemed acceptable by the
Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 10.30) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
PROCEDURE: SKETCH PLAT
§ 15.10. PURPOSE OF SKETCH PLAT PROCEDURE.
   The purpose of sketch plat procedure is to allow the subdivider, inspecting
officer, and Planning Commission to review design and improvement problems
prior to preparation of the preliminary plat.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 15.10) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 15.20. SUBMITTAL OF SKETCH PLAT.
   The sketch plat shall be prepared in accordance with §§
35.10 through
35.70 and submitted to the inspecting officer at least seven days prior to the
Planning Commission meeting at which consideration is requested. The inspecting
officer shall enter the date of receipt on the plat.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 15.20) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 15.30. ACTION ON SKETCH PLAT.
   The Planning Commission shall give tentative approval, approve
conditionally, or disapprove the sketch plat within 45 days of its presentation
by the subdivider, but any approval shall be revocable. If the sketch plat be
disapproved or approved conditionally, the reasons for such action shall be
stated in writing, a copy of which, signed by the Chair of the Planning
Commission, shall be attached to one copy of the plat and transmitted to the
subdivider. The reasons for disapproval or conditional approval shall refer
specifically to those parts of these regulations or the Comprehensive Plan with
which the plat does not conform. On conditionally approving a plat, the
Planning Commission may require submission of a revised sketch plat. If no
action be taken by the Planning Commission within the stated time, the plat
shall be deemed to have been approved.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 15.30) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 15.40. WAIVER OF SKETCH PLAT REQUIREMENT.
   The Planning Commission may, on written application by the subdivider, waive
the requirement of a sketch plat, where the Commission determines that a sketch
plat is not necessary for adequate consideration of a proposed subdivision.
Such application shall include reasons for the requested waiver and state that
the subdivider has conferred with the inspecting officer on design and
improvement problems of the proposed subdivision.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 15.40) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
PROCEDURE: PRELIMINARY APPROVAL
§ 20.10. SUBMITTAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   After the Planning Commission has approved the sketch plat, or has
waived the requirement of a sketch plat, the subdivider may proceed with
preparation of the preliminary plat, in accordance with §§
35.10 through
35.70. After he or she has prepared the preliminary plat, he or she may take
either of the following actions.
      (1)   He or she may present the preliminary plat and preliminary plat
checklist to the Planning Commission and obtain approval thereof before
proceeding with preparation of the improvement plans.
      (2)   He or she may present the improvement plans to the Planning
Commission at the time the preliminary plat and preliminary plat checklist are
presented.
   (B)   All documents relating to the preliminary plat shall be presented to
the inspecting officer at least 15 days prior to the Planning Commission
meeting at which initial consideration of said documents is requested. The
inspecting officer shall enter the date of receipt on the material submitted.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 20.10) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 20.20. RESERVATION OF LAND FOR PUBLIC FACILITIES OR PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   Whenever a subdivider proposes to subdivide land which includes, or appears
to include, all or part of the proposed site for a public facility or public
utility as designated in the Comprehensive Plan, the Planning Commission shall,
before approving the preliminary plat of said subdivision, submit said plat to
the public body responsible for acquiring the land for said site. If said
public body determines that the site for the public facility or public utility
should be located within the boundaries of the proposed subdivision, then the
City Council may require the subdivider to reserve for public acquisition said
land and shall designate the boundaries of said land. Such reservation shall be
for a period to be determined by the City Council, but shall not be for a
period of more than six months from the date of submittal of the preliminary
plat. Upon receipt of a preliminary plat where a site for a public facility or
public utility may be involved, the Planning Commission shall immediately
transmit a copy of said plat to the public body responsible for acquiring the
land for said site.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 20.20) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 20.30. PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION ON PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   When subdivider submits both preliminary plat and improvement plans.
      (1)   After the subdivider submits to the Planning Commission the
preliminary plat, preliminary plat checklist, and improvement plans, the
Planning Commission shall, within 45 days, approve, approve conditionally, or
disapprove the plat and plans, but any approval shall be revocable.
      (2)   If the Planning Commission finds that said plat and improvement
plans meet all the requirements of these regulations, it shall approve the
preliminary plat and improvement plans by placing a stamp of approval upon each
copy of said plat and plans. Such stamp of approval shall bear the signature of
the Chair and Secretary of the Planning Commission and shall provide that the
approval given thereby does not constitute approval for purposes of recording.
      (3)   If the preliminary plat is disapproved or approved conditionally,
the reasons for such action shall be stated in writing, a copy of which, signed
by the Chair of the Planning Commission, shall be attached to one copy of the
plat and transmitted to the subdivider. The reasons for disapproval or
conditional approval shall refer specifically to those parts of these
regulations or the Comprehensive Plan with which the plat does not conform. On
conditionally approving a plat, the Planning Commission may require submission
of a revised preliminary plat, which shall be processed in the same manner as
an original preliminary plat.
      (4)   If no action is taken by the Planning Commission within the stated
time, the plat shall be deemed to have been approved by the Planning
Commission.
(20.30.10)
   (B)   When subdivider presents only the preliminary plat. Whenever the
subdivider presents to the Planning Commission a preliminary plat and
preliminary plat checklist, without improvement plans, the Planning Commission
may conditionally approve the preliminary plat, subject to Planning Commission
approval of the improvement plans, within 90 days following the preliminary
plat approval.
(20.30.20)
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 20.30) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 20.40. TRANSMITTAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT TO CITY COUNCIL.
   After the preliminary plat and improvement plans have been approved or
approved conditionally by the Planning Commission, the Planning Commission
shall, within seven days, transmit said plat and plans, together with its
recommendations thereon, to the City Council for its consideration. If the
Planning Commission does not approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove the
preliminary plat within 45 days from the date of receipt thereof, then upon
request by the City Council or the subdivider and, within seven days from such
request, the Planning Commission shall transmit to the City Council the
preliminary plat and all records relating thereto.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 20.40) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 20.50. CITY COUNCIL ACTION ON PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The City Council shall approve or disapprove the preliminary plat and
improvement plans, as transmitted by the Planning Commission, within 15 days
from the date of receipt thereof. Approval shall be shown by a stamp of
approval bearing the signature of the Mayor and stating that the approval given
thereby does not constitute approval for the purposes of recording.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 20.50) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 20.60. DISTRIBUTION OF COPIES OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   After City Council approval of the preliminary plat and improvement plans,
one copy of said plat and plans shall be transmitted to the subdivider, and
three copies shall be transmitted to the office of the inspecting officer. One
copy of said plat and plans shall be filed in the office of the inspecting
officer.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 20.60) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
PROCEDURE: FINAL APPROVAL
§ 25.10. PREPARATION AND SUBMITTAL OF FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Receipt of a preliminary plat and improvement plans, both of which
have been approved by the City Council, shall constitute authorization of the
City Council for the subdivider to proceed with staking of streets and roads
and preparation of the final plat, which plat shall be prepared by a land
surveyor registered in the state, in accordance with §§
35.10 through
35.70.
   (B)   The final plat and improvement plans shall be submitted to the
inspecting officer at least 15 days prior to the date of the Planning
Commission meeting at which consideration of said documents is requested. The
inspecting officer shall enter the date of receipt on the material submitted.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 25.10) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 25.20. COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   After City Council approval of the preliminary plat and improvement plans,
and prior to submitting the final plat to the Planning Commission, the
subdivider shall:
   (A)   Complete all improvements in accordance with the approved improvement
plans; or
   (B)   Deposit with the City Clerk an acceptable surety bond in the amount of
100% of the estimated total cost of the required improvements, as determined by
the engineer, guaranteeing that the subdivision will be developed in accordance
with the requirements of these regulations.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 25.20) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 25.30. SUBMITTAL OF IMPROVEMENT PLANS.
   At the time the final plat is submitted to the Planning Commission, the
subdivider shall take one of the following courses of action.
   (A)   If the subdivider elects to deposit the surety bond as specified in §
25.20, he or she shall submit plans for all improvements required under these
regulations, such plans to bear the approval of the engineer. Upon completion
of a portion of the construction of the required improvements, the City Council
may release a portion of the surety bond in the amount of the costs of the
constructed improvements, as estimated by the engineer. Before any portion of
the surety bond may be released, the engineer shall approve the “as built”
plans and specifications and the construction for that portion of the
improvements for which the subdivider has requested release of the surety bond.
   (B)   If the subdivider elects to complete all improvements as specified in
§
25.20, he or she shall submit the “as built” specifications and “as built”
original tracings of all improvements. If the engineer finds that the “as
built” plans and specifications comply with these regulations and that the
actual construction is as shown in said plans and specifications, he or she
shall endorse his or her approval thereon.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 25.30) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 25.40. PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION ON FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   After the subdivider submits to the Planning Commission the final plat
and final plat checklist, the Planning Commission shall, within 45 days,
approve, approve conditionally, or disapprove the plat.
   (B)   If the Planning Commission finds that said plat meets all the
requirements of these regulations, it shall approve the plat by placing a stamp
of approval upon each copy of said plat. Such stamp of approval shall bear the
signature of the Chair and Secretary of the Planning Commission.
   (C)   If the plat is disapproved or approved conditionally, the reasons for
such action shall be stated in writing, a copy of which, signed by the Chair of
the Planning Commission, shall be attached to one copy of the plat and
transmitted to the subdivider. The reasons for disapproval or conditional
approval shall refer specifically to those parts of these regulations or the
Comprehensive Plan with which the plat does not conform. On conditionally
approving a plat, the Planning Commission may require submission of a revised
final plat, which shall be processed in the same manner as an original final
plat.
   (D)   If no action is taken by the Planning Commission within the stated
time, the plat shall be deemed to have been approved by the Planning
Commission.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 25.40) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 25.50. TRANSMITTAL OF FINAL PLAT TO CITY COUNCIL.
   After the plat has been approved or approved conditionally by the Planning
Commission, the Planning Commission shall, within seven days, transmit said
plat, together with its recommendations thereon, to the City Council for its
consideration. If the Planning Commission does not approve, conditionally
approve, or disapprove the final plat within 45 days from the date of receipt
thereof, then upon request by the City Council or the subdivider and within
seven days from such request, the Planning Commission shall transmit to the
City Council the final plat and all records relating thereto.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 25.50) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 25.60. CITY COUNCIL ACTION ON FINAL PLAT.
   The City Council shall approve or disapprove the final plat, as transmitted
by the Planning Commission, within 15 days from the date of receipt thereof.
Approval shall be shown by a stamp of approval bearing the signature of the
Mayor. Before the City Council may approve the final plat, a copy of the
improvement plans approved by the engineer, as provided in §
25.40, shall be submitted to the City Council by the Planning Commission. Until
the public dedications and the required improvements or a surety bond therefor
have been accepted by the City Council, the final plat shall not be eligible to
be approved. Action by the City Council shall include approval and acceptance
of public ways, service and utility easements, and other land dedicated to
public use.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 25.60) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 25.70. TIME LIMIT ON SUBMITTAL OF FINAL PLAT.
   If a final plat for all or part of the property covered by a preliminary
plat is not submitted to the Planning Commission for approval within one year
after the date the preliminary plat was approved by the City Council, the
preliminary plat shall be considered as having been abandoned, unless, on
written application, the Planning Commission approves an extension of time,
each such extension to be for a stated period not to exceed six months.
Approval by the City Council of the final plat of a portion of the property
covered by an approved preliminary plat shall serve to extend the life of the
remainder of the preliminary plat for a period of six months from the date of
City Council approval of such final plat.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 25.70) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 25.80. RECORDING OF FINAL PLAT AND DISTRIBUTION OF COPIES.
   After City Council approval of the final plat, the Planning Commission shall
have the original thereof recorded, at the expense of the subdivider, and shall
transmit one copy thereof to the subdivider. One copy shall be retained in the
office of the engineer. If, prior to the recording of an approved final plat,
the subdivider requests its return, the inspecting officer shall void the
approvals thereon and return the plat to the subdivider.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 25.80) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
PROCEDURE: LIMITED REPLATS
§ 30.10. DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY BY THE CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council hereby delegates to the Planning Commission authority to
approve limited replats, as defined herein, on behalf of the City Council.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 30.10) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 30.20. APPROVAL BY PLANNING COMMISSION AGENT.
   The Planning Commission may empower the engineer or other city
administrative officer to approve by endorsement, on behalf of the Planning
Commission, limited replats that meet all of the requirements for limited
replats set forth in these regulations.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 30.20) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 30.25. CERTIFYING OF DELEGATION.
   No delegation of authority by the City Council to the Planning Commission or
by the Planning Commission to an agent, as provided in §§
30.10 and
30.20, shall be effective until certified in writing by the Mayor to the County
Clerk, and once certified, such delegation shall remain in effect until the
termination thereof is certified in writing by the Mayor to the County Clerk.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 30.25) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 30.30. REFERRAL TO PLANNING COMMISSION.
   Whenever a subdivider desires to create a limited replat, he or she shall
present the replat to the designated agent of the Planning Commission. If the
said agent disapproves the replat because it does not meet all the requirements
set forth in these regulations for limited replats, the said agent shall refer
the replat to the Planning Commission for consideration.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 30.30) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 30.40. REPORT TO PLANNING COMMISSION.
   All limited replats approved by the agent of the Planning Commission shall
be reported to the Planning Commission at its next regularly scheduled meeting.
After approval of the limited replat by the Planning Commission or its agent,
the recording thereof and distribution of copies shall be as provided for final
plats in §
25.80.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 30.40) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 30.50. REPORT TO CITY COUNCIL.
   All limited replats approved by the Planning Commission or approved by the
Planning Commission’s agent on behalf of the Planning Commission shall be
reported by the Planning Commission to the City Council at its next regularly
scheduled meeting.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 30.50) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
PLAT AND IMPROVEMENT PLAN REQUIREMENTS
§ 35.10. FORM OF PLAT: SKETCH PLAT.
   Sketch plats shall be legibly drawn on sheets of convenient size and shall
contain information required by §
35.50.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 35.10) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 35.20. FORM OF PLAT: PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The preliminary plat shall be drawn on sheets not larger than 36 inches by
48 inches at a scale of one inch to 200 feet, 100 feet, or 50 feet, and shall
contain information required by §
35.50.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 35.20) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 35.30. FORM OF PLAT: FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The final plat shall be drawn in India ink on sheets of tracing cloth
24 inches by 36 inches, at a scale determined as follows.
 
Width of Narrowest Lot           Scale (feet per inch)
Less than 165 feet               100 or 50
165 feet, but less than 330 feet 200, 100, or 50
330 feet and over                400, 200, 100, or 50
 
   (B)   The final plat shall contain the information required by §
35.50.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 35.30) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 35.40. FORM OF PLAT: LIMITED REPLAT.
   (A)   Minor limited replat. In the case of a limited replat where not more
than two contiguous lots are divided and where not more than three lots or
parcels result from their division, a map shall not be required, and the
division may be described by metes and bounds. In such case, if the subdivider
elects not to submit a map, the information required by §
35.50 shall be typed in black or lettered in black ink on sheets of white paper
eight and one-half inches wide and 11 or 14 inches long, with a margin of at
least one inch left blank on all four sides. If a map is submitted, the
provisions of subsection (B) below shall apply.
(35.40.10)
   (B)   Other limited replats. In the case of limited replats that do not
qualify under subsection (A) above, a map of the proposed plat shall be
provided. It shall be drawn in India ink at a scale of one inch to 200 feet,
100 feet, or 50 feet on sheets of tracing cloth, 24 by 36 inches, eight and
one-half by 11 inches, or eight and one-half by 14 inches. If 24 by 36 inches,
it shall have border lines, as provided in §
35.50. If on eight and one-half by 11 or eight and one-half by 14 inch sheets,
a margin of at least one inch shall be left on all four sides.
(35.40.20)
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 35.40) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 35.50. INFORMATION TO BE SHOWN ON PLATS AND LIMITED REPLATS.
   (A)   Information to be shown on plats and limited replats is shown in Table
1. Whenever a letter appears in a column headed by the name of a plat and
opposite an item in the “required information” column, then the information
described in the item shall be shown on the plat at the time the plat is
submitted to the Planning Commission or its agent.
   (B)   Information to be shown on condominium plats shall be as set forth for
preliminary plats and final plats in Table 1, as appropriate, together with the
additional information set forth in Table 2.
   (C)   Table 1, information to be shown on plats:
Sketch Plat Preliminary Plat Final Plat Limited Replat Required Information
Sketch Preliminary Final Limited Required Information
Plat   Plat        Plat  Replat
                                 1.1 Name of subdivision, which shall not duplicate the name of any other
       P           F     L       subdivision in the county. (Name not required for limited replat involving
                                 the splitting of not more than two lots.)
S      P           F     L       1.2 Name of city, county, and state.
S      P           F     L       1.3 Name(s) and address(es) of the owner(s).
S      P           F     L       1.4 Name(s) and address(es) of the subdivider(s), if subdivider(s) is (are)
                                 not the owner(s).
       P                         1.5 Name and seal of registered land surveyor who made the boundary survey.
                                 Date of survey.
       P                         1.6 Name and seal of registered engineer who prepared the topographic
                                 information. Date of survey.
S      P                         1.7 Name of planner, architect, engineer, land surveyor, landscape architect,
                                 or other person who prepared the sketch plat or preliminary plat.
S      P           F     L       1.8 Date of plat.
S      P           F     L       1.9 Map scale (written and graphic) and north point, in the case of a limited
                                 replat: only if a map is required.
       P           F     L       1.10 Key map, when more than one sheet is required to present plat.
S      P           F             2.1 Vicinity map showing general location of the property.
       P           F     L       2.2 Location of the property by legal description, including area in acres or
                                 square feet. Source of title, including deed record book and page numbers.
S                                2.3 Sketch of the boundary lines of the property.
                                 2.4 Exact boundary lines of the tract, indicated by a heavy line giving
       P                 R       dimensions, angles, and at least one bearing; in the case of a limited
                                 replat: only if a map is required.
                                 2.5 Exact boundary lines of the tract, indicated by a heavy line, giving
                   F             dimensions to the nearest one- hundredth foot and angles to the nearest
                                 minute; the traverse shall be balanced and closed with an error of closure
                                 not to exceed one to 5,000; the type of closure shall be noted.
                                 2.6 Location and description of all section line corners and government
       P           F             survey monuments in or near the subdivision, to at least one of which the
                                 subdivision shall be referenced by true courses and distances.
       P           F             3.1 Names of recorded subdivisions abutting the proposed subdivision, with
                                 plat book and page numbers.
                                 3.2 Names and addresses of owners of parcels over 250 feet wide abutting the
       P           F             proposed subdivision. Names and addresses may be as shown in property tax
                                 records.
                                 3.3 Location, name, and dimensions of each existing street and alley and each
       P           F             utility, drainage, or similar easement within, abutting, or in the immediate
                                 vicinity of the proposed subdivision.
                                 3.4 Natural features within and immediately adjacent to the proposed
                                 subdivision, including drainage channels, bodies of water, wooded areas, and
S      P                         other significant features. Identification of areas subject to flooding or
                                 any other impairment to the health or safety of citizens within the
                                 boundaries of the proposed subdivision.
       P                         3.5 Direction of flow of all watercourses leaving the tract. Drainage area
                                 above point of entry for each watercourse entering or abutting the tract.
                                 3.6 Contour intervals, to sea level datum, of not more than two feet when the
       P                         slope is less than 4% and not more than five feet when the slope is greater
                                 than 4%.
                                 3.7 Cultural features within and immediately adjacent to the proposed
       P                         subdivision, including platted lots, street improvements, bridges, culverts,
                                 utility lines, pipelines, power transmission lines, other significant
                                 structures, parks, and other significant features.
S                                4.1 General layout of the proposed streets, blocks, and lots, within the
                                 proposed subdivision. Tentative street names.
                                 4.2 General layout, including lot lines with rough dimensions; block and lot
                                 numbers; street and alley lines, with proposed street right-of-way widths;
       P                         areas to be reserved for use in common by residents of the subdivision; sites
                                 reserved for parks, playgrounds, schools, and other public uses; sites for
                                 nonresidential, non-public uses; easements for utilities, drainage, or other
                                 purposes; and building setback lines, with dimensions.
                                 4.3 Street centerlines, showing angles of deflection, angles of intersection,
                   F             radii, lengths of tangents and arcs, and degree of curvature, with basis of
                                 curve data. Lengths and distances shall be to the nearest one-hundredth foot.
                                 Angles shall be to the nearest minute.
                                 4.4 Street and alley right-of-way lines and easement lines, showing right-of-
                   F             way or easement width and any other information needed for locating such
                                 lines; purposes of easements.
       P           F             4.5 Street names.
                                 4.6 Lot lines, fully dimensioned, with lengths to the nearest one-tenth foot
                                 and angles or bearings to the nearest minute, except that where a street line
                   F     L       meets another lot line at right angles, the angle or bearing may be omitted;
                                 necessary arcs, chords, and radii. In the case of a limited replat, verbal
                                 description of lot lines, if a map is not required.
                   F     L       4.7 Width at building line of lots located on a curve or having non-parallel
                                 side lines, when required by the Planning Commission.
                                 4.8 The blocks numbered consecutively throughout the subdivision and the lots
                   F             numbered consecutively throughout each block. In no case shall any portion of
                                 the lands within the outer boundary of the plat be excluded from the plat.
                   F             4.9 Building setback lines with dimensions.
                                 4.10 Accurate outlines and descriptions of any areas to be dedicated or
                   F             reserved for public use or acquisition, with the purposes indicated thereon;
                                 and of any areas to be reserved by deed covenant for common uses of all
                                 property owners in the subdivision.
                   F             4.11 Accurate locations and descriptions of all subdivision monuments.
       P           F             5.1 Restrictive covenants, if any.
                   F             5.2 Reference to any separate instruments, including restrictive covenants,
                                 which directly affect the land in the subdivision.
                                 5.3 Owner’s certificate: a certificate signed by the owner(s) to the effect
                   F             that he or she owns the land, that he or she has caused the land to be
                                 surveyed and divided, and that he or she makes the dedications indicated on
                                 the plat.
                                 5.4 Mortgagee’s certificate: a certificate signed by the mortgagee(s), if
                   F             any, to the effect that he or she consents to the plat and the dedication and
                                 restrictions shown on or referred to on the plat.
                                 5.5 Surveyor’s certificate: certificate signed and sealed by a registered
                                 land surveyor to the effect that (1) the plat represents a survey made by him
                                 or her, (2) the plat is a correct representation of all exterior boundaries
                   F             of the land surveyed and the subdivision of it, (3) all monuments indicated
                                 on the plat actually exist and their location, size, and material are
                                 correctly shown, and (4) the requirements of these regulations and Oklahoma
                                 Statutes relating to subdividing and surveying have been complied with.
                         L       5.6 Surveyor’s certificate (see 5.5), if map required.
                                 5.7 Tax and assessment certificate: a certificate signed by the County
                                 Treasurer and other officials as may be appropriate, to the effect that there
                                 are no unpaid taxes due and payable at the time of plat approval and no
                   F             unpaid special assessments, whether or not due and payable at the time of
                                 plat approval on any of the land included in the plat, and that all
                                 outstanding taxes and special assessments have been paid on all property
                                 dedicated to public use.
                                 5.8 Planning Commission certificate: a certificate signed by the Chair or
                   F     L       other designated official or agent of the Planning Commission to the effect
                                 that the plat was approved by the Planning Commission.
                                 5.9 City Council certificate: a certificate signed by the Mayor or other
                   F     L       designated official or agent of the city to the effect that (1) the plat was
                                 approved by the City Commission and (2) streets and other lands and interests
                                 dedicated to the city are accepted by the city.
                                 6.1 Border lines bounding the sheet, two inches from the left edge and one
                   F     L       inch from each of the other edges; all information, including all plat lines,
                                 lettering, signatures, and seals, shall be within the border lines. Border
                                 lines shall not be required on letter size or legal size limited replats.
 
   (D)   Table 2, Additional information to be shown on condominium plats:
1. Vertical and plane datum. The plat shall be in three dimensions relating
   vertical control to sea level datum.
   Plan dimensions and areas. Dimensions on the condominium plat shall be in
2. feet and inches to conform with architects’ drawings. Area of the site and
   floor area of each apartment and of all common areas shall be shown in
   square feet.
3. Bench marks. Two permanent bench marks shall be set on or near the building
   at the ground level for future reference in locating units in the plat.
   Elevations. Vertical position or positions, if more than one plane exists,
   or if a portion is at a different slope, of the plane of each floor or
4. ceiling in any space unit shall be referenced to its elevation above sea
   level datum and shown on the face of the plat as floor elevation
   ____________, ceiling elevation ____________. A note shall appear on the
   plat denoting reference plane for elevations.
   Descriptions. Each floor plan of the permanent structure shall be shown, as
   well as basement and roof levels and area of plot plan. The dimensions and
   ties shown for each parcel must be definite enough with respect to both
5. vertical and horizontal control so that the boundaries of each apartment may
   be accurately located by the use of standard survey methods. There shall be
   described the general common elements of the building, and, in proper cases,
   the limited common elements restricted to a given number of apartments and
   designating those apartments.
   Unit lines. All unit or apartment property lines shall be the interior
6. surfaces of the perimeter walls, floors, ceilings, windows, and doors
   thereof.
7. Unit numbers and names. Apartment numbers and plat unit numbers shall be the
   same. The plat name and apartment building name shall be the same.
   Certifications. The condominium plat shall contain all of the certifications
   and approvals required for any other plat. Dedications of public areas and
   facilities and the grant to apartment owners of private easements in common
8. areas and facilities shall be shown. There shall be an approval by the
   inspecting officer indicating that the building plans have been approved by
   his or her Department and a certification by an architect or a licensed
   engineer that the plat is in agreement with the building plan.
   Percentage of unit interest. The proportion of undivided interest shall be
   shown on the plat as well as in the declaration and shall be expressed in
9. decimal form. Any change in proportion of interest shall be filed for record
   with the County Clerk, and the County Clerk shall make a notation on the
   margin of the plat of such amendment, the date thereof, and the recording
   reference numbers.
 
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 35.50) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 35.60. INFORMATION TO BE SUBMITTED WITH THE PLAT.
   (A)   Information to be submitted with plats and limited replats is shown in
Table 3. Whenever a letter appears in a column headed by the name of a plat and
opposite an item in the “required information” column, then the information
described in the item shall be submitted with such plat at the time the plat is
presented to the Planning Commission or its agent.
   (B)   Table 3, Information to be submitted with the plat:
Sketch Plat Preliminary Plat Final Plat Limited Replat Required Information
Sketch Preliminary Final Limited Required Information
Plat   Plat        Plat  Replat
S                                1. Two dark-line prints of the proposed plat.
                                 2. Four dark-line prints of improvement plans and related information if
       P                         improvements are required. (See § 35.70 for a detailed list of improvement
                                 plans to be submitted to the Planning Commission.)
                                 3. Four copies of the State Health Department approval of the water supply
       P                 L       and/or sewerage system if the subdivision or limited replat is to be served
                                 other than by connection to a water supply system or sewerage system
                                 operated by a governmental agency.
       P                         4. Four dark-line prints of the proposed plat.
                                 5. The original tracing of the plat and four dark-line prints, on one or
                   F     L       more sheets. In the case of a limited replat, the original of the
                                 instrument and four copies thereof, if a map is not required.
       P                         6. A completed checklist for preliminary plats.
                   F             7. A completed checklist for final plats.
 
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 35.60) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 35.70. IMPROVEMENT PLANS AND RELATED INFORMATION.
   Where improvements are required for a proposed subdivision, the following
documents shall be submitted to the Planning Commission:
   (A)   Detailed construction plans and specifications for water lines,
including locations and descriptions of mains, valves, and hydrants;
   (B)   Detailed construction plans, profiles, and specifications for sanitary
sewers and storm drainage facilities, including locations and descriptions of
pipes, manholes, lift stations, and other facilities;
   (C)   The plan and profile of each proposed street in the subdivision, with
grade indicated, drawn to a scale of one inch equals 40 feet or 50 feet
horizontal, and one inch equals four feet or five feet vertical, on standard
plan and profile sheets. Profiles shall show accurately the profile of the
street or alley along the street centerline and location of sidewalks;
   (D)   Street paving plans and specifications; and
   (E)   The estimated cost of:
      (1)   Grading and filling;
      (2)   Storm drainage facilities;
      (3)   Sanitary sewers;
      (4)   Water lines, valves, and fire hydrants;
      (5)   Paving, curbs, gutters, and sidewalks;
      (6)   Street signs; and
      (7)   Any other improvements required by these regulations.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 35.70) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 40.10. GENERAL.
   All plats shall be prepared in conformance to these standards.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 40.10) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 40.20. PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS.
   Where a plan for a planned development district has been approved in
accordance with the provisions of the Alva Zoning Ordinance, the subdivision
plat for such development shall conform to such plan, other provisions of these
subdivision regulations to the contrary notwithstanding.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 40.20) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 40.30. STREETS.
   (A)   Relationship to adjoining street system. The arrangement of streets in
new subdivisions shall provide for continuation of the principal existing
streets in adjoining areas (or their proper projection where adjoining land is
not subdivided) insofar as they may be deemed necessary by the Planning
Commission for public requirements. The width of such streets in new
subdivisions shall not be less than the minimum street widths established
herein. The street and alley arrangement must be such as to cause no hardship
to owners of adjoining property when they plat their own land and seek to
provide for convenient access to it.
(40.30.10)
   (B)   Relationship to railroads. When the area to be subdivided adjoins a
railroad right-of-way for a considerable distance, a street should be dedicated
approximately parallel to the side of such right-of-way and, in determining the
distance of such parallel street from the right-of-way of the railroad or
parkway, consideration should be given to the distance required for approach
grades for future grade separations.
(40.30.20)
   (C)   Horizontal alignment. Where any street deflects an angle of ten
degrees or more, the minimum radii of centerline curvature and minimum lengths
of reverse curves shall be as follows, where not specified in the Comprehensive
Plan.
Type of Street Radius, Minimum (feet) Tangent, Minimum (feet)
Type of Street                Radius, Minimum (feet) Tangent, Minimum (feet)
Collector street              270                    200
Cul-de-sac                    75                     100
Loop street                   50                     100
Major thoroughfares:
 Having right-of-way width of 500                    200
 115 feet or less
 Having right-of-way width of As specified by the State Department of Highways
 more than 115 feet
Other local streets           140                    100
 
(40.30.30)
   (D)   Street intersections.
      (1)   There shall be a minimum of 600 feet between intersections on major
thoroughfares.
      (2)   Street jogs shall be avoided. There shall be a minimum of 125 feet
between the centerlines of street intersections.
      (3)   Street intersections shall be as nearly at right angles as
possible, and no intersection shall be at an angle less than 70 degrees.
Detailed designs of intersections may be required.
(40.30.35)
   (E)   Vertical alignment.
      (1)   Thoroughfares having a right-of-way width of more than 115 feet:
Profile grades shall be connected by vertical curves of a minimum length
equivalent to 20 times the algebraic difference between the rates of grade,
expressed in feet per 100; and
      (2)   All other thoroughfares: vertical curves shall be equivalent to ten
times such difference.
(40.30.40)
   (F)   Visibility requirements. Minimum vertical visibility (measured between
two points four feet above pavement level) and minimum horizontal visibility
(measured on centerline) shall be as follows.
 
Type of Street                         Minimum Visibility (feet)
                                       Vertical Horizontal
Collector street or major thoroughfare
having a right-of-way of 115 feet or   500      300
less
Local street                           200      200
Major thoroughfare having a right-of-  As specified by the State Department of
way of more than 115 feet              Highways
 
(40.30.50)
   (G)   Right-of-way widths.
      (1)   Streets shown in the Comprehensive Plan.
         (a)   The right-of-way widths of major streets and highways shown in
the Comprehensive Plan shall be as set forth in such plan. In the case of a
thoroughfare (including any associated frontage road) whose half right-of-way,
as measured from the centerline of the arterial portion thereof, exceeds 65
feet, the requirement of dedication shall be limited to 65 feet, except as
provided in subsection (G)(1)(b) below hereof, and any additional right-of-way
required by the plan shall be reserved by the subdivider for a period to be
determined by the Planning Commission, but not more than six months from the
date of submittal of the final plat, pending possible acquisition by an agency
of government. If, at the expiration of such period, no agency has acquired
such additional right-of-way or has initiated action to acquire it, the
subdivider shall be free to dispose of it for purposes consistent with
applicable zoning and subdivision regulations.
         (b)   Where a thoroughfare is designated in the Comprehensive Plan as
having fully or partially controlled access, and the subdivider elects to
establish a frontage road rather than back or side the lots on the
thoroughfare, full right-of-way shall be dedicated for the frontage road, even
though the total width of such dedication and the then existing half right-of-
way may exceed 65 feet.
      (2)   Streets not shown in the Comprehensive Plan. The right-of-way
widths of streets not shown in the Comprehensive Plan shall be as follows.
         (a)   Right-of-way widths of streets for which classifications in
terms of Plate 1 of the Comprehensive Plan have been determined by the Planning
Commission shall be in accordance with Plate 1.
         (b)   Right-of-way widths of all other streets shall be in accordance
with class 11 on said Plate 1.
(40.30.60)
   (H)   Cul-de-sacs and stub streets.
      (1)   Cul-de-sacs. Cul-de-sacs shall be avoided wherever possible. Where
provided, a cul-de-sac shall not exceed 500 feet in length and shall be
terminated in a turnaround having a property line radius of not less than 50
feet.
      (2)   Stub streets. Where a dead-end street is dedicated for the purpose
of providing future access to adjacent property, its length shall not exceed
500 feet; where any lot has its principal access on such street, the street
shall be terminated in an acceptable temporary turnaround or backaround.
(40.30.70)
   (I)   Access control. Where a subdivision contains or abuts a thoroughfare
designated as having fully controlled access or partially controlled access in
the Comprehensive Plan, the plat shall provide for such control for the purpose
of reducing traffic hazards by eliminating conflict between local traffic
entering and leaving driveways and through traffic. Where a plat includes lots
which directly abut such a thoroughfare, rather than a frontage road, the
Planning Commission may require the subdivider, by appropriate instrument
deemed sufficient by the city article, to relinquish the right of access to the
thoroughfare from such lots.
(40.30.80)
   (J)   Street names. Street names shall be shown; they shall provide for
continuation of the names of existing streets wherever appropriate; they shall
not duplicate the names of streets elsewhere in the city and vicinity. Street
names shall be subject to the approval of the Planning Commission.
(40.30.90)
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 40.30) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 40.35. ALLEYS.
   (A)   Where required or permitted. Alleys shall be provided along the rear
lines of lots intended for commercial or industrial use, except in the case of
developments such as shopping centers and industrial parks where access to
individual establishments will be over common space on the lot. Alleys shall
not be provided for lots intended for residential use, unless the subdivider
produces evidence satisfactory to the Planning Commission of the need therefor.
   (B)   Width. The right-of-way width of an alley serving commercial or
industrial properties shall be 24 feet, and that of one serving residential
properties shall be 20 feet.
   (C)   Alignment. Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be
avoided, but, where necessary, corners shall be rounded at a ten-foot radius or
cut off with an equivalent chord.
   (D)   Dead-ends. Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but if
unavoidable, shall be provided with adequate turnaround or backaround
facilities, as determined by the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 40.35) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 40.40. BLOCKS.
   (A)   General. The lengths, widths, and shapes of blocks shall be determined
with due regard to:
      (1)   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs
of the types of use contemplated;
      (2)   Zoning requirements as to lot sizes and dimensions;
      (3)   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control, and safety of
street traffic; and
      (4)   Limitations and opportunities of topography.
   (B)   Length. Residential blocks shall not be more than 1,300 feet in
length, except as the Planning Commission determines to be necessary to secure
efficient use of land or to achieve desired features of the street system;
measurement of block length shall be between property lines.
   (C)   Crosswalks. In any block over 700 feet long, the Planning Commission
may require the subdivider to dedicate and construct a public crosswalk across
the block. Such crosswalk shall have a minimum right-of-way width of ten feet,
of which at least five feet shall be paved.
   (D)   Width. Residential blocks shall be wide enough to provide two tiers of
lots of minimum depth, except where lots back upon a controlled-access
thoroughfare.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 40.40) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 40.50. LOTS.
   (A)   General. The area, width, depth, shape, and orientation of lots shall
be appropriate for the location of the subdivision and for the type of
development and use contemplated.
(40.50.10)
   (B)   Areas and dimensions.
      (1)   Zoning. Except as provided in subsection (B)(2) below, minimum lot
areas and dimensions shall be as established in the zoning ordinance, including
the approved plans of planned development districts.
      (2)   Areas platted in small lots. In areas which, at the effective date
of these regulations were substantially platted with lots having areas or
widths less than those required by the zoning ordinance, the Planning
Commission may permit the platting or replatting of lots conforming generally
in area and width to existing lots in the immediate vicinity, but the areas
shall not be reduced below 4,500 square feet or the widths below 50 feet,
except in the case of lots in a townhouse plat.
      (3)   Areas without public water and sewer. Where any lot is proposed to
be served by a well and/or an individual sewage disposal system, the minimum
dimensions of each lot shall be as determined by the Health Department. The
Health Department may require the subdivider to provide acceptable percolation
tests for lots to be served by individual sewage disposal systems, except that
no such lot shall have an area of less than 20,000 square feet.
      (4)   Corner lots. Corner lots shall be increased in width sufficiently
to allow for side street building lines established under §
40.60, front yards established by the zoning ordinance, and building setback
lines established by ordinance.
      (5)   Ratio of depth to width. The ratio of depth to width of a lot in a
residential district shall not exceed three-to-one. Said ratio for lots in
other districts shall not exceed ten-to-one, but this provision shall not
operate to require any lot to be wider than 250 feet.
(40.50.20)
   (C)   Shapes of lots.
      (1)   Replatting. Lots which are sufficiently large to make possible
replatting in the future shall be of such shape as to facilitate replatting.
      (2)   Side lot lines. Side lot lines shall be substantially at right
angles or radial to street lines.
(40.50.30)
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 40.50) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 40.60. BUILDING SETBACK LINES.
   (A)   Where a building setback line is shown on a plat, it shall not be in
front of any building setback line established by ordinance.
   (B)   Where a planned development district has been established, any
building setback line on a plat shall conform to any such line established for
such district.
   (C)   Except in the case of a planned development district, where a building
setback line is shown along any block face on a plat, such line:
      (1)   Shall not permit the front yard of any part of such block face to
be less than 60% of the front yard required under zoning; and
      (2)   Shall not reduce the average depth of front yard along such block
face below the front yard required under zoning.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 40.60) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 40.70. EASEMENTS AND DEDICATIONS FOR PUBLIC USE.
   (A)   Easements and dedications in general. No dedication for a drainage
easement or a street or other public use shall be shown on a plat unless the
City Council determines to accept such dedication.
(40.70.10)
   (B)   Easements: drainage. When a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse,
drainage way, channel, stream, or creek, the subdivider shall provide a storm
water easement or drainage right-of-way of sufficient width for such purpose
and for maintenance, wherever the Planning Commission finds such easement
desirable.
(40.70.20)
   (C)   Easements: utility. Where alleys are not provided or may not be used
for that purpose, easements not less than seven and one-half feet in width
shall be provided at the rear of each lot for poles, wires, conduits, storm
sewers, sanitary sewers, gas lines, water mains and lines, and other utility
purposes. In no case shall the combined widths of the easements on both sides
of a rear lot line be less than 15 feet. Additional easements shall be provided
where required by the Planning Commission.
(40.70.30)
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 40.70) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS
§ 50.10. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The subdivider is put on notice that, within the subdivision, he or she
shall, at his or her own expense, pave all streets, and install sidewalks,
street signs, storm drainage improvements, sanitary sewerage facilities, and
water facilities, as required by these regulations, except as may be provided
by other ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 50.10) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 50.20. STREETS AND DRAINAGE: GENERAL.
   The subdivider shall improve or agree to improve all streets, highways,
alleys, and other ways, and provide drainage improvements, all in such manner
as is necessary for the general use of lot owners in the subdivision and to
meet local traffic and drainage needs.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 50.20) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 50.25. STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Where required. Street grading and paving shall be required for:
      (1)   All streets to be opened by dedication in the subdivision, but
where a frontage road is provided, the improvement requirement shall apply only
to such frontage road and not to the through portion of the street;
      (2)   All streets to be dedicated for the purpose of providing the second
half of a then existing half-street; and
      (3)   All streets to be dedicated for frontage roads, including those
abutting or adjacent to then existing streets.
(50.25.10)
   (B)   Where not required. Street grading and paving shall not be required
for:
      (1)   Widening of then existing streets, except as provided in subsection
(A) above; or
      (2)   Then existing streets.
(50.25.20)
   (C)   Specifications. All roadways shall be paved and curbs and gutters
shall be installed according to the following specifications.
      (1)   Street grades.
         (a)   No street shall have a finished grade of less than 0.5%.
         (b)   Street grades for major thoroughfares shall not exceed 5%.
         (c)   Street grades for all other classes of thoroughfares shall not
exceed 8%.
      (2)   Pavement widths. Where grading and paving are required, the width
of the paving shall be as follows.
         (a)   Paving widths of the following thoroughfares shall be in
accordance with the appropriate cross-sections on Plate 1, “Typical
Thoroughfare Cross-Sections,” in the Comprehensive Plan:
            1.   Thoroughfares designated as major streets or highways on the
Comprehensive Plan map;
            2.   Other thoroughfares whose classifications in terms of Plate 1
have been determined by the Planning Commission; and
            3.   Thoroughfares not classified under subsections (C)(2)(a) and
(C)(2)(b) of this section, which thoroughfares are hereby designated as class
11.
         (b)   The width of alley paving shall be 24 feet, except in the case
of narrower existing alleys whose right-of-way is not to be widened, where the
paving width shall be the width of the right-of-way.
         (c)   Where a paving width of more than 40 feet is required, the
subdivider shall not be responsible for paving more than 40 feet of such width.
The subdivider shall be responsible for providing the curb and gutter,
regardless of the width of paving.
         (d)   The pavement widths set forth in this subsection (C)(2) apply
only where the subdivision abuts both sides of an existing or proposed street.
Where a subdivision abuts only one side of a street, then only one-half of the
pavement width is required.
      (3)   Curb radii.
         (a)   Street intersections involving major thoroughfares shall have a
minimum street corner radius of 30 feet at the curb line.
         (b)   Radius of the outer curb in a cul-de-sac turnaround shall be not
less than 40 feet at the curb line. Radius of the inner curb shall be such that
the width of pavement from back of curb to back of curb shall not be less than
27 feet.
         (c)   Radii of curbs at street corners, other than on major
thoroughfares, shall not be less than 25 feet.
      (4)   Pavement types.
         (a)   Pavement types for pavements having a maximum surface width of
30 feet, face-to-face of curb, shall be either Portland cement concrete or
asphaltic concrete as specified below:
            1.   Portland cement concrete pavement five inches thick laid on a
subgrade compacted to 95% Standard Proctor density, with a moisture content at
slightly above optimum; concrete to be 3,500 psi, six sack mix. The pavement
shall be laid on a minimum of two-inch sand cushion; or
            2.   Asphaltic concrete (hot mix, hot laid) pavement two inches
thick on a six-inch stabilized gravel or crushed stone base course, with six-
inch subgrade compacted to 95% Standard Proctor density. The above asphaltic
concrete street shall have a Portland cement concrete curb and 18-inch concrete
gutter.
         (b)   Pavement types for pavements having a width of more than 30
feet, face-to-face of curb, shall be either:
            1.   Portland cement concrete, as specified above for pavements
having a maximum width of 30 feet; or
            2.   Asphaltic concrete pavement, as specified above for pavements
having a maximum width of 30 feet, except that the pavement shall be four
inches thick.
         (c)   Detailed plans, specifications, and mode of application shall be
on file in the office of the Engineer for inspection or use by any persons
concerned with such types of pavement.
      (5)   Curbs. Curbs shall be of an upright design of not less than six
inches in height in all applications, except driveway entrances.
(50.25.30)
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 50.25) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971; Ord. 739, passed
8-21-1978)
§ 50.30. SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Sidewalks may be provided by the subdivider along all streets in each
subdivision.
   (B)   All sidewalks shall be a minimum width of 42 inches and be at a
distance of one foot from the property line.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 50.30) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 50.35. STREET SIGNS.
   Street signs shall be installed in accordance with specifications on file in
the office of the city engineer.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 50.35) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971; Ord. 739, passed
8-21-1978)
§ 50.40. STORM DRAINAGE.
   (A)   General requirement. All land development shall be related to the
surrounding drainage pattern, with provisions made for proper storm drainage
facilities.
(50.40.10)
   (B)   Minimum runoff. Minimum runoff shall be determined by the Rational
Method, or an equivalent formula with conventional runoff factors, using as a
minimum a rainfall rate of two and one-half inches per hour.
(50.40.20)
   (C)   Water in stub streets and cul-de-sacs. In all instances, provisions
shall be made for adequate storm drainage and drainage structures to prevent
water from standing in the ends of stub streets of cul-de-sacs.
(50.40.30)
   (D)   Diversion of water from natural course. Diversion of storm flow shall
be avoided, if at all possible. If storm water is to be diverted from its
natural course, the construction plans shall include:
      (1)   A sketch showing the existing waterway and the location of the
proposed channel change;
      (2)   Profile of existing watercourse; and
      (3)   Provisions for sodding or paving to prevent soil erosion and
silting in open watercourses.
(50.40.40)
   (E)   Emergency overflow. Where an underground drainage system is installed,
emergency surface drainage overflows shall be provided to prevent possible
flooding in the event of failure of the underground drainage system.
(50.40.50)
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 50.40) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 50.50. WATER SUPPLY.
   The developer shall install water lines to serve each lot in the
subdivision. Where connection to a community water system or public water
supply is not to be made immediately, plans shall be prepared for future
installation of a water distribution system to serve each lot, and those parts
of such system which will be in the paved portion of streets and alleys shall
be installed before the streets or alleys are paved. Plans for water systems
shall conform in all respects to the Standards for the Design of Public Water
Systems of the State Department of Health.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 50.50) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 50.60. SANITARY SEWERAGE.
   Sanitary sewers shall be installed to serve each lot in the subdivision when
connections are to be made immediately to a community disposal system or a
public sewer system. Where such connection to said system is not to be made
immediately, plans shall be prepared for future development and installation of
a sewerage system to serve each lot, and those parts of such system which will
be in the paved portion of streets and alleys shall be installed before the
streets or alleys are paved. Plans for sewer systems shall conform in all
respects to the Standards for Water Pollution Control Facilities of the State
Department of Health.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 50.60) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 50.70. SURVEY MONUMENTS.
   (A)   Concrete monuments, the specifications of which are set forth in this
section, shall be set in each subdivision. At least two reference ties shall be
established in the most permanent manner possible, to the exterior corners of
the part finally platted. The markers and ties shall be shown on each final
plat of all subdivisions. The monuments shall be placed normally on block
corners or points of curve and shall be no more than 1,000 feet apart.
   (B)   The monuments shall be constructed of reinforced concrete (3,000 psi
in 28 days) and have no less than two No. 3 deformed bars in them, evenly
spaced. The monuments shall be six inches in diameter and 36 inches in length.
Each monument shall have a cross case in the top center or a copper rod
extending one-fourth inch above the concrete. All such monuments may be precast
or cast in the hole.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 50.70) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 50.80. UNDERGROUND WIRES AND CABLES.
   Wires and cables providing local utility and similar services (including,
but not limited to, electric, telephone, cable television, and street lighting)
in residential subdivisions shall be placed underground.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 50.80) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
VARIANCES
§ 60.10. VARIANCES AUTHORIZED.
   Whenever the tract to be subdivided is of such unusual size, shape, or is
surrounded by such development or unusual conditions that the strict
application of the requirements contained in these regulations would result in
substantial hardship or inequity, the Planning Commission may vary or modify,
except as otherwise provided herein, such requirements of design, but not of
procedure or improvements, that the subdivider may develop his or her property
in a reasonable manner, but so, at the same time, the public welfare and
interests of the city are protected, and the general intent and spirit of these
regulations and of the Comprehensive Plan are preserved.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 60.10) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 60.20. VARIANCE PROCEDURE.
   A variance may be granted upon written request of the subdivider or his or
her agent, stating the reason(s) for each requested modification. Approval of a
variance shall require the favorable vote of a majority of all the members of
the Planning Commission. No variance shall be granted unless the reasons
therefor are entered in the minutes of the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 60.20) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.10. ADMINISTRATION.
   The engineer shall be responsible for administering the parts of these
regulations relating to subdivision improvements, and the inspecting officer
shall be responsible for administering all other parts of these regulations.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 70.10) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 70.20. PLATS COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Appointment. The Chair of the Planning Commission may appoint a Plats
Committee consisting of representatives of public agencies and public utility
companies. In lieu of appointing members, the Chair may request said agencies
and companies to designate representatives and alternates to serve on the
Committee.
   (B)   Organization. The inspecting officer shall serve as Chair of the Plats
Committee, shall appoint the Secretary of the Committee, shall call meetings of
the Committee, and shall provide the members thereof with copies of plats and
other necessary information.
   (C)   Function. The function of the Plats Committee shall be to provide a
means for review of plats by interested agencies and utility companies and for
advising the Planning Commission on plats. In making recommendations on plats,
the members of the Committee shall act in their individual capacities, and the
Committee as a whole shall not make recommendations on plats.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 70.20) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 70.30. AREAS FOR USE IN COMMON.
   Whenever a plat provides for the dedication of property to be held or used
in common by the owners of other property described by such plat, such plat
shall not receive final approval until the city article certifies that the
subdivider has taken all necessary steps to ensure:
   (A)   The establishment of a property owners’ association or other means for
adequately maintaining the common property; and
   (B)   Provision made for disposition of the common property in the event of
dissolution of the association.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 70.30) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 70.40. PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS.
   Any final plat of property in a planned development district established
pursuant to the zoning ordinance shall not be given final approval until the
effective date of the final approval of the plan for such district.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 70.40) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 70.50. FEES.
   (A)   General. The following fees shall be paid on the filing of any
application and prior to the processing thereof:
      (1)   Sketch plat: no fee;
      (2)   Preliminary plat: $10;
      (3)   Final plat:
         (a)   Basic fee: $10;
         (b)   Additional fee per lot: $1; and
         (c)   Additional fee per lot over ten lots: $0.10.
      (4)   Limited replat:
         (a)   Where not more than two lots are divided into not more than
three lots: $2; and
         (b)   All others: $5.
      (5)   Plats and replats whose sole purpose is to dedicate land to the
public: no fee.
   (B)   Plats in planned development districts. For each subdivision in a
planned development district, there shall be paid fees as set forth in
subsection (A) above of this section, in addition to the fees established for
planned development districts in the zoning ordinance.
   (C)   Calculation and payment of fees. The inspecting officer shall
calculate the fee for each application. Each fee shall be paid to the City
Clerk, who shall issue a receipt stating the purpose of the payment, which
receipt must be filed with the application as evidence of payment.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 70.50) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 70.60. PERMITS WITHHELD ON UNAPPROVED PLATS.
   The inspecting officer shall not issue a building permit for any structure
on any lot in a subdivision for which the plat has not been approved and
recorded in the manner prescribed herein; provided however, that this section
shall not apply to a lot in a recorded plat if, at the time of recording, the
plat was not required by law to be approved.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 70.60) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 70.70. VIOLATION AND PENALTY.
   A violation of these regulations shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable by fine or by imprisonment, or both.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 70.70) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
AMENDMENTS AND RULES
§ 80.10. AMENDMENTS.
   These regulations may be amended from time to time by the City Council.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 80.10) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 80.20. RULES.
   The Planning Commission may adopt and amend rules for the administering of
these regulations, provided they are not in conflict therewith.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 80.20) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
INTERPRETATION AND DEFINITIONS
§ 90.10. REFERENCES.
   References herein to articles, sections, subsections, and paragraphs are to
those parts of these regulations, unless the context indicates otherwise.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 90.10) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 90.20. CONSTRUCTION.
   For the purpose of this ordinance, the language set forth herein shall be
interpreted in accordance with the following rules of construction.
   (A)   Words used in the singular number include the plural, and words used
in the plural include the singular.
   (B)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
   (C)   The word PERSON includes a firm, partnership, or corporation.
   (D)   The word LOT includes the words PLOT, PARCEL, or TRACT.
   (E)   The word SHALL is always mandatory and not merely directory.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 90.20) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 90.40. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this appendix, certain terms are defined in §§
90.41 through
90.66.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 90.40) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 90.41. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “A.”
   ALLEY. A public thoroughfare of narrow width which affords only a secondary
means of access to abutting property.
(90.41.10)
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 90.41) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 90.42. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “B.”
   BLOCK. An area of land within a subdivision, bounded entirely by streets or
highways, except alleys, or by boundaries of the subdivision.
(90.42.10)
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line established parallel or nearly parallel to the
center of an existing or proposed street or highway, indicating the minimum
distance from such centerline that a building or other structure may be
erected.
(90.42.20)
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 90.42) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 90.43. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “C.”
   CITY. The City of Alva, Oklahoma.
(90.43.10)
   CITY COUNCIL. The governing body of the city.
(90.43.20)
   COMMON AREA. A portion of a subdivision, lot, or structure used in common by
two or more owners or tenants of other portions of such subdivision, lot, or
structure.
(90.43.30)
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The Comprehensive Plan of the city.
(90.43.40)
   CONDOMINIUM. Ownership in common with others of a parcel of land and certain
parts of a building thereon which would normally be used by all the occupants,
such as yards, foundations, basements, floors, walls, hallways, stairways,
elevators, and all other related common elements, together with individual
ownership in fee of a particular unit or apartment in such building.
(90.43.50)
   COUNTY. Woods County, Oklahoma.
(90.43.60)
   CUL-DE-SAC. A dead-end street which is within a subdivision and which is not
planned or proposed to be extended.
(90.43.70)
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 90.43) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 90.45. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “E.”
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner to the public, a corporation, or a
person for the use of all or part of a parcel of land for specific purposes.
(90.45.10)
   ENGINEER. The engineer of the city or the person designated by the City
Council to serve in that capacity, except when the context otherwise indicates.
(90.45.20)
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 90.45) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 90.46. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “F.”
   FRONTAGE ROAD. A street which is contiguous to a street having partially or
full controlled access and which provides access thereto from abutting
properties.
(90.46.10)
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 90.46) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 90.48. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “H.”
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Health Department of the county.
(90.48.10)
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 90.48) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 90.49. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “I.”
   INSPECTING OFFICER. The officer designated by the City Council to administer
this ordinance.
(90.49.10)
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 90.49) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 90.52. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “L.”
   LOCALITY. The city.
(90.52.10)
   LOT. A parcel of land intended to be treated as a unit for transfer of
ownership or for development.
(90.52.20)
   LOT AREA. The total area included within the boundaries of a lot, measured
in a horizontal plane. In the case of a lot abutting an alley, LOT AREA shall
include one-half of the area of such alley, but not more than ten feet of alley
width shall be included in lot area.
(90.52.30)
   LOT LINES. The lines bounding a lot.
(90.52.40)
   LOT LINE, FRONT. A lot line that is also a street line.
(90.52.50)
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line opposite the front lot line. In the case of a
corner lot, the shorter of such lines.
(90.52.60)
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 90.52) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 90.53. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “M.”
   MAJOR STREET OR HIGHWAY. A street so designated in the Comprehensive Plan; a
major thoroughfare.
(90.53.10)
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the city.
(90.53.20)
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 90.53) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 90.56. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “P.”
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT. A district of that name established under the
zoning ordinance.
(90.56.10)
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The City Planning Commission.
(90.56.20)
   PLAT. A map, chart, or written representation indicating the subdivision or
resubdivision of land which, in final form, is intended to be filed of record.
(90.56.30)
   PLAT, FINAL. A finished plat showing completely and accurately all
information and certification necessary for approval under these regulations.
(90.56.35)
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. A plat showing the proposed layout of a subdivision in
sufficient detail to indicate its feasibility, but not in final form for
recording and the details not completely computed.
(90.56.40)
   PLAT, SKETCH. A plat showing in general the area to be subdivided, the
street layout, lots, and blocks, and the general nature of improvements.
(90.56.50)
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 90.56) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 90.58. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “R.”
   REPLAT. A plat showing the resubdividing of all or part of a subdivision
whose plat has previously been recorded.
(90.58.10)
   REPLAT, LIMITED. A replat which is limited to all or part of one block and
which does not involve or necessitate any change in an easement or public
right-of-way.
(90.58.20)
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 90.58) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 90.59. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “S.”
   STREET. Any public or private right-of-way, highway, road, land, square,
court, or way set aside as a permanent right-of-way for street purposes, 30
feet or more in width if it existed at the time of the enactment of these
regulations, and any public or private way 50 feet or more in width if created
after the enactment of these regulations.
(90.59.30)
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A street which collects traffic from local streets and
carries it to one or more major thoroughfares of other COLLECTOR STREETS.
(90.59.40)
   STREET LINE. The boundary line between a street and abutting property.
(90.59.50)
   STREET, LOCAL. A street intended primarily to provide access to abutting
property and carrying little or no through traffic; ordinarily a street which
is not a major thoroughfare or a collector street is a LOCAL STREET.
(90.59.60)
   STREET, STUB. A dead-end street in a subdivision which extends to the
boundary thereof and is intended to be extended outside the subdivision.
(90.59.70)
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, individual, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, estate, or trust, or any other group or combination acting as a
unit dividing or proposing to divide land so as to constitute a subdivision as
herein defined; the term includes any agent of the subdivider.
(90.59.75)
   SUBDIVISION. Any division of land into two or more lots, parcels, tracts, or
areas, any one of which, after division, has an area of ten acres or less, or
any division of land involving the vacation or dedication or right-of-way or
alignment of an existing or proposed street or highway or public utility
easement, or the resubdivision of land heretofore subdivided and, when
appropriate to the context, the land subdivider.
(90.59.80)
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 90.59) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 90.60. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “T.”
   TOWNHOUSE. One of a series of three or more attached dwelling units,
separated from one another by continuous vertical party walls without openings
from basement floor to roof.
(90.60.10)
   TOWNHOUSE DEVELOPMENT. A tract of land on which there is built or is
proposed to be built three or more townhouses, including the sites of the
townhouses and all common spaces.
(90.60.15)
   TOWNHOUSE PLAT. A plat for a townhouse development.
(90.60.20)
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 90.60) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 90.66. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “Z.”
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The zoning ordinance of the city.
(90.66.10)
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 90.66) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
§ 95.10. MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this appendix
shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the
public health, safety, morals, or general welfare.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 95.10) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 95.20. REPEAL OF CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
   All regulations, ordinances, orders, resolutions, or parts thereof in
conflict with these subdivision regulations, or inconsistent therewith, are
hereby repealed to the extent necessary to give these regulations full force
and effect.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 95.20) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 95.30. SEPARABILITY.
   In case any portion of this ordinance shall be held by a court to be invalid
or unconstitutional, the remainder of this appendix shall not thereby be
invalid, but shall remain in full force.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 95.30) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 95.40. WHEN EFFECTIVE.
   An emergency is hereby declared to exist by reason of which it is deemed
necessary for the immediate preservation of the public health, safety, best
interests, and general welfare that this appendix shall take effect and be in
full force and effect immediately upon its passage and approval, according to
law.
(Prior Code, Appendix A, § 95.40) (Ord. 703, passed 3-15-1971)
APPENDIX B: ZONING
Section
Introduction
   
1.10   Title
   
1.30   Approving regulations; forbidding violations
   
1.40   Forbidding encroachment
District Provisions: General
   
10.10   Zoning districts
   
10.20   Zoning map
Agricultural, Residential, Parking, and Office Districts
   
20.10   Purposes of agricultural, residential, parking, and office districts
   
20.20   Uses permitted in agricultural, residential, parking, and office
districts
   
20.30   Conditions applying to permitted uses
   
20.40   Off-street loading and parking required
   
20.50   Bulk and area requirements for dwellings in agricultural, residential,
parking, and office districts
   
20.60   Bulk and area requirements for buildings other than dwellings in
agricultural, residential, parking, and office districts
Commercial and Industrial Districts
   
30.10   Purposes of commercial and industrial districts
   
30.20   Uses permitted in commercial and industrial districts
   
30.30   Conditions applying to permitted uses
   
30.40   Off-street loading and parking required
   
30.50   Bulk and area regulations in commercial and industrial districts
   
30.60   Screening of permitted uses in commercial districts
Flood Districts
   
40.10   Description of the flood districts
   
40.20   Flood district boundaries
   
40.30   Flood district regulations
Planned Development Districts: Authorization Of
   
45.10   Authorization in general
   
45.20   Conditions necessary for planned development districts
Use Conditions
   
50.0001   Use conditions in general
   
50.0010   Home occupations
   
50.0020   Accessory structures in R, P, and O districts
   
50.0461   Accessory storage of major recreational equipment
   
50.1100   Accessory living quarters
   
50.1120   Townhouse developments
   
50.1200   Group quarters
   
50.1400   Mobile home parks
   
50.1540   Recreational vehicle parks
   
50.2000   Manufacturing in commercial districts
   
50.4610   Storage of major recreational equipment
   
50.4850   Solid waste disposal
   
50.5193   Scrap and waste materials; yard; vehicle wrecking; used vehicle parts
   
50.5340   Accessory vending machines
   
50.6313   Accessory signs
   
50.6314   Advertising signs
   
50.6600   Construction facilities, accessory
   
50.6700   Nonresidential uses in residential and office districts
   
50.8200   Farm machinery storage in residential, parking, and office districts
General Provisions
   
60.01   Reference to district provisions
   
60.10   Height exceptions
   
60.20   Lot area and width exceptions
   
60.30   Off-street loading
   
60.40   Off-street parking
   
60.50   One dwelling per lot of record
   
60.60   Screening of uses
   
60.70   Street frontage required
   
60.80   Reserved
   
60.90   Yard exceptions and modifications
Nonconforming Lots, Structures, and Uses
   
65.10   Use of a nonconforming lot of record
   
65.20   Continuance of nonconforming structures
   
65.30   Nonconforming signs
   
65.40   Continuance of the nonconforming use of structures
   
65.50   Destruction of structure containing nonconforming use
   
65.60   Termination of nonconforming use of land
   
65.70   Changing of a nonconforming use
   
65.80   Nonconforming use not to be re-established
   
65.90   Construction authorized or in progress
   
65.95   Nonconforming mobile homes and mobile home parks
Administration, Enforcement, and Appeal
   
70.01   Administration and enforcement; general
   
70.10   Building permits
   
70.20   Certificates of occupancy
   
70.30   Conditional use permits
   
70.40   Compliance with applications and permits
   
70.50   Board of Adjustment; establishment
   
70.55   Board of Adjustment; powers and duties
   
70.60   Board of Adjustment; procedure
   
70.65   Board of Adjustment; appeals to the Board
   
70.70   Board of Adjustment; conditional use permits
   
70.75   Board of Adjustment; variances
   
70.80   Board of Adjustment; appeals from the Board
   
70.85   Fees, charges, and expenses
   
70.90   Violations
Amendments
   
80.10   Amendments; in general
   
80.20   Amendments; planned development districts
Interpretation and Definitions
   
85.10   Interpretation of permitted uses
   
85.20   References
   
85.30   Construction
   
85.40   Definitions
   
85.41   Terms beginning with “A”
   
85.42   Terms beginning with “B”
   
85.43   Terms beginning with “C”
   
85.44   Terms beginning with “D”
   
85.45   Terms beginning with “E”
   
85.46   Terms beginning with “F”
   
85.47   Terms beginning with “G”
   
85.48   Terms beginning with “H”
   
85.49   Terms beginning with “I”
   
85.52   Terms beginning with “L”
   
85.53   Terms beginning with “M”
   
85.54   Terms beginning with “N”
   
85.56   Terms beginning with “P”
   
85.58   Terms beginning with “R”
   
85.59   Terms beginning with “S”
   
85.60   Terms beginning with “T”
   
85.61   Terms beginning with “U”
   
85.62   Terms beginning with “V”
   
85.65   Terms beginning with “Y”
   
85.66   Terms beginning with “Z”
Legal Status Provisions
   
90.10   Minimum requirements
   
90.20   Repeal of conflicting regulations
   
90.30   Separability
   
90.40   When effective
Statutory reference:
   Zoning regulations, see 11 O.S. §§ 44-101 et seq., 45-101 et seq., and 47-
101 et seq.
INTRODUCTION
§ 1.10. TITLE.
   (A)   The title of this appendix shall be the Alva Zoning Ordinance.
   (B)   This appendix is hereby declared to be enacted for the preservation
and promotion of the public health, welfare, and safety, and for the
preservation and promotion of the convenience, good order, tranquility,
happiness, best interests, and general welfare of the inhabitants of the city,
and of the general public, and to facilitate and encourage the orderly growth
and expansion of this municipality, as authorized by 11 O.S. §§ 43-101 et seq.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 1.10) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 1.30. APPROVING REGULATIONS; FORBIDDING VIOLATIONS.
   Zoning regulations and restrictions as herein set forth are hereby approved
and established. No building or other structure shall be erected, structurally
altered, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, or placed, nor shall any land or
structure be used for any purpose, except in conformity to the regulations
herein prescribed.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 1.30) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 1.40. FORBIDDING ENCROACHMENT.
   The minimum lot areas, yards, and other open spaces, including the intensity
of use provisions contained in this appendix for each and every structure
existing at the time of passage of this appendix, or for any structure
hereafter erected, structurally altered, or placed, shall not be encroached
upon or treated as meeting the lot area, yard, open space, or intensity of use
requirements of any other structure.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 1.40) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
DISTRICT PROVISIONS: GENERAL
§ 10.10. ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   In order to classify, regulate, and restrict the location of trades
and industries, and the location of buildings designed for specific uses; to
regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings hereafter erected or
altered; to regulate and limit the intensity of the uses of lot areas and to
regulate and determine the area of yards, courts, and other open spaces within
and surrounding such buildings, the city is hereby divided into the following
classes of districts:
      (1)   A districts (agricultural districts);
      (2)   R districts (residential districts), comprised of:
         (a)   RG10 district: general residential low density district;
         (b)   RG8 district: general residential medium density district;
         (c)   RG6 district: general residential high density district;
         (d)   RM10 district: mobile home park residential low density
district;
         (e)   RM8 district: mobile home park residential medium density
district; and
         (f)   RM6 district: mobile home park residential high density
district.
      (3)   P district (parking district);
      (4)   O district (office district);
      (5)   C districts (commercial districts), comprised of:
         (a)   CN district: neighborhood commercial district;
         (b)   CI district: intensive commercial district;
         (c)   CS district: commercial service district; and
         (d)   CG district: general commercial district.
      (6)   M districts (industrial districts), comprised of:
         (a)   ML district: light industrial district; and
         (b)   MH district: heavy industrial district.
      (7)   F districts (flood districts), comprised of:
         (a)   FW district: floodway district; and
         (b)   FF district: flood fringe district.
      (8)   PD districts (planned development districts).
(10.10.10)
   (B)   The use, height, and area regulations are uniform in each class of
district, subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   Regulations of the F districts are superimposed on portions of the
A, R, P, O, C, and M districts.
      (2)   Regulations of the PD districts are uniform within each such
district, but may vary from one PD district to another.
(10.10.20)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 10.10) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 10.20. ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The locations, area, and boundaries of the zoning districts
established pursuant to this appendix are indicated on the zoning map of the
city, which map is attached to and made a part of this appendix, and said map,
with all notations, legends, and references thereon shall be as much a part of
this appendix as though set forth fully herein. Said map is on file in the
office of the City Clerk, in the City Hall.
(10.20.10)
   (B)   All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the city shall
automatically be classed as lying and being in the A agricultural district as
above defined, until such classification shall have been changed by an
amendment to this appendix, as hereinafter provided or as provided by law.
(10.20.20)
   (C)   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the
aforesaid districts as shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall
apply.
      (1)   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following
the centerlines of streets or highways, street lines, or highway right-of-way
lines, such centerlines, street lines, or highway right-of-way lines shall be
construed to be such boundaries.
      (2)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately
follow the lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be said boundaries.
      (3)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are
approximately parallel to the centerlines or street lines of streets, or the
centerlines or right-of-way lines of highways, such district boundaries shall
be construed as being parallel thereto and at such scaled distance therefrom as
indicated on the zoning map.
      (4)   Where the boundary of a district line follows a railroad line, such
boundary shall be determined to be the centerline of the main tract, unless
otherwise clearly indicated on the zoning map.
(10.20.30)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 10.20) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
AGRICULTURAL, RESIDENTIAL, PARKING, AND OFFICE DISTRICTS
§ 20.10. PURPOSES OF AGRICULTURAL, RESIDENTIAL, PARKING, AND OFFICE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Purposes of the A district. The A district is intended to provide
areas primarily for agricultural and related uses and to protect such uses from
unplanned, premature, scattered urban type development, pending proper timing
for the providing of major thoroughfares, utilities, and other public
facilities.
(20.10.10)
   (B)   Purposes of the R district. The R districts are intended to protect
the residential character of areas so designated by:
      (1)   Excluding therefrom principal commercial and industrial activities;
      (2)   To encourage a suitable environment for family life by permitting
appropriate neighborhood facilities, such as churches, schools, and
playgrounds;
      (3)   To permit certain institutions and utility facilities considered
necessary in or compatible with residential neighborhoods;
      (4)   To preserve openness of the living areas and to avoid overcrowding
by requiring certain minimum yards, open spaces, and site areas, and maximum
bulk of structures;
      (5)   To provide for access of light and air to windows, and for privacy,
so far as possible, by controls over the spacing and height of buildings and
other structures;
      (6)   To make available areas suitable for a variety of dwelling types
and densities to permit a wide range of individual choice;
      (7)   To assure the provision of adequate off-street parking space to
provide for the parking needs of the permitted uses;
      (8)   To protect residential areas against hazardous, offensive, or
objectionable influences; and
      (9)   To protect residential areas against heavy traffic and against
through traffic of all kinds.
(20.10.20)
   (C)   Purposes of the P district. The P district is intended to facilitate
the providing of accessory off-street parking facilities in locations where
more intensive commercial or industrial development is not appropriate.
(20.10.30)
   (D)   Purposes of the O district. The O district is intended primarily to
facilitate the locating of physicians’ and dentists’ offices and uses
compatible therewith in close proximity to residential areas, especially in the
vicinity of hospitals, and to protect and maintain existing development of this
type.
(20.10.40)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 20.10) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 20.20. USES PERMITTED IN AGRICULTURAL, RESIDENTIAL, PARKING, AND OFFICE
DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Uses permitted in the agricultural, residential, parking, and office
districts shall be as set forth in Table 1 of this article, wherein N.E.C.
means not elsewhere classified in this table, and the letter in the district
columns have the following meanings.
      A. The indicated use is permitted as an accessory use in the indicated
district.
      P. The indicated use is permitted in the indicated district, subject to
the granting of a conditional use permit by the Board of Adjustment, as
provided in § 70.70.
      X. The indicated use is permitted in the indicated district as a use of
right.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 20.20)
   (B)   Table 1, uses permitted in the agricultural, residential, parking, and
office districts. Meanings of symbols and abbreviations are set forth in
subsection (A) above:
Districts Uses Permitted in the Indicated Districts
A         RG RM P O
Districts Uses Permitted in the Indicated Districts
A         RG RM P  O
         0 Accessory Uses and Home Occupations
a         a  a  a  a  0010 Home occupations, N.E.C., subject to §
                      50.0010
a         a  a  a  a  0020 Accessory structures, subject to §
                      50.0020
a         a  a  a  a  0050 Accessory fallout shelters
a         a  a  a  a  0060 Accessory fences, hedges, and walls
a         a  a  a  a  0080 Accessory tool houses and similar accessory storage facilities
                      0110 Accessory guest accommodations or living quarters for caretaker or
a         a  a  a  a  servants, subject to §
                      50.1100
ap        ap a  ap ap 0140 Accessory temporary mobile home park, subject to §
                      50.1400
a         a  a  a  a  0461 Accessory storage of major recreational equipment, subject to §
                      50.4610
a         a  a  a  a  0463 Accessory garage or carport
                      0465 Accessory off-street parking for a principal use permitted in the same
a         a  a  a  a  district, subject to §
                      60.40
                      0467 Accessory off-street parking for a principal use not permitted in the
             a    same district, subject to §
                      60.40
a         a  a  a  a  0469 Accessory off-street loading facilities, subject to §
                      60.30
a         a  a  a  a  0485 Accessory storage of refuse and waste
a         a  a  a  a  0534 Accessory vending machines, subject to §
                      50.5340
a         a  a  a  a  0615 Accessory real estate sales office, temporary
a         a  a  a  a  0623 Accessory beauty salon, as a home occupation, subject to §
                      50.0010
a         a  a  a  a  0631 Accessory signs, subject to §
                      50.6313
                      0650 Accessory professional offices of a person who lives in the dwelling,
a         a  a  a  a  subject to §
                      50.0010
a         a  a  a  a  0660 Accessory construction facilities and activities
a         a  a  a  a  0060.1 Accessory construction facilities, temporary, subject to §
                      50.6600
                      0660.2 Accessory excavation of soil, gravel, or rock for the purpose of
a         a  a  a  a  using such material on the premises, or constructing a building on the
                      premises
a         a  a  a  a  0743 Accessory swimming pool
a         a  a  a  a  0749 Accessory play house, child’s
a         a  a  a  a  0814 Accessory gardening
a         a  a  a  a  0819 Accessory greenhouses used to grow plants as a hobby for the
                      resident’s personal use
a         a  a  a  a  0990 Accessory uses, N.E.C.
         1 Residential Uses
                 11 Household units
                 111 Detached dwellings
                 1111 Detached dwellings, one-family
         p  x      1111.1 Mobile homes, one-family
x         x  x  x  x  1111.2 Detached dwellings other than mobile homes, one-family
                 1112 Detached dwellings, two-family and multifamily
           x      1112.1 Mobile homes, two-family and multifamily
         x  x  x  x  1112.2 Detached dwellings other than mobile homes, two-family and
                      multifamily
                 12 Group quarters
         x  x  x  x  121 Rooming and boarding houses
         x  x  x  x  122 Membership lodgings, subject to §
                      50.1200
         x  x  x  x  123 Residence halls and dormitories, subject to §
                      50.1200
         x  x  x  x  124 Retirement homes and orphanages, subject to §
                      50.1200
         x  x  x  x  125 Religious quarters, subject to §
                      50.1200
           x      14 Mobile home parks, subject to §
                      50.1400
                 15 Transient lodgings
x         x  x  x  x  154 Recreational vehicle parks, located within public parks, subject to §
                      50.1540
         4 Transportation, Communication, and Utilities
                 40 Transportation, communication, and utilities - general
x         x  x  x  x  401 Transportation, communication, and utility facilities which utilize
                      public rights-of-way or easements customarily provided in subdivision plats
x         x  x  x  x  402 Property of a terminal company used for terminal purposes
                 41 Railroad, rail rapid transit, and street railway transportation
x         x  x  x  x  410 Property of a railway company used for railway purposes
p                 43 Aircraft transportation
                 47 Communication
                 471 Telephone communication
x         x  x  x  x  4711 Telephone exchange buildings
                 48 Utilities
p         p  p  p  p  484 Sewage disposal
p         p  p  p  p  485 Solid waste disposal
p         p  p  p  p  49 Transportation, communications, and utilities, N.E.C.
         5 Trade
                 59 Other retail trade, N.E.C.
                 591 Drug and proprietary - retail
               x  5911 Prescription pharmacy, limited to prescriptions and medical supplies
                      and similar goods
         6 Services
                 65 Professional services
               x  650 Professional offices, N.E.C.
                 651 Medical and other health services
               x  6510 Professional offices providing medical and other health services
p         p  p  p  p  6513 Hospitals, subject to §
                      50.6700
               x  6514 Medical and dental laboratories
         p  p  p  x  6516 Sanatoriums, convalescent homes, and rest homes, subject to §
                      50.6700
                 67 Governmental services
p         p  p  p  p  672 Police, fire, and civil defense facilities
                 68 Educational services
p         p  p  p  p  681 Nursery, primary, and secondary schools, subject to §
                      50.6700
                      682 Universities, colleges, junior colleges, and professional schools,
p         p  p  p  p  subject to §
                      50.6700
                 69 Miscellaneous services
                 691 Religious activities
x         x  x  x  x  6911 Churches, synagogues, and temples, subject to §
                      50.6700
p         p  p  p  p  692 Welfare and charitable institutions, N.E.C., subject to §
                      50.6700
                 699 Other miscellaneous services
                 6994 Civic, social, and fraternal organizations
                      6994.1 Private club, excepting those whose chief activity is a service
p         p  p  p  p  customarily carried on as a business and those including lodgings, subject
                      to §
                      50.6700
         7 Cultural, Entertainment, and Recreational
p         p  p  p  p  71 Cultural activities and nature exhibitions, subject to §
                      50.6700
                 72 Public assembly
                 721 Entertainment assembly
p         p  p  p  p  7211 Amphitheaters, subject to §
                      50.6700
p         p  p  p  p  7214 Legitimate theaters, subject to §
                      50.6700
p         p  p  p  p  722 Sports assembly, subject to §
                      50.6700
p         p  p  p  p  723 Public assembly, miscellaneous purposes, subject to §
                      50.6700
                 73 Amusements
                 731 Fairgrounds and amusement parks
p                 7311 Fairgrounds
                 74 Recreational activities
                 741 Sports activities
p         p  p  p  p  7412 Golf courses, subject to §
                      50.6700
p         p  p  p  p  7413 Tennis courts, subject to §
                      50.6700
p                 7416 Riding stables
p         p  p  p  p  742 Playgrounds and athletic areas, subject to §
                      50.6700
p         p  p  p  p  743 Swimming pools, as a principal use, subject to §
                      50.6700
                 749 Other recreation, N.E.C.
p         p  p  p  p  7491 Camping and picnicking areas, in public parks, subject to §
                      50.6700
p         p  p  p  p  75 Resorts and group camps, subject to §
                      50.6700
p         p  p  p  p  76 Parks, subject to §
                      50.6700
         8 Resource Production and Extraction
                 81 Agriculture
x                 810 Farms, excluding feed lots and raising of hogs
                 82 Agriculture related activities
                      820 Storage, by the owner, on his or her premises, of farm machinery
x         x  x  x  x  ordinarily used elsewhere, subject to §
                      50.8200
                 822 Animal husbandry services
x                 8221 Veterinarian services
x                 8222 Animal hospital
x                 8223 Poultry hatchery
                 829 Other agricultural related activities, N.E.C.
x                 8291 Horticultural services (including landscape contractors)
                 85 Mining activities and related services
x                 853 Extraction of crude petroleum and natural gas
 
(Prior Code, Appendix B, Article 20, Table 1)
(Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 20.30. CONDITIONS APPLYING TO PERMITTED USES.
   In Table 1, where the words “subject to,” followed by a number, appear after
the name of a use, such use shall be subject to the conditions set forth in the
indicated section.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 20.30) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 20.40. OFF-STREET LOADING AND PARKING REQUIRED.
   (A)   Off-street loading facilities shall be provided for certain uses
permitted in agricultural, residential, office, and parking districts, as
provided in §
60.30.
   (B)   Off-street parking facilities shall be provided for uses permitted in
agricultural, residential, office, and parking districts, as provided in §
60.40.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 20.40) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 20.50. BULK AND AREA REQUIREMENTS FOR DWELLINGS IN AGRICULTURAL, RESIDENTIAL,
PARKING, AND OFFICE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   General. Every dwelling in an A, R, P, or O district shall be subject
to the requirements set forth in this section as well as to any modifications
of said requirements as may be set forth in §§
50.0001 through
50.8200,
60.01 through
60.90, or elsewhere in this appendix.
(20.50.10)
   (B)   Lot area requirements. Minimum lot areas shall be as set forth in
Table 2 of this section, minimum lot area for dwellings:
 
District Lot Area (square feet), Minimum
One-     Two-     Three-   Four-    Five-    Six-     Seven-   Eight-   Each
Family   Family   Family   Family   Family   Family   Family   Family   Additional
Dwelling Dwelling Dwelling Dwelling Dwelling Dwelling Dwelling Dwelling Family
A        10 ac.   b        b        b        b        b        b        b      b
RG 10,   10,000   16,000   22,000   28,000   34,000   40,000   46,000   52,000 6,000
RM 10
RG 8, RM 8,000    12,000   16,000   20,000   24,000   28,000   32,000   36,000 4,000
8
RG 6, RM 6,000    8,000    10,000   12,000   14,000   16,000   18,000   20,000 2,000
6
P O      In P and O districts, the minimum lot area shall be the same as set forth
         in this table for the nearest R district
 
(20.50.20)
   (C)   Lot width, height, and coverage requirements. Minimum lot width,
maximum height, and maximum lot coverage shall be as set forth in Table 3 of
this section, minimum lot width, maximum height, and maximum coverage for
dwellings:
 
            Lot Width  Height Limits (subject to §
District    (feet),    60.10)
            Minimum
                                                     Additional
                                         Height      Height
                                         (feet)      (feet)
                       Three-   Four-    Maximum, if Permitted  Lot Coverage
One-Family  Two-Family Family   Family   No Setback  for Each   (percent)
Dwelling    Dwelling   Dwelling Dwelling from        Foot of    Maximum
                                         Interior    Setback
                                         Yard Lines  from
                                         is Provided Interior
                                                     Yard Lines
A           250        b        b        b           20         1.0 30
RG 10 and   75         100      125      150         20         0.7 30
RM 10
RG 8 and RM 60         75       100      125         20         1.0 35
8
RG 6 and RM 50         65       75       85          20         1.5 40
6
            In P and O districts, the minimum lot width, maximum height, and
P O         maximum lot coverage shall be as set forth in this table for the
            nearest R district
 
(20.50.30)
   (D)   Yard requirements. Minimum yards for dwellings in A, R, P, and O
districts shall be as follows:
      (1)   Front yards: 20 feet; and
      (2)   Interior yards: as set forth in Table 4 of this article, minimum
interior yards for dwellings:
 
Width of Lot (feet)                         Width of Interior Yard (feet)
One Portion of Interior Yard, Measured Back Remainder of the Interior Yard(s)
for 60 Feet from Front Yard Line
Less than 52                                5 5
52, but less than 54                        6 6
54, but less than 56                        7 5
56 and over                                 8 5
 
(20.50.40)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 20.50) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
Cross-reference:
   Additional area requirements applicable to townhouses and mobile home parks,
see §§
50.1120 and
50.1400
   Additional or different requirements applicable to mobile homes in mobile
home parks and to townhouses, see §§
50.1400 and
50.1120
   Additional width requirements applicable to individual townhouse sites and
to mobile home spaces in mobile home parks, see §§
50.1120 and
50.1400
§ 20.60. BULK AND AREA REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDINGS OTHER THAN DWELLINGS IN
AGRICULTURAL, RESIDENTIAL, PARKING, AND OFFICE DISTRICTS.
   Every building other than a dwelling in an agricultural, residential,
parking, or office district shall be subject to the requirements for one-family
dwellings set forth in §
20.50, except as provided in §§
50.0001 through
50.8200 for specified nonresidential uses in residential districts and as
provided in §§
60.01 through
60.90 for certain utility facilities.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 20.60) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
§ 30.10. PURPOSES OF COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Purposes of the CN district. The CN district is designed to provide
for local shopping and includes convenience stores and personal service
establishments which cater to frequently recurring needs. The district
regulations are designed to promote convenient shopping and the stability of
retail development by encouraging continuous retail frontage and by excluding
local service establishments which tend to break such continuity and to limit
uses or characteristics of operation which encourage traffic from outside the
immediate neighborhood.
(30.10.10)
   (B)   Purposes of the CI district. The CI district is designed primarily to
provide a concentrated central core of intensive retailing and personal
services of all kinds, satisfying the personal and household needs of the
residents of the entire urban area and outlying trade area; and areas
accommodating central administrative, business, financial, general, and
professional offices and related services, satisfying the needs of the
residents, businesses, industries, and other enterprises of the urban area and
the trade area. The district regulations are designed to promote convenient
shopping and the stability of retail development by encouraging continuous
retail frontage.
(30.10.20)
   (C)   Purposes of the CS district. The CS district is designed primarily to
provide for certain high intensity commercial and light industrial activities
which need a central location, but which either do not require a location in
the core of a central business district, or are not compatible with the
principal uses of the core district.
(30.10.30)
   (D)   Purposes of the CG district. The CG district is designed primarily to
accommodate existing developments of mixed commercial, light industrial, and
residential uses which are already well established, providing a degree of
protection to adjacent residential areas; and accommodate certain commercial
and light industrial uses which are compatible with one another but are
inappropriate in certain other commercial or industrial districts.
(30.10.40)
   (E)   Purpose of the ML district. The purpose of the ML district is to
provide areas for manufacturing and other industrial uses of types which
ordinarily have only minor or moderate adverse effects on other uses in the
vicinity thereof.
(30.10.50)
   (F)   Purpose of the MH district. The purpose of the MH district is to
provide areas for manufacturing and other industrial uses which may have
heavier than moderate adverse effects on other uses in the vicinity thereof.
(30.10.60)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 30.10) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 30.20. USES PERMITTED IN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Uses permitted in the commercial and industrial districts shall be as
set forth in Table 1 of this article, wherein N.E.C. means not elsewhere
classified in this table, and the letters in the district columns have the
following meanings.
      A. The indicated use is permitted as an accessory use in the indicated
district.
      P. The indicated use is permitted in the indicated district, subject to
the granting of a conditional use permit by the Board of Adjustment, as
provided in § 70.70.
      X. The indicated use is permitted in the indicated district as a use of
right.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 30.20)
   (B)   Table 1, uses permitted in the commercial and industrial districts.
Meanings of symbols and abbreviations are set forth in subsection (A) above:
Districts Uses Permitted in the Indicated Districts
CN        CI CS CG ML MH
Districts Uses Permitted in the Indicated Districts
CN        CI CS CG ML MH
         0 Accessory Uses
a         a  a  a  a  a 0020 Accessory structures, subject to §
                        50.0020
a         a  a  a  a  a 0050 Accessory fallout shelters
a         a  a  a  a  a 0060 Accessory fences, hedges, and walls
a         a  a  a  a  a 0110 Accessory living quarters for caretaker
ap        a  a  a     0140 Accessory mobile home park, temporary, subject to §
                        50.1400
a         a  a  a  a  a 0465 Accessory off-street parking, subject to §
                        60.40
a         a  a  a  a  a 0469 Accessory off-street loading facilities, subject to §
                        60.30
a         a  a  a  a  a 0485 Accessory storage of refuse and waste
a         a  a  a  a  a 0631 Accessory signs, subject to §
                        50.6313
                  0660 Accessory construction facilities and activities
a         a  a  a  a  a 0660.1 Accessory construction facilities, temporary, subject to §
                        50.6600
                        0660.2 Accessory excavation of soil, gravel, or rock for the
a         a  a  a  a  a purpose of using such material on the premises, grading the
                        premises, or constructing a building on the premises
a         a  a  a  a  a 0743 Accessory swimming pools
a         a  a  a  a  a 0990 Accessory uses, N.E.C.
         1 Residential Uses
         x  x       12 Group quarters
         x  x       122 Membership lodgings
         x  x       125 Religious quarters
                  15 Transient lodgings
         x  x  x     151 Hotels, tourist courts, and motels
           x  x     154 Recreational vehicle parks, subject to §
                        50.1540
         2 and 3 Manufacturing
                        20 The fabricating and/or assembling of articles from leather,
         x  x  x     wood, or such previously manufactured materials as cloth, glass,
                        metal, paper, and plastics, subject to §
                        50.2000
                  21 Food and kindred products - manufacturing
                 x 211 Meat products - manufacturing
               x  x 212 Dairy products - manufacturing
               x  x 213 Canning and preserving of fruits and vegetables
                 x 214 Grain mill products - manufacturing
           x  x  x  x 215 Bakery products - manufacturing
         x         2151 Bakery products - manufacturing, limited to 2,000 square feet
                        of floor area
                 x 216 Sugar - manufacturing
               x  x 217 Confectionary and related products - manufacturing
         x         2171 Candy and other confectionary products - manufacturing,
                        limited to 2,000 square feet of floor area
               x  x 218 Beverage - manufacturing
           x  x  x  x 2185 Bottling and canning soft drinks and carbonated waters
                 x 219 Other food preparations and kindred products - manufacturing
               x  x 2197 Ice - manufacturing
                  22 Textile mill products - manufacturing
               x  x 220 Textile mill products - manufacturing, N.E.C.
                  229 Other textile goods - manufacturing
                 x 2295 Artificial leather and oil cloth - manufacturing and other
                        impregnating and coating fabrics (except rubberizing)
                  23 Apparel and other finished products made from fabrics, leather,
                        and similar materials - manufacturing
               x  x 230 Apparel and other finished products made from fabrics, leather,
                        and similar materials - manufacturing, N.E.C.
                  236 Leather and leather products - manufacturing
               x  x 2360 Leather and leather products - manufacturing, N.E.C.
                 x 2361 Leather tanning and finishing
               x  x 237 Fur goods - manufacturing
                  24 Lumber and wood products (except furniture) - manufacturing
               x  x 240 Lumber and wood products (except furniture) - manufacturing,
                        N.E.C.
                 x 242 Sawmills and planing mills
                  249 Other lumber and wood products (except furniture) -
                        manufacturing
               x  x 2490 Other lumber and wood products (except furniture) -
                        manufacturing, N.E.C.
                 x 2491 Wood preserving
               x  x 25 Furniture and fixtures - manufacturing
               x  x 26 Paper and allied products - manufacturing
               x  x 27 Printing, publishing, and allied industries
         x  x  x     2701 Printing, publishing, and allied industries, limited to 7,000
                        square feet of floor area
                 x 28 Chemicals and allied products - manufacturing
                 x 29 Petroleum refining and related industries
                  31 Rubber and miscellaneous plastic products - manufacturing
               x  x 310 Rubber and miscellaneous plastic products - manufacturing,
                        N.E.C.
                 x 313 Reclaiming rubber
               x  x 32 Stone, clay, and glass products - manufacturing
               x  x 321 Flat glass - manufacturing
               x  x 322 Glass and glassware (pressed or blown) - manufacturing
                 x 323 Cement (hydraulic) - manufacturing
                 x 324 Structural clay products - manufacturing
                  325 Pottery and related products - manufacturing
               x  x 3250 Pottery and related products - manufacturing, N.E.C.
                        3255 Pottery and figurines or other similar ceramic products, using
           x  x  x  x only previously pulverized clay and kilns fired only by electricity
                        or gas
                  326 Concrete, gypsum, and plaster products - manufacturing
               x  x 3261 Concrete brick and block - manufacturing
               x  x 3262 Concrete products (excluding brick and block) - manufacturing
               x  x 3263 Concrete (ready mixed) - manufacturing
                 x 3264 Lime products - manufacturing
                 x 3265 Gypsum products - manufacturing
               x  x 327 Cut stone and stone products - manufacturing
                 x 328 Abrasive, asbestos, and miscellaneous non-metallic mineral
                        products - manufacturing
                 x 33 Primary metal industries
                  34 Fabricated metal products - manufacturing
               x  x 340 Fabricated metal products - manufacturing, N.E.C.
                  341 Ordinance and accessories - manufacturing
                 x 3410 Ordinance and accessories - manufacturing, N.E.C.
               x  x 3414 Sighting and fire control equipment - manufacturing
               x  x 3415 Small arms - manufacturing
               x  x 35 Professional, scientific, and controlling instruments;
                        photographic and optical goods; watches and clocks - manufacturing
                  39 Miscellaneous manufacturing, N.E.C.
               x  x 391 Jewelry, silverware, and plated ware - manufacturing
               x  x 392 Musical instruments and parts - manufacturing
               x  x 393 Toys, amusement, sporting, and athletic goods - manufacturing
               x  x 394 Pens, pencils, and other office and artists’ materials -
                        manufacturing
               x  x 395 Costume jewelry, costume novelties, buttons, and miscellaneous
                        notions (except precious metals) - manufacturing
               x  x 396 Tobacco - manufacturing
               x  x 397 Motion picture production
                  399 Other miscellaneous manufacturing, N.E.C.
               x  x 3991 Brooms and brushes - manufacturing
                 x 3992 Linoleum, asphalted-felt-base, and other hard surface flood
                        cover - manufacturing, N.E.C.
                 x 3993 Matches - manufacturing
               x  x 3994 Lamp shades - manufacturing
               x  x 3995 Morticians’ goods - manufacturing
               x  x 3996 Fur dressing and dyeing
               x  x 3997 Signs and advertising displays - manufacturing
               x  x 3998 Umbrellas, parasols, and canes - manufacturing
                 x 3999 Other miscellaneous manufacturing, N.E.C.
         4 Transportation, Communication, and Utilities
                  40 Transportation, communication, and utilities - general
p         p  p  p  x  x 400 Transportation, communication, and utility facilities, N.E.C.
                        402 Other transportation, communication, and utility facilities
x         x  x  x  x  x which utilize public rights-of-way or easements customarily
                        provided in subdivision plats
x         x  x  x  x  x 403 Property of a terminal company used for terminal purposes
                  41 Railroad, rail rapid transit, and street railway transportation
x         x  x  x  x  x 410 Property of a railway company used for railway purposes
x         x  x  x  x  x 46 Automobile parking, as a principal or accessory use
                  47 Communication
                  471 Telephone communication
x         x  x  x  x  x 4711 Telephone exchange buildings
                  48 Utilities
p         p  p  p  p  p 484 Sewage disposal
p         p  p  p  p  p 485 Solid waste disposal
                  49 Other transportation, communication, and utilities
                  492 Transportation services and arrangements
           x  x  x  x 4921 Freight forwarding services
           x  x  x  x 4922 Packing and crating services
         x  x  x  x  x 4923 Travel arranging services
         x  x  x  x  x 4924 Transportation ticket services
             x  x  x 4929 Other transportation services and arrangements, N.E.C.
         5 Trade
                  51 Wholesale trade
         x  x  x  x  x 510 Wholesale trade, without stocks
           x  x  x  x 511 Motor vehicles and automotive equipment - wholesale
                  5112 Automotive equipment - wholesale
                        5112.1 Secondhand automotive parts, accessories, and batteries -
                 x Wholesale, subject to §
                        50.5193
           x  x  x  x 5119 Motor vehicles and automotive equipment, N.E.C. - wholesale
           x  x  x  x 512 Drugs, chemicals, and allied products - wholesale
           x  x  x  x 513 Dry goods and apparel - wholesale
           x  x  x  x 514 Groceries and related products - wholesale
                  515 Farm products (raw materials) - wholesale
               x  x 5151 Cotton - wholesale
               x  x 5152 Grain - wholesale
                 x 5153 Hides, skins, and raw furs - wholesale
                 x 5155 Wool and mohair - wholesale
                 x 5156 Livestock - wholesale
                 x 5157 Horses and mules - wholesale
                 x 5159 Other farm products, N.E.C. - wholesale
           x  x  x  x 516 Electrical goods - wholesale
           x  x  x  x 517 Hardware, plumbing, heating equipment, and supplies - wholesale
           x  x  x  x 518 Machinery, equipment, and supplies - wholesale
                  519 Other wholesale trade, N.E.C.
               x  x 5191 Metals and minerals (except petroleum products and scrap) -
                        wholesale
                  5192 Petroleum bulk stations and terminals - wholesale
               x  x 5192.0 Petroleum bulk stations and terminals - wholesale, N.E.C.
               p  x 5192.1 Liquified petroleum bulk stations and terminals
                 x 5193 Scrap and waste materials - wholesale, subject to §
                        50.5193
           x  x  x  x 5194 Tobacco and tobacco products - wholesale
           x  x  x  x 5195 Beer, wine, and distilled alcoholic beverages - wholesale
           x  x  x  x 5196 Paper and paper products - wholesale
           x  x  x  x 5197 Furniture and home furnishings - wholesale
           x  x  x  x 5198 Lumber and construction materials - wholesale
               x  x 5199 Other wholesale trade, N.E.C.
                  52 Retail trade: building materials, hardware, and farm equipment
           x  x  x  x 521 Lumber and other building materials - retail
           x  x  x  x 522 Heating and plumbing equipment - retail
x         x  x  x  x  x 523 Paint, glass, and wallpaper - retail
x         x  x  x  x  x 524 Electrical supplies - retail
                  525 Hardware and farm equipment - retail
x         x  x  x  x  x 5251 Hardware - retail
           x  x  x  x 5252 Farm equipment - retail
                  53 Retail trade: general merchandise
         x  x  x  x  x 531 Department stores
         x  x  x  x  x 532 Mail order houses
x         x  x  x  x  x 533 Limited price variety stores
x         x  x  x  x  x 534 Merchandise vending machine operators, except petroleum
         x  x  x  x  x 535 Direct selling organizations - retail
         x  x  x  x  x 539 Other retail trade - general merchandise, N.E.C.
x         x  x  x  x  x 54 Retail trade: food
                  55 Retail trade: automotive, marine craft, aircraft, and related
                        products
           x  x  x  x 551 Motor vehicles
         x  x  x  x  x 552 Tires, batteries, and accessories
           x  x  x  x 553 Gasoline service stations
                  559 Other retail trade: automotive, marine craft, aircraft, and
                        accessories, N.E.C.
           x  x  x  x 5591 Marine craft and accessories - retail
             x  x  x 5592 Aircraft and accessories - retail
             x  x  x 5593 Mobile homes, travel trailers, and similar vehicles
         x  x  x  x  x 56 Retail trade: apparel and accessories
         x  x  x  x  x 57 Retail trade: furniture, home furnishings, and household
                        equipment, N.E.C.
                  58 Retail trade: eating and drinking
                  581 Eating places
x         x  x  x  x  x 5811 Eating places other than drive-in
           x  x  x  x 5812 Eating places, drive-in
         x  x  x  x  x 582 Taverns
                  59 Other retail trade, N.E.C.
x         x  x  x  x  x 591 Drug and proprietary - retail
x         x  x  x  x  x 592 Liquor - retail
                  593 Antiques and secondhand merchandise - retail
                        5936 Secondhand automotive parts, accessories, and batteries,
                 x subject to §
                        50.5193
           x  x  x  x 5939 Antique and secondhand stores, N.E.C.
                  594 Book and stationery - retail
x         x  x  x  x  x 5941 Books - retail
         x  x  x  x  x 5942 Stationery - retail
         x  x  x  x  x 595 Sporting goods and bicycles - retail
                  596 Farm and garden supplies - retail
           x  x  x  x 5961 Hay, grains, and feed - retail
         x  x  x  x  x 5962 Other farm and garden supplies - retail
         x  x  x  x  x 597 Jewelry - retail
                  598 Fuel and ice - retail
x         x  x  x  x  x 5981 Ice - retail
               p  x 5983 Bottle gas - retail
                  599 Other retail trade
x         x  x  x  x  x 5991 Florists - retail
x         x  x  x  x  x 5992 Cigars and cigarettes - retail
x         x  x  x  x  x 5993 Newspapers and magazines - retail
                  5994 Cameras and photographic supplies - retail
         x  x  x  x  x 5994.0 Cameras and photographic supplies - retail, N.E.C.
x         x  x  x  x  x 5994.1 Photographic film - retail
         x  x  x  x  x 5995 Gifts, novelties, and souvenirs - retail
         x  x  x  x  x 5996 Optical goods - retail
             x  x  x 5999 Other retail trade, N.E.C.
         6 Services
         x  x  x  x  x 60 Office of any kind
x         x  x  x  x  x 61 Finance, insurance, and real estate services
                  62 Personal services
           x  x  x  x 621 Laundering, dry cleaning, and dyeing services
x         x  x  x  x  x 6214 Laundering and dry cleaning: pick up or self-service
                  622 Photographic services, including commercial
         x  x  x  x  x 6221 Photographic (portrait) studios
         x  x  x  x  x 6222 Industrial photography
x         x  x  x  x  x 6223 Film pickup
x         x  x  x  x  x 623 Beauty and barber shops
                  624 Funeral and crematory services; cemeteries
           x  x  x  x 6241 Funeral and crematory services
x         x  x  x  x  x 625 Apparel repair and alteration, shoe repair services
                  63 Business services
                  631 Advertising services
         x  x  x  x  x 6311 Advertising services, general
             x  x  x 6314 Advertising signs, subject to §
                        50.6314
         x  x  x  x  x 632 Credit reporting services; adjustment and collection services
         x  x  x  x  x 633 Duplicating, mailing, stenographic, blueprinting, and
                        photocopying services
           x  x  x  x 634 Dwelling and other building services
         x  x  x  x  x 635 News syndicate services
         x  x  x  x  x 636 Employment services
                  637 Warehousing and storage services
               x  x 6371 Farm products warehousing and storage (excluding stockyards)
                 x 6372 Stockyards
           x  x  x  x 6373 Refrigerated warehousing, including food lockers
           x  x  x  x 6375 Household goods warehousing and storage
           x  x  x  x 6376 General warehousing and storage
x           x  x  x  x 6377 Mini storage with not more than 50% of total area used for
                        vehicle type storage
           x  x  x  x Mini storage with more than 50% of total area used for vehicle type
                        storage
               x  x 6379 Other warehousing and storage, N.E.C.
                  639 Other business services, N.E.C.
               x  x 6391 Research, development, and testing services
         x  x  x  x  x 6392 Business and management consulting services
         x  x  x  x  x 6393 Detective and protective services
           x  x  x  x 6394 Equipment rental and leasing services
         x  x  x  x  x 6395 Photo-finishing services
         x  x  x  x  x 6396 Trading stamp service
                  6397 Automobile and truck rental services
           x  x  x  x 6397.1 Automobile rental services
             x  x  x 6397.2 Truck rental services
           x  x  x  x 6398 Motion picture distribution and services
             x  x  x 6399 Other business services, N.E.C.
                  64 Repair services
                  641 Automobile repair and services
           x  x  x  x 6411 Automobile repair services
           x  x  x  x 6412 Automobile wash services
             x  x  x 6413 Repair services for trucks, tractors, similar vehicles, and
                        construction equipment
                  649 Other repair services
           x  x  x  x 6491 Electrical repair services, except radio and television
           x  x  x  x 6492 Radio and television repair services
         x  x  x  x  x 6493 Watch, clock, and jewelry repair services
           x  x  x  x 6494 Re-upholstery and furniture repair services
             x  x  x 6495 Armature and rewinding services
           x  x  x  x 6496 Locksmiths and gunsmiths shops
               x  x 6499 Other repair services, N.E.C.
                  65 Professional services
x         x  x  x  x  x 651 Medical and other health services
         x  x  x  x  x 652 Legal services
         x  x  x  x  x 659 Other professional services, N.E.C.
             x  x  x 66 Contract construction services - yards
         x  x  x  x  x 67 Governmental services
                  68 Educational services
x         x  x  x     681 Schools: nursery, primary, and secondary
p         x  x  x  x   682 Schools: university, college, junior college, and professional
                        school education
         x  x  x  x   683 Special training and schooling
                  69 Miscellaneous services
                  691 Religious activities
x         x  x  x  x  x 6911 Churches, synagogues, and temples
p         x  x  x  x   692 Welfare and charitable services
                  699 Other miscellaneous services, N.E.C.
         x  x  x  x  x 6990 Membership associations, N.E.C.
         x  x  x  x  x 6994 Civic, social, and fraternal organizations
p                  6994.1 Private club, excepting those whose chief activity is a
                        service customarily carried on as a business
               x  x 6999 Other miscellaneous services, N.E.C.
         7 Cultural, Entertainment, and Recreational
p         x  x  x  x  x 71 Cultural activities and nature exhibitions
                  72 Public assembly
                  721 Entertainment assembly
p         x  x  x  x  x 7211 Amphitheaters
         x  x  x  x  x 7212 Motion picture theaters
           x  x  x  x 7213 Drive-in movies
         x  x  x  x  x 7214 Legitimate theaters
             x  x  x 7219 Other entertainment assembly, N.E.C.
                  722 Sports assembly
             p  p  x 7221 Stadiums
             p  p  x 7222 Arenas and field houses
                 p 7223 Race tracks
                 x 7229 Other sports assembly, N.E.C.
                 x 723 Public assembly, miscellaneous purposes
                  73 Amusements
               p  x 731 Fairgrounds and amusement parks
                  739 Other amusements
         x  x  x  x  x 7391 Penny arcades
           x  x  x  x 7392 Miniature golf
             x  x  x 7393 Golf driving ranges
                 p 7394 Go-cart tracks
           x  x  x  x 7395 Dance halls
         x  x  x  x  x 7396 Billiards, pool, and similar games
                 x 7399 Other amusements, N.E.C.
                  74 Recreational activities
                  741 Sports activities
             x  x  x 7412 Golf courses
p         x  x  x  x  x 7413 Tennis courts
           x  x  x  x 7414 Skating
                 x 7416 Riding stables
           x  x  x  x 7417 Bowling alleys
                 x 7419 Other sports activities, N.E.C.
p         x  x  x  x  x 742 Playgrounds and athletic areas
p         x  x  x  x  x 743 Swimming pools
                 x 749 Other recreation, N.E.C.
           x  x  x  x 7491 Camping and picnic areas, exclusive of recreational vehicle
                        parks (see use no. 154)
           x  x  x  x 75 Resorts and group camps
p         x  x  x  x  x 76 Parks
                 x 79 Other cultural, entertainment, and recreational activities,
                        N.E.C.
         8 Resource Production and Extraction
                  81 Agriculture
             x  x  x 811 Farms: crops
                 x 815 Farms: dairy
                  816 Farms and ranches: livestock other than dairy
                 x 8160 Farms and ranches: livestock other than dairy, N.E.C.
                  8161 Farms and ranches: livestock: cattle
                 p 8161.1 Feed lots
                 x 8161.9 Farms and ranches: cattle, N.E.C.
                  819 Other agriculture and related activities
                 x 8190 Other agricultural and related activities, N.E.C.
             x  x  x 8192 Horticultural specialties
                 x 8193 Apiary farms
                  82 Agricultural related activities
                 x 821 Agricultural processing
                  822 Animal husbandry services
             x  x  x 8221 Veterinarian services
                 x 8222 Animal hospitals
             x  x  x 8221.1 Animal hospitals for household pets
               x  x 8223 Poultry hatcheries
                  829 Other agricultural related activities, N.E.C.
             x  x  x 8291 Horticultural services (including landscape contractors)
                  85 Mining activities and related services
                 x 835 Extraction of oil or natural gas
 
(Prior Code, Appendix B, Article 30, Table 1)
(Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971; Ord. 808, passed 5-2-1994)
§ 30.30. CONDITIONS APPLYING TO PERMITTED USES.
   In Table 1, where the words “subject to,” followed by a number, appear after
the name of a use, such use shall be subject to the conditions set forth in the
indicated section.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 30.30) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 30.40. OFF-STREET LOADING AND PARKING REQUIRED.
   (A)   Off-street loading facilities shall be provided for certain uses
permitted in commercial and industrial districts, as provided in § 60.30.
   (B)   Off-street parking facilities shall be provided for uses permitted in
commercial and industrial districts, as provided in § 60.40.
(Prior Code, § 30.40) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 30.50. BULK AND AREA REGULATIONS IN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Requirements; modifications. Every permitted use in a commercial or
industrial district shall be subject to the requirements set forth in this
article and to the modifications thereof set forth in §§
60.01 through
60.90.
(30.50.10)
   (B)   Yards.
      (1)   Minimum required yards in commercial and industrial districts shall
be as set forth in Table 2 of this article.
      (2)   Table 2, required yards in commercial and industrial districts:
District                               Yards (feet), Minimum
Front Yards                            Interior Yards
Along Property Lines Abutting Property Not Along Property Lines Abutting
in an R, P, or O District*             Property in an R, P, or O District
District                            Yards (feet), Minimum
Front Yards                         Interior Yards
Along Property Lines Abutting       Not Along Property Lines Abutting Property
Property in an R, P, or O District* in an R, P, or O District
CN                                  20 8 -
CI                                  -  8 -
CS                                  -  8 -
CG                                  20 8 -
ML                                  20 8 -
MH                                  20 8 -
Note to table:
* Where a lot in a commercial or industrial district abuts property in an R,
P, or O district, an interior yard shall not be required on such lot where the
adjacent building wall on such lot is of solid masonry, not pierced by a door,
window, or air passage.
 
(30.50.20)
   (C)   Height. Where a lot in a commercial or industrial district abuts
property in an R, P, or O district, no structure on such lot adjacent to such
other district shall exceed the height of 25 feet, unless the portions
exceeding such height are set back from the interior yard line adjoining such
property in the same manner as is provided herein for structures in such R, P,
or O district. In the case of a structure abutting on an alley, the setback
shall be measured from the alley line.
(30.50.30)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 30.50) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 30.60. SCREENING OF PERMITTED USES IN COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS.
   Except for the articles and materials in the following list, no article or
material shall be kept, stored, or displayed in a C district outside the
confines of a building, unless it be so screened by properly maintained fences,
walls, or plantings that it cannot be seen from any point five feet above a
public street:
   (A)   Animals, living;
   (B)   Boats;
   (C)   Campers;
   (D)   Construction equipment in use on construction projects;
   (E)   Electric substation or similar facility, unless required by the Board
of Adjustment;
   (F)   Farm and garden equipment, in use in fields and gardens;
   (G)   Gasoline pumps and similar service station equipment customarily not
enclosed;
   (H)   Monuments and tombstones;
   (I)   Mobile homes and motor homes;
   (J)   Motor vehicles;
   (K)   Oil derricks or pumps and similar equipment, at oil wells;
   (L)   Pressure regulator station or similar facility, unless required by the
Board of Adjustment;
   (M)   Plants, living, including trees and shrubs;
   (N)   Recreational vehicles;
   (O)   Signs;
   (P)   Sports, play, and similar equipment, customarily used outdoors;
   (Q)   Structures attached to the ground or a building;
   (R)   Transit vehicles;
   (S)   Transportation equipment in operation of goods being transported;
   (T)   Trucks and trailers; and
   (U)   Utility facilities not elsewhere classified.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 30.60) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
FLOOD DISTRICTS
§ 40.10. DESCRIPTION OF FLOOD DISTRICTS.
   (A)   General purposes of the flood districts. The flood districts are
intended to protect life and property and reduce public expenditures in areas
subject to flooding, by regulating the use of land in such areas, at the same
time permitting reasonable economic use thereof.
(40.10.10)
   (B)   Purposes of the FW floodway district. The FW district is intended to
prevent or reduce flood damage by keeping flood channels clear, thus permitting
the free flow and discharge of floodwaters.
(40.10.20)
   (C)   Purposes of the FF flood fringe district. The FF district is intended
to prevent or reduce damage in areas subject to ponding of floodwaters by
requiring that uses subject to flood damage be established above expected flood
elevations.
(40.10.30)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 40.10) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 40.20. FLOOD DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Lands included in the flood districts are identified on the zoning map by
the appropriate flood district suffix (FW or FF) after the general zoning
district designation.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 40.20) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 40.30. FLOOD DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General regulations. Flood districts shall be subject to the following
general regulations.
      (1)   Additional regulations. In addition to the regulations specifically
applied herein, all properties in general flood districts shall be subject to
the regulations of the zoning districts in which they are located.
      (2)   Type of construction. Any permitted building shall be of a type of
construction which is not appreciably damaged by floodwaters. Any permitted
structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent same from floating away and thus
threatening to further restrict bridge openings and other restricted sections
of the watercourse.
      (3)   Floatable materials. It shall be unlawful to place any materials
which, in time of flood, might float away and lodge against bridge abutments or
otherwise serve materially to restrict the flood discharge capacity of the
river channel.
      (4)   Reclamation. Nothing herein shall be so constructed as to prohibit
lawful rehabilitation or reclamation of any lands within a flood district.
      (5)   Building permits. Building permits for properties in flood
districts shall be issued subject to the provisions of § 70.10.
(40.30.10)
   (B)   FW floodway district regulations. In addition to the general
requirements set forth in subsection (A) above, all property in the FW district
shall be subject to the following requirements; after the effective date of
these regulations, it shall be unlawful in an FW district to:
      (1)   Construct, reconstruct, move, or alter any structure, make any
excavation, or place any fill or materials which may materially restrict the
flood discharge capacity of the river channel. The Board of Adjustment shall
establish appropriate standards governing permitted ground coverage in FW
districts after obtaining and considering recommendations thereon by the
engineer;
      (2)   Construct, reconstruct, move, or alter any structure for
residential occupancy other than temporary facilities, provided that these
regulations shall not be interpreted to prevent routine maintenance of
residential structures existing at the effective date of these regulations;
      (3)   Construct, reconstruct, move, or alter any enclosed place of public
assembly, enclosed recreational facility, or transient accommodation, unless
the elevation of the lowest enclosed floor, except for elevators, stairwells,
and appurtenant lobbies, is at least two feet above the elevation of the
maximum probable flood, as determined by the engineer; or
(40.30.20)
   (C)   FF flood fringe district regulations. In addition to the general
requirements set forth in subsection (A) above, all property in the FF district
shall be subject to the following specific requirements; after the effective
date of these regulations, it shall be unlawful in an FF district to construct,
reconstruct, move, or alter any residence unless the elevation of the lowest
habitable floor is at least two feet above the elevation of the maximum
probable flood, as determined by the engineer.
(40.30.30)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 40.30) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS: AUTHORIZATION OF
§ 45.10. AUTHORIZATION IN GENERAL.
   The Planning Commission may recommend and the City Council may adopt
amendments to the zoning map and to the text of this appendix establishing
planned development districts, after the conditions set forth in §
45.20 have been met. The recommending and adopting of such amendments shall be
in accordance with §§
80.10 and
80.20.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 45.10) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 45.20. CONDITIONS NECESSARY FOR PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS.
   Before the Planning Commission shall recommend or the City Council adopt an
amendment to this appendix establishing a planned development district for any
tract of land, the Planning Commission shall have recommended and the City
Council shall have adopted for the city a Comprehensive Plan which:
   (A)   Meets the requirements of 11 O.S. §§ 43-103 through 43-110;
   (B)   Includes such tract;
   (C)   Identifies, either generally or specifically, proposed land uses; and
   (D)   Establishes:
      (1)   Average or maximum building bulk; and/or
      (2)   Average or maximum density of population or dwelling units or
minimum lot area per dwelling unit.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 45.20) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
USE CONDITIONS
§ 50.0001. USE CONDITIONS IN GENERAL.
   A use for which conditions are set forth in §§
50.0001 through
50.8200 shall not be permitted in any general zoning district unless it is
listed as permitted therein in the permitted use table applying to that
district and shall not be permitted in any planned development district unless
included in the plan of such planned development district, either explicitly or
by reference.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 50.0001) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 50.0010. HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Home occupations in general. Home occupations shall be subject to the
following regulations.
      (1)   In any dwelling unit in a district where home occupations are
permitted, all home occupations, collectively, shall not occupy more than 30%
of the gross floor area of one floor of said dwelling unit, nor more than 300
square feet of the gross floor area, whichever is greater, but these
limitations shall not apply to foster family care or the providing of room or
board as an accessory use.
      (2)   No exterior alterations of the structure shall be made which are of
a nonresidential nature.
      (3)   Except for a permitted accessory identification sign, as provided
in §
50.6313, no evidence of any home occupation shall be perceptible to an observer
in the street or on any other property in an A or R district.
      (4)   Except as provided for beauty salons in subsection (B) below, no
article, product, or service sold in connection with such activity shall be
other than those produced on the premises.
      (5)   Except as provided for beauty salons in subsection (B) below, no
mechanical equipment shall be used in connection with such activity other than
such equipment as is customary for domestic or household purposes.
      (6)   Not more than one person shall be employed at any time, other than
a member of the immediate family residing on the premises.
(50.0010.10)
   (B)   Accessory beauty salons. An accessory beauty salon shall be permitted
as a home occupation only if it meets the conditions set forth in subsection
(A) above and the following conditions.
      (1)   It shall be located in the main dwelling.
      (2)   It shall have only one operator on duty at any time.
      (3)   It shall have at least two off-street parking spaces meeting the
requirements of §
60.40, in addition to the spaces required for the residential use of the
dwelling.
      (4)   All detached accessory structures on a zoning lot taken together
shall not cover more than one-sixth of the area of the lot permitted under §
20.50 to be covered by structures.
(50.0010.20)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 50.0010) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 50.0020. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES IN R, P, AND O DISTRICTS.
   In addition to any other applicable provisions of this appendix, accessory
structures in R, P, and O districts shall be subject to the following
conditions.
   (A)   No accessory structure shall be constructed on a zoning lot until
construction of the principal structure has been started, and no accessory
structure shall be used unless the principal structure on the lot is also being
used.
   (B)   A detached accessory structure other than a carport shall be located
at least six feet from any dwelling.
   (C)   Any part of a detached accessory structure which is at least 50 feet
from a street may be located within five feet of an interior lot line.
   (D)   All detached accessory structures on a zoning lot taken together shall
not cover more than one-sixth of the area of the lot permitted under §
20.50 to be covered by structures.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 50.0020) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 50.0461. ACCESSORY STORAGE OF MAJOR RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT.
   No major recreational equipment shall be parked or stored on any lot in a
residential district, except in a garage or carport or behind the nearest
portion of a building to a street; provided however, that such equipment may be
parked anywhere on residential premises for not to exceed 24 hours during
loading or unloading. No such equipment shall be used for living, sleeping, or
housekeeping purposes when parked or stored on a residential lot, or in any
location not approved for such use.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 50.0461) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 50.1100. ACCESSORY LIVING QUARTERS.
   Guest accommodations and servants’ and caretakers’ quarters in connection
with dwellings shall be established as accessory uses only, and any structure
established for such purpose shall contain not more than one dwelling unit.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 50.1100) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 50.1120. TOWNHOUSE DEVELOPMENTS.
   Townhouse developments shall be subject to the requirements of §
20.50, as modified and supplemented by the following requirements.
   (A)   The minimum area of a townhouse development shall be as determined
from Table 2 of §
20.50, but shall not be less than the area determined from the following table:
 
District Minimum Area
RG10     3 acres
RG8      2 acres
RG6      1 acre
RM       2 acres
 
   (B)   In any townhouse development, there shall be one or more recreation
areas for use in common by the residents of the development. The area of such
recreation areas shall be as determined from the following table.
 
District          Minimum Area (square feet) of Recreation Area
Per Dwelling Unit Each Area
RG10              2,000 15,000
RG8               1,000 10,000
RG6               500   5,000
RM                1,000 10,000
 
   (C)   The area of an individual townhouse lot shall be not less than 1,800
feet.
   (D)   The minimum widths of individual townhouse lots shall be as follows:
      (1)   End lot of a row of contiguous townhouses: 32 feet; and
      (2)   Other lots in such row: 24 feet.
   (E)   Minimum yards for a townhouse development as a whole shall be so
determined from Table 4 of §
20.50.
   (F)   Minimum yards for individual townhouses shall be as follows:
      (1)   Front yards: 20 feet;
      (2)   Side yards between contiguous townhouses in a row of townhouses:
none permitted; and
      (3)   Rear yards: 16 feet.
   (G)   Minimum spacing between rows of townhouses in a townhouse development
shall be 16 feet.
   (H)   Maximum coverage of individual townhouse lots shall be 40% in the RG10
district, 45% in an RG8 district, and 50% in an RG6 or RM district.
   (I)   Maximum heights in townhouse developments shall be determined from
Table 3 of §
20.50; any setbacks required to permit additional height shall be measured from
the interior yard lines of the townhouse development.
   (J)   Not more than eight townhouses shall be placed together in a row, and
no row shall be longer than 200 feet.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 50.1120) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 50.1200. GROUP QUARTERS.
   Permitted group quarters which are subject to this condition shall have
interior yards at least 25 feet wide.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 50.1200) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 50.1400. MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   Mobile home parks shall comply with the following conditions.
   (A)   Bulk and area requirements.
      (1)   (a)   Each mobile home park shall meet lot requirements of Table 2,
§
20.50, and the following minimum requirements; and each individual mobile home
space in a mobile home park shall meet the following minimum requirements:
 
District      Mobile Home Park Individual Mobile Home Space: Area (square
              Site             feet) Minimum
Area, Minimum Width (feet), Minimum
Total (acres) Per Mobile Home  At Principal   Elsewhere
              (square feet)    Entrance Areas
RM10          7                8,000          50 100 4,000
RM8           5                6,000          50 100 3,000
RM6           3                4,000          50 100 2,000
 
         (b)   The mobile home park site shall be a single parcel, unless
divided by a public right-of-way in such a manner as not to preclude efficient
design and operation; if so divided, no part shall be less than one acre.
      (2)   In addition to the yard requirements of §
20.50(D) applying to the mobile home park as a whole, each mobile home shall
meet the following requirements:
         (a)   Setback from internal street or drive, minimum: 20 feet; and
         (b)   Separation between mobile home and boundary of mobile home
space, minimum: five feet.
(50.1400.10)
   (B)   Common recreation space. There shall be at least 800 square feet of
common recreation space per mobile home space in a mobile home park; the
minimum area of any common recreation area shall be 10,000 square feet, and the
minimum width of any such area shall be 80 feet. Each required common
recreation area shall be within 300 feet of each of the mobile homes it is
intended to serve, measured along a route of pedestrian access. Such recreation
area shall be no nearer than 25 feet to any property line. Each required common
recreation area shall be graded and drained so as to dispose of all surface
waters accumulated within the recreation area and shall be surfaced with turf
or other dustless surface.
(50.1400.20)
   (C)   Off-street parking areas. Off-street parking space may be provided on
common areas of mobile home parks and shall be located within 200 feet of each
mobile home space so served, measured along a route of pedestrian access. If
parking space is provided with each mobile home space, the minimum area of such
space shall be increased by 375 square feet.
(50.1400.30)
   (D)   Interior driveways. Interior driveways shall be improved in accordance
with the requirements for streets set forth in the subdivision regulations and
properly maintained.
(50.1400.40)
   (E)   Accessory commercial facilities. In a mobile home park containing at
least 100 improved mobile home spaces, there may be provided accessory
commercial facilities for the convenience of the residents of the development,
provided that:
      (1)   The gross floor area of such accessory uses shall not exceed 25
square feet for each mobile home space in the park;
      (2)   All commercial uses shall be governed by the requirements of the CN
district, but shall be so located and arranged that their commercial character
is not evident from the street or from any other property in an A or R
district; and
      (3)   No such structure shall be closer than 50 feet to any property in
an A or R district outside the mobile home park.
(50.1400.50)
   (F)   Other regulations. In addition to complying with this section, each
mobile home park shall comply with all pertinent rules and regulations of the
state and the city.
(50.1400.60)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 50.1400) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 50.1540. RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS.
   In any district in which recreational vehicle parks are permitted as of
right or are permitted subject to the granting of a conditional use permit by
the Board of Adjustment, the following minimum conditions shall apply to such
parks.
   (A)   Location and access. No recreational vehicle park shall be located
except in a public park or with direct access to a state or federal numbered
highway. No entrance to or exit from a recreational vehicle park in a
commercial district shall be through an R or O district.
(50.1540.10)
   (B)   Spaces for occupancy; uses permitted; lengths of stay. Spaces in
recreational vehicle parks may be used by recreational vehicles, as defined
herein. Spaces shall be rented by the day or week only, and no recreational
vehicle shall remain in the same trailer park more than seven days.
(50.1540.20)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 50.1540) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 50.2000. MANUFACTURING IN COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS.
   The fabricating and/or assembling of articles from leather, wood, or such
previously manufactured materials as cloth, glass, metal, paper, and plastics
is limited to 3,500 square feet of floor area per establishment in the CI and
CS districts and 7,000 square feet per establishment in the CG district. In the
CI district, such uses located on the street level shall be at least 50 feet
from the nearest street line.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 50.2000) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 50.4610. STORAGE OF MAJOR RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT.
   No major recreational equipment shall be parked or stored on any lot in an
R, P, or O district, except in a garage or carport or behind the nearest
portion of a building to a street; provided however, that such equipment may be
parked anywhere on residential premises for not to exceed 24 hours during
loading or unloading. No such equipment shall be used for living, sleeping, or
housekeeping purposes when parked or stored on a residential lot or in any
location not approved for such use.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 50.4610) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 50.4850. SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Location and enclosure requirements. Any area used for solid waste
disposal shall be completely enclosed by a six-foot fence, in accordance with §
60.60(B). A gate for ingress and egress shall be permitted. A screen wall
complying with §
60.60(C) shall be erected where a solid waste disposal area abuts a public
street or road or where the disposal area can be seen from any platted
residential subdivision containing one or more occupied dwellings, which fact
shall be determined by the inspecting officer. Said fence shall be set back at
least 90 feet from the centerline of any abutting major thoroughfare and at
least ten feet from the street line of such thoroughfare. No temporary or
permanent building shall be erected within the required setback. All solid
waste disposal areas shall be located at least 1,000 feet from any platted
residential subdivision containing one or more occupied dwellings.
(50.4850.10)
   (B)   Operation of site.
      (1)   Access roads to the operation shall be maintained in a dust-free
condition by surfacing or other treatment.
      (2)   All areas not specifically being worked by the actual digging and
filling operation shall be maintained in a dust-free condition by surfacing,
sodding, or other treatment, i.e.: When a trench is dug and subsequently
filled, it will be immediately treated to dust-free condition while work on the
next trench is in process.
      (3)   Dust shall be minimized on the actual working area by wetting or
other treatment.
      (4)   An attendant shall be on duty at all times while hauling and
dumping is in process to keep trash-blowing at a minimum.
      (5)   When an attendant is not present, the area shall be closed to all
dumping.
      (6)   The stock-piling of trees, lumber, paper, and other burnable
materials for subsequent burning is prohibited.
      (7)   All waste materials shall be covered at the end of each day and
scatterings adequately policed to prevent blowing.
(50.4850.20)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 50.4850) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 50.5193. SCRAP AND WASTE MATERIALS; YARD; VEHICLE WRECKING; USED VEHICLE
PARTS.
   Scrap and waste materials, vehicles assembled for wrecking, and used vehicle
parts shall not be processed or stored outdoors on a zoning lot which abuts a
major thoroughfare or is within 400 feet of any zoning district other than an
MH district, unless such operation is screened from such thoroughfare, street,
or district by a screen meeting the requirements of §
60.60.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 50.5193) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 50.5340. ACCESSORY VENDING MACHINES.
   Vending machines, except for fuel, may be installed in buildings permitted
in A, R, P, and O districts as uses accessory to such buildings, for the
convenience of the users of such buildings, provided that such machines are not
visible from the street or from any other property in an A, R, P, or O district
and there are no signs calling attention hereto.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 50.5340) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 50.6313. ACCESSORY SIGNS.
   (A)   Generally. All signs, whether accessory or advertising, shall comply
with the provisions of this section, except where provisions to the contrary
appear in the district provisions. All signs shall also comply with all
applicable provisions of other regulations of the city.
(50.6313.10)
   (B)   Maximum area of signs.
      (1)   On any street frontage of any zoning lot in any zoning district,
the ratio of the total area, in square feet, of all faces of all signs, except
as provided below, to the length in feet of such frontage shall not exceed the
value set forth for that district below, subject to subsection (B)(2) below:
 
District       Ratio
A, R           0.02
O, P           0.05
CN             0.20
CG, CI, CS, ML 2.00
MH             1.5
 
      (2)   The application of subsection (B)(1) above shall be subject to the
following modifications.
         (a)   In determining such ratio, there shall be included all
advertising signs and all accessory signs other than real estate signs and
directional signs. In determining the ratio of sign area to street frontage,
each sign face shall be related to the frontage to which it is nearest. The
area of a sign at a street corner may be based on the sum of the lengths of the
frontages on the intersecting streets.
         (b)   No sign in the CG, CI, CS, or ML districts shall have an area
based on more than 150 feet of frontage; in all other districts, sign area
shall be based on no more than 300 feet of frontage; each zoning lot shall be
permitted at least one square foot of sign area, regardless of length of street
frontage.
         (c)   Each professional office and business establishment shall be
permitted a sign having an area of one square foot, regardless of length of
street frontage, but no dwelling unit in an R, P, or O district shall have more
than a total of one square foot of sign area identifying the professional
offices and other home occupations in such dwelling unit.
         (d)   Where the area of permitted signs on a zoning lot is based on
the street frontage of such lot, and such frontage is subsequently reduced, the
maximum area of signs permitted on such lot shall be correspondingly reduced.
      (3)   In addition to the signs permitted on the basis of street frontage,
the following signs shall be permitted on any zoning lot:
         (a)   Temporary signs having a total area not to exceed eight square
feet, pertaining to the sale or lease of the premises or the constructing of a
building; and
         (b)   Warning and directional signs, each less than three square feet
in area, consisting solely of arrows, or such words as “steps,” “fire escape,”
“exit,” “entrance,” “parking lot,” “danger,” or similar symbols and displaying
neither the name of an establishment, service, or product nor any advertising
matter.
(50.6313.20)
   (C)   Similarity to traffic and emergency signals. No sign shall be
maintained at any location where, by reason of its position, size, shape, or
color, it may obstruct, impair, obscure, interfere with the view of, or be
confused with, any traffic control sign, signal, or device, or where it may
interfere with, mislead, or confuse traffic. No illumination simulating traffic
control devices or signals or emergency vehicles shall be used.
(50.6313.30)
   (D)   Flashing signs.
      (1)   No flashing sign shall be located in or within 300 feet of an R, P,
or O district in such a position as to be directly visible from any such
district.
      (2)   No instantaneous flashing sign shall be permitted in any district.
(50.6313.40)
   (E)   Location of signs. With the exception of traffic control signs,
highway designation signs, and other publicly installed signs, no sign shall
project over a public right-of-way, except in the CI and CS districts, and such
signs shall not extend nearer than two feet to the curb line or edge of
pavement. No horizontal projecting sign shall exceed 50 square feet in area,
and no vertical projecting sign shall exceed 100 square feet in area.
(50.6313.50)
   (F)   Temporary signs. All signs erected or posted to serve a temporary
function shall be removed within 20 days from the date that function is no
longer required.
(50.6313.60)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 50.6313) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971; Ord. 777,
passed 4-20-1987)
§ 50.6314. ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   Each advertising sign shall meet the following requirements, in addition to
the requirements of §
50.6313.
   (A)   There shall be only one advertising sign on each 660 feet of street
frontage on which such signs are located; provided however, that one such sign
may be located on any lot having less than 660 feet of street frontage if said
lot was of record and separately owned as of the effective date of this
appendix.
   (B)   No advertising sign shall be located less than 150 feet from an R or O
district or less than 25 feet from any property line other than a street line.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 50.6314) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 50.6600. CONSTRUCTION FACILITIES, ACCESSORY.
   Accessory construction facilities, including temporary batching plant for
asphaltic or Portland cement concrete, or temporary building or yard for
construction materials and equipment shall be permitted in any zoning district
upon obtaining a conditional use permit from the Board of Adjustment, after it
is ascertained that such batching plant, yard, or building is both incidental
to and necessary for construction operations within two miles of the plant yard
or building. Each conditional use permit for such plant, yard, or building
shall specify the location of the proposed facility and the area to be served
thereby. Each such permit shall be granted for the period of not more than 180
days, and such permits shall not be granted for the same location for more than
four such periods during any 30-month period. Ingress to and egress from such
facilities shall be only from major thoroughfares or collector streets,
provided however, that the Board of Adjustment may approve a location on
another thoroughfare if the Board finds that such location would give rise to
less traffic on residential thoroughfares than would an otherwise feasible
location on a major thoroughfare or collector street.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 50.6600) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 50.6700. NONRESIDENTIAL USES IN RESIDENTIAL AND OFFICE DISTRICTS.
   The following requirements apply to all charitable, cultural, educational,
recreational, health, institutional, religious, social, and similar
nonresidential facilities where permitted in or abutting an R or O district.
They do not apply to utility, protective, and similar facilities. Separation of
structures or areas for uses listed above from the nearest other property in an
R or O district shall be as follows:
Type of Structure or Element of the Facility Minimum Separation (feet)
Type of Structure or Element of the Facility        Minimum Separation (feet)
Outdoor Facility or Use
Air conditioning tower or condenser unit, but not   50
including window unit
Eating or picnic                                    100
Entrance driveway                                   20
Landscaped or otherwise planted area                None
Off-street parking area                             As provided in §
                                                    60.40
Outdoor activity area, N.E.C.                       20
Outdoor spectator facilities for sports and similar 200
events
Outdoor sports area without spectator facilities    100
Indoor Facility
Auditorium, ballroom, dining room, or meeting room
having a floor area of more than 1,200 square feet;
game court, game room, gymnasium, locker or shower
room; place where alcoholic beverages are served;
spectator facilities, swimming pool, theater, or
similar indoor facility:
                                                   If fully air conditioned 50
If not fully air conditioned                        100
Building of a facility for alcoholic, mental,       100
nervous narcotic, or contagious patients
Building of a general hospital or convalescent home 50
All other indoor facilities: if fully air           25
conditioned
All other indoor facilities: if not fully air       50
conditioned
 
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 50.6700) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 50.8200. FARM MACHINERY STORAGE IN RESIDENTIAL, PARKING, AND OFFICE
DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Storage permitted. The resident of a dwelling in an R, P, or O
district may store on the premises of such dwelling the following farm
machinery, subject to the conditions set forth in subsection (B) below:
cultivators, farm tractors, fertilizing machinery, field type rotary tillers,
harrows, loaders (farm type, general utility), mowers, planting machines,
plows, hay rakes, rotary hoes, seeders, weeding machines, and windrowers.
(50.8200.10)
   (B)   Conditions. The storage on residential premises of the farm machinery
specified in subsection (A) above shall be subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   Such machinery shall be owned or rented by the resident of the
dwelling for his or her own use on a farm and shall not be stored for
commercial purposes, including sale, rental, repair, or warehousing.
      (2)   Such machinery shall not be stored except in a garage or carport or
behind the nearest portion of a building to a street, or screened from streets
and other properties in an R, P, or O district, subject to §
60.60.
(50.8200.20)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 50.8200) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 60.01. REFERENCE TO DISTRICT PROVISIONS.
   The regulations set forth in this article qualify or supplement, as the case
may be, the district regulations appearing elsewhere in this appendix.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 60.01) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 60.10. HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS.
   The height limits established in the district provisions may be exceeded by
the following structures, provided that they are not used for human occupancy
and that the sum of the horizontal cross-sectional areas of all such structures
does not, at any point above the height limit, exceed 4% of the area of the
zoning lot or 900 square feet, whichever is less: aerials, air conditioning and
ventilating equipment, antennas, belfries, chimneys, conveyors, cupolas,
elevators, domes, masts, monuments, poles, silos, smokestacks, spires, towers,
tanks, and similar structures.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 60.10) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 60.20. LOT AREA AND WIDTH EXCEPTIONS.
   Where a lot is proposed to be used as the site for a utility substation,
pumping station, pressure regulating station, or similar facility, whose nature
is such that the lot area or width may appropriately be less than the minimum
established herein for the district in which the lot is located, the Board of
Adjustment may, on application, reduce such minimum for such individual
facility, and the Planning Commission may approve a plat containing a lot so
reduced.
(60.20.10)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 60.20) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see §
65.10
§ 60.30. OFF-STREET LOADING.
   (A)   Off-street loading facilities required.
      (1)   Off-street loading facilities shall be provided in accordance with
subsections (B) and (C) below for each new use of the types described in said
subsection and for each expansion of existing uses of such types. Off-street
loading facilities shall not be required for existing uses.
      (2)   No required off-street loading area shall be eliminated or made
inaccessible so long as the uses for which it was originally required are
continued.
(60.30.10)
   (B)   Number of off-street loading spaces required.
      (1)   Every manufacturing, warehousing, wholesaling, retailing, or
similar establishment, having an aggregate gross floor area of 10,000 square
feet or more, shall provide off-street truck loading berths in accordance with
the following table:
Aggregate Gross Floor Area (square feet) Required Number of Berths
Aggregate Gross Floor Area (square feet) Required Number of Berths
10,000 up to and including 16,000        1
16,001 up to and including 40,000        2
40,001 up to and including 64,000        3
64,001 up to and including 96,000        4
96,001 up to and including 128,000       5
128,001 up to and including 160,000      6
160,001 up to and including 196,000      7
For each additional 36,000               1 additional
 
      (2)   Every auditorium, convention hall, exhibition hall, sports arena,
hotel, office building, restaurant, or similar use, having an aggregate gross
floor area of 40,000 square feet or more, shall provide off-street truck
loading berths in accordance with the following table:
Aggregate Gross Floor Area (square feet) Required Number of Berths
Aggregate Gross Floor Area (square feet) Required Number of Berths
40,000 up to and including 60,000        1
60,001 up to and including 160,000       2
160,001 up to and including 264,000      3
264,001 up to and including 388,000      4
388,001 up to and including 520,000      5
520,001 up to and including 652,000      6
652,001 up to and including 784,000      7
784,001 up to and including 920,000      8
For each additional 140,000              1 additional
 
(60.30.20)
   (C)   Size and location of off-street loading spaces. Each loading space
shall measure not less than 12 feet by 30 feet, shall have an unobstructed
height of not less than 14.5 feet, shall be made permanently available for such
purpose, and shall be adequately improved and properly maintained. Such
facilities shall be so located that trucks using same shall not interfere with
areas reserved for off-street parking nor project into any public right-of-way,
and shall be adjacent to the building to be served thereby.
(60.30.30)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 60.30) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 60.40. OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   General intent and application. It is the intent of these requirements
that adequate parking be provided off the street easement for each use of land.
Requirements are intended to be based on the demand created by each use. These
requirements shall apply to all uses in all districts.
(60.40.01)
   (B)   Required off-street parking. Every building hereafter erected and
every open use of land hereafter established shall be provided with parking
spaces as required in this section, and such parking spaces shall be made
permanently available and be permanently maintained for parking purposes and,
except for parking areas used for playground purposes in connection with
schools, shall be used only for the parking of automobiles or trucks. Any areas
used to provide required off-street parking shall be of such size and shape and
so designed that the area will accommodate the number of cars to be provided
for. Where structural alterations or additions to a building provide additional
floor space, or additional seats, additional beds, or other measure, as the
case may be, the parking requirements shall only apply to the additional floor
space, seats, beds, or other measure.
(60.40.10)
   (C)   Location of off-street parking spaces.
      (1)   Distance and access. Required off-street parking spaces shall be
located within 200 feet, by route of pedestrian access, from the principal uses
they serve and shall have direct access to a street or alley.
      (2)   Space serving nonresidential uses. Parking spaces accessory to
nonresidential uses in districts other than A, R, or O districts shall not be
located in A, R, or O districts.
      (3)   Parking in required yards. In A, R, and O districts, parking in
required front yards shall be permitted only on driveways or other areas
surfaced as required by this section, and not more than one vehicle shall be
parked in such yard per 20 feet of abutting street. No driveway entrance
serving a dwelling shall be more than 24 feet wide, and no parking area other
than a driveway shall be within four feet of a street line.
      (4)   Parking of unlicensed vehicles. Automotive vehicles or trailers of
any kind without current license plates shall not be parked or stored in an R
district other than in completely enclosed buildings.
(60.40.20)
   (D)   Joint parking facilities. Whenever two or more uses are located
together in a common building, shopping center, or other integrated building
complex, the parking requirements may be complied with by providing a permanent
common parking facility, cooperatively established and operated, which contains
the requisite number of spaces for each use. The total number of spaces
provided shall not be less than the sum of the individual requirements.
(60.40.30)
   (E)   Size of off-street parking space. The size of a parking space for one
vehicle shall consist of a rectangular area having dimensions of not less than
nine feet by 20 feet plus adequate area for ingress and egress.
(60.40.40)
   (F)   Number of off-street parking spaces required.
      (1)   Off-street parking spaces shall be provided in all districts,
except the CI district, in accordance with the following schedule:
         (a)   Dwelling, single family or duplex: two spaces per dwelling unit;
         (b)   Dwelling, multiple family: one and one-half spaces per dwelling
unit;
         (c)   Boarding or rooming house or hotel: one space for each two beds;
         (d)   Hospital: one space for each two patient beds, exclusive of
bassinets;
         (e)   Medical or dental clinics or offices: one space per 150 square
feet of floor area;
         (f)   Sanatoriums, convalescent, or nursing homes: one space for each
four patient beds;
         (g)   Community center, theater, auditorium, or church sanctuary: one
space for each four seats, based on maximum seating capacity;
         (h)   Convention hall, lodge, club, library, museum, place of
amusement or recreation: one space for each 50 square feet of floor area used
for assembly or recreation in the building;
         (i)   Office building other than medical or dental: one space for each
300 square feet of gross floor area in the building, exclusive of the area used
for storage, utilities, and building service;
         (j)   Commercial establishments not otherwise classified: one space
for each 150 square feet of floor space used for retail trade in the building
and including all areas used by the public; and
         (k)   Industrial establishments: one space per 1,000 square feet of
gross floor area.
      (2)   For all uses not covered in subsection (F)(1) above, the Board of
Adjustment shall make a determination of the parking demand to be created by
the proposed use and the amount of parking thus determined shall be the off-
street parking requirement for the permitted use, except that no off-street
parking shall be required of uses in the CI district.
(60.40.50)
   (G)   Paved surface required. All required parking spaces and all parking
spaces in front and exterior side yards shall be paved with a sealed surface
pavement and maintained in such a manner that no dust will result from
continued use.
(60.40.60)
   (H)   Parking lots in or abutting R, P, or O districts. Whenever off-street
parking lots for more than six vehicles are to be located within an R, P, or O
district or abutting an R, P, or O district, the following provisions shall
apply.
      (1)   All sides of the lot within or abutting the district shall be
enclosed with screen meeting the requirements of §
60.60.
      (2)   No parking shall be permitted within a front yard setback line
established 15 feet back of the property line of interior and corner lots,
wherever the parking lot is located in a residential district or immediately
abuts the front yard of a residential unit. In all other cases, no setback
shall be required.
      (3)   All yards shall be landscaped with grass and shrubs and maintained
in good condition the year round.
      (4)   Driveways used for ingress and egress shall be confined to and
shall not exceed 24 feet in width, exclusive of curb returns.
      (5)   All of the lot used for parking and driveway purposes shall be
paved with a sealed surface pavement and maintained in such a manner that no
dust will be produced by continued use.
      (6)   Whenever lighting is provided, the intensity of light and
arrangement of reflectors shall be such as not to interfere with residential
district uses.
      (7)   No sign of any kind shall be erected, except information signs used
to guide traffic and to state the condition and terms of the use of the lots.
Only non-intermittent white lighting of signs shall be permitted.
(60.40.70)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 60.40) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 60.50. ONE DWELLING PER LOT OF RECORD.
   Except in planned development districts, not more than one dwelling shall be
located on a lot of record nor shall a dwelling be located on the same lot of
record with any other principal structure.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 60.50) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 60.60. SCREENING OF USES.
   (A)   Where this appendix requires that a permitted use on any zoning lot be
screened for the protection of other uses, such screen shall be placed and
maintained in good order on such lot at the expense of the owner or occupant of
such lot.
   (B)   The screen required by subsection (A) above shall be an opaque fence,
a masonry wall, or a hedge or buffer consisting of evergreen trees, shrubbery,
and/or other evergreen vegetation of sufficient thickness and height to
prevent, in so far as practical, the passage of dust, dirt, and glare, and to
conceal, in so far as practical, any unsightly or obnoxious activities inherent
in the screened use.
   (C)   If the required screen is provided in the form of a masonry wall, it
shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   It shall be so designed and constructed as to facilitate
maintenance and not modify natural drainage in such a way as to endanger
property other than that on which such use is located.
      (2)   The outer face of such wall (the face away from the use which is to
be screened) shall be of clay brick, stone, embossed or pierced concrete block,
or other decorative masonry material.
   (D)   Where such screen is required for automobile parking, it shall be at
least two and one-half feet high; for screening other uses, it shall be at
least six feet high.
   (E)   Such screen shall comply with any yard requirements for the district
in which it is located.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 60.60) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 60.70. STREET FRONTAGE REQUIRED.
   No dwelling shall be erected or placed on a lot that does not front for at
least 30 feet on a street at least 40 feet wide, except as follows.
   (A)   A townhouse lot need not abut a street for more than the required
width of an individual townhouse lot.
   (B)   Frontage requirements in a planned development district shall be as
provided in the approved plan of such district.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 60.70) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 60.80. RESERVED.
§ 60.90. YARD EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Building setback lines.
      (1)   Where the City Council has established a building setback line,
other than in a subdivision plat, such line shall prevail, unless the yard
requirements of these regulations require a deeper setback, in which case, such
requirements shall prevail.
      (2)   Where the City Council has, subsequent to the effective date of
these regulations, approved a subdivision plat containing a building setback
line, such line shall prevail over the yard requirements of these regulations.
(60.90.10)
   (B)   Front yards on narrow streets. Where a lot abuts on a dedicated street
right-of-way less than 50 feet wide (or a half right-of-way less than 25 feet
wide), the required front yard shall be measured from a line 25 feet from the
centerline of such street.
(60.90.20)
   (C)   Interior yards along alleys. 
      (1)   No interior yard shall be required along an alley, except in the
case of a building having a door opening on such alley.
      (2)   Carports with the entrance perpendicular to the alley may be placed
ten feet from such alley, provided that:
         (a)   Three sides remain open;
         (b)   The carport is constructed of and finished with material which
will blend in with the house, or be of an engineered metal structure with the
required live loads and built of factory painted metal, and be approved by the
authority having jurisdiction;
         (c)   Galvanized steel and corrugated fiberglass light panels shall
not be used as a finish material; and
         (d)   They not be converted into garages.
(60.90.30)
   (D)   Projections into required yards. Every part of a required yard shall
be open to the sky unobstructed, except for the following:
      (1)   The ordinary projections of skylights, sills, belt courses,
cornices, and ornamental features projecting not more than 12 inches;
      (2)   Open or lattice-enclosed fire escapes, fire-proof outside stairways
and balconies opening upon fire towers projecting into a yard not more than
five feet, and the ordinary projection of chimneys and flues;
      (3)   Patios or unenclosed porches extending not more than eight feet
into required front yards;
      (4)   Carports in required front yards or side yards abutting a street on
corner properties may be placed on the property line or ten feet from the
street curb, whichever is further from the curb. If a carport is placed closer
than three feet to the property line, the lot must be surveyed before a permit
is issued. Carports constructed under this rule will:
         (a)   Be completely open, except for any portion which is in contact
with the dwelling;
         (b)   Be constructed and finished with material which will blend in
with the house, or be of an engineered metal structure with the required live
loads and built of factory painted metal, and be approved by the authority
having jurisdiction;
         (c)   Not use galvanized steel or corrugated fiber-glass light panels
as a finish material; and
         (d)   Not be converted into garages.
      (5)   Walls and fences, provided that walls and fences (other than wire
mesh or similar open fences) shall not exceed the height of two and one-half
feet in required front yards.
(60.90.40)
   (E)   Visibility at intersections in R, P, and O districts. On a corner in
any R, P, or O district, nothing shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed
to grow in such a manner as materially to impede vision between a height of two
and one-half feet and ten feet above the centerline grades of the intersecting
streets in the area bounded by the street lines of such corner lots and a line
joining points along said street lines 50 feet from the point of the
intersection.
(60.90.50)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 60.90) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971; Ord. 799, passed
12-7-1992; Ord. 800, passed 12-7-1992)
NONCONFORMING LOTS, STRUCTURES, AND USES.
§ 65.10. USE OF A NONCONFORMING LOT OF RECORD.
   (A)   When a zoning lot has an area or frontage which does not conform with
the requirements of the district in which it is located but such lot was a lot
of record at the time of the adoption or subsequent amendment of this appendix,
then such lot or tract may be used for any use permitted in the district in
which it is located, provided that in the case of dwellings, only one one-
family dwelling shall be permitted on any such lot, and the Board of Adjustment
shall permit such yard and lot coverage variances as will permit the lot to be
so used.
   (B)   Where a zoning lot has been created for nonresidential purposes under
the bulk and area regulations of this appendix, and such lot does not comply
with the residential bulk and area requirements of the district in which it is
located, such lot shall not be used for residential purposes.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 65.10) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 65.20. CONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Subject to all limitations herein set forth, any nonconforming structure,
other than a nonconforming sign, may be occupied and operated and maintained in
a state of good repair, but no nonconforming structure shall be enlarged or
extended unless the enlargement or extension is made in compliance with all the
provisions of this appendix established for structures in the district in which
the nonconforming structure is located.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 65.20) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 65.30. NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   Any sign or sign structure which is lawfully existing and maintained at the
effective date of these regulations and which does not conform with the
provisions hereof shall not be structurally altered, and all such nonconforming
signs and structures and their supporting members shall be completely removed
from the premises not later than three years after the effective date of these
regulations.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 65.30) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 65.40. CONTINUANCE OF THE NONCONFORMING USE OF STRUCTURES.
   The lawful use of a structure existing at the time of the effective date of
this appendix may be continued, although such use does not conform to the
provisions hereof.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 65.40) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 65.50. DESTRUCTION OF STRUCTURE CONTAINING NONCONFORMING USE.
   When a structure, the use of which does not conform to the provisions of
this appendix, is damaged by fire, explosion, act of God, or the public enemy,
to the extent of more than 60% of its true value, it shall not be restored
except in conformity with the district regulations, provided however, that a
dwelling in a C district that has been so damaged may be restored, but not
enlarged.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 65.50) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 65.60. TERMINATION OF NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND.
   The lawful use of land not containing buildings which does not conform to
the provisions of this appendix shall be discontinued within two years from the
effective date of this appendix, and the use of land which becomes
nonconforming by reason of a subsequent change in this appendix shall also be
discontinued within two years from the date of such change.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 65.60) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 65.70. CHANGING OF A NONCONFORMING USE.
   A nonconforming use of a structure or lot may not be changed to another
nonconforming use except upon a finding of the Board of Adjustment that such
other nonconforming use is likely to be less detrimental to adjacent property
in the same district than is the nonconforming use from which permission to
change is sought. Such finding shall not be made except upon appeal, under the
provisions of §§
70.01 through
70.90. Such changed nonconforming use shall be subject to all the provisions of
this article.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 65.70) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 65.80. NONCONFORMING USE NOT TO BE RE-ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   When a nonconforming use of a structure, or a portion thereof, has
been discontinued, as evidenced by the lack of use, or vacancy for a period of
at least one year, or by substituting a conforming use, such nonconforming use
shall not thereafter be re-established, and the future use shall be in
conformity with the provisions of this appendix, provided however, that this
requirement shall not apply to vacancy of a dwelling unit in a C district.
   (B)   When a nonconforming use of land has been discontinued for any period,
such nonconforming use shall not thereafter be re-established, and the future
use shall be in conformity with the provisions of this appendix.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 65.80) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 65.90. CONSTRUCTION AUTHORIZED OR IN PROGRESS.
   (A)   Building permit issued. If, before the effective date of this appendix
or amendment thereof, a building permit authorizing construction was lawfully
issued, such construction may be started or continued after such date, subject
to the provisions of §
70.70.
(65.90.10)
   (B)   Annexed territory. If the city annexes land where construction of a
structure has started and such construction does not conform to this appendix,
construction of that structure may be continued. For the purposes of this
section, construction shall be deemed to have been started if the Board of
Adjustment finds, on application, that as of the date of annexation the
foundations had been completed or costs equaling 5% of the total estimated
construction cost had been incurred and would be lost if construction were not
permitted to proceed.
(65.90.20)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 65.90) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 65.95. NONCONFORMING MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Nonconforming mobile homes. Nonconforming mobile homes not in mobile
home parks shall be permitted to continue, except that an existing mobile home
may be removed and replaced with another mobile home, provided that the
replacement be made within one year.
   (B)   Nonconforming mobile home parks. Nonconforming mobile home parks
shall:
      (1)   Be permitted to continue to operate, but when a nonconforming
mobile home park ceases operation for a year or more, it not be permitted to
resume operations;
      (2)   Be permitted to rent all existing developed spaces, even though
some spaces may have been vacant on the effective date of this appendix or
amendment thereto; and
      (3)   Not be permitted to develop new spaces.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 65.95) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT, AND APPEAL
§ 70.01. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT; GENERAL.
   The inspecting officer shall administer and enforce this appendix. He or she
may be provided with the assistance of such other persons as the Chief
Executive may direct. If the inspecting officer shall find that any of the
provisions of this appendix are being violated, he or she shall notify in
writing the person responsible for such violation, indicating the nature of the
violation and ordering the action necessary to correct it. He or she shall
order discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings, or structures; removal
of illegal buildings or structures or of illegal additions, alterations, or
structural changes; discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall
take any other action authorized by this appendix to ensure compliance with or
to prevent violation of its provisions.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 70.01) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 70.10. BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   Building permit required. No building or other structure shall be
erected, moved, added to, or structurally altered unless a building permit
therefor has been issued by the inspecting officer, but no building permit
shall be required for improvements having a cost or value of less than $50.
(70.10.10)
   (B)   Application for building permit.
      (1)   All applications. Each application for a building permit shall be
on a form supplied by the inspecting officer, shall include such information as
may be required by the inspecting officer as necessary for determining
compliance of the proposed construction with this appendix, and shall be
accompanied by:
         (a)   Plans in triplicate, drawn to scale, showing the shape and
dimensions of the lot to be built upon and the shapes, dimensions, and
locations on the lot of all existing and proposed buildings or alterations; and
         (b)   An application for a certificate of occupancy as provided in §
70.20.
      (2)   Flood district applications. All applications relating to property
in flood districts shall include additional statements and plans setting forth
the means by which the flood district requirements are proposed to be met.
(70.10.20)
   (C)   Action on application for building permit.
      (1)   All applications. No building permit shall be issued by the
inspecting officer except in conformity with the provisions of this appendix,
unless he or she received a written order from the Board of Adjustment in the
form of an administrative review, conditional use permit, variance, or finding
as provided by this appendix. One copy of the plans shall be returned to the
applicant by the inspecting officer, after he or she shall have marked such
copy either as approved or disapproved and attested to same by his or her
signature on such copy. The original and one copy of the plans, similarly
marked, shall be retained by the inspecting officer.
      (2)   Flood district applications. No building permit shall be issued
with respect to property in a flood district until the engineer certifies in
writing that the application complies with the requirements of the flood
district.
(70.10.30)
   (D)   Expiration of building permit.
      (1)   Beginning of work. If the work described in any building permit has
not begun within 90 days from the date of issuance thereof, said permit shall
expire; it shall be cancelled by the inspecting officer; and written notice
thereof shall be given to the persons affected.
      (2)   Completion of work. If the work described in any building permit
has not been substantially completed within two years of the date of issuance
thereof, said permit shall expire and be cancelled by the inspecting officer,
and written notice thereof shall be given to the persons affected, together
with notice that further work as described in the cancelled permit shall not
proceed unless and until a new building permit has been obtained.
(70.10.40)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 70.10) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 70.20. CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   General requirement.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to use or occupy or permit the use or
occupancy of any building or premises, or both, or part thereof hereafter
created, erected, changed, converted, or wholly or partly altered or enlarged
in its use or structure until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued
therefor by the inspecting officer stating that the proposed use of the
building or land conforms to the requirements of this appendix, except as
provided in subsection (A)(2) below.
      (2)   No certificate of occupancy shall be required for:
         (a)   The continuation, unchanged, of an existing use, except as
provided for nonconforming uses in subsection (B) below; and/or
         (b)   The planting or harvesting of crops or gardens or the grazing of
cattle or horses, where permitted by the district regulations.
(70.20.10)
   (B)   Nonconforming structures and uses. No nonconforming structure or use
shall be maintained, renewed, changed, or extended until a certificate of
occupancy shall have been issued by the inspecting officer. The certificate of
occupancy shall state specifically wherein the nonconforming use differs from
the provisions of this appendix; provided, that upon enactment or amendment of
this appendix, owners or occupants of nonconforming uses or structures shall
have three months from the effective date of such enactment or amendment to
apply for certificates of occupancy. Failure to make such application within
three months shall be presumptive evidence that the property was in conforming
use at the time of enactment or amendment of this appendix.
(70.20.20)
   (C)   Application for and issuance of certificate of occupancy.
      (1)   Application. Each application for a certificate of occupancy shall
be on a form supplied by the inspecting officer, which form may be combined
with the application for a building permit and shall include such information
as may be required by the inspecting officer for determining compliance of the
proposed use with this appendix.
      (2)   Issuance. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued by the
inspecting officer, except in conformity with this appendix. Where an
application for a certificate of occupancy accompanies an application for a
building permit, the certificate of occupancy shall not be issued until the
building described in the building permit has been completed in conformity with
this appendix.
(70.20.30)
   (D)   Temporary certificate of occupancy. A temporary certificate of
occupancy may be issued by the inspecting officer for a period not exceeding
six months during alterations or partial occupancy of a building pending its
completion, provided that such temporary certificate may include such
conditions and safeguards as will protect the safety of the occupants and the
public.
(70.20.40)
   (E)   Records and copies. The inspecting officer shall maintain a record of
all certificates of occupancy, and a copy shall be furnished upon request to
any person.
(70.20.50)
   (F)   Failure to obtain certificate of occupancy. Failure to apply for a
certificate of occupancy, where required by this section, shall be a violation
of this appendix and punishable under §
70.90.
(70.20.60)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 70.20) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 70.30. CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   Conditional use permits shall be granted by the Board of Adjustment, as
provided in §
70.70.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 70.30) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 70.40. COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICATIONS AND PERMITS.
   Building permits and certificates of occupancy issued on the basis of plans
and applications approved by the inspecting officer authorize only the use,
arrangement, and construction set forth in such approved plans and
applications, and no other use, arrangement, or construction. Use, arrangement,
or construction at variance with that authorized shall be deemed a violation of
this appendix and punishable as provided by §
70.90.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 70.40) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 70.50. BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT; ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   Appointment. There is hereby established in the municipality a Board
of Adjustment with the powers and duties hereinafter set forth and such other
powers and duties as may be provided by law. Such Board shall be composed of
five members. The Mayor shall appoint the members of the Board for a term of
three years, subject to confirmation by the City Council; provided however,
that when the first appointment is made hereunder, the term of office of two of
said members shall be one year, the term of office of two of said members shall
be two years, and the term of office of one of said members shall be three
years. At least one of said members shall also be a member of the Planning
Commission. All members of the Board shall serve as such without compensation.
(70.50.10)
   (B)   Removal and vacancies. A member of the Board, once qualified, shall
thereafter be removed during his or her term of office only for cause upon
written charges, and after hearing held before the City Council. In the event
of the death, resignation, or removal of any member before the expiration of
his or her term, a successor shall be appointed in the manner described above
for the unexpired portion of his or her term.
(70.50.20)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 70.50) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 70.55. BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To hear and decide appeals, subject to §
70.65;
   (B)   To hear and decide applications for conditional use permits (special
exceptions), subject to §
70.70;
   (C)   To authorize variances from the terms of this appendix, subject to §
70.75; and
   (D)   Such other powers and duties as may be provided by statute or this
appendix.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 70.55) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 70.60. BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Organization, rules, meetings, and records.
      (1)   The Board shall elect its own Chair and shall adopt rules of
procedure consistent with these regulations and pertinent statutes.
      (2)   Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the Chair and at
such other times as the Board may determine. The Chair, or in his or her
absence, the Acting Chair, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses. All meetings, deliberations, and voting of the Board shall be
subject to the open meeting laws of the state and shall be open to the public.
The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each
member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such
fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions,
all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the City Clerk and
shall be a public record. The concurring vote of four members, three members if
no protests are registered, of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any
order, requirement, decision, or determination of any administrative official,
or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required
to pass under this appendix, or to effect any variation in this appendix. Any
member of the Board who shall have a direct or indirect interest in any
property or in the decision relating to such property, which shall be the
subject matter of, or affected by, a decision of the Board, shall be
disqualified from participating in the discussion, decision, or proceedings of
the Board in connection therewith.
(70.60.10)
   (B)   Public hearings.
      (1)   Before the Board shall grant a conditional use permit or a
variance, it shall hold a public hearing thereon. At the hearing, any party may
appear in person or by agent, or by attorney.
      (2)   (a)   Notice of such hearing shall be given by publication in the
official city newspaper and by mailing written notice by the Clerk of the Board
to the Planning Commission and to all owners of property within a 300-foot
radius of the exterior boundary of the subject property. The applicant shall
furnish the Board with a certified ownership list of all owners of property
within a 300-foot radius of the exterior boundary of the subject property. Said
notice shall contain:
            1.   Legal description of the property and its street address or
approximate location;
            2.   Present zoning classification of the property and the nature
of the conditional use permit or variance requested; and
            3.   Date, time, and place of hearing.
         (b)   A copy of the published notice may be mailed in lieu of other
written notice; however, the notice by publication and written notice shall be
published and mailed at least 15 days prior to the hearing.
(70.60.20)
   (C)   Action by the Board. In exercising its powers, the Board may, in
conformity with the provisions of this appendix and pertinent statutes, reverse
or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or
determination appealed from and may make such order, requirement, decision, or
determination as ought to be made, and to that end, shall have all the powers
of the officer from whom the appeal is taken. The Board shall decide appeals
and applications in a reasonable time.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 70.60) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971; Ord. 708, passed
6-5-1972)
§ 70.65. BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT; APPEALS TO THE BOARD.
   (A)   Appeals. The Board of Adjustment shall have the power to hear and
decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement,
decision, or determination made by an administrative official in the
enforcement of this appendix.
(70.65.10)
   (B)   Filing of appeals. Appeals to the Board may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by any officer, department, board, or bureau of the city affected
by any decision of the inspecting officer in administering this appendix. Such
appeal shall be taken within ten days after the date of the decision by filing
with the inspecting officer and with the Board a written notice of appeal
specifying the grounds thereof, and by paying a filing fee, as provided in §
70.85, at the time the notice is filed. The inspecting officer shall forthwith
transmit to the Board certified copies of all the papers constituting the
record of said matter, together with a copy of the ruling or order from which
such appeal is taken.
(70.65.20)
   (C)   Action on appeals. Action on appeals shall be as provided in §
70.60(B) and (C).
(70.65.30)
   (D)   Stay of proceedings. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action appealed from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken
certifies to the Board of Adjustment, after the notice of appeal shall have
been filed with him or her, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a
stay, in his or her opinion, would cause imminent peril to life or property. In
such cases, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining
order which may be granted by the Board of Adjustment or by a court of record
on application and notice to the officer from whom the appeal is taken and on
due cause shown.
(70.65.40)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 70.65) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 70.70. BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT; CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Power to grant. The Board shall have the power to hear and decide
applications for conditional use permits for only such uses for which this
appendix requires such a permit, subject to the requirements of this section.
(70.70.10)
   (B)   Application for permit. The applicant shall submit a written
application for a conditional use permit indicating the section of this
appendix under which the permit is sought, stating the grounds on which a
permit is requested, and submitting a site plan showing the proposed
development. When the application is filed, a fee, as provided in §
70.85, shall be paid.
(70.70.20)
   (C)   Public hearing on the application. The Board shall hold a public
hearing on the application as provided in §
70.60.
(70.70.30)
   (D)   Findings. The Board shall make written findings certifying that the
application complies with such pertinent individual conditions of use as may be
set forth in §§
50.0001 through
50.8200, that any additional conditions of use specified in the granting of the
permit are compatible with the general provisions of this appendix, as well as
the provisions for the district in which such use is permitted, and that
satisfactory provisions and arrangements have been made concerning the
following, where applicable:
      (1)   Safety of the motoring public and of pedestrians using the facility
and the area immediately surrounding the site;
      (2)   Safety from fire hazard and measures for fire control;
      (3)   Protection of adjacent property from flood or water damage;
      (4)   Noise producing elements and glare of vehicular and stationary
lights and effects of such lights on the established character of the
neighborhood;
      (5)   Location, lighting, and types of signs and relation of signs to
traffic control and adverse effects on adjacent properties;
      (6)   Street size and adequacy of pavement width for traffic reasonably
expected to be generated by the proposed use around the site and in the
immediate neighborhood;
      (7)   Adequacy of parking, as determined by requirements of this appendix
for off-street parking facilities in the use district in which the site is
located; location of ingress and egress points for parking and off-street
loading spaces; and protection of public health by surfacing on all parking
areas to control dust; and/or
      (8)    Such other measures as will secure and protect public health,
safety, morals, and general welfare.
(70.70.40)
   (E)   Board action. The Board shall consider the application and site plan
and shall grant or deny the application. In granting an application, the Board
shall impose such requirements and conditions, in addition to those expressly
stipulated in this appendix for the particular use, as the Board may deem
necessary for the protection of adjacent properties and the public interest.
(70.70.50)
   (F)   Issuance of permit. Where a conditional use permit is required and
granted, it shall be issued prior to issuance of a building permit or a
certificate of occupancy, and shall be issued subject to the conditions upon
which the Board has determined to grant the permit.
(70.70.60)
   (G)   Expiration of conditional use permit.
      (1)   Authority to issue building or occupancy permits pursuant to the
granting of a conditional use permit shall expire two years after the granting
of the conditional use permit, except when the following conditions have been
met:
         (a)   Building permits have been issued, materials have been acquired,
and the foundation of at least one building has been placed on the site; or
         (b)   Where no construction is required, an occupancy permit has been
issued, and actual operation of the use has been started.
      (2)   After authority for issuance of a building or occupancy permit,
pursuant to the granting of a conditional use permit, has expired by default,
no building or occupancy permit shall be issued, except under a conditional use
permit granted pursuant to a new application.
(70.70.70)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 70.70) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 70.75. BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT; VARIANCES.
   (A)   Power to grant variances. Where, by reason of exceptional narrowness,
shallowness, shape, topography, or other extraordinary or exceptional situation
or condition peculiar to a particular piece of property, the strict application
of any provision of this appendix would result in exceptional, demonstrable,
unnecessary hardship, the Board shall have the power to grant, upon an appeal
relating to such property, a variance from such strict application so as to
relieve such demonstrable difficulties or hardships, subject to the
requirements of this section.
(70.75.10)
   (B)   Application for variance.
      (1)   The applicant shall submit written application for a variance
demonstrating:
         (a)   There exist special conditions and circumstances of the type
specified in subsection (A) above which are peculiar to the land, structure, or
building involved and which are not applicable to other lands or structures in
the same district;
         (b)   Said special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant;
         (c)   Literal interpretation of the provisions of this appendix would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same district under the terms of this appendix; or
         (d)   Granting the variance requested will not confer on the applicant
any special privilege that is denied by this appendix to other lands or
structures in the same district.
      (2)   When the application is filed, a fee, as provided in §
70.85, shall be paid.
(70.75.20)
   (C)   Public hearing on application. The Board shall hold a public hearing
on the application, as provided in §
70.60.
(70.75.30)
   (D)   Board findings. The Board shall make the following findings.
      (1)   The representations in the application are valid.
      (2)   The reasons set forth in the application justify the granting of
the variance and that the variance is the minimum variance that will make
possible the reasonable use of the land or structure.
      (3)   The granting of the variance will be in harmony with the general
purpose and intent of the Comprehensive Plan and this appendix and will not be
injurious to the neighborhood or otherwise detrimental to the public welfare.
(70.75.40)
   (E)   Limitations of granting of variances.
      (1)   No nonconforming use of neighboring lands or structures in the same
district and no permitted or nonconforming use of land or structures in other
districts shall be considered grounds for the issuance of a variance.
      (2)   Under no circumstances shall the Board grant a variance to allow a
use not permitted under the terms of this appendix in the district involved or
any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the terms of this appendix in
said district.
(70.75.50)
   (F)   Board action. The Board shall consider the application and grant or
deny it. In granting any variance, the Board may prescribe appropriate
conditions in conformity with this appendix.
(70.75.60)
   (G)   Issuance of permit. Where a variance is required and granted, it shall
be issued prior to the issuance of a building permit or certificate of
occupancy and shall be issued subject to the conditions upon which the Board
has determined to grant the variance.
(70.75.70)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 70.75) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 70.80. BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT; APPEALS FROM THE BOARD.
   An appeal from any action, decision, ruling, judgment, or order of the Board
of Adjustment may be taken by any person or persons, firm, or corporation,
jointly or severally, who have been aggrieved thereby, or by any taxpayer, or
any officer, department, board, or bureau of government to the District Court,
as provided by law.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 70.80) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 70.85. FEES, CHARGES, AND EXPENSES.
   (A)   General. The following fees shall be paid to the Clerk on the filing
of any application and prior to the processing thereof or other action thereon:
      (1)   Building permit: $2, unless otherwise established by the governing
body;
      (2)   Certificate of occupancy: $72;
      (3)   Conditional use permit: $100, due upon approval of permit;
      (4)   Variance: $20;
      (5)   Map amendment:
         (a)   Planned development district:
            1.   Basic fee: $50;
            2.   Additional fee per acre: $5; and
            3.   Additional fee per lot: $2.
         (b)   Other districts: $20.
      (6)   Other action requiring public hearing: $10; and
      (7)   Board of Adjustment request for hearing: application fee: $150.
(70.85.10)
   (B)   Cost of advertising and notice. The applicant shall pay the cost of
any required legal notice or written notice, but such notice shall be placed by
the Secretary of the Planning Commission in the case of map amendments,
including those for PD districts, and by the inspecting officer in all other
cases.
(70.85.20)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 70.85) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 70.90. VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Complaints regarding violations. Whenever a violation of this appendix
occurs, or is alleged to have occurred, any person may file a written
complaint. Such complaint stating fully the causes and basis thereof shall be
filed with the inspecting officer. He or she shall record properly such
complaint, immediately investigate it, and take action thereon, as provided by
this appendix.
(70.90.10)
   (B)   Penalties for violations.
      (1)   Violation of the provisions of this appendix or failure to comply
with any of their requirements (including violations of conditions and
safeguards established in connection with grants of variances or conditional
use permits) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person, firm, or corporation
who violates or refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this appendix
shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $19.50, including costs for each
offense. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
      (2)   The owner or tenant of any building, structure, premises, or part
thereof, and any architect, builder, contractor, agent, or other person who
commits, participates in, assists in, or maintains such violation may each be
found guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties herein provided.
      (3)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking such
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(70.90.20)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 70.90) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
AMENDMENTS
§ 80.10. AMENDMENTS; IN GENERAL.
   (A)   Notice and hearing.
      (1)   Before any amendment to this appendix shall be recommended by the
Planning Commission to the City Council, the Planning Commission shall hold a
hearing thereon.
         (a)   1.   In the case of any proposed amendment, 15 days’ notice of
the time and place of the hearing thereon shall be published in an official
city newspaper and by mailing written notice by the Clerk of the Board of the
Planning Commission and to all owners of property within a 300-foot radius of
the exterior boundary of the subject property. The applicant shall furnish the
Planning Commission with a certified ownership list of all owners of property
within 300-foot radius of the exterior boundary of the subject property. Said
notice shall contain:
               a.   Legal description of the property and its street address or
approximate location;
               b.   Present zoning classification of the property, and proposed
rezoning classification; and
               c.   Date, time, and place of hearing.
            2.   A copy of the published notice may be mailed in lieu of other
written notice; however, the notice by publication and written notice shall be
published and mailed at least 15 days’ prior to the hearing.
         (b)   In the case of an amendment changing the zoning classification
of any property, at least 15 days’ notice shall also be given by one or more
signs placed on such property. Such sign or signs and the lettering thereon
shall be of sufficient size as to be clearly visible and legible from the
public street or streets toward which it faces. It shall give the date, time,
and place of the public hearing and by whom it shall be conducted, the desired
zoning classification, and the proposed use of the property. The Planning
Commission shall, by its own regulations, determine the specifications of such
signs, what additional information shall be contained therein, the placement
thereof, and the arrangements for placing and removing signs.
      (2)   (a)   Planning and zoning request for hearing: application fee:
$150.
         (b)   Miscellaneous fees include any necessary postage/publication.
         (c)   If work started prior to receiving the required permits, the
fees specified herein are doubled.
(80.10.10)
   (B)   City Council action without Planning Commission public hearing. In any
case where the Planning Commission shall recommend denial of a petition for an
amendment to this appendix without having held a public hearing thereon, or
where the Planning Commission shall fail to act in 45 days on a petition or
motion for such amendment referred to the Planning Commission by the City
Council, the City Council may proceed to enact such amendment, after public
hearing thereon, notice for which hearing shall be given as provided in
subsection (A) above.
(80.10.20)
   (C)   Protest. In case of protest against a proposed reclassification signed
more than three days prior to said public hearing by the owners of 20% or more
of the area of the lots included in such proposed change, or by the owners of
50% or more of the area of the lots immediately abutting any side of the
territory included in such proposed change, or separated therefrom only by an
alley or street less than 300 feet wide, such amendment shall not become
effective except by the favorable vote of three-fourths of all the members of
the City Council.
(80.10.30)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 80.10) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971; Ord. 708, passed
6-5-1972)
§ 80.20. AMENDMENTS; PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Applicability. The procedures set forth in this article shall apply to
zoning ordinance amendments for the establishing of planned development
districts, as provided in §§
45.10 and
45.20. The procedure set forth in §
80.10 shall apply to such amendments, except as modified by this section.
(80.20.10)
   (B)   Initiation of planned development district amendments. When ownership
of the property proposed to be included in a planned development district is
not a single entity, the applicant must be properly authorized to represent all
owners.
(80.20.20)
   (C)   Application for amendment. Application for a planned development
district amendment shall be on a form to be supplied by the inspecting officer
and shall be accompanied by all necessary supporting documentation.
(80.20.30)
   (D)   Content of application. An application for a planned development
district shall contain:
      (1)   Legal description of the property proposed to be included;
      (2)   A plan of development, consisting of maps and a text, setting
forth:
         (a)   Uses to be permitted, and maximum densities of such uses;
         (b)   Planned densities, in terms of dwelling units or bulk of
structure for:
            1.   The district as a whole; or
            2.   The parts of the district.
         (c)   Bulk and area and off-street parking regulations to be applied
to the permitted uses; and
         (d)   Any other conditions to be applied to the permitted uses.
      (3)   A statement showing how the proposed plan conforms to the
Comprehensive Plan and to the purposes of this appendix;
      (4)   A preliminary plat of the district, meeting the requirements of the
city’s subdivision regulations and describing proposed subdivision
improvements, if any; and
      (5)   A statement of proposed ways for enforcing the plan, including
provisions for the ownership, control, maintenance, supervision, and ultimate
disposal of any part of the district proposed for use in common by the
residents of the district.
(80.20.40)
   (E)   Planning Commission study.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall review the application for a planned
development district in the same manner as provided herein for other amendments
to this appendix, such review to include the holding of a public hearing
thereon.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall process the subdivision plat of the
proposed district, as provided in the subdivision regulations.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall determine a map designation for the
district, consisting of a designation of the general type of development and a
serial number, so that each such district shall be individually identified.
      (4)   The Planning Commission and other appropriate city officials shall
review the adequacy of measures proposed for guaranteeing the carrying out of
the plan.
(80.20.50)
   (F)   Criteria for planned development districts. The review, report, and
recommendation of the Planning Commission shall be guided by the following
general criteria.
      (1)   The proposed plan conforms to the Comprehensive Plan in all
material respects, including:
         (a)   Types of uses;
         (b)   Intensity of use; and
         (c)   Types and locations of major thoroughfares and community
facilities.
      (2)   The proposed development is compatible with abutting existing
development.
      (3)   The buildings will be spaced in a manner consistent with the
general intent of the yard and open-space provisions of this appendix.
      (4)   Off-street parking and loading facilities will be provided to meet
the intent of this appendix.
      (5)   Ingress and egress be provided to afford adequate access by
emergency and service vehicles.
      (6)   Adequate provision is made for the protection of properties
abutting the district.
      (7)   All other purposes of this appendix are met.
(80.20.60)
   (G)   Report to the City Council. The period within which the Planning
Commission’s report shall be submitted to the City Council shall be 60 days.
(80.20.70)
   (H)   Action by the City Council.
      (1)   The planned development district amendment shall consist of the
plan, plat, text, and other pertinent documents submitted with the application.
      (2)   The City Council shall approve the planned development district
amendment in the same manner as provided for other amendments to this appendix.
      (3)   On approval of such amendment, the boundaries and description of
the planned development district shall be entered on the zoning map in the same
manner as for a general zoning district, and the regulations of the planned
development district shall supersede and replace those of the immediately
preceding zoning district.
(80.20.80)
   (I)   Amendment of a planned development district. Any planned development
district shall be amended in the same manner as provided herein for the
establishment of a planned development district.
(80.20.90)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 80.20) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
INTERPRETATION AND DEFINITIONS
§ 85.10. INTERPRETATION OF PERMITTED USES.
   In the interpretation of permitted uses set forth in Table 1 of §
20.20 and Table 1 of §
30.20, reference shall be made to the following publications:
   (A)   “Table B. A Standard System for Identifying and Coding Land Use
Activities - Two-, Three-, and Four Digit Levels,” reproduced from Standard
Land Use Coding Manual, U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Highway
Administration, Bureau of Public Roads, reprinted December, 1969, a copy of
which is on file in the City Clerk’s office; and
   (B)   Bureau of the Budget/Executive Office of the President Standard
Industrial Classification Manual Washington: Superintendent of Documents, 1967.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 85.10) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 85.20. REFERENCES.
   References herein to articles, sections, subsections, and paragraphs are to
those parts of this appendix, unless the context indicates otherwise.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 85.20) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 85.30. CONSTRUCTION.
   For the purpose of this appendix, the language set forth herein shall be
interpreted in accordance with the following rules of construction.
   (A)   Words used in the singular number include the plural, and words used
in the plural include the singular.
   (B)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
   (C)   The word PERSON includes a firm, partnership, or corporation.
   (D)   The word LOT includes the words PLOT, PARCEL, or TRACT.
   (E)   The word SHALL is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   (F)   The word USED or the word OCCUPIED, as applied to any land or
building, shall be construed to include “intended, arranged, or designed to be
used or occupied.”
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 85.30) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 85.40. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this appendix, certain terms are defined in §§
85.41 through
85.66.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 85.40) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 85.41. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “A.”
   ABUTTING. Includes “across an alley from.”
(85.41.10)
   ACCESSORY. A use, structure, or part of a structure customarily incidental
and subordinate to the principal use of a zoning lot or of a structure. An
ACCESSORY USE is located on the same zoning lot as the principal use, except in
the cases of off-street parking, temporary mobile home parks, temporary real
estate sales offices, and temporary construction facilities.
(85.41.20)
   ALLEY. A public thoroughfare of narrow width which affords only a secondary
means of access to abutting property.
(85.41.30)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 85.41) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 85.42. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “B.”
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. The Board of Adjustment of the city. BOARD means BOARD
OF ADJUSTMENT, unless the context indicates otherwise.
(85.42.10)
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel where, for compensation and by
prearrangement for definite periods, meals or lodgings, or both, are provided
for three or more persons but not exceeding 20 persons.
(85.42.30)
   BUILDING. A structure which is permanently affixed to the ground, has a roof
supported by columns or walls, and is used for human, animal, or chattel
enclosure. When a portion thereof is completely separated from every other
portion by a dividing wall without openings, then each such portion shall be
deemed to be a separate BUILDING.
(85.42.50)
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the principal use of
the zoning lot on which it is situated. In a residential district, any dwelling
shall be deemed to be a PRINCIPAL BUILDING on the lot on which it is situated.
(85.42.55)
   BULK AND AREA REGULATIONS. Provisions of this appendix controlling the size
and shape of zoning lots and the location and bulk of structures thereon. Such
regulations include those relating to lot width, lot area, lot coverage,
setbacks, and yards.
(85.42.60)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 85.42) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 85.43. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “C.”
   C DISTRICT. A zoning district whose designation begins with the letter “C.”
(85.43.01)
   CITY. The City of Alva, Oklahoma.
(85.43.30)
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The Comprehensive Plan of the city.
(85.43.40)
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use that would not be appropriate generally or without
restriction throughout a zoning district but which, if controlled as to number,
area, location, or relation to the neighborhood, would promote the public
health, safety, welfare, morals, order, comfort, convenience, appearance,
prosperity, or general welfare. Such uses may be permitted in such zoning
district as conditional users, if specific provision for such CONDITIONAL USES
is made in these zoning regulations.
(85.43.45)
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. The term is equivalent to SPECIAL EXCEPTION.
(85.43.50)
   COVERAGE. The proportion of the lot area, expressed as a percent, covered by
all buildings located thereon, including the area covered by balconies and
overhanging roofs.
(85.43.60)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 85.43) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 85.44. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “D.”
   DAY CARE HOME. A home in which care is given to five or fewer children, not
related to the operator by close ties of blood, marriage, or legal adoption,
outside their own home during any part of the day.
(85.44.05)
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof which is designed or used as a place
of residence for one or more families. The term includes one-family houses,
two-family houses, multiple dwellings, apartment hotels, and mobile homes. The
term does not include hotels, motels, or other similar establishments.
(85.44.70)
   DWELLING, DETACHED. A dwelling which is surrounded on all sides by yards on
the same lot or by streets or by such yards and streets.
(85.44.75)
   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY. A dwelling containing one dwelling unit. Similarly, a
TWO-FAMILY DWELLING contains two dwelling units, and so forth.
(85.44.80)
   DWELLING UNIT. One room, or rooms connected together, constituting a
separate, independent housekeeping establishment for owner occupancy, or rental
or lease on a weekly, monthly, or longer basis, and physically separated from
any other rooms or dwelling units which may be in the same structure, and
containing independent cooking and sleeping facilities. For the purpose of
determining lot area requirements for group quarters, each five sleeping
accommodations shall be treated as one DWELLING UNIT.
(85.44.85)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 85.44) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 85.45. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “E.”
   ENGINEER. The engineer of the city or the person designated by the City
Council to serve in that capacity.
(85.45.50)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 85.45) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 85.46. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “F.”
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit, provided that
unless all members are related by blood or marriage, no such FAMILY shall
contain over five persons, but further provided that domestic servants employed
on the premises may be housed on the premises without being counted as a FAMILY
or FAMILIES.
(85.46.10)
   FLOOR AREA. The total floor area bounded by the exterior walls of a
building.
(85.46.40)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 85.46) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 85.47. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “G.”
   GROUP QUARTERS. A building used as a place of residence by several persons
who share the living accommodations and do not occupy separate dwelling units.
GROUP QUARTERS include institutions, dormitories, rooming and boarding houses,
lodges, sorority and fraternity houses, and similar establishments.
(85.47.70)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 85.47) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 85.48. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “H.”
   HEIGHT OF BUILDING. The vertical distance measured from the average
elevation of the ground along the nearest external wall.
(85.48.20)
   HOME OCCUPATION. A customary occupation or profession conducted for gain or
support by a member of the immediate family residing on the premises.
      (1)   Customary HOME OCCUPATIONS include, but are not limited to, the
following occupations:
         (a)   Architects, engineers, lawyers, planners, and members of similar
professions;
         (b)   Artists, authors, composers, and sculptors;
         (c)   Beauty salons;
         (d)   Day care homes;
         (e)   Dressmakers, sewists, and tailors;
         (f)   Foster homes for not more than six children;
         (g)   Home crafts, such as cabinet work, lapidary work, model making,
and rug weaving;
         (h)   Insurance agents and real estate brokers;
         (i)   Ministers, priests, and rabbis;
         (j)   Salespeople, sales representatives, and manufacturers’
representatives;
         (k)   Teaching of not more than four pupils at one time, or, in the
case of music, not more than one; and
         (l)   Yard work.
      (2)   Customary HOME OCCUPATIONS do not include the following
occupations:
         (a)   Animal hospitals, kennels, or stables;
         (b)   Barber shops;
         (c)   Dancing schools;
         (d)   Funeral homes;
         (e)   Interior decoration workshops;
         (f)   Medical or dental offices or clinics or hospitals;
         (g)   Nursery schools;
         (h)   Restaurants; or
         (i)   Tourist homes.
(85.48.50)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 85.48) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 85.49. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “I.”
   INSPECTION OFFICER. The officer designated by the City Council to administer
this appendix.
(85.49.60)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 85.49) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 85.52. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “L.”
   LOT. A zoning lot, unless the context indicates a lot of record, in which
case, a LOT is a lot of record.
(85.52.20)
   LOT AREA. The total area included within the boundaries of a zoning lot,
measured in a horizontal plane. In the case of a lot abutting an alley, LOT
AREA shall include one-half of the area of such alley, but not more than ten
feet of alley width shall be included in LOT AREA.
(85.52.25)
   LOT, CORNER. Either a zoning lot bounded entirely by streets or a zoning lot
which adjoins the point of intersection or meeting of two or more streets and
in which the interior angle formed by the street lines is 135 degrees or less.
If the street lines are curved, the angle shall be measured at the point of
intersection of the extensions of the street lines in the directions which they
take at the intersections of the street line with the side lot line and with
the rear lot line of the lot. If the street line is curved at its point of
intersection with the side lot line or rear lot line, the tangent to the curve
at that point shall be considered the direction of the street line.
(85.52.30)
   LOT FRONTAGE. The distance for which a zoning lot abuts on a street.
(85.52.35)
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
(85.52.40)
   LOT LINES. The lines bounding a zoning lot.
(85.52.45)
   LOT LINE, FRONT. A lot line that is also a street line.
(85.52.50)
   LOT LINE, INTERIOR. A lot line that is not also a street line.
(85.52.55)
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of an addition or subdivision, duly
surveyed and platted, the map of which has been recorded in the office of the
County Clerk of Woods County, Oklahoma, or a lot described by metes and bounds,
the description of which has been recorded in the office of said County Clerk.
(85.52.60)
   LOT, THROUGH. An interior lot which abuts on two or more streets.
(85.52.65)
   LOT WIDTH.
      (1)   Width of an interior lot that is not a through lot: the length of
the front yard line.
      (2)   Width of a through lot: a width or widths determined on the basis
of a reasonable division of the lot into segments fronting on the several
streets.
      (3)   Width of a corner lot:
         (a)   If there are two front yard lines, the shorter of such lines.
         (b)   If there are more than two front yard lines, the average length
of the two shortest of such lines.
(85.52.70)
   LOT, ZONING. A tract of land in a single block which, at the time of
applying for a zoning permit, is designated by the applicant as a tract to be
used, developed, or built upon as a unit under single ownership or control. A
ZONING LOT, therefore, may or may not coincide with a lot of record. A ZONING
LOT may be subdivided into two or more zoning lots, provided that all resulting
ZONING LOTS and all structures thereon shall comply with all of the applicable
provisions of this appendix. If, however, such ZONING LOT is occupied by a
nonconforming structure, such ZONING LOT may be subdivided, provided that such
subdividing does not create a new nonconformity or increase the degree of
nonconformance of such structure.
(85.52.75)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 85.52) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 85.53. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “M.”
   M DISTRICT. A zoning district whose designation begins with the letter “M.”
(85.53.05)
   MAJOR RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT. A term including, but not limited to, boat,
boat trailer, recreational vehicle, and containers for transporting such
equipment, whether occupied thereby or not.
(85.53.10)
   MAJOR STREET OR HIGHWAY. A street so designated in the Comprehensive Plan.
(85.53.20)
   MOBILE HOME. A vehicle of trailer or semitrailer type, originally
constructed and manufactured as a living quarter mounted on wheels attached
thereto and sold as a part thereof for ready movement of the same on the
highways, even though, when placed on a given location, the wheels are
temporarily removed. The term does not include recreational vehicles.
(85.53.40)
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A zoning lot on which two or more mobile homes are parked
or any zoning lot on which space for the parking of mobile homes is rented. The
term does not include mobile home subdivisions; premises where unoccupied
mobile homes, whether new or used, are parked for the purposes of inspection,
sale, storage, or repair; or recreational vehicle parks.
(85.53.45)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 85.53) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 85.54. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “N.”
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES. A structure, or portion thereof, which was
lawfully erected or altered and maintained but which, because of the
application of this appendix to it, no longer conforms to the regulations of
the district in which it is located, as defined by this appendix.
(85.54.50)
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use which was lawfully established and maintained but
which, because of the application of this appendix to it, no longer conforms to
the use regulations of the district in which it is located, as defined by this
appendix.
(85.54.55)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 85.54) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 85.56. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “P.”
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT. A zoning district established under the
provisions of §§
45.10,
45.20, and
80.20.
(85.56.50)
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The City Planning Commission.
(85.56.55)
   PRINCIPAL USE. The primary or predominant use to which a zoning lot is or
may be devoted and to which all other uses on the premises are accessory.
(85.56.70)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 85.56) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 85.58. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “R.”
   R DISTRICT. A zoning district whose designation begins with the letter “R.”
(85.58.05)
   RG DISTRICT. An R district whose designation begins with the letters “RG.”
(85.58.06)
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is manufactured, constructed, or
equipped as a self-propelled home, house car, or living quarters, capable of
being operated on the highways, but the term shall not include those vehicles
defined in the license and registration law as automobiles, motor buses, or
house trailers, which are also commonly referred to as mobile homes, nor shall
it include those vehicles commonly known and referred to as campers. The term
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE shall include only a vehicle which is permanently
constructed and equipped for living quarters, having its own sleeping and
kitchen facilities, which is propelled by a motor installed thereon and not
towed by another motor vehicle, but shall not include any vehicle of the so-
called camper type from which such living facilities are removable.
(85.58.10)
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. A zoning lot on which two or more recreational
vehicles, camping trailers, or campers are parked or any zoning lot on which
space for the parking of recreational vehicles, camping trailers, or campers is
rented or offered. The term does not include premises on which unoccupied
recreational vehicles, camping trailers, or campers, whether new or used, are
parked for the purposes of inspection, sale, storage, or repair.
(85.58.15)
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING OR USE. A term including dwellings, rooming and
boarding houses, group quarters, residential hotels, mobile homes, hotels,
tourist courts, and motels. A RESIDENTIAL BUILDING is a building containing
only residential uses and uses accessory thereto.
(85.58.25)
   ROOMING HOUSE. Boarding house.
(85.58.60)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 85.58) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 85.59. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “S.”
   SCRAP AND WASTE MATERIALS WHOLESALE. Establishments engaged in assembling,
breaking up, sorting, or distributing scrap and waste materials, including auto
wrecking and junk establishments.
(85.59.10)
   SIGN.
      (1)   Any writing, letter, word, numeral, picture, illustration, emblem,
symbol, trademark, flag, banner, pennant, or any other figure or similar
character, which:
         (a)   Is visible to public view from a public street or way; and
         (b)   Is used to announce, direct attention, or advertise.
      (2)   The term SIGN includes lights designed or used to:
         (a)   Illuminate or direct attention to a sign; or
         (b)   Direct attention to a building, use, or premises other than
solely by illuminating same.
(85.59.20)
   SIGN, ACCESSORY. A sign which directs attention to a business or profession
conducted, or to a principal commodity, service, or entertainment sold or
offered, on the premises where such sign is located. The term includes business
signs, bulletin boards, home occupation signs, nameplates, and real estate
signs.
(85.59.25)
   SIGN, ADVERTISING. A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service, or entertainment which is entirely or primarily conducted, sold, or
offered elsewhere than on the lot on which the sign is located.
(85.59.30)
   SIGN, AREA OF. The entire area within a single, continuous perimeter
enclosing the extreme limits of writing or other representation, together with
any material or color forming an integral part of the display or use to
differentiate the sign from the background against which it is placed.
(85.59.35)
   SIGN, FLASHING. Any illuminated sign, whether stationary, revolving, or
oscillating, which exhibits changing light effects, including changes in the
intensity, color, or direction of light where the rate of change exceeds the
following maximum levels:
      (1)   In the case of revolving or oscillating signs: one revolution or
full oscillation per 30 seconds;
      (2)   In the case of time, temperature, weather, and similar public
information signs: one change of information per 15 seconds; and
      (3)   In the case of other lights that are alternately on and off: 15
seconds on and 15 seconds off.
(85.59.40)
   SIGN, FLASHING, INSTANTANEOUS. A flashing sign where the time periods are
less than one- fifteenth of those set forth in its definition.
(85.59.45)
   SIGN, ILLUMINATED. A sign designed to give forth artificial light or to
reflect artificial light from a source incorporated in or associated with such
sign.
(85.59.50)
   STORAGE, MINI. Storage of non-hazardous residential items, including
vehicles, boats, and recreational vehicles, within a weatherproof building.
(85.59.60)
   STREET. Any public or private right-of-way, highway, road, land, square,
court, or way set aside as a permanent right-of-way for street purposes, 30
feet or more in width if it existed at the time of the enactment of these
regulations, and any public or private way 50 feet or more in width if created
after the enactment of these regulations.
(85.59.70)
   STREET, HALF. Any street platted 25 feet or more in width, where at the time
of approval of the plat, it is the intent of the governing body that said
street dedication shall constitute only a part of the total street easement
width.
(85.59.75)
   STREET, INTERSECTING. Any street which joins another street at an angle,
whether or not it crosses the other.
(85.59.80)
   STREET LINE. A lot line separating a street from a lot.
(85.59.85)
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
permanent location on the ground or attached to something having a permanent
location on the ground, and including (without limiting the generality of the
foregoing) advertising signs, billboards, poster panels, mobile homes, fences,
walls, and like construction.
(85.59.90)
   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS. The subdivision regulations of the city.
(85.59.95)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 85.59) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971; Ord. 807, passed
5-2-1994)
§ 85.60. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “T.”
   TOWNHOUSE. One of series of three or more attached dwelling units, separated
from one another by continuous vertical party walls without openings from
basement floor to roof.
(85.60.55)
   TOWNHOUSE DEVELOPMENT. A tract of land on which there is built or is
proposed to be built three or more townhouses, including the sites of the
townhouses and all common spaces.
(85.60.60)
   TOWNHOUSE, INDIVIDUAL LOT. A lot on which there is built or is proposed to
be built one townhouse.
(85.60.65)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 85.60) (Ord.702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 85.61. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “U.”
   USE OF RIGHT. A principal use permitted without the requirement of a
conditional use permit.
(85.61.75)
   USED or OCCUPIED. Shall include the words intended, designed, or arranged to
be USED or OCCUPIED.
(85.61.80)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 85.61) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 85.62. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “V.”
   VARIANCE. An adjustment in the application of the specific provision of this
appendix to a particular piece of property, which property, because of special
circumstances applicable to it, is deprived of privileges commonly enjoyed by
other properties in the same vicinity and zoning district and which adjustment
remedies disparity in privileges.
(85.62.10)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 85.62) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 85.65. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “Y.”
   YARD. An open space at grade between a building and the adjoining lot lines,
unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground
upward, except as otherwise provided in any other section or sections of this
appendix.
(85.65.05)
   YARD, DEPTH OR WIDTH OF. In measuring a yard for purposes of determining the
depth of a front or rear yard or the width of an interior yard, the least
horizontal distance between the lot line and the building shall be used.
(85.65.10)
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending along the full length of a front lot line.
(85.65.15)
   YARD, INTERIOR. A yard along an interior lot line, but not including part of
any front yard.
(85.65.20)
   YARD LINE, FRONT. The rear line of any front yard of a zoning lot. Such line
may extend from one interior lot line to another interior line or from one part
of an interior lot line to another part of that line, or it may be a continuous
perimeter line, depending on the location of the lot with respect to the block
which contains it.
(85.65.25)
   YARD LINE, INTERIOR. The inner line of an interior yard.
(85.65.30)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 85.65) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 85.66. TERMS BEGINNING WITH “Z.”
   ZONING DISTRICT. A general zoning district, a flood district, or a planned
development district.
(85.66.60)
   ZONING DISTRICT, GENERAL. An A, C, R, M, O, or P district.
(85.66.65)
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 85.66) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
§ 90.10. MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this appendix
shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the
public health, morals, or general welfare.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 90.10) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 90.20. REPEAL OF CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
   All regulations, ordinances, orders, resolutions, or parts thereof in
conflict with these zoning regulations, or inconsistent therewith, are hereby
repealed to the extent necessary to give these regulations full force and
effect.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 90.20) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 90.30. SEPARABILITY.
   In case any portion of this appendix shall be held by a court to be invalid
or unconstitutional, the remainder of this appendix shall not thereby be
invalid, but shall remain in full force.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 90.30) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 90.40. WHEN EFFECTIVE.
   An emergency is hereby declared to exist by reason of which it is deemed
necessary for the immediate preservation of the public health, safety, best
interests, and general welfare that this appendix shall take effect and be in
full force and effect immediately upon its passage and approval, according to
law.
(Prior Code, Appendix B, § 90.40) (Ord. 702, passed 3-15-1971)
APPENDIX C: FRANCHISES
Section
Electric Franchise
   
1.   General definitions
   
2.   Authority to distribute electricity
   
3.   Company not to obstruct traffic
   
4.   Company to indemnify city
   
5.   Rates in accordance with the Corporation Commission
   
6.   Company has right to assign
   
7.   Franchise tax
   
8.   Company to furnish city electricity
   
9.   Special election
   
10.   Acceptance by company
   
11.   Franchise superseded previous arrangement
Gas Franchise
   
1.   Definitions
   
2.   Grant of franchise
   
3.   Franchise assignment, sale, or lease
   
4.   Use and repair of the public ways
   
5.   Regulation of service
   
6.   Depth of pipeline
   
7.   Duty to move or alter lines
   
8.   Indemnification of grantor
   
9.   Grantee’s rules and regulations
   
10.   Maintenance and inspection of records
   
11.   Consideration for franchise: franchise fee
   
12.   Election required
   
13.   Acceptance and effective date
   
14.   Emergency declared
Cable Franchise
   
1.   Definition of terms
   
2.   Grant of franchise
   
3.   Standards of service
   
4.   Regulation by franchising authority
   
5.   Compliance and monitoring
   
6.   Insurance, indemnification, and bonds or other surety
   
7.   Enforcement and termination of franchise
   
8.   Unauthorized reception
   
9.   Miscellaneous provisions
ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
§ 1. GENERAL DEFINITIONS.
   The word CITY, as hereinafter used, shall mean and designate the City of
Alva, Woods County, Oklahoma, and the word COMPANY, as hereinafter used, shall
mean and designate the Oklahoma Gas and Electric Company, a corporation
organized and existing under and by virtue of the laws of the state, and its
successors and assigns.
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article I, § 1) (Ord. 2013-039, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 2. AUTHORITY TO DISTRIBUTE ELECTRICITY.
   (A)   The city hereby grants to the company the right, privilege, and
authority to produce, transmit, distribute, and sell electricity within the
corporate limits of the city for all purposes for which it may be used, to the
city, its inhabitants, and the public generally, and the right, privilege, and
authority to construct, maintain, and operate a system of poles, wires,
conduits, transformers, substations, and other facilities and equipment in,
upon, across, under, and over the streets, alleys, public grounds, and other
places in each and every part of said city for the purpose of producing,
transmitting, distributing, and selling electricity to the city, its
inhabitants, and to the public generally.
   (B)   The franchise hereby granted shall be effective from and after the
date of approval of this ordinance by the qualified electors of the city and
acceptance by the company, and shall remain in full force and effect for a
period of 25 years. Nothing in this ordinance shall be construed to prevent the
city from granting an electric franchise to any other person, firm, or
corporation.
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article I, § 2) (Ord. 2013-039, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 3. COMPANY NOT TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC.
   The company shall construct, operate, and maintain its property in such
manner as will, consistent with necessity, not obstruct nor impede traffic
unduly.
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article I, § 3) (Ord. 2013-039, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 4. COMPANY TO INDEMNIFY CITY.
   The company shall defend and indemnify the city against all liability for
injury to any person or property caused by the negligence of the company in the
construction, operation, and maintenance of its property within the city.
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article I, § 4) (Ord. 2013-039, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 5. RATES IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE CORPORATION COMMISSION.
   Electric service provided hereunder to the city, its inhabitants, and to the
public generally, and rates charged therefor, shall be in accordance with
orders, rules, and regulations of the Corporation Commission of the state or
other governmental authority having jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article I, § 5) (Ord. 2013-039, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 6. COMPANY HAS RIGHT TO ASSIGN.
   The company shall have the right to assign this franchise, and the assignee,
by written acceptance thereof, shall be bound by all the provisions hereof. An
authenticated copy of such assignment and acceptance shall be filed with the
Clerk of the city.
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article I, § 5) (Ord. 2013-039, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 7. FRANCHISE TAX.
   (A)   From and after the approval and acceptance of this franchise, and in
consideration of the granting of this franchise, the company agrees to pay and
shall pay to the city an annual franchise fee in an amount equal to 3% of its
gross revenues arising from the sale of electricity within the corporate limits
of the city, such payment to be made on or before July 25 of each year, after
deducting therefrom any amount due the company from the city.
   (B)   The company shall abide by any order, rule, or regulation of the
Corporation Commission of the state requiring the listing separately of all or
any portion of such franchise fee on electric bills to customers.
   (C)   Such franchise fees paid by the company to the city shall be in lieu
of all other franchise, excise, license, occupation, privilege, inspection,
permit, or other fees, taxes, or assessments, except ad valorem taxes.
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article I, § 7) (Ord. 2013-039, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 8. COMPANY TO FURNISH CITY ELECTRICITY.
   The company shall furnish to the city without charge each fiscal year during
the term hereof electric current to be used exclusively by the city for
operation of traffic signal lights and buildings occupied and operated by the
city for municipal purposes, to be applied by the company as a credit to
billings to the city, provided that such electric current shall not exceed 0.5%
of the kilowatt-hours sold by the company to customers within the corporate
limits of the city during the preceding fiscal year.
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article I, § 8) (Ord. 2013-039, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 9. SPECIAL ELECTION.
   (A)   A special election is hereby called for the purpose of submitting this
ordinance to the qualified electors of the city residing within its corporate
limits for their approval or disapproval, provided the company shall pay the
cost of such election. The election shall be held on September 10, 2013,
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
   (B)   The Mayor of the City Council is authorized and directed to issue an
election proclamation calling such election and is further directed to take all
steps that may be necessary for holding the election and for the submission of
this ordinance to the qualified electors of the city.
   (C)   If a majority of the qualified electors of the city voting thereon
fail to approve this franchise at said election, no rights shall accrue
hereunder.
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article I, § 9) (Ord. 2013-039, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 10. ACCEPTANCE BY COMPANY.
   In case the franchise hereby granted is approved at said election, the
company shall, within 30 days from the date of such approval, file with the
Clerk of the city, in writing, its acceptance. In the event the company fails
to accept within the said period, such failure shall be deemed a rejection of
the franchise.
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article I, § 10) (Ord. 2013-039, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 11. FRANCHISE SUPERSEDED PREVIOUS ARRANGEMENT.
   The franchise hereby granted shall, on its effective date, supersede and
terminate any previous franchise granted to or held by the company.
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article I, § 11) (Ord. 2013-039, passed 6-3-2013)
GAS FRANCHISE
§ 1. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this ordinance, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER. Any individual person, corporation, company, partnership, firm,
unincorporated association, trust, municipality, or public corporation served
by the grantee through any use of the public ways.
   DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM. A system of works, pipes, pipelines, apparatus,
machinery, structures, appliances, and appurtenances as are reasonably
necessary for the transportation, distribution, or sale of gas to consumers.
   FRANCHISE. The rights and privileges granted by grantor to grantee under § 2
(A) of this ordinance.
   GRANTEE. The Oklahoma Natural Gas Company, a division of ONEOK Inc., a
corporation, its successors, and assigns.
   GRANTOR. The City of Alva, Oklahoma, a municipal corporation.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. Cash, cash equivalents, or other considerations actually
received by grantee from a consumer.
   INSTALL, OPERATE, AND MAINTAIN. To acquire, erect, construct, install,
extend, repair, remove, relocate, replace, or otherwise operate and maintain.
   PUBLIC WAYS. Any street, alley, avenue, boulevard, lane, park, parkway,
sidewalk, driveway, utility easement, right-of-way, and any other public ways,
places, areas, or grounds within the corporate limits of the city as now
constituted or as may be added or extended hereafter.
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article II, § 1) (Ord. 809, passed 3-16-1994)
§ 2. GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The grantor hereby grants to grantee for the term of 25 years from the
passage of this ordinance and the filing of a written acceptance by the
grantee, the right to enter upon the public ways to install, operate, and
maintain a distribution system along, across, over, and under the public ways
for the privilege of transporting, distributing, and selling gas to consumers
and the public generally within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   This ordinance shall have the effect of and shall be a contract
between grantor and grantee and shall be the measure of the rights and
liabilities of grantor as well as grantee.
   (C)   The franchise granted by this ordinance is not exclusive, and nothing
herein shall be construed to divest the grantor of its control and regulation
of the public ways.
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article II, § 2) (Ord. 809, passed 3-16-1994)
§ 3. FRANCHISE ASSIGNMENT, SALE, OR LEASE.
   (A)   (1)   Grantee shall not have the right to assign, sell, lease, or
otherwise transfer in any manner whatsoever either the rights and privileges
granted under this ordinance or the distribution system installed, operated,
and maintained hereunder, except as hereinafter provided. Any assignment, sale,
lease, or other transfer by the grantee of the franchise granted herein or the
distribution system installed, operated, and maintained hereunder shall be a
breach of this franchise by the grantee, ineffective and void unless:
         (a)   The proposed assignment, sale, lease, or transfer shall be in
writing;
         (b)   The prospective assignee, buyer, lessee, or other transferee
shall agree in writing to accept and become responsible for full performance of
all conditions, covenants, obligations, and liabilities contained in this
ordinance; and
         (c)   Such writing shall be submitted to the City Clerk in writing and
approved by the Mayor and City Council of the city.
      (2)   This subsection (A) shall not apply to any lease or other
arrangement referenced by the provisions of subsection (B) below. This
subsection (A) shall not apply to any use of any portion of grantee’s
distribution system for the transportation, distribution, or sale to any
consumer purchasing, receiving, and using natural gas outside the corporate
limits of the city.
   (B)   Grantee shall have the right to enter into or continue to operate
pursuant to any lease of capacity in any portion of its distribution system and
to enter into or continue any arrangement by which natural gas owned by any
party other than grantee shall be transported, distributed, or sold through any
portion of grantee’s distribution system for delivery to any consumer within
the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article II, § 3) (Ord. 809, passed 3-16-1994)
§ 4. USE AND REPAIR OF THE PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   Grantee’s distribution system shall be erected, placed, laid, or
otherwise installed, operated, and maintained in such a manner as will,
consistent with reasonable necessity, least interfere with other public uses of
the public ways.
   (B)   (1)   Before grantee shall excavate or disturb the surface of any
public way, except in the case of emergency, at least 48 hours’ notice shall be
given to the City Inspector or other proper authority designated in writing by
the grantor.
      (2)   After such excavation or disturbance, the grantee shall, with due
diligence and dispatch, place the public ways in a condition in compliance with
the grantor’s reasonable standards and specifications.
   (C)   Upon grantee’s failure to commence or complete any construction,
maintenance, or restoration work required by this ordinance with due diligence
and dispatch, the grantor may cause such work to be done after written notice
to grantee, given so as to afford grantee an opportunity to commence and
complete such work within a reasonable time. The cost of such construction,
maintenance, or restoration incurred by grantor upon grantee’s failure shall
then be charged and collected from the grantee.
   (D)   Grantor reserves the right to make and enforce reasonable regulations
concerning the construction, operation, and maintenance of grantee’s
distribution system located along, across, over, or under the public ways and
to reasonably designate where the distribution system’s works and pipelines
shall be placed.
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article II, § 4) (Ord. 809, passed 3-16-1994)
§ 5. REGULATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The distribution system of the grantee shall at all times be
installed, operated, and maintained in such condition as will enable the
grantee to furnish adequate and continuous service as required by the orders,
rules, and regulations of the Corporation Commission of the state or other
regulatory authority having jurisdiction.
   (B)   In the event that the Corporation Commission of the state or other
state regulatory authority should be deprived of the authority to regulate
grantee, then grantor shall have the authority to set rates, terms, and
conditions of service for transportation, distribution, or sale of natural gas
by grantee within the corporation limits of the city.
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article II, § 5) (Ord. 809, passed 3-16-1994)
§ 6. DEPTH OF PIPELINE.
   After the operative date of this franchise, grantee’s main or lateral lines
installed or repaired in public ways shall be installed or replaced at depths
which comply with all applicable state and federal rules and regulations
establishing minimum safety standards for the design, construction,
maintenance, and operation of pipelines. Depth shall be measured from the lower
of existing grade or proposed future grade as set forth on plans or other
specifications existing at the time such lines are installed or replaced.
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article II, § 6) (Ord. 809, passed 3-16-1994)
§ 7. DUTY TO MOVE OR ALTER LINES.
   (A)   Grantor reserves the right to lay or permit to be laid cables,
electric conduits, water, sewer, gas, or other pipelines and to do or permit to
be done any underground work deemed necessary and proper by the grantor, along,
across, over, or under the public ways. In permitting such work to be done, the
grantor shall not be liable to the grantee for any damages so occasioned, nor
shall the grantor, in doing such work, be liable to the grantee for any damages
not willfully and unnecessarily occasioned.
   (B)   Whenever, by reason of establishing a grade or changes in the grade of
any street or in the location or manner of construction of any public way,
cables, electric conduits, water, sewer, gas, or other underground structures,
it shall be deemed necessary by the grantor to alter, change, adapt, or conform
the distribution system of the grantee, such alterations or changes shall be
made within a reasonable time by the grantee, as ordered in writing by the
grantor, without claim for reimbursement or compensation for damages against
grantor.
   (C)   If grantor shall require the grantee to adapt or conform its
distribution system, or in any way to alter, relocate, or change its property
to enable any other person, firm, corporation, or entity (whether public or
private), other than the grantor, to use the public ways, the grantee shall be
reimbursed by the person, firm, corporation, or entity desiring or occasioning
such change for any and all loss, cost, or expense occasioned thereby.
   (D)   PERSON, FIRM, CORPORATION, and ENTITY, as used in subsection (C)
above, shall not include regular departments of the grantor, or any trust or
authority formed by or for the benefit of grantor for public utility purposes,
but shall include any other agency or authority of the city, whether acting in
a governmental or non-governmental capacity, including, but not limited to, any
urban renewal authority, or any other agency or authority which, as a part of
its program, clears whole tracts of land within the city limits and relocates
citizens for the purpose of urban development or similar aims.
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article II, § 7) (Ord. 809, passed 3-16-1994)
§ 8. INDEMNIFICATION OF GRANTOR.
   The grantee shall indemnify, become responsible for, and forever save
harmless the grantor from any and all damages, judgments, reasonable costs and
expenses, including attorney fees, which the grantor may suffer or incur, or
which may be legally obtained against the grantor, for or by reason of the
negligent use, repair, or occupation of any public way within the corporate
limits of the city by the grantee pursuant to the terms of this ordinance or
resulting from the negligent exercise of the grantee of any of its privileges
or by reason of its carrying on its business in said city; provided however,
that in the event of such claim or claims being prosecuted against the grantor,
the grantee shall have the right to defend against the same, and to settle or
discharge same in such manner as it may see fit, and the grantor shall give
prompt written notice to the grantee of the presentation or prosecution of such
claims.
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article II, § 8) (Ord. 809, passed 3-16-1994)
§ 9. GRANTEE’S RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The grantee shall have the right to make and enforce such reasonable rules
and regulations as it may deem necessary for the extension of its facilities,
the sale of its gas, and the prudent conduct of its business, provided that
such rules and regulations shall neither be in conflict with the laws of the
state, with the orders, rules, or regulations of the Corporation Commission of
the state, or other regulatory authority having jurisdiction, nor with the
ordinances and regulations of the grantor insofar as they are consistent with
the jurisdiction of the Corporation Commission of the state or such other
regulatory authority.
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article II, § 9) (Ord. 809, passed 3-16-1994)
§ 10. MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION OF RECORDS.
   (A)   Grantee shall at all times make and keep full and complete plats,
maps, and other records showing the location and size of all elements
comprising grantee’s distribution system within the corporate limits of the
city.
   (B)   Grantee shall permit grantor to inspect and audit during regular
business hours the relevant books, records, plats, and maps kept by grantee
pursuant to this section.
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article II, § 10) (Ord. 809, passed 3-16-1994)
§ 11. CONSIDERATION FOR FRANCHISE: FRANCHISE FEE.
   (A)   In consideration for the rights and privileges enjoyed under the
franchise, grantee agrees to pay grantor, as a franchise fee, a sum equal to 3%
of grantee’s gross receipts from the transportation, distribution, or sale of
gas for domestic, commercial, or industrial consumption within the corporate
limits of the city. Such fee so levied shall be in lieu of all other franchise,
license, or occupation taxes or fees, which may be levied or attempted to be
levied by grantor.
   (B)   Grantee’s franchise fee shall be payable monthly on or before the
twenty-fifth day of each month, on its gross cash receipts of the preceding
calendar month.
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article II, § 11) (Ord. 809, passed 3-16-1994)
§ 12. ELECTION REQUIRED.
   This ordinance shall not become effective until it shall be approved by a
majority of the qualified electors voting thereon residing within the corporate
limits of the city at an election called for that purpose, and a special
election is hereby called for the purpose of submitting to the qualified
electors residing in said city the question of approval or disapproval of this
ordinance, which election shall be held on August 23, 1994, between the hours
prescribed by law. The Mayor of the city is hereby authorized and directed to
issue a proper and lawful call and proclamation of such special election to be
held on such date as aforesaid for said purpose, and the executive officers of
said city are hereby directed to give due and lawful notice of such election
and submission of said question to the electors of said city, prescribing in
said proclamation and notice of the proposition to be voted upon, the time of
opening and closing the polls, the number and location of the polling places,
and the names of the precinct election officers who shall conduct said
election, and all other things prescribed by law or the ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article II, § 12) (Ord. 809, passed 3-16-1994)
§ 13. ACCEPTANCE AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   In the event this ordinance is approved by a majority vote of said electors
voting thereon at said election, the grantee shall file with the City Auditor,
within ten days after the official canvass of the votes and declaration by the
Mayor and City Council of the results thereof, a written acceptance. This
ordinance shall become operative on the date of filing of such acceptance.
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article II, § 13) (Ord. 809, passed 3-16-1994)
§ 14. EMERGENCY DECLARED.
   (A)   An emergency is hereby declared to exist by reason of the fact that no
other person, firm, or corporation has a franchise to furnish gas to
inhabitants of the city, and for the preservation of the public peace, health,
and safety, and by reason whereof, this ordinance shall be effective
immediately from and after its passage, approval, and publication.
   (B)   Passed and the emergency clause ruled upon separately and passed and
approved May 16, 1994.
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article II, § 14) (Ord. 809, passed 3-16-1994)
CABLE FRANCHISE
§ 1. DEFINITION OF TERMS.
   For the purpose of this ordinance, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future tense, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words
in the singular number include the plural number.
   AFFILIATE. An entity which owns or controls, is owned or controlled by, or
is under common ownership or control with grantee.
   BASIC CABLE. The tier of cable service regularly provided to all subscribers
that includes the retransmission of local broadcast television signals.
   CABLE SERVICE.
      (1)   The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or
other programming service; and
      (2)   Subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the selection
or use of such video programming or other programming service.
   FCC. Federal Communications Commission or successor governmental entity
thereto.
   FRANCHISE. The initial authorization, or renewal thereof, issued by
franchising authority, whether such authorization is designated as a franchise,
permit, license, resolution, contract, certificate, or otherwise, which
authorizes construction and operation of the cable system for the purpose of
offering cable service or other service to subscribers.
   FRANCHISING AUTHORITY. The City of Alva or the lawful successor, transferee,
or assignee thereof.
   GRANTEE. Cebridge Acquisition, L.P., d/b/a Suddenlink Communications, or the
lawful successor, transferee, or assignee thereof.
   GROSS REVENUES. The monthly revenues for the provision of cable service
received by grantee directly from subscribers located within the service area.
GROSS REVENUES does not include:
      (1)   Any revenues received from any advertising carried on the cable
system;
      (2)   Any tax, fee, or assessment of any kind imposed by the franchising
authority or other governmental entity on a cable operator, or subscriber, or
both, solely because of their status as such;
      (3)   Any revenues derived from services sold on a per channel or per
view basis;
      (4)   Any revenues derived from installation or repair charges; or
      (5)   Any revenues received from home shopping.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, association, joint stock company, trust
corporation, or governmental entity.
   PUBLIC WAY. The surface of, and the space above and below, any public
street, highway, freeway, bridge, land path, alley, court, boulevard, sidewalk,
parkway, way, lane, public way, drive, circle, or other public right-of-way,
including, but not limited to, public utility easements, dedicated utility
strips, or rights-of-way dedicated for compatible uses and any temporary or
permanent fixtures or improvements located thereon now or hereafter held by
franchising authority in the service area which shall entitle franchising
authority and grantee to the use thereof for the purpose of installing,
operating, repairing, and maintaining the cable system. PUBLIC WAY also means
any easement now or hereafter held by franchising authority within the service
area for the purpose of public travel, or for utility or public service use
dedicated for compatible uses, and shall include other easements or rights-of-
way as shall, within their proper use and meaning, entitle franchising
authority and grantee to the use thereof for the purposes of installing or
transmitting grantee’s cable service or other service over poles, wires,
cables, conductors, ducts, conduits, vaults, manholes, pedestals, amplifiers,
appliances, attachments, and other related property or equipment as may be
necessary or appurtenant to the cable system.
   SERVICE AREA. The present municipal boundaries of franchising authority if
franchising authority is a city, and shall include any additions thereto by
annexation or other legal means; and means the county boundaries of franchising
authority if franchising authority is a county.
   SUBSCRIBER. A user of the cable system who lawfully receives cable service
or other service therefrom with grantee’s express permission.
   VIDEO PROGRAMMING. Programming provided by, or generally considered
comparable to programming provided by, a television broadcast station.
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article III, § 1) (Ord. 2010-28, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 2. GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Grant. Franchising authority hereby grants to grantee a nonexclusive
franchise which authorizes grantee to construct and operate a cable system and
offer cable service and other service in, along, among, upon, across, above,
over, under, or in any manner connected with public ways within the service
area and, for that purpose, to erect, install, construct, repair, replace,
reconstruct, maintain, or retain in, on, over, under, upon, across, or along
any public way and all extensions thereof and additions thereto, such poles,
wires, cables, conductors, ducts, conduits, vaults, manholes, pedestals,
amplifiers, appliances, attachments, and other related property or equipment as
may be necessary or appurtenant to the cable system.
(2.1)
   (B)   Term. The franchise granted pursuant to this ordinance shall be for an
initial term of ten years from the passed and adopted date of the franchise
unless otherwise lawfully terminated in accordance with the terms of this
ordinance.
(2.2)
   (C)   Acceptance. Grantee shall accept the franchise granted pursuant hereto
by signing this ordinance and filing same with the City Clerk or other
appropriate official or agency of franchising authority within 60 days after
the passage and final adoption of this ordinance.
(2.3)
   (D)   Favored nations.
      (1)   In the event franchising authority enters into, or has entered
into, a franchise, permit, license, authorization, or other agreement of any
kind with any person other than grantee to enter into franchising authority’s
streets and public ways for the purpose of constructing or operating a cable
system or providing cable service or video service to any part of the service
area, the material provisions thereof shall be reasonably comparable to those
contained herein, in order that one operator not be granted an unfair
competitive advantage over another, and to provide all parties equal protection
under the law.
      (2)   If another provider of cable services, video services, or other
television services utilizing any system or technology requiring use of the
rights-of-way in the service area, is lawfully authorized by any governmental
entity or otherwise exempt from obtaining a franchise to provide such services,
franchising authority hereby agrees that, upon a request from grantee, as a
matter of law, grantee’s franchise will be modified within 30 days of the
granting of such authorization or exemption for the purpose of establishing the
same terms and conditions as such person(s) on a competitively neutral basis.
(2.4)
   (E)   Change of law. In the event the federal, state, or local law, rules,
or regulations are amended, modified, or created that have the effect of
modifying the terms and conditions of this franchise during the term or any
extension thereof, the grantee has the sole option to terminate this franchise
upon 90 days’ notice to the grantor.
(2.5)
   (F)   Renewal of franchise. By mutual consent, the grantee shall have the
option to renew this franchise for an additional period not to exceed ten
years. Should grantee desire to exercise this option, it shall so notify the
franchising authority in writing, not less than three months prior to
expiration of this franchise.
(2.6)
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article III, § 2) (Ord. 2010-28, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 3. STANDARDS OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Conditions of street occupancy. All transmission and distribution
structures, poles, other lines, and equipment installed or erected by grantee
pursuant to the terms hereof shall be located so as to cause a minimum of
interference with the proper use of public ways and with the rights and
reasonable convenience of property owners who own property that adjoins any of
such public ways.
(3.1)
   (B)   Restoration of public ways. If, during the course of grantee’s
construction, operation, or maintenance of the cable system, there occurs a
disturbance of any public way by grantee, it shall, at its expense, replace and
restore such public way to a condition reasonably comparable to the condition
of the public way existing immediately prior to such disturbance.
(3.2)
   (C)   Relocation at request of franchising authority. Upon its receipt of
reasonable advance notice, not to be less than 30 days, grantee shall, at its
own expense, protect, support, temporarily disconnect, relocate in the public
way, or remove from the public way, any property of grantee when lawfully
required by franchising authority by reason of traffic conditions, public
safety, street abandonment, freeway and street construction, change or
establishment of street grade, installation of sewers, drains, gas or water
pipes, or any other type of structures or improvements by franchising
authority; but, grantee shall in all cases have the right of abandonment of its
property. If public funds are available to any company using such street,
easement, or right-of-way for the purpose of defraying the cost of any of the
foregoing, such funds shall also be made available to grantee.
(3.3)
   (D)   Relocation at request of third party. Grantee shall, on the request of
any person holding a building moving permit issued by franchising authority,
temporarily raise or lower its wires to permit the moving of such building,
provided:
      (1)   The expense of such temporary raising or lowering of wires is paid
by such person, including, if required by grantee, making such payment in
advance; and
      (2)   Grantee is given not fewer than ten business days’ advance written
notice to arrange for such temporary wire changes.
(3.4)
   (E)   Trimming of trees and shrubbery. Grantee shall have the authority to
trim trees or other natural growth overhanging any of its cable system in the
service area so as to prevent branches from coming in contact with grantee’s
wires, cables, or other equipment. Grantee shall be permitted to charge persons
who own or are responsible for such trees or natural growth for the cost of
such trimming, provided that similar charges are assessed by and paid to the
utilities of franchising authority for tree trimming. Grantee shall reasonably
compensate franchising authority or property owner for any damages caused by
such trimming, or shall, in its sole discretion and at its own cost and
expense, reasonably replace all trees or shrubs damaged as a result of any
construction of the system undertaken by grantee. Such replacement shall
satisfy any and all obligations grantee may have to franchising authority or
property owner pursuant to the terms of this section.
(3.5)
   (F)   Safety requirements. Construction, installation, and maintenance of
the cable system shall be performed in an orderly and workmanlike manner. All
such work shall be performed in substantial accordance with applicable FCC or
other federal, state, and local regulations. The cable system shall not
unreasonably endanger or interfere with the safety of persons or property in
the service area.
(3.6)
   (G)   Aerial and underground construction. In those areas of the service
area where all of the transmission or distribution facilities of the respective
public utilities providing telephone communications and electric services are
underground, grantee likewise shall construct, operate, and maintain all of its
transmission and distribution facilities underground; provided, that such
facilities are actually capable of receiving grantee’s cable and other
equipment without technical degradation of the cable system’s signal quality.
In those areas of the service area where the transmission or distribution
facilities of the respective public utilities providing telephone
communications and electric services are both aerial and underground, grantee
shall have the sole discretion to construct, operate, and maintain all of its
transmission and distribution facilities or any part thereof, aerially or
underground. Nothing contained in this subsection (G) shall require grantee to
construct, operate, and maintain underground any ground-mounted appurtenances
such as subscriber taps, line extenders, system passive devices (splitters,
directional couplers), amplifiers, power supplies, pedestals, or other related
equipment. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this
subsection (G), in the event that all of the transmission or distribution
facilities of the respective public utilities providing telephone
communications and electric services are placed underground after the effective
date of this ordinance, grantee shall only be required to construct, operate,
and maintain all of its transmission and distribution facilities underground if
it is given reasonable notice and access to the public utilities’ facilities at
the time that such are placed underground.
(3.7)
   (H)   Required extensions of service. The cable system, as constructed as of
the date of the passage and final adoption of this ordinance, substantially
complies with the material provisions hereof. Grantee is hereby authorized to
extend the cable system as necessary, as desirable, or as required pursuant to
the terms hereof within the service area. Whenever grantee shall receive a
request for service from at least 15 subscribers within 1,320 cable-bearing
strand feet (one-quarter cable mile) of its trunk or distribution cable, it
shall extend its cable system to such subscribers at no cost to such
subscribers for system extension, other than the usual connection fees for all
subscribers; provided, that such extension is technically feasible, and if it
will not adversely affect the operation, financial condition, or market
development of the cable system, or as provided for under subsection (I) below.
(3.8)
   (I)   Subscriber charges for extensions of service. No subscriber shall be
refused service arbitrarily. However, for unusual circumstances, such as a
subscriber’s request to locate his or her cable drop underground, existence of
more than 150 feet of distance from distribution cable to connection of service
to subscribers, or a density of fewer than 15 subscribers per 1,320 cable-
bearing strand feet of trunk or distribution cable, cable service or other
service may be made available on the basis of a capital contribution in aid of
construction, including cost of material, labor, and easements. Potential
subscribers shall bear the costs of the construction and other costs on a pro
rata basis. Grantee may require payment in advance of the capital contribution
in aid of construction borne by such potential subscribers.
(3.9)
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article III, § 3) (Ord. 2010-28, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 4. FRANCHISE FEE.
   (A)   Franchise fee.
      (1)   Grantee shall pay to franchising authority a franchise fee equal to
2% of gross revenues from the provision of cable services within the franchise
area received by grantee on a quarterly basis; provided however, that grantee
may credit against any such payments:
         (a)   Any tax, fee, or assessment of any kind imposed by franchising
authority or other governmental entity on a cable operator, or subscriber, or
both, solely because of their status as such;
         (b)   Any tax, fee, or assessment of general applicability which is
unduly discriminatory against cable operators or subscribers (including any
such tax, fee, or assessment imposed, both on utilities and cable operators and
their services); and
         (c)   Any other special tax, assessment, or fee, such as a business,
occupation, and entertainment tax. For the purpose of this section, the three-
month period applicable under the franchise for the computation of the
franchise fee shall be a calendar quarter, unless otherwise agreed to in
writing by franchising authority and grantee. The franchise fee payment shall
be due and payable 60 days after the close of the preceding calendar quarter.
Each payment shall be accompanied by a letter from a representative of grantee
showing the basis for the computation.
      (2)   The period of limitation for recovery of any franchise fee payable
hereunder shall be three years from the date on which payment by grantee is
due. Unless, within three years from and after such payment due date,
franchising authority initiates a lawsuit for recovery of franchise fees in a
court of competent jurisdiction, recovery shall be barred, and franchising
authority shall be stopped from asserting any claims whatsoever against grantee
relating to alleged franchise fee deficiencies.
(4.1)
   (B)   Rates and charges. Franchising authority may not regulate the rates
for the provision of cable service or other service, including, but not limited
to, ancillary charges relating thereto, except as expressly provided herein and
except as may be authorized pursuant to federal and state law. From time to
time, and at any time, grantee has the right to modify its rates and charges,
at its discretion and without consent of franchising authority, including, but
not limited to, the implementation of additional charges and rates; provided
however, that grantee shall give notice to franchising authority of any such
modifications or additional charges 30 days prior to the effective date
thereof.
(4.2)
   (C)   Conditions of sale.
      (1)   Except to the extent expressly required by federal or state law, if
a renewal or extension of the franchise is denied or the franchise is lawfully
terminated, and franchising authority either lawfully acquires ownership of the
cable system or, by its actions, lawfully effects a transfer of ownership of
the cable system to another party, any such acquisition or transfer shall be at
a fair market value, determined on the basis of the cable system valued as a
going concern.
      (2)   Grantee and franchising authority agree that, in the case of a
lawful revocation of the franchise, at grantee’s request, which shall be made
in its sole discretion, grantee shall be given a reasonable opportunity to
effectuate a transfer of its cable system to a qualified third party.
Franchising authority further agrees that, during such a period of time, it
shall authorize grantee to continue to operate pursuant to the terms of its
prior franchise; however, in no event shall such authorization exceed a period
of time greater than six months from the effective date of such revocation. If,
at the end of that time, grantee is unsuccessful in procuring a qualified
transferee or assignee of its cable system which is reasonably acceptable to
franchising authority, grantee and franchising authority may avail themselves
of any rights they may have pursuant to federal or state law; it being further
agreed that grantee’s continued operation of its cable system during the six-
month period shall not be deemed to be a waiver, nor an extinguishment of, any
rights of either franchising authority or grantee. Notwithstanding anything to
the contrary set forth in subsection (D) below, neither franchising authority
nor grantee shall be required to violate federal or state law.
(4.3)
   (D)   Transfer of franchise. All of the rights and privileges and all of the
obligations, duties, and liabilities created by this franchise shall pass to
and be binding upon the successors of the franchising authority and the
successors and assigns of grantee; and the same shall not be assigned or
transferred without the written approval of the City Council, which approval
shall not be unreasonably withheld; provided however, that this section shall
not prevent the assignment or hypothecation of the franchise by grantee as
security for debt without such approval; and provided further, that transfers
or assignments of this franchise between any parent and subsidiary corporation
or between entities of which at least 50% of the beneficial ownership is held
by the same person, persons, or entities which are controlled or managed by the
same person, persons, or entities, shall be permitted without the prior
approval of the franchising authority (“intracompany transfers”). Grantee shall
notify franchising authority in writing within 30 days of the closing of such
intracompany transfer.
(4.4)
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article III, § 4) (Ord. 2010-28, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 5. COMPLIANCE AND MONITORING.
   Grantee agrees that franchising authority may review such of grantee’s books
and records, during normal business hours and on a nondisruptive basis, as are
reasonably necessary to monitor compliance with the terms hereof. Such records
include, but are not limited to, any public records required to be kept by
grantee pursuant to the rules and regulations of the FCC. Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary set forth herein, grantee shall not be required to
disclose information which it reasonably deems to be proprietary or
confidential in nature. Franchising authority agrees to treat any information
disclosed to it by grantee as confidential, and to disclose it only to
employees, representatives, and agents of franchising authority that have a
need to know, or in order to enforce the provisions hereof.
(5.1)
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article III, § 5) (Ord. 2010-28, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 6. INSURANCE, INDEMNIFICATION, AND BONDS OR OTHER SURETY.
   (A)   Insurance requirements. Grantee shall maintain in full force and
effect during the term of the franchise, at its own cost and expense,
comprehensive general liability insurance in the amount of $1,000,000. Such
insurance shall designate franchising authority as an additional insured.
(6.1)
   (B)   Indemnification. Grantee agrees to indemnify, save, and hold harmless,
and defend franchising authority, its officers, boards, and employees, from and
against any liability for damages and for any liability or claims resulting
from property damage or bodily injury (including accidental death) which arise
out of grantee’s construction, operation, or maintenance of its cable system,
including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.
(6.2)
   (C)   Bonds and other surety. Except as expressly provided herein, grantee
shall not be required to obtain or maintain bonds or other surety as a
condition of being awarded the franchise or continuing its existence.
Franchising authority acknowledges that the legal, financial, and technical
qualifications of grantee are sufficient to afford compliance with the terms of
the franchise and the enforcement thereof. Grantee and franchising authority
recognize that the costs associated with bonds and other surety may ultimately
be borne by the subscribers in the form of increased rates for cable service or
other service. In order to minimize such costs, franchising authority agrees to
require bonds and other surety only in such amounts and during such times as
there is a reasonably demonstrated need therefor. Franchising authority agrees
that, in no event, however, shall it require a bond or other related surety in
an aggregate amount greater than $10,000, conditioned upon the substantial
performance of the material terms, covenants, and conditions of the franchise.
Initially, no bond or other surety shall be required. In the event that one is
required in the future, franchising authority agrees to give grantee at least
60 days’ prior written notice thereof stating the exact reason for the
requirement. Such reason must demonstrate a change in grantee’s legal,
financial, or technical qualifications which would materially prohibit or
impair its ability to comply with the terms of the franchise or afford
compliance therewith.
(6.3)
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article III, § 6) (Ord. 2010-28, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 7. ENFORCEMENT AND TERMINATION OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Notice of violation. In the event that franchising authority believes
that grantee has not complied with the terms of the franchise, it shall notify
grantee in writing of the exact nature of the alleged default.
(7.1)
   (B)   Grantee’s right to cure or respond. Grantee shall have 60 days from
receipt of the notice described in subsection (A) above:
      (1)   To respond to franchising authority contesting the assertion of
default;
      (2)   To cure such default; or
      (3)   In the event that, by the nature of the default, such default
cannot be cured within the 60-day period, to initiate reasonable steps to
remedy such default and to notify franchising authority of the steps being
taken and the projected date that they will be completed.
(7.2)
   (C)   Public hearing. In the event that grantee fails to respond to the
notice described in subsection (A) above pursuant to the procedures set forth
in subsection (B) above, or in the event that the alleged default is not
remedied within 120 days after grantee is notified of the alleged default
pursuant to subsection (A) above, franchising authority shall schedule a public
meeting to investigate the default. Such public meeting shall be held at the
next regularly scheduled meeting of franchising authority which is scheduled at
a time which is no fewer than five business days therefrom. Franchising
authority shall notify grantee of the time and place of such meeting and
provide grantee with an opportunity to be heard.
(7.3)
   (D)   Enforcement. 
      (1)   Subject to applicable federal and state law, in the event
franchising authority determines, after such meeting, that grantee is in
default of any provision of the franchise, franchising authority may:
         (a)   Foreclose on all or any part of any security provided under the
franchise, if any, including, without limitation, any bonds or other surety;
provided however, that the foreclosure shall only be in such a manner and in
such amount as franchising authority reasonably determines is necessary to
remedy the default;
         (b)   Commence an action at law for monetary damages or seek other
equitable relief;
         (c)   In the case of a substantial default of a material provision of
the franchise, declare the franchise agreement to be revoked; or
         (d)   Seek specific performance of any provision which reasonably
lends itself to such remedy, as an alternative to damages.
      (2)   Grantee shall not be relieved of any of its obligations to comply
promptly with any provision of the franchise by reason of any failure of
franchising authority to enforce prompt compliance.
(7.4)
   (E)   Acts of God. Grantee shall not be held in default of the provisions of
the franchise, nor suffer any enforcement or penalty relating thereto, where
such alleged default is caused by strikes, acts of God, power outages, or other
events reasonably beyond its ability to control.
(7.5)
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article III, § 7) (Ord. 2010-28, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 8. UNAUTHORIZED RECEPTION.
   In addition to those criminal and civil remedies provided by state and
federal law, it shall be a misdemeanor for any person to create or make use of
any unauthorized connection, whether physically, electrically, acoustically,
inductively, or otherwise, with any part of the cable system without the
express consent of grantee. Further, without the express consent of grantee, it
shall be a misdemeanor for any person to tamper with, remove, or injure any
property, equipment, or part of the cable system or any means of receiving
cable service or other service. Subject to applicable federal and state law,
franchising authority shall incorporate into its criminal code, if not
presently a part thereof, criminal misdemeanor law which shall enforce the
intent of this section.
(8.1)
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article III, § 8) (Ord. 2010-28, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 9. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Preemption. If the FCC or any other federal or state body or agency
shall now or hereafter exercise any paramount jurisdiction over the subject
matter of the franchise, then to the extent such jurisdiction shall preempt and
supersede or preclude the exercise of the like jurisdiction by franchising
authority, the jurisdiction of franchising authority shall cease and no longer
exist.
(9.1)
   (B)   Employment requirements. Grantee shall afford equal opportunity in
employment to all qualified persons. No person shall be discriminated against
in employment because of race, color, religion, national origin, or sex.
Grantee shall maintain and carry out a continuing program of specific practices
designed to assure equal opportunity in every aspect of its employment policies
and practices.
(9.2)
   (C)   Actions of franchising authority. In any action by franchising
authority or representative thereof mandated or permitted under the terms
hereof, such party shall act in a reasonable, expeditious, and timely manner.
Furthermore, in any instance where approval or consent is required under the
terms hereof, such approval or consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
(9.3)
   (D)   Notice.
      (1)   Unless expressly otherwise agreed between the parties, every notice
or response to be served upon franchising authority or grantee shall be in
writing, and shall be deemed to have been duly given to the required party five
business days after having been posted in a properly sealed and correctly
addressed envelope by certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, at a post
office or branch thereof regularly maintained by the U.S. Postal Service.
      (2)   The notices or responses to franchising authority shall be
addressed as follows:
City of Alva
415 4th Street
Alva, OK 73717
      (3)   The notices or responses to grantee shall be addressed as follows:
Suddenlink, Attn: Angela Blair
131 E. Maine Avenue
Enid, OK 73701
Direct: 580-977-3940
Fax: 580-242-4801
Cc: Suddenlink Communications
Attention: Michael Zarrilli
12444 Powerscourt Drive
Suite 140
St. Louis, MO 63131
      (4)   Franchising authority and grantee may designate such other address
or addresses from time to time by giving written notice to the other party.
(9.4)
   (E)   Descriptive headings. The captions to sections contained herein are
intended solely to facilitate the reading thereof. Such captions shall not
affect the meaning or interpretation of the text herein.
(9.5)
   (F)   Severability. If any section, sentence, paragraph, term, or provision
hereof is determined to be illegal, invalid, or unconstitutional, by any court
of competent jurisdiction or by any state or federal regulatory authority
having jurisdiction thereof, such determination shall have no effect on the
validity of any other section, sentence, paragraph, term, or provision hereof,
all of which shall remain in full force and effect for the term of the
franchise, or any renewal or renewals thereof.
(9.6)
   (G)   Passage. Passed and adopted September 7, 2010, subject to applicable
federal, state, and local law.
(Prior Code, Appendix C, Article III, § 9) (Ord. 2010-28, passed 9-7-2010)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oklahoma Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OKLAHOMA STATUTES
O.S. Section Code Section
O.S. Section                   Code Section
3 O.S. 61                      Ch. 8, Art. I;
                               8-19
3 O.S. 61 et seq.              Ch. 8, Art. V
3 O.S. 62                      Ch. 8, Art. I;
                               8-19
                               Ch. 8, Art. I;
3 O.S. 65.1 et seq.            8-19;
                               8-20
3 O.S. 100 et seq.             Ch. 8, Art. V
3 O.S. 100 to 113              Ch. 8, Art. I;
                               8-19
3 O.S. 103                     Ch. 8, Art. V
3 O.S. 111                     8-118
4 O.S. 31 et seq.              Ch. 6, Art. I
4 O.S. 42.4                    Ch. 6, Art. III
4 O.S. 44 et seq.              Ch. 6, Art. III;
                               6-71
4 O.S. 499 et seq.             Ch. 6, Art. III
11 O.S. 2-105                  2-43
11 O.S. 8-105                  2-195
11 O.S. 9-101 et seq.          2-19
11 O.S. 9-102                  Ch. 2, Art. II
11 O.S. 9-104 through 9-106    2-75
11 O.S. 9-105                  Ch. 2, Art. III
11 O.S. 9-107 through 9-108    2-76
11 O.S. 9-109                  2-77;
                               2-78
                               Ch. 2, Art. III;
11 O.S. 9-112                  2-161;
                               2-162
11 O.S. 9-113                  Ch. 2, Art. III;
                               2-194
11 O.S. 9-114                  2-238;
                               30-1
11 O.S. 9-115                  Ch. 2, Art. III
11 O.S. 9-116                  2-242
11 O.S. 9-117                  Ch. 2, Art. III;
                               2-241
11 O.S. 9-118                  Ch. 2, Art. III;
                               2-241
11 O.S. 14-103 et seq.         1-11
                               1-1;
11 O.S. 14-107                 1-12;
                               10-25
11 O.S. 14-108                 1-1;
                               1-12
11 O.S. 14-109                 1-1;
                               1-12
11 O.S. 14-111                 1-14
11 O.S. 16-107                 Ch. 2, Art. II
11 O.S. 16-203                 Ch. 2, Art. II
11 O.S. 17-102(D)              20-207
11 O.S. 20-101                 2-43
11 O.S. 20-102 through 20- 105 2-43
                               Ch. 12, Art. I;
11 O.S. 22-106                 12-21;
                               Ch. 42, Art. XIV
                               Ch. 12, Art. I;
11 O.S. 22-107                 12-21;
                               Ch. 12, Art. III
11 O.S. 22-108                 32-110
                               32-68;
11 O.S. 22-110                 32-70;
                               32-72
11 O.S. 22-111                 Ch. 18, Art. III;
                               18-97
11 O.S. 22-111(A)(1)           18-103
11 O.S. 22-111(A)(4)           18-106;
                               18-107
11 O.S. 22-111(A)(5)           18-108
11 O.S. 22-111(A)(6)           18-109
11 O.S. 22-111(D)              18-96
11 O.S. 22-111(E)              18-110
11 O.S. 22-115                 Ch. 6, Art. I;
                               6-2
11 O.S. 22-118                 Ch. 42, Art. XIV;
                               42-668
11 O.S. 26-101 et seq.         Ch. 38, Art. II;
                               38-19
11 O.S. 26-109                 38-21
11 O.S. 27-101                 34-2
11 O.S. 27-101 et seq.         Ch. 34, Art. I
11 O.S. 27-101 to 27-131       34-2
11 O.S. 27-102                 34-2
11 O.S. 27-103                 34-3
                               34-4;
11 O.S. 27-104                 34-5;
                               34-9;
                               34-10
11 O.S. 27-105                 34-12
11 O.S. 27-106                 34-6—
                               34-8
11 O.S. 27-107                 34-11
11 O.S. 27-108                 34-15
11 O.S. 27-109                 34-14
11 O.S. 27-110                 34-13
11 O.S. 27-111                 34.16
11 O.S. 27-114                 34-17
11 O.S. 27-115                 34-19
11 O.S. 27-116                 34-26
11 O.S. 27-117                 34-24
11 O.S. 27-119                 1-14
11 O.S. 27-122.1               34-29
11 O.S. 27-122.1(B)            34-28
11 O.S. 27-122.1(C)            34-28
11 O.S. 27-122.2               34-29
11 O.S. 27-123                 34-28
11 O.S. 27-124                 34-28
11 O.S. 27-126                 1-14;
                               34-30
11 O.S. 29-101 et seq.         22-105
11 O.S. 29-106 through 29- 108 22-109
11 O.S. 29-201 et seq.         22-136
11 O.S. 30-101 et seq.         Ch. 26, Art. III;
                               26-77
11 O.S. 30-102                 26-75
11 O.S. 34-101 et seq.         30-1
11 O.S. 41-101 et seq.         Appendix A
                               Appendix A, 1.20;
11 O.S. 43-101 et seq.         Appendix B, 1.10;
                               36-108
11 O.S. 43-103 through 43- 110 Appendix B, 45.20
11 O.S. 44-101 et seq.         Appendix B;
                               36-108
11 O.S. 45-101                 36-40
                               Appendix B; 
11 O.S. 45-101 et seq.         Ch. 36. Art. II;
                               36-108
11 O.S. 45-104                 36-134
11 O.S. 47-101 et seq.         Appendix B
12 O.S. 72                     1-2
12 O.S. 2006                   1-2
15 O.S. 511 et seq.            Ch. 30, Art. II
21 O.S. 1 et seq.              32-104
21 O.S. 1 et seq.              Ch. 32, Art. I
21 O.S. 42                     32-1
21 O.S. 268                    32-173
21 O.S. 351                    32-171
21 O.S. 537                    32-165
21 O.S. 539                    32-173
21 O.S. 540A                   42-41
21 O.S. 540B                   32-172
21 O.S. 642                    32-140
21 O.S. 644                    32-140
21 O.S. 646(B)                 42-49
21 O.S. 649                    32-164;
                               32-166
21 O.S. 650.7                  32-140
21 O.S. 831                    32-94
21 O.S. 915                    32-65
21 O.S. 941 through 948        32-110
21 O.S. 981 through 987        32-110
21 O.S. 1021                   32-103
21 O.S. 1025                   32-100
21 O.S. 1029                   32-99
21 O.S. 1081                   32-99
21 O.S. 1102                   Ch. 12, Art. VI
21 O.S. 1205                   32-33
21 O.S. 1254                   32-94
21 O.S. 1289.1 et seq.         32-70
21 O.S. 1289.11                32-71
21 O.S. 1289.24                32-70
21 O.S. 1353                   32-30
21 O.S. 1362                   32-65;
                               32-73
21 O.S. 1365                   42-619
21 O.S. 1515                   32-29
21 O.S. 1541.1                 32-112;
                               32-113
21 O.S. 1541.4                 32-113
21 O.S. 1685                   6-13
21 O.S. 1686                   6-16
21 O.S. 1689                   6-14
21 O.S. 1691                   6-16
21 O.S. 1692.1 et seq.         6-15
21 O.S. 1693 et seq.           6-15
21 O.S. 1704                   32-23
21 O.S. 1706                   32-23
21 O.S. 1713                   32-24
21 O.S. 1737                   32-29
21 O.S. 1752.1                 42-618
21 O.S. 1760                   32-26;
                               32-34
21 O.S. 1761.1                 32-32;
                               32-33
21 O.S. 1768                   32-35
21 O.S. 1773                   32-35
21 O.S. 1786                   32-29
21 O.S. 1787                   32-25
21 O.S. 1788                   32-25
21 O.S. 1835                   32-31;
                               32-36
21 O.S. 1838                   32-27
21 O.S. 1851                   32-170;
                               32-171
22 O.S. 1115.1 et seq.         34-20
22 O.S. 1261 et seq.           Ch. 30, Art. II
22 O.S. 1321 et seq.           Ch. 30, Art. II
25 O.S. 23                     1-2
25 O.S. 25                     1-2
25 O.S. 31                     1-2
25 O.S. 82.1                   1-2
                               20-165;
25 O.S. 301 through 314        34-31;
                               38-126
25 O.S. 1101 et seq.           Ch. 28, Art. II
26 O.S. 7-110                  32-96
27A O.S. 1-1-101 et seq.       Ch. 44, Art. I
29 O.S. 7-203                  32-2
37 O.S. 163.2                  4-1
37 O.S. 163.10                 4-91
                               4-1;
37A O.S. 1-101 through 6- 129  4-31;
                               4-134
37A O.S. 1-103                 32-96;
                               32-97
37A O.S. 2-101                 4-21
37A O.S. 2-139                 Ch. 4, Art. V
37A O.S. 2-141 et seq.         4-28
37A O.S. 2-142                 4-29
                               4-21;
37A O.S. 3-108                 Ch. 4, Art. IV;
                               4-91
37A O.S. 3-123                 4-33;
                               4-34
37A O.S. 3-125                 4-48
37A O.S. 4-101                 4-147
37A O.S. 4-103                 4-40
37A O.S. 4-104                 Ch. 4, Art. II
37A O.S. 4-105                 4-21
                               4-46;
37A O.S. 6-102                 4-47;
                               4-50
37A O.S. 6-103                 4-49
37A O.S. 6-120                 4-42
37A O.S. 6-121                 4-44
37A O.S. 6-124                 4-45
                               4-1;
37A O.S. 7-102                 4-32;
                               32-97
43A O.S. 3-428                 32-95
43A O.S. 3-460                 42-171
                               Ch. 42, Art. I;
47 O.S. 1-101 et seq.          42-1—
                               42-3
47 O.S. 1-103(B)               42-2
47 O.S. 1-114A                 42-2
47 O.S. 1-125                  42-2
47 O.S. 1-136.3                42-2
47 O.S. 1-174                  42-668
47 O.S. 6-101                  42-45;
                               42-47
47 O.S. 6-205                  42-171
47 O.S. 6-303                  42-46
47 O.S. 7-600                  42-49
47 O.S. 7-607                  Ch. 42, Art. XIV
47 O.S. 8-104                  Ch. 42, Art. XIV
47 O.S. 10-101 et seq.         42-3;
                               42-49
47 O.S. 10-103                 42-49
47 O.S. 10-104                 42-49
47 O.S. 11-101 et seq.         42-480
47 O.S. 11-103                 42-32;
                               42-34
47 O.S. 11-104                 42-36
47 O.S. 11-105                 42-39
47 O.S. 11-106                 42-41;
                               42-42
47 O.S. 11-201                 42-314
47 O.S. 11-201 et seq.         Ch. 42, Art. VI
47 O.S. 11-201(a)              42-316
47 O.S. 11-201(b)              42-317
                               42-318;
47 O.S. 11-202                 42-321;
                               42-522
                               42-318;
47 O.S. 11-203                 42-321;
                               42-322
47 O.S. 11-204                 42-319
47 O.S. 11-204.1               42-328
47 O.S. 11-205                 42-321
47 O.S. 11-206                 42-323
47 O.S. 11-207(A)              42-324
47 O.S. 11-301                 42-146
47 O.S. 11-301(A)(2)           42-149
47 O.S. 11-303                 42-148
47 O.S. 11-304                 42-147;
                               42-445
47 O.S. 11-305                 42-149
47 O.S. 11-307                 42-154
47 O.S. 11-308                 42-152
47 O.S. 11-309                 42-145
47 O.S. 11-310                 42-153
47 O.S. 11-401                 42-187
47 O.S. 11-402                 42-188
47 O.S. 11-403(B)              42-190;
                               42-195
47 O.S. 11-403(C)              42-189;
                               42-196
47 O.S. 11-403(D)              42-191
47 O.S. 11-404                 42-197
47 O.S. 11-405                 42-42
47 O.S. 11-501                 42-480
47 O.S. 11-501 et seq.         Ch. 42, Art. X
47 O.S. 11-501.1               42-481
47 O.S. 11-502                 42-482
47 O.S. 11-503                 42-485
47 O.S. 11-504                 42-488
47 O.S. 11-506                 42-486
47 O.S. 11-507                 42-487
47 O.S. 11-601                 42-444
47 O.S. 11-603                 42-178
47 O.S. 11-604                 42-445
47 O.S. 11-605                 42-446
47 O.S. 11-606                 42-447
47 O.S. 11-701                 42-201;
                               42-319
47 O.S. 11-702                 42-201;
                               42-202
47 O.S. 11-703(e)              42-189
47 O.S. 11-704                 42-199
47 O.S. 11-705                 42-159
47 O.S. 11-801                 42-119;
                               42-168
47 O.S. 11-801(A)              42-121;
                               42-170
47 O.S. 11-803                 42-119
47 O.S. 11-805                 42-165
47 O.S. 11-806.1               42-120
47 O.S. 11-901                 42-168;
                               42-169
47 O.S. 11-901b                42-174
47 O.S. 11-902                 42-171
47 O.S. 11-1003                Ch. 42, Art. VII;
                               42-370
47 O.S. 11-1004(A)             42-379
47 O.S. 11-1102                42-162
47 O.S. 11-1104(a) and (b)     42-180
47 O.S. 11-1105                42-179
47 O.S. 11-1108(a)             42-43
47 O.S. 11-1109                42-44
47 O.S. 11-1112                42-204
47 O.S. 11-1113                42-204
47 O.S. 11-1114                42-182
47 O.S. 11-1201 et seq.        Ch. 42, Art. XI
47 O.S. 11-1201                42-4
47 O.S. 11-1201(C)             42-519
47 O.S. 11-1202                42-520
47 O.S. 11-1204                42-166;
                               42-529
47 O.S. 11-1205                42-523
47 O.S. 11-1206                42-526
47 O.S. 11-1208                42-150;
                               42-532
47 O.S. 11-1301                42-177
47 O.S. 11-1302                32-172;
                               42-318
47 O.S. 11-1302(A) through (C) 42-40
47 O.S. 12-101 et seq.         42-92
47 O.S. 12-201(B)              42-531
47 O.S. 12-202(B)              42-164
47 O.S. 12-203                 42-164
47 O.S. 12-203.4               42-164
47 O.S. 12-218                 42-41;
                               42-42
47 O.S. 12-227                 42-164
47 O.S. 12-228                 42-160;
                               42-164
47 O.S. 12-401                 42-164
47 O.S. 12-402                 42-164
47 O.S. 12-416 et seq.         42-203
47 O.S. 12-601                 42-163
47 O.S. 12-602                 42-164
47 O.S. 12-602.1               42-164
47 O.S. 12-603                 42-164
47 O.S. 12-605                 42-164
47 O.S. 12-609                 42-164
47 O.S. 12-701 et seq.         Ch. 42, Art. XI
47 O.S. 12-702                 42-530
47 O.S. 12-703                 42-530
47 O.S. 12-704                 42-530
47 O.S. 12-706                 42-531
47 O.S. 14-101 et seq.         42-94
47 O.S. 14-105                 42-186
                               42-119;
47 O.S. 15-102                 42-155;
                               42-176
47 O.S. 16-103                 42-38
47 O.S. 751 et seq.            42-171
47 O.S. 752                    42-49
47 O.S. 756                    42-171
47 O.S. 901                    18-134;
                               42-558
47 O.S. 901 et seq.            Ch. 18, Art. IV;
                               Ch. 42, Art. XII
47 O.S. 902                    42-558
47 O.S. 903                    18-138;
                               42-559
47 O.S. 903A                   18-136
47 O.S. 904                    42-561
47 O.S. 954A                   18-134;
                               Ch. 42, Art. XII
47 O.S. 955                    18-134;
                               Ch. 42, Art. XII
47 O.S. 1134                   42-203
47 O.S. 1148                   42-192;
                               42-193
50 O.S. 1 et seq.              Ch. 1282, Art. V
50 O.S. 5                      18-169
50 O.S. 7                      18-170
50 O.S. 8                      18-171
50 O.S. 12                     18-171
50 O.S. 13                     18-172
50 O.S. 14                     18-172
50 O.S. 16                     18-173;
                               18-175
50 O.S. 17                     18-176
51 O.S. 121 et seq.            2-265
51 O.S. 125                    Ch. 2, Art. IV
52 O.S. 420.1 et seq.          10-144
59 O.S. 1001 et seq.           Ch. 10, Art. III
59 O.S. 1501 et seq.           Ch. 12, Art. IV;
                               12-100
59 O.S. 1503                   12-98
59 O.S. 1503(A)                12-100
59 O.S. 1505                   12-100
59 O.S. 1510                   12-122
59 O.S. 1510A                  12-122
59 O.S. 1511F                  12-122
59 O.S. 1515                   12-123
59 O.S. 1680 to 1696           10-203
60 O.S. 176 through 180        20-210
60 O.S. 651 et seq.            Ch. 30, Art. II
61 O.S. 102(6)                 20-203
61 O.S. 102(7)                 20-203
62 O.S. 850 through 869        36-158
62 O.S. 852                    36-169
62 O.S. 854                    36-170
62 O.S. 858(D)                 36-170
63 O.S. 1-508                  6-72
63 O.S. 1-1011                 18-178
63 O.S. 1-2501 et seq.         Ch. 16, Art. II
63 O.S. 1-2512                 42-2
63 O.S. 2-101                  32-98
63 O.S. 2-101 et seq.          32-98;
                               42-171
63 O.S. 128.2                  32-69
63 O.S. 683.1 et seq.          Ch. 14, Art. I;
                               Ch. 14, Art. II
63 O.S. 683.3                  42-2
63 O.S. 683.11                 14-19
63 O.S. 683.12                 14-19
68 O.S. 101 et seq.            20-39
                               20-39;
68 O.S. 205                    20-115;
                               20-166
68 O.S. 217                    20-35;
                               20-111
68 O.S. 220                    20-36;
                               20-112
                               20-37;
68 O.S. 227                    20-112;
                               20-113
68 O.S. 241                    20-38;
                               20-114
68 O.S. 1350 et seq.           Ch. 20, Art. II;
                               20-20
68 O.S. 1351 et seq.           20-20
68 O.S. 1370.9                 Ch. 20, Art. V
68 O.S. 1400 et seq.           20-104
                               Ch. 20, Art. IV;
68 O.S. 1401 et seq.           20-104;
                               20-106
68 O.S. 1402                   20-103
68 O.S. 1405                   20-109
68 O.S. 1625 et seq.           32-68
68 O.S. 1624                   32-68
68 O.S. 2601                   Ch. 20, Art. III
68 O.S. 2601 et seq.           20-71
68 O.S. 2701                   Ch. 20, Art. I;
                               20-20
68 O.S. 2701 et seq.           20-20
68 O.S. 2701(B)                Ch. 20, Art. II
68 O.S. 2801 et seq.           Ch. 20, Art. I
70 O.S. 5-146                  32-140
74 O.S. 324.8                  10-25
75 O.S. 309 through 317        34-10
82 O.S. 1B et seq.             Ch. 44, Art. I
                               Ch. 24, Art. I;
82 O.S. 1601 et seq.           Ch. 24, Art. II;
                               24-20
82 O.S. 1616(B)                24-118
                               
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2024 Code Section
Prior Code Section              2024 Code Section
Appendix A, 1                   Appendix A, 1
Appendix A, 2                   Appendix A, 2
Appendix A, 3                   Appendix A, 3
Appendix A, 4                   Appendix A, 4
Appendix A, 5                   Appendix A, 5
Appendix A, 1.10                Appendix A, 1.10
Appendix A, 1.20                Appendix A, 1.20
Appendix A, 1.30                Appendix A, 1.30
Appendix A, 1.40                Appendix A, 1.40
Appendix A, 10.10               Appendix A, 10.10
Appendix A, 10.20               Appendix A, 10.20
Appendix A, 10.30               Appendix A, 10.30
Appendix A, 15.10               Appendix A, 15.10
Appendix A, 15.20               Appendix A, 15.20
Appendix A, 15.30               Appendix A, 15.30
Appendix A, 15.40               Appendix A, 15.40
Appendix A, 20.10               Appendix A, 20.10
Appendix A, 20.20               Appendix A, 20.20
Appendix A, 20.30               Appendix A, 20.30
Appendix A, 20.40               Appendix A, 20.40
Appendix A, 20.50               Appendix A, 20.50
Appendix A, 20.60               Appendix A, 20.60
Appendix A, 25.10               Appendix A, 25.10
Appendix A, 25.20               Appendix A, 25.20
Appendix A, 25.30               Appendix A, 25.30
Appendix A, 25.40               Appendix A, 25.40
Appendix A, 25.50               Appendix A, 25.50
Appendix A, 25.60               Appendix A, 25.60
Appendix A, 25.70               Appendix A, 25.70
Appendix A, 25.80               Appendix A, 25.80
Appendix A, 30.10               Appendix A, 30.10
Appendix A, 30.20               Appendix A, 30.20
Appendix A, 30.25               Appendix A, 30.25
Appendix A, 30.30               Appendix A, 30.30
Appendix A, 30.40               Appendix A, 30.40
Appendix A, 30.50               Appendix A, 30.50
Appendix A, 35.10               Appendix A, 35.10
Appendix A, 35.20               Appendix A, 35.20
Appendix A, 35.30               Appendix A, 35.30
Appendix A, 35.40               Appendix A, 35.40
Appendix A, 35.50               Appendix A, 35.50
Appendix A, 35.60               Appendix A, 35.60
Appendix A, 35.70               Appendix A, 35.70
Appendix A, 40.10               Appendix A, 40.10
Appendix A, 40.20               Appendix A, 40.20
Appendix A, 40.30               Appendix A, 40.30
Appendix A, 40.35               Appendix A, 40.35
Appendix A, 40.40               Appendix A, 40.40
Appendix A, 40.50               Appendix A, 40.50
Appendix A, 40.60               Appendix A, 40.60
Appendix A, 40.70               Appendix A, 40.70
Appendix A, 50.10               Appendix A, 50.10
Appendix A, 50.20               Appendix A, 50.20
Appendix A, 50.25               Appendix A, 50.25
Appendix A, 50.30               Appendix A, 50.30
Appendix A, 50.35               Appendix A, 50.35
Appendix A, 50.40               Appendix A, 50.40
Appendix A, 50.50               Appendix A, 50.50
Appendix A, 50.60               Appendix A, 50.60
Appendix A, 50.70               Appendix A, 50.70
Appendix A, 50.80               Appendix A, 50.80
Appendix A, 60.10               Appendix A, 60.10
Appendix A, 60.20               Appendix A, 60.20
Appendix A, 70.10               Appendix A, 70.10
Appendix A, 70.20               Appendix A, 70.20
Appendix A, 70.30               Appendix A, 70.30
Appendix A, 70.40               Appendix A, 70.40
Appendix A, 70.50               Appendix A, 70.50
Appendix A, 70.60               Appendix A, 70.60
Appendix A, 70.70               Appendix A, 70.70
Appendix A, 80.10               Appendix A, 80.10
Appendix A, 80.20               Appendix A, 80.20
Appendix A, 90.10               Appendix A, 90.10
Appendix A, 90.20               Appendix A, 90.20
Appendix A, 90.40               Appendix A, 90.40
Appendix A, 90.41               Appendix A, 90.41
Appendix A, 90.42               Appendix A, 90.42
Appendix A, 90.43               Appendix A, 90.43
Appendix A, 90.45               Appendix A, 90.45
Appendix A, 90.46               Appendix A, 90.46
Appendix A, 90.48               Appendix A, 90.48
Appendix A, 90.49               Appendix A, 90.49
Appendix A, 90.52               Appendix A, 90.52
Appendix A, 90.53               Appendix A, 90.53
Appendix A, 90.56               Appendix A, 90.56
Appendix A, 90.58               Appendix A, 90.58
Appendix A, 90.59               Appendix A, 90.59
Appendix A, 90.60               Appendix A, 90.60
Appendix A, 90.66               Appendix A, 90.66
Appendix A, 95.10               Appendix A, 95.10
Appendix A, 95.20               Appendix A, 95.20
Appendix A, 95.30               Appendix A, 95.30
Appendix A, 95.40               Appendix A, 95.40
Appendix B, 1.10                Appendix B, 1.10
Appendix B, 1.30                Appendix B, 1.30
Appendix B, 1.40                Appendix B, 1.40
Appendix B, 10.10               Appendix B, 10.10
Appendix B, 10.20               Appendix B, 10.20
Appendix B, 20.10               Appendix B, 20.10
Appendix B, 20.20               Appendix B, 20.20
Appendix B, Article 20, Table 1 Appendix B, 20.20
Appendix B, 20.30               Appendix B, 20.30
Appendix B, 20.40               Appendix B, 20.40
Appendix B, 20.50               Appendix B, 20.50
Appendix B, 20.60               Appendix B, 20.60
Appendix B, 30.10               Appendix B, 30.10
Appendix B, 30.20               Appendix B, 30.20
Appendix B, Article 30, Table 1 Appendix B, 30.20
Appendix B, 30.30               Appendix B, 30.30
Appendix B, 30.40               Appendix B, 30.40
Appendix B, 30.50               Appendix B, 30.50
Appendix B, 30.60               Appendix B, 30.60
Appendix B, 40.10               Appendix B, 40.10
Appendix B, 40.20               Appendix B, 40.20
Appendix B, 40.30               Appendix B, 40.30
Appendix B, 45.10               Appendix B, 45.10
Appendix B, 45.20               Appendix B, 45.20
Appendix B, 50.0001             Appendix B, 50.0001
Appendix B, 50.0010             Appendix B, 50.0010
Appendix B, 50.0020             Appendix B, 50.0020
Appendix B, 50.0461             Appendix B, 50.0461
Appendix B, 50.1100             Appendix B, 50.1100
Appendix B, 50.1120             Appendix B, 50.1120
Appendix B, 50.1200             Appendix B, 50.1200
Appendix B, 50.1400             Appendix B, 50.1400
Appendix B, 50.1540             Appendix B, 50.1540
Appendix B, 50.2000             Appendix B, 50.2000
Appendix B, 50.4610             Appendix B, 50.4610
Appendix B, 50.4850             Appendix B, 50.4850
Appendix B, 50.5193             Appendix B, 50.5193
Appendix B, 50.5340             Appendix B, 50.5340
Appendix B, 50.6313             Appendix B, 50.6313
Appendix B, 50.6314             Appendix B, 50.6314
Appendix B, 50.6600             Appendix B, 50.6600
Appendix B, 50.6700             Appendix B, 50.6700
Appendix B, 50.8200             Appendix B, 50.8200
Appendix B, 60.01               Appendix B, 60.01
Appendix B, 60.10               Appendix B, 60.10
Appendix B, 60.20               Appendix B, 60.20
Appendix B, 60.30               Appendix B, 60.30
Appendix B, 60.40               Appendix B, 60.40
Appendix B, 60.50               Appendix B, 60.50
Appendix B, 60.60               Appendix B, 60.60
Appendix B, 60.70               Appendix B, 60.70
Appendix B, 60.90               Appendix B, 60.90
Appendix B, 65.10               Appendix B, 65.10
Appendix B, 65.20               Appendix B, 65.20
Appendix B, 65.30               Appendix B, 65.30
Appendix B, 65.40               Appendix B, 65.40
Appendix B, 65.50               Appendix B, 65.50
Appendix B, 65.60               Appendix B, 65.60
Appendix B, 65.70               Appendix B, 65.70
Appendix B, 65.80               Appendix B, 65.80
Appendix B, 65.90               Appendix B, 65.90
Appendix B, 65.95               Appendix B, 65.95
Appendix B, 70.01               Appendix B, 70.01
Appendix B, 70.10               Appendix B, 70.10
Appendix B, 70.20               Appendix B, 70.20
Appendix B, 70.30               Appendix B, 70.30
Appendix B, 70.40               Appendix B, 70.40
Appendix B, 70.50               Appendix B, 70.50
Appendix B, 70.55               Appendix B, 70.55
Appendix B, 70.60               Appendix B, 70.60
Appendix B, 70.65               Appendix B, 70.65
Appendix B, 70.70               Appendix B, 70.70
Appendix B, 70.75               Appendix B, 70.75
Appendix B, 70.80               Appendix B, 70.80
Appendix B, 70.85               Appendix B, 70.85
Appendix B, 70.90               Appendix B, 70.90
Appendix B, 80.10               Appendix B, 80.10
Appendix B, 80.20               Appendix B, 80.20
Appendix B, 85.10               Appendix B, 85.10
Appendix B, 85.20               Appendix B, 85.20
Appendix B, 85.30               Appendix B, 85.30
Appendix B, 85.40               Appendix B, 85.40
Appendix B, 85.41               Appendix B, 85.41
Appendix B, 85.42               Appendix B, 85.42
Appendix B, 85.43               Appendix B, 85.43
Appendix B, 85.44               Appendix B, 85.44
Appendix B, 85.45               Appendix B, 85.45
Appendix B, 85.46               Appendix B, 85.46
Appendix B, 85.47               Appendix B, 85.47
Appendix B, 85.48               Appendix B, 85.48
Appendix B, 85.49               Appendix B, 85.49
Appendix B, 85.52               Appendix B, 85.52
Appendix B, 85.53               Appendix B, 85.53
Appendix B, 85.54               Appendix B, 85.54
Appendix B, 85.56               Appendix B, 85.56
Appendix B, 85.58               Appendix B, 85.58
Appendix B, 85.59               Appendix B, 85.59
Appendix B, 85.60               Appendix B, 85.60
Appendix B, 85.61               Appendix B, 85.61
Appendix B, 85.62               Appendix B, 85.62
Appendix B, 85.65               Appendix B, 85.65
Appendix B, 85.66               Appendix B, 85.66
Appendix B, 90.10               Appendix B, 90.10
Appendix B, 90.20               Appendix B, 90.20
Appendix B, 90.30               Appendix B, 90.30
Appendix B, 90.40               Appendix B, 90.40
Appendix C, Article I, 1        Appendix C, Art. I, 1
Appendix C, Article I, 2        Appendix C, Art. I, 2
Appendix C, Article I, 3        Appendix C, Art. I, 3
Appendix C, Article I, 4        Appendix C, Art. I, 4
Appendix C, Article I, 5        Appendix C, Art. I, 5
Appendix C, Article I, 5        Appendix C, Art. I, 6
Appendix C, Article I, 7        Appendix C, Art. I, 7
Appendix C, Article I, 8        Appendix C, Art. I, 8
Appendix C, Article I, 9        Appendix C, Art. I, 9
Appendix C, Article I, 10       Appendix C, Art. I, 10
Appendix C, Article I, 11       Appendix C, Art. I, 11
Appendix C, Article II, 1       Appendix C, Art. II, 1
Appendix C, Article II, 2       Appendix C, Art. II, 2
Appendix C, Article II, 3       Appendix C, Art. II, 3
Appendix C, Article II, 4       Appendix C, Art. II, 4
Appendix C, Article II, 5       Appendix C, Art. II, 5
Appendix C, Article II, 6       Appendix C, Art. II, 6
Appendix C, Article II, 7       Appendix C, Art. II, 7
Appendix C, Article II, 8       Appendix C, Art. II, 8
Appendix C, Article II, 9       Appendix C, Art. II, 9
Appendix C, Article II, 10      Appendix C, Art. II, 10
Appendix C, Article II, 11      Appendix C, Art. II, 11
Appendix C, Article II, 12      Appendix C, Art. II, 12
Appendix C, Article II, 13      Appendix C, Art. II, 13
Appendix C, Article II, 14      Appendix C, Art. II, 14
Appendix C, Article III, 1      Appendix C, Art. III, 1
Appendix C, Article III, 2      Appendix C, Art. III, 2
Appendix C, Article III, 3      Appendix C, Art. III, 3
Appendix C, Article III, 4      Appendix C, Art. III, 4
Appendix C, Article III, 5      Appendix C, Art. III, 5
Appendix C, Article III, 6      Appendix C, Art. III, 6
Appendix C, Article III, 7      Appendix C, Art. III, 7
Appendix C, Article III, 8      Appendix C, Art. III, 8
Appendix C, Article III, 9      Appendix C, Art. III, 9
1-1                             1-1
1-2                             1-2
1-3                             1-3
1-4                             1-4
1-5                             1-5
1-6                             1-6
1-7                             1-7
1-8                             1-8
1-9                             1-9
1-10                            1-10
1-11                            1-11
1-12                            1-12
1-13                            1-13
1-14                            1-14
1-15                            1-15
1-16                            1-16
1-17                            1-17
2-19                            2-19
2-42                            2-42
2-43                            2-43
2-75                            2-75
2-76                            2-76
2-77                            2-77
2-78                            2-78
2-127                           2-127
2-128                           2-128
2-129                           2-129
2-130                           2-130
2-131                           2-131
2-161                           2-161
2-162                           2-162
2-193                           2-193
2-194                           2-194
2-195                           2-195
2-214                           2-214
2-237                           2-237
2-238                           2-238
2-239                           2-239
2-240                           2-240
2-241                           2-241
2-242                           2-242
2-243                           2-243
2-265                           2-265
2-266                           2-266
2-267                           2-267
2-268                           2-268
4-1                             4-1
4-21                            4-21
4-22                            4-22
4-23                            4-23
4-24                            4-24
4-25                            4-25
4-26                            4-26
4-27                            4-27
4-28                            4-28
4-29                            4-29
4-30                            4-30
4-31                            4-31
4-32                            4-32
4-33                            4-33
4-34                            4-34
4-35                            4-35
4-36                            4-36
4-37                            4-37
4-38                            4-38
4-39                            4-39
4-40                            4-40
4-41                            4-41
4-42                            4-42
4-43                            4-43
4-44                            4-44
4-45                            4-45
4-46                            4-46
4-47                            4-47
4-48                            4-48
4-49                            4-49
4-50                            4-50
4-51                            4-51
4-52                            4-52
4-53                            4-53
4-54                            4-54
4-55                            4-55
4-56                            4-56
4-57                            4-57
4-88                            4-88
4-89                            4-89
4-90                            4-90
4-91                            4-91
4-92                            4-92
4-93                            4-93
4-94                            4-94
4-95                            4-95
4-96                            4-96
4-97                            4-97
4-123                           4-123
4-124                           4-124
4-125                           4-125
4-126                           4-126
4-127                           4-127
4-128                           4-128
4-129                           4-129
4-130                           4-130
4-131                           4-131
4-132                           4-132
4-133                           4-133
4-134                           4-134
4-135                           4-135
4-136                           4-136
4-137                           4-137
4-138                           4-138
4-139                           4-139
4-140                           4-140
4-141                           4-141
4-142                           4-142
4-143                           4-143
4-144                           4-144
4-145                           4-145
4-146                           4-146
4-147                           4-147
4-148                           4-148
4-149                           4-149
4-150                           4-150
4-151                           4-151
4-171                           4-171
4-172                           4-172
4-173                           4-173
6-1                             6-1
6-2                             6-2
6-3                             6-3
6-4                             6-4
6-5                             6-5
6-6                             6-6
6-7                             6-7
6-8                             6-8
6-9                             6-9
6-10                            6-10
6-11                            6-11
6-12                            6-12
6-13                            6-13
6-14                            6-14
6-15                            6-15
6-16                            6-16
6-17                            6-17
6-18                            6-18
6-19                            6-19
6-42                            6-42
6-43                            6-43
6-44                            6-44
6-45                            6-45
6-46                            6-46
6-66                            6-66
6-67                            6-67
6-68                            6-68
6-69                            6-69
6-70                            6-70
6-71                            6-71
6-72                            6-72
6-103                           6-103
6-104                           6-104
6-105                           6-105
6-106                           6-106
6-107                           6-107
6-108                           6-108
6-109                           6-109
6-132                           6-132
6-133                           6-133
8-19                            8-19
8-20                            8-20
8-21                            8-21
8-22                            8-22
8-23                            8-23
8-50                            8-50
8-51                            8-51
8-52                            8-52
8-53                            8-53
8-54                            8-54
8-55                            8-55
8-56                            8-56
8-57                            8-57
8-58                            8-58
8-59                            8-59
8-77                            8-77
8-78                            8-78
8-79                            8-79
8-80                            8-80
8-81                            8-81
8-82                            8-82
8-83                            8-83
8-84                            8-84
8-85                            8-85
8-86                            8-86
8-87                            8-87
8-88                            8-88
8-89                            8-89
8-90                            8-90
8-109                           8-109
8-110                           8-110
8-111                           8-111
8-112                           8-112
8-113                           8-113
8-114                           8-114
8-115                           8-115
8-116                           8-116
8-117                           8-117
8-118                           8-118
8-119                           8-119
8-120                           8-120
10-1                            10-1
10-2                            10-2
10-25                           10-25
10-26                           10-26
10-27                           10-27
10-28                           10-28
10-29                           10-29
10-30                           10-30
10-31                           10-31
10-32                           10-32
10-33                           10-33
10-34                           10-34
10-35                           10-35
10-36                           10-36
10-61                           10-61
10-63                           10-63
10-64                           10-64
10-65                           10-65
10-89                           10-89
10-90                           10-90
10-91                           10-91
10-113                          10-113
10-114                          10-114
10-115                          10-115
10-144                          10-144
10-145                          10-145
10-174                          10-174
10-202                          10-202
10-203                          10-203
10-204                          10-204
10-205                          10-205
10-206                          10-206
10-207                          10-207
10-208                          10-208
10-209                          10-209
10-210                          10-210
10-211                          10-211
10-212                          10-212
10-213                          10-213
10-235                          10-235
10-264                          10-264
10-265                          10-265
10-294                          10-294
10-322                          10-322
10-323                          10-323
10-324                          10-324
10-325                          10-325
10-326                          10-326
10-327                          10-327
10-328                          10-328
10-329                          10-329
10-330                          10-330
10-331                          10-331
10-332                          10-332
10-333                          10-333
12-1                            12-1
12-21                           12-21
12-22                           12-22
12-23                           12-23
12-24                           12-24
12-25                           12-25
12-26                           12-26
12-27                           12-27
12-28                           12-28
12-29                           12-29
12-47                           12-47
12-48                           12-48
12-49                           12-49
12-50                           12-50
12-51                           12-51
12-52                           12-52
12-98                           12-98
12-99                           12-99
12-100                          12-100
12-101                          12-101
12-122                          12-122
12-123                          12-123
12-145                          12-145
12-146                          12-146
12-147                          12-147
14-19                           14-19
14-20                           14-20
14-21                           14-21
14-22                           14-22
14-23                           14-23
14-24                           14-24
14-25                           14-25
16-19                           16-19
16-20                           16-20
18-40                           18-40
18-42                           18-42
18-73                           18-73
18-74                           18-74
18-75                           18-75
18-76                           18-76
18-96                           18-96
18-97                           18-97
18-98                           18-98
18-99                           18-99
18-100                          18-100
18-101                          18-101
18-102                          18-102
18-103                          18-103
18-104                          18-104
18-105                          18-105
18-106                          18-106
18-107                          18-107
18-108                          18-108
18-109                          18-109
18-110                          18-110
18-134                          18-134
18-135                          18-135
18-136                          18-136
18-137                          18-137
18-138                          18-138
18-139                          18-139
18-140                          18-140
18-141                          18-141
18-142                          18-142
18-168                          18-168
18-169                          18-169
18-170                          18-170
18-171                          18-171
18-172                          18-172
18-173                          18-173
18-174                          18-174
18-175                          18-175
18-176                          18-176
18-177                          18-177
18-178                          18-178
18-179                          18-179
20-20                           20-20
20-21                           20-21
20-22                           20-22
20-23                           20-23
20-25                           20-25
20-26                           20-26
20-27                           20-27
20-28                           20-28
20-29                           20-29
20-30                           20-30
20-31                           20-31
20-32                           20-32
20-33                           20-33
20-34                           20-34
20-35                           20-35
20-36                           20-36
20-37                           20-37
20-38                           20-38
20-39                           20-39
20-40                           20-40
20-41                           20-41
20-71                           20-71
20-72                           20-72
20-103                          20-103
20-104                          20-104
20-105                          20-105
20-106                          20-106
20-107                          20-107
20-108                          20-108
20-109                          20-109
20-110                          20-110
20-111                          20-111
20-112                          20-112
20-113                          20-113
20-114                          20-114
20-115                          20-115
20-116                          20-116
20-146                          20-146
20-147                          20-147
20-148                          20-148
20-149                          20-149
20-150                          20-150
20-151                          20-151
20-152                          20-152
20-153                          20-153
20-154                          20-154
20-155                          20-155
20-156                          20-156
20-157                          20-157
20-158                          20-158
20-159                          20-159
20-160                          20-160
20-161                          20-161
20-162                          20-162
20-163                          20-163
20-164                          20-164
20-165                          20-165
20-166                          20-166
20-167                          20-167
20-168                          20-168
20-169                          20-169
20-170                          20-170
20-171                          20-171
20-200                          20-200
20-201                          20-201
20-202                          20-202
20-203                          20-203
20-204                          20-204
20-205                          20-205
20-206                          20-206
20-207                          20-207
20-208                          20-208
20-209                          20-209
20-210                          20-210
20-211                          20-211
20-220                          20-220
22-19                           22-19
22-20                           22-20
22-21                           22-21
22-46                           22-46
22-47                           22-47
22-48                           22-48
22-49                           22-49
22-50                           22-50
22-105                          22-105
22-106                          22-106
22-107                          22-107
22-108                          22-108
22-109                          22-109
22-110                          22-110
22-111                          22-111
22-136                          22-136
22-137                          22-137
22-138                          22-138
22-139                          22-139
22-140                          22-140
22-141                          22-141
22-142                          22-142
22-143                          22-143
22-171                          22-171
22-172                          22-172
22-173                          22-173
22-174                          22-174
22-175                          22-175
22-176                          22-176
22-177                          22-177
22-178                          22-178
22-179                          22-179
22-180                          22-180
24-19                           24-19
24-20                           24-20
24-21                           24-21
24-22                           24-22
24-23                           24-23
24-24                           24-24
24-25                           24-25
24-26                           24-26
24-56                           24-56
24-86                           24-86
24-87                           24-87
24-118                          24-118
24-119                          24-119
24-120                          24-120
24-121                          24-121
24-141                          24-141
24-142                          24-142
24-143                          24-143
24-144                          24-144
24-145                          24-145
24-146                          24-146
24-176                          24-176
24-177                          24-177
24-178                          24-178
26-40                           26-40
26-41                           26-41
26-42                           26-42
26-43                           26-43
26-75                           26-75
26-76                           26-76
26-77                           26-77
26-78                           26-78
26-79                           26-79
26-80                           26-80
26-81                           26-81
26-82                           26-82
26-83                           26-83
26-84                           26-84
26-85                           26-85
26-115                          26-115
26-116                          26-116
26-117                          26-117
26-118                          26-118
26-119                          26-119
28-19                           28-19
28-20                           28-20
28-21                           28-21
28-22                           28-22
28-23                           28-23
28-24                           28-24
28-25                           28-25
28-26                           28-26
28-27                           28-27
28-28                           28-28
28-29                           28-29
28-30                           28-30
30-1                            30-1
30-2                            30-2
30-3                            30-3
30-25                           30-25
30-26                           30-26
30-27                           30-27
30-28                           30-28
32-1                            32-1
32-2                            32-2
32-23                           32-23
32-24                           32-24
32-25                           32-25
32-26                           32-26
32-27                           32-27
32-28                           32-28
32-29                           32-29
32-30                           32-30
32-31                           32-31
32-32                           32-32
32-33                           32-33
32-34                           32-34
32-35                           32-35
32-36                           32-36
32-37                           32-37
32-38                           32-38
32-65                           32-65
32-66                           32-66
32-67                           32-67
32-68                           32-68
32-69                           32-69
32-70                           32-70
32-71                           32-71
32-72                           32-72
32-73                           32-73
32-74                           32-74
32-94                           32-94
32-95                           32-95
32-96                           32-96
32-97                           32-97
32-98                           32-98
32-99                           32-99
32-100                          32-100
32-101                          32-101
32-102                          32-102
32-103                          32-103
32-104                          32-104
32-105                          32-105
32-106                          32-106
32-107                          32-107
32-108                          32-108
32-109                          32-109
32-110                          32-110
32-111                          32-111
32-112                          32-112
32-113                          32-113
32-140                          32-140
32-164                          32-164
32-165                          32-165
32-166                          32-166
32-167                          32-167
32-168                          32-168
32-169                          32-169
32-170                          32-170
32-171                          32-171
32-172                          32-172
32-173                          32-173
34-1                            34-1
34-2                            34-2
34-3                            34-3
34-4                            34-4
34-5                            34-5
34-6                            34-6
34-7                            34-7
34-8                            34-8
34-9                            34-9
34-10                           34-10
34-11                           34-11
34-12                           34-12
34-13                           34-13
34-14                           34-14
34-15                           34-15
34-16                           34-16
34-17                           34-17
34-18                           34-18
34-19                           34-19
34-20                           34-20
34-21                           34-21
34-22                           34-22
34-23                           34-23
34-24                           34-24
34-25                           34-25
34-26                           34-26
34-27                           34-27
34-28                           34-28
34-29                           34-29
34-30                           34-30
34-31                           34-31
36-40                           36-40
36-41                           36-41
36-42                           36-42
36-43                           36-43
36-44                           36-44
36-45                           36-45
36-46                           36-46
36-47                           36-47
36-48                           36-48
36-49                           36-49
36-50                           36-50
36-51                           36-51
36-78                           36-78
36-79                           36-79
36-80                           36-80
36-81                           36-81
36-82                           36-82
36-108                          36-108
36-109                          36-109
36-110                          36-110
36-134                          36-134
36-135                          36-135
36-136                          36-136
38-19                           38-19
38-20                           38-20
38-21                           38-21
38-22                           38-22
38-23                           38-23
38-50                           38-50
38-51                           38-51
38-52                           38-52
38-74                           38-74
38-75                           38-75
38-76                           38-76
38-77                           38-77
38-78                           38-78
38-79                           38-79
38-80                           38-80
38-81                           38-81
40-41                           40-41
40-42                           40-42
40-43                           40-43
40-44                           40-44
40-45                           40-45
40-46                           40-46
40-47                           40-47
40-48                           40-48
40-49                           40-49
40-50                           40-50
40-74                           40-74
40-75                           40-75
40-76                           40-76
40-77                           40-77
40-98                           40-98
40-99                           40-99
40-100                          40-100
40-101                          40-101
40-102                          40-102
40-103                          40-103
40-104                          40-104
40-105                          40-105
40-106                          40-106
40-107                          40-107
40-153                          40-153
40-154                          40-154
40-155                          40-155
40-156                          40-156
40-181                          40-181
40-182                          40-182
40-183                          40-183
40-184                          40-184
40-185                          40-185
42-1                            42-1
42-2                            42-2
42-3                            42-3
42-4                            42-4
42-5                            42-5
42-31                           42-31
42-32                           42-32
42-33                           42-33
42-34                           42-34
42-35                           42-35
42-36                           42-36
42-37                           42-37
42-38                           42-38
42-39                           42-39
42-40                           42-40
42-41                           42-41
42-42                           42-42
42-43                           42-43
42-44                           42-44
42-45                           42-45
42-46                           42-46
42-47                           42-47
42-48                           42-48
42-49                           42-49
42-50                           42-50
42-51                           42-51
42-52                           42-52
42-53                           42-53
42-54                           42-54
42-55                           42-55
42-56                           42-56
42-57                           42-57
42-58                           42-58
42-90                           42-90
42-91                           42-91
42-92                           42-92
42-93                           42-93
42-94                           42-94
42-119                          42-119
42-120                          42-120
42-121                          42-121
42-122                          42-122
42-123                          42-123
42-145                          42-145
42-146                          42-146
42-127                          42-147
42-148                          42-148
42-149                          42-149
42-150                          42-150
42-151                          42-151
42-152                          42-152
42-153                          42-153
42-154                          42-154
42-155                          42-155
42-156                          42-156
42-157                          42-157
42-158                          42-158
42-159                          42-159
42-160                          42-160
42-161                          42-161
42-162                          42-162
42-163                          42-163
42-164                          42-164
42-165                          42-165
42-166                          42-166
42-167                          42-167
42-168                          42-168
42-169                          42-169
42-170                          42-170
42-171                          42-171
42-172                          42-172
42-173                          42-173
42-174                          42-174
42-175                          42-175
42-176                          42-176
42-177                          42-177
42-178                          42-178
42-179                          42-179
42-180                          42-180
42-181                          42-181
42-182                          42-182
42-183                          42-183
42-184                          42-184
42-185                          42-185
42-186                          42-186
42-187                          42-187
42-188                          42-188
42-189                          42-189
42-190                          42-190
42-191                          42-191
42-192                          42-192
42-193                          42-193
42-195                          42-195
42-196                          42-196
42-197                          42-197
42-198                          42-198
42-199                          42-199
42-200                          42-200
42-201                          42-201
42-202                          42-202
42-203                          42-203
42-204                          42-204
42-314                          42-314
42-315                          42-315
42-316                          42-316
42-317                          42-317
42-318                          42-318
42-319                          42-319
42-320                          42-320
42-321                          42-321
42-322                          42-322
42-323                          42-323
42-324                          42-324
42-325                          42-325
42-326                          42-326
42-327                          42-327
42-328                          42-328
42-360                          42-360
42-361                          42-361
42-362                          42-362
42-363                          42-363
42-364                          42-364
42-365                          42-365
42-366                          42-366
42-367                          42-367
42-368                          42-368
42-369                          42-369
42-370                          42-370
42-371                          42-371
42-372                          42-372
42-373                          42-373
42-374                          42-374
42-375                          42-375
42-376                          42-376
42-377                          42-377
42-378                          42-378
42-379                          42-379
42-380                          42-380
42-381                          42-381
42-406                          42-406
42-407                          42-407
42-408                          42-408
42-409                          42-409
42-410                          42-410
42-411                          42-411
42-412                          42-412
42-413                          42-413
42-440                          42-440
42-441                          42-441
42-442                          42-442
42-443                          42-443
42-444                          42-444
42-445                          42-445
42-446                          42-446
42-447                          42-447
42-448                          42-448
42-480                          42-480
42-481                          42-481
42-482                          42-482
42-483                          42-483
42-484                          42-484
42-485                          42-485
42-486                          42-486
42-487                          42-487
42-488                          42-488
42-489                          42-489
42-490                          42-490
42-519                          42-519
42-520                          42-520
42-521                          42-521
42-522                          42-522
42-523                          42-523
42-524                          42-524
42-525                          42-525
42-526                          42-526
42-527                          42-527
42-528                          42-528
42-529                          42-529
42-530                          42-530
42-531                          42-531
42-532                          42-532
42-558                          42-558
42-559                          42-559
42-560                          42-560
42-561                          42-561
42-562                          42-562
42-563                          42-563
42-564                          42-564
42-565                          42-565
42-566                          42-566
42-567                          42-567
42-568                          42-568
42-569                          42-569
42-570                          42-570
42-571                          42-571
42-572                          42-572
42-618                          42-618
42-619                          42-619
42-620                          42-620
42-621                          42-621
42-622                          42-622
42-668                          42-668
42-695                          42-695
42-696                          42-696
42-697                          42-697
42-698                          42-698
42-699                          42-699
42-700                          42-700
42-701                          42-701
42-702                          42-702
42-703                          42-703
42-735                          42-735
42-736                          42-736
42-737                          42-737
42-738                          42-738
44-19                           44-19
44-20                           44-20
44-21                           44-21
44-46                           44-46
44-47                           44-47
44-48                           44-48
44-49                           44-49
44-50                           44-50
44-51                           44-51
44-52                           44-52
44-54                           44-54
44-82                           44-82
44-83                           44-83
44-84                           44-84
44-85                           44-85
44-86                           44-86
44-116                          44-116
44-117                          44-117
44-118                          44-118
44-119                          44-119
44-120                          44-120
44-139                          44-139
44-140                          44-140
44-141                          44-141
44-142                          44-142
44-143                          44-143
44-144                          44-144
44-145                          44-145
44-146                          44-146
44-147                          44-147
44-148                          44-148
44-149                          44-149
44-150                          44-150
44-151                          44-151
44-152                          44-152
44-153                          44-153
44-154                          44-154
44-155                          44-155
44-156                          44-156
44-157                          44-157
44-158                          44-158
44-159                          44-159
44-160                          44-160
44-161                          44-161
44-162                          44-162
44-163                          44-163
44-164                          44-164
44-165                          44-165
44-166                          44-166
44-186                          44-186
44-187                          44-187
44-188                          44-188
44-189                          44-189
44-190                          44-190
44-191                          44-191
44-192                          44-192
44-193                          44-193
44-225                          44-225
44-226                          44-226
44-227                          44-227
44-228                          44-228
44-229                          44-229
44-230                          44-230
44-231                          44-231
44-232                          44-232
44-233                          44-233
44-260                          44-260
44-261                          44-261
44-286                          44-286
44-287                          44-287
44-288                          44-288
44-289                          44-289
                                
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
212      9-20-1976   22-109
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
690      1-5-1970    8-109—
                     8-120
702      3-15-1971   Appendix B
                     Appendix A;
703      3-15-1971   36-134;
                     36-135
708      6-5-1972    Appendix B 70.60;
                     Appendix B 80.10
715      6-3-1974    38-50
                     6-16;
                     6-67—
716      12-2-1974   6-69;
                     6-104;
                     6-107
737      7-17-1978   34-21
738      7-17-1978   34-20;
                     34-25
739      8-21-1978   Appendix A 50.25;
                     Appendix A 50.35
742      9-17-1979   20-29—
                     20-41
                     10-235;
744      2-4-1980    10-294;
                     22-19
812      10-6-1980   4-148;
                     4-150
760      6-18-1984   42-702
766      7-1-1985    40-104
767      7-1-1985    20-26
                     10-35;
                     10-63;
768-1/2  2-4-1986    10-90;
                     10-204;
                     10-265
                     4-1;
                     4-21—
770      5-19-1986   4-25;
                     4-28;
                     4-29
                     44-116;
                     44-117;
                     44-119;
773      1-6-1987    44-120;
                     44-139—
                     44-165;
                     44-186—
                     44-193
775      1-6-1987    2-238
776      2-20-1987   20-25
777      4-20-1987   Appendix B 50.6313
                     24-19—
                     24-26;
                     24-56;
                     24-86;
                     24-87;
780      1-18-1988   24-118—
                     24-121;
                     24-141—
                     24-146;
                     24-176—
                     24-178
791      2-20-1988   42-202
781      6-20-1988   10-205
825      6-1-1988    42-202
784      10-19-1988  40-106
790      2-9-1989    8-77—
                     8-90
792      8-12-1989   26-75—
                     26-82
794      5-21-1990   8-19—
                     8-23
                     18-40;
                     18-42;
796      11-25-1990  18-73—
                     18-76;
                     18-96—
                     18-110
798      10-19-1992  16-19
799      12-7-1992   Appendix B 60.90
800      12-7-1992   Appendix B 60.90
                     44-226;
804      10-18-1993  44-227;
                     44-229;
                     44-232
805      12-20-1993  40-181—4-185
809      3-16-1994   Appendix C, Art. II
                     44-233;
806      3-21-1994   44-260;
                     44-289
807      5-2-1994    Appendix B 85.59
808      5-2-1994    Appendix B 30.20
                     6-2;
814      2-19-1996   6-66—
                     6-69
813      3-1-1996    20-103—20-20-116
817      6-3-1996    38-74—
                     38-81
                     44-229;
                     44-231;
                     44-233;
824      10-6-1997   44-260;
                     44-286;
                     44-288;
                     44-289
827      3-1-1999    20-27
99-829   6-7-1999    20-103
99-830   8-16-1999   18-40
99-833   11-1-1999   32-68
2000-835 8-21-2000   20-146—
                     20-171
                     6-11;
2008-836 11-6-2000   6-12;
                     6-42—
                     6-45
2000-837 12-29-2000  16-20
2001-838 5-7-2001    32-107
2001-843 9-3-2001    8-109—
                     8-111
2001-844 10-15-2001  1-17
2002-845 6-17-2002   16-20
2002-846 7-1-2002    42-58
2002-849 10-7-2002   42-202
                     10-35;
                     10-63;
2004-852 3-1-2004    10-90;
                     10-204;
                     10-265;
                     10-323
2004-853 6-23-2004   20-28
                     10-25;
                     10-61;
2004-546 11-1-2004   10-89;
                     10-235;
                     10-264;
                     10-294
2004-548 12-20-2004  16-20
2005-549 1-3-2005    30-1—
                     30-3
2006-01  4-3-2006    28-19—
                     28-30
2006-03  9-4-2006    20-103
2006-05  10-16-2006  44-229
                     44-226;
2007-08  6-18-2007   44-227;
                     44-229;
                     44-230
2007-09  9-4-2007    20-164;
                     20-165
2007-10  12-17-2007  4-171—
                     4-173
2008-14  1-21-2008   6-5
2008-15  3-3-2008    10-210
2008-16  3-3-2008    10-65
2008-17  3-3-2008    10-91
                     10-35;
                     10-63;
2010-26  4-5-2010    10-90;
                     10-204;
                     10-265
2010-28  9-7-2010    Appendix C, Art. III
2012-31  3-19-2012   38-51
2012-33  6-18-2012   38-52
2013-039 6-3-2013    Appendix C, Art. I
2013-040 8-5-2013    20-26
2014-046 11-3-2014   26-83—
                     26-85
2014-048 12-1-2014   26-115—
                     26-119
2014-049 12-1-2014   20-200—
                     20-211
2015-050 4-6-2015    20-220
2015-051 5-4-2015    22-171—
                     22-179
                     12-170;
2019-003 9-16-2019   12-172—
                     12-174
2021-001 6-21-2021   10-37
2021-002 8-16-2021   36-158—
                     36-175
2022-003 6-21-2022   38-124—
                     38-130
                    
 
 
