ARAPAHO, OKLAHOMA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-1 Supplement contains:
Legislation current through 2025-01, passed 4-17-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2024-1
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF ARAPAHO, OKLAHOMA,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE TOWN OF ARAPAHO DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE
OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Town of Arapaho
are inadequately arranged and classified for the complete preservation of the
public peace, health, safety and general welfare of the municipality and for
the proper conduct of its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Oklahoma empower and
authorize the cities and towns to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile
any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or
published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form;
and
WHEREAS, the Town Board of the Town of Arapaho has authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the Town of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in book form;
and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN BOARD OF THE TOWN OF ARAPAHO:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Town of Arapaho as revised, amended,
restated, codified and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall
constitute the "Arapaho Municipal Code."
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
Chapter
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      10.      General Provisions
      11.    Town Standards
   Title III: ADMINISTRATION
      30.    Board of Trustees and Mayor
      31.    Employees, Officers, and Organizations
      32.    Municipal Court
      33.    Finances and Funds
      34.    Taxation
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      50.    Utilities Generally
      51.    Garbage and Refuse
      52.    Water
      53.    Sewers
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      70.    General Provisions
      71.    Administration and Enforcement
      72.    Vehicle Equipment and Requirements
      73.    Pedestrians
      74.    Traffic Regulations
      75.    Parking Rules
      76.    Recreational Vehicles
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      90.    Animals
      91.    Fire Protection and Prevention
      92.    Nuisances
      93.    Health and Sanitation
      94.    Abandoned Vehicles
      95.    Fair Housing
      96.    Parks and Recreation
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      110.    Business Regulations Generally
      111.    Amusement and Leisure
      112.    Alcohol
      113.    Sales and Services
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      130.    General Provisions
      131.    Offenses Against Public Decency and Morals
      132.    Offenses Against the Peace
      133.    Offenses Against Property
      134.    Offenses Against Authority
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      150.    Building Regulations
      151.    Streets, Sidewalks, and Public Property
      152.    Flood Damage Prevention
      153.    Mobile and Modular Housing
      154.    Planning and Community Development
      155.    Oil and Gas Drilling
      156.    Railroads
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Town of Arapaho
is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in
the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
9, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   Except as otherwise provided, a person convicted of a violation of
this code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars
($500.00), plus costs, or imprisonment not exceeding thirty (30) days, or both
the fine and imprisonment. With respect to violations of this code that are
continuous with respect to time, each day the violation continues is a separate
offense.
Section 7.    Additions or amendments to the Code, when passed in the form as
to indicate the intention of the city to make the same a part of the Code shall
be deemed to be incorporated in the Code, so that reference to the Code
includes the additions and amendments.
Section 8.   Ordinances adopted after adoption of this Ordinance that amend or
refer to ordinances that have been codified in the Code shall be construed as
if they amend or refer to like provisions of the Code.
Section 9.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town Board of the Town of Arapaho on this 7th day of
March, 2024.
ATTEST:
                                        /s/
                                    Mayor, Town of Arapaho
   
/s/
Town Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Jurisdiction
   
10.04   Rules of interpretation
   
10.05   Effective date
   
10.06   Official time
   
10.07   Reasonable time
   
10.08   Errors and omissions
   
10.09   Prior offenses or rights unaffected
   
10.10   Ordinances that amend
   
10.11   Ordinances not affected
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Severability
   
10.14   Enumeration of provisions
   
10.15   Section titles and captions
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE.
   The ordinances embraced in this and all other chapters and sections shall
constitute and be designated the “Code of Ordinances, Town of Arapaho,
Oklahoma,” and may be so cited as such. Such code may also be cited as the
“Arapaho, Oklahoma, Town Code” or the “Arapaho, Oklahoma, Municipal Code.”
(Prior Code, § 9-14)
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE or POLICE CHIEF. The Chief of Police or the police officer
in charge of the police force of the Town of Arapaho, Oklahoma.
   CODE. The code of ordinances of the Town of Arapaho, Oklahoma.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. Whenever notice is required to be given (or an act to
be done) a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the day
on which such notice is given (or such act is done) shall be included in
computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be had shall be
excluded.
   COUNTY. Custer County, Oklahoma.
   COURT. The Municipal Court of the Town of Arapaho, Oklahoma.
   HEALTH OFFICER or HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The County Sanitarian or County Health
Department unless specific reference is made to the appointed Health Officer of
the Town of Arapaho, Oklahoma.
   HIGHWAY. Includes any street, alley, highway, avenue, public place, square,
bridge, underpass, or overpass in the Town of Arapaho, Oklahoma, dedicated or
devoted to public use.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. Words purporting to give authority to three or more
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such officers or other persons unless it is otherwise declared.
   JUDGE. The Judge of the Municipal Court of the Town of Arapaho, Oklahoma,
including the Acting Judge and/or Alternate Judge thereof, as provided by
Oklahoma Statutes and this code of ordinances.
   JUDICIAL DISTRICT. The District Court Judicial District of the State of
Oklahoma wherein the sites of government of the Town of Arapaho, Oklahoma, is
situated.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR. The Chief Executive Officer of the Town of Arapaho, Oklahoma.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation
may be substituted for an oath; in such cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall
be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICERS, DEPARTMENTS, AND THE LIKE. Whenever any officer, department,
board, commission, or other agency is referred to by title alone, such
reference shall be construed as if followed by the words “of the Town of
Arapaho, Oklahoma.”
   OWNER. Applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner,
tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant, or tenant by the
entirety of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
   PERSON. Extends and applies to associations, corporations, firms,
partnerships, and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
Whenever used with respect to any penalty, the word PERSON, as applied to
partnerships or associations, shall mean the partners or members thereof and,
as applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
   POLICE OFFICER. The Chief of Police or any police officer of the Town of
Arapaho, Oklahoma.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
   PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed, or ordinarily used for
vehicular traffic.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. Any portion of the street right-of-way between the curb (or
lateral line of the roadway) and the adjacent property line intended for the
use of pedestrians.
   SIGNATURES or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when a person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of Oklahoma.
   STATUTORY REFERENCE. The statutes as they now are or as they may be amended
to be; a reference to the Oklahoma Statutes also means the comparable provision
when included in future codifications or supplement of said statutes.
   STREET. Includes any highway, alley, street, avenue, public place,
underpass, or overpass in the town dedicated or devoted to public use.
   TOWN or MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Arapaho, Custer County, Oklahoma.
   TOWN ATTORNEY or MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY. The Town Attorney of the Town of
Arapaho, Oklahoma.
   TOWN BOARD OF TRUSTEES or TOWN BOARD. The governing body of the Town of
Arapaho, Oklahoma.
   TOWN CLERK or CLERK OF THE MUNICIPALITY. The Town Clerk of the Town of
Arapaho, Oklahoma.
   TOWN TREASURER or TREASURER. The Town Treasurer of the Town of Arapaho,
Oklahoma.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes any representation of words, letters, or
figures whether by printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise designated.
(Prior Code, § 9-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 25 O.S. §§ 1 et seq.
§ 10.03 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   All provisions of this code of ordinances and other ordinances of the
town now in effect or adopted in the future are hereby extended to all real
property belonging to or under the control of the town outside the corporate
limits of said town and shall be in full force and effect thereon insofar as
they are applicable.
   (B)   Any words in any such provision indicating that its effect is limited
to the corporate limits of the town shall be deemed to mean and include also
such outlying real property belonging to or under the control of said town
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 9-13)
§ 10.04 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the town shall be by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender. Words used in the masculine gender in this code or in other
ordinances of the town include the feminine and neuter.
   (D)   Singular and plural. Words used in the singular number in this code or
in other ordinances of the town shall include the plural, and the plural shall
include the singular.
   (E)   Tenses. The use of a verb in the present tense shall include the
future, if applicable.
   (F)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
   (G)   Non-technical and technical words. Words and phrases which are not
specifically defined shall be construed according to the common and accepted
usage of the language; technical words and phrases and such others as may have
acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and
understood according to such meaning.
(Prior Code, § 9-1)
§ 10.05 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after due publication thereof unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.06 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within the town for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.07 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.08 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any words
or the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of the
provisions affected or the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached or the use of a word or words when another word or words were clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and the word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.09 PRIOR OFFENSES OR RIGHTS UNAFFECTED.
   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect any
offense or act committed or done, any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any
contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this
code.
(Prior Code, § 9-12)
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES THAT AMEND.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section containing the desired amendment substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature
passed or adopted on and after the most recent ordinance included in this code
of ordinances may be passed or adopted either in the form of amendments to this
code of ordinances or without specific reference to the code, but in either
case, all ordinances and parts of ordinances shall be deemed amendments to the
code, and all of the substantive permanent and general parts of the ordinances
and changes made thereby in the code shall be inserted and made in the code
whenever authorized or directed by motion, resolution, or ordinance of the Town
Board as provided hereinafter.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED.
   (A)   Nothing in this code of ordinances or the ordinance adopting this code
shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the
items listed in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(12) below.
   (B)   All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force
and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein:
      (1)   Ordinances promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the
town authorizing the issuance of any municipal bonds or any evidence of the
municipality’s indebtedness;
      (2)   Appropriation ordinances or ordinances providing for the levy of
taxes, an annual budget, or prescribing salaries for municipal officers and
employees;
      (3)   Ordinances annexing or detaching territory to or from the town;
      (4)   Ordinances approving, authorizing, or otherwise relating to any
contract, agreement, lease, deed, or other instrument or granting any
franchise;
      (5)   Ordinances authorizing or otherwise relating to specific public
improvements;
      (6)   Ordinances vacating, opening, or dedicating specific streets and
alleys;
      (7)   Ordinances relating to specific street improvements and assessments
therefor;
      (8)   Ordinances relating to the grade or alignment of specific streets;
      (9)   Ordinances naming or renaming specific streets;
      (10)   Ordinances granting railroads the right to use specific streets
and alleys;
      (11)   Ordinances changing the Zoning District classification of a
specific parcel of real property; or
      (12)   Temporary or special ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 9-10)
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force
before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
   (B)   The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty
incurred before the repeal took effect nor any suit, prosecution, or proceeding
pending at the time of the repeal for an offense committed under the ordinance
repealed.
(Prior Code, § 9-17)
§ 10.13 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Board of Trustees
that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this code of
ordinances are severable; if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or
section of said code shall be declared invalid by the judgment or decree of any
court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect any of the
remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, and sections of said code
since the same would have been enacted by the Town Board of Trustees without
the incorporation in this code of any such invalid phrase, clause, sentence,
paragraph, or section.
   (B)   Further, if any word, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section
of this code of ordinances shall seem invalid through printing or typographical
error, such error or misprint shall not serve to misconstrue or invalidate the
intent thereof nor affect, in any way, the intent or validity of any or all
other words, phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, or sections of this code.
(Prior Code, § 9-16)
§ 10.14 ENUMERATION OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Provisions of state law which affect the town, because of its general
relationship to the state, may not be enumerated herein but may be adopted by
reference as inseparable parts of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Provisions of state law which prescribe specific actions or laws for
the town and its citizens may be included in this code of ordinances for
purposes of clarity.
   (C)   Provisions of state law in matters of wider public concern which are
not enumerated herein but which affect the town and its citizens in a general
way may not be enumerated herein but may nevertheless be made a part of this
code of ordinances through adoption by reference.
   (D)   All provisions which are of purely local concern shall be specifically
enumerated in this code of ordinances. The regulations, rules, prohibitions,
nuisances, offenses, and other provisions which are of purely local concern, as
provided by state law, and are specifically enumerated herein in detail shall
be enforced by the town; duly authorized officers and agents of said town shall
have all powers, duties, and responsibilities necessary to enforce the same.
(Prior Code, § 9-11)
§ 10.15 SECTION TITLES AND CAPTIONS.
   The catchlines of the sections of this code of ordinances are intended as
mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and shall not be
deemed or taken to be titles of such section as any part of the sections nor,
unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such
sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(Prior Code, § 9-15)
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   In histories for code sections, the specific number and passage date
of the original ordinance are listed following the text of the code section.
Example:
   (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
1980)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
   (11 O.S. § 1-402)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a statutory reference following
the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information.
Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see 51
O.S. §§ 24A.1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town and subsequently amended, the prior code section number
shall be indicated in the history.
Example:
   (Prior Code, § 50.01)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of code provisions.
      (1)   In this section, VIOLATION OF THIS CODE means any of the following:
         (a)   Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an
offense or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by
ordinance;
         (b)   Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by
ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance; and
         (c)   Failure to perform an act if the failure is declared a
misdemeanor or an offense or unlawful by ordinance or by rule or regulation
authorized by ordinance.
      (2)   In this section, VIOLATION OF THIS CODE does not include the
failure of a town officer or town employee to perform an official duty unless
it is provided that failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided
in this section.
   (B)   Penalty imposed. Except as otherwise provided, a person convicted of a
violation of this code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500, plus
costs, or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, or both the fine and
imprisonment. With respect to violations of this code that are continuous with
respect to time, each day the violation continues is a separate offense.
   (C)   Limitation. No penalty, including fine and costs, shall be greater
than that imposed by statute for the same offense.
   (D)   License revocation or suspension. The imposition of a penalty does not
prevent revocation or suspension of a license, permit or franchise.
   (E)   Injunctive relief. Violations of this code that are continuous with
respect to time may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The
imposition of a penalty does not prevent equitable relief.
(Prior Code, §§ 9-20 and 9-21)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 14-111(c)
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Wards and boundaries
§ 11.01 WARDS AND BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   A portion of Cedar Street is hereby vacated and closed as a public
street, subject to easements and rights-of-way of record.
   (B)   The portion of Cedar Street is described as follows: the south 30 feet
of Cedar Street running east to west along the north boundary of Lot 30 in
Block One of the McDowell Addition to the town, being bordered on the west side
by the east side of Santa Fe Street and being bordered on the east side by the
west side of Elevator Street.
(Prior Code, § 24-1)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARD OF TRUSTEES AND MAYOR
      
31.   EMPLOYEES, OFFICERS, AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   MUNICIPAL COURT
      
33.   FINANCES AND FUNDS
      
34.   TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF TRUSTEES AND MAYOR
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Incorporation
   
30.02   Form of government
   
30.03   General municipal powers
   
30.04   Municipal policy and business
   
30.05   Ordinances compiled
   
30.06   Succession in government
Board of Trustees
   
30.20   Elections and terms
   
30.21   Powers
   
30.22   Compensation
   
30.23   Meetings
   
30.24   Removal from office; vacancies
   
30.25   Supervisory designation
   
30.26   Adopting ordinances; adoption by reference
   
30.27   Power to amend code
Mayor
   
30.40   Election, vacancy, and duties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 INCORPORATION.
   The town, within the corporate limits as now established or as hereafter may
be established, shall continue to be a municipal body politic and corporate in
perpetuity under the name of the “Town of Arapaho, Oklahoma.” It shall succeed
to and possess all the property, rights, privileges, franchises, powers, and
immunities now belonging to the corporation known as the town and shall be
liable for all debts and other obligations for which the corporation is now
legally bound.
(Prior Code, § 1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 2-101 et seq.
§ 30.02 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The municipal government provided for the town shall be the Town Board of
Trustees form of government. All powers of the municipality shall be exercised
in the manner prescribed by this code of ordinances, future ordinances, or
state law; provided, this code and all future ordinances are not repugnant to
the constitution and laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 12-101 et seq.
§ 30.03 GENERAL MUNICIPAL POWERS.
   (A)   The town shall have all the powers, functions, rights, privileges,
franchises, and immunities specifically granted to municipalities (not
prohibited by the state laws and constitution) and all the implied powers
necessary to carry into execution all the powers granted.
   (B)   In accordance with state provisions, the town shall have the power to
adopt a corporate seal and alter the same; to sue and be sued; to make
contracts; to grant, extend, and renew franchises; to issue bonds; and to
accept and administer federal and state grants-in-aid; and to ordain and
enforce local legislation for the proper organization and functioning of
municipal government, for the preservation and enforcement of good government
and order, for the promotion of the common welfare, and for the protection of
health, life, peace, safety, morals, and property.
   (C)   The enumeration of particular powers of this code of ordinances shall
not be deemed to be exclusive or limiting. In addition to the powers enumerated
herein or implied hereby, the town shall have all powers which, under the state
laws and constitution, it would be competent for this code of ordinances
specifically to enumerate.
(Prior Code, § 1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 22-101 et seq.
§ 30.04 MUNICIPAL POLICY AND BUSINESS.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees shall conduct all business of the
municipality, set policy for the efficient administration of municipal
government, administratively supervise all activities of municipal employees,
and carry out their responsibilities, powers, and duties as officers and as a
corporate and politic body within the limits prescribed by state provisions and
this code.
   (B)   It shall be the policy of the municipal government that no person
shall be discriminated against on the grounds of race, creed, color, sex,
religion, national origin, or age in employment or other activities sponsored
directly or indirectly by the town.
   (C)   Every member of the Town Board of Trustees who shall be present when
the opportunity or need arises to vote upon a question shall vote thereon
unless excused by the unanimous consent of those Town Board members present or
unless he or she is directly or indirectly interested in the question; in which
event, he or she shall disclose his or her interest to the Town Board, and it
shall be made a matter of record.
(Prior Code, § 1-13)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 8-113 and 22-104, 21 O.S. §§ 344 and 345,
and 25 O.S. § 1302
§ 30.05 ORDINANCES COMPILED.
   (A)   Every ten years, the town shall compile and publish its effective
penal ordinances in a permanent form.
   (B)   One copy of the compilation of ordinances shall be deposited by the
town in the County Law Library.
   (C)   Every two years, the town shall publish supplements to its compiled
penal ordinances, and no ordinance shall be enforced if it is not reflected in
such compilation or supplement if such ordinance was adopted prior to the
latest compilation or supplement.
   (D)   When the town has compiled and published its ordinances, the Town
Board of Trustees shall adopt a resolution notifying the public of such
compilation and cause certified copies of the resolution to be filed in the
office of the County Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-206)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 14-109 and 14-110
§ 30.06 SUCCESSION IN GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   All ordinances, insofar as they are not inconsistent with this code,
shall continue in effect until they are repealed or until they expire by their
own limitations.
   (B)   All officers and employees of the town, under any and all previous
ordinances, shall continue in the offices and employments which they
respectively hold after this code goes into effect.
   (C)   All books, vouchers, monies, or other property belonging to the town
and in charge or possession of any officer of the town shall be delivered to
his or her successor.
(Prior Code, § 1-201)
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 30.20 ELECTIONS AND TERMS.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees shall consist and be composed of five
members who shall be nominated and elected at-large.
   (B)   At the general election on the first Tuesday in April 1989, Trustees
from Seats 1, 3, and 5 and the Town Clerk shall be elected for terms of four
years; at the general election on the first Tuesday in April 1991, the Trustee
from Seats 2 and 4 and Town Treasurer shall be elected for terms of four years.
   (C)   All Trustees, the Town Clerk, and the Town Treasurer shall be elected
for terms of four years.
   (D)   Pursuant to the State Town Meeting Act, codified at Chapter 105 of the
41st Legislative Session of the State Legislature, the Town Board hereby
designates and ordains that its officers shall be elected and initiative and
referendum questions shall be decided only through elections conducted by the
County Election Board pursuant to 11 O.S. §§ 16-101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 1-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 8-102, 12-102, 12-103.1, and 16-101 et
seq.
§ 30.21 POWERS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this code of ordinances, all powers of the
municipality, including the determination of matters of policy, shall be vested
in the Town Board of Trustees; said Town Board shall have and may utilize all
of the powers granted to the municipality and said Town Board by state laws.
(Prior Code, § 1-11)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 12-106
§ 30.22 COMPENSATION.
   Compensation of the Town Board of Trustees, the Town Clerk, the Town
Treasurer, and other elected officials shall be fixed by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-12)
§ 30.23 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Municipal business shall be conducted at regularly scheduled open and
public meetings held in the Town Hall (or another agreed upon place which is
open to the public), at a time, date, and place established by the Town Board
of Trustees. An agenda for each regularly scheduled meeting shall be prepared
and publicly posted in the Town Hall (or other agreed upon place open to the
public). The agenda shall contain sufficient information in order to explain
generally the items to be discussed at the meeting. At a minimum, the following
items shall appear on the agenda:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Reading of the minutes;
      (3)   Clerk’s report;
      (4)   Treasurer’s report;
      (5)   Old business;
      (6)   New business;
      (7)   Public participation; and
      (8)   Adjournment.
   (B)   The Town Clerk shall prepare a schedule of all meetings prior to each
calendar year and shall post this schedule in the Town Hall prior to December
15 preceding the calendar year for which the schedule has been determined.
   (C)   If any change in the date, time, or place of a regularly scheduled
meeting is made, notice of the change shall be given to the Town Clerk no less
than ten days prior to the implementation of such change and the Clerk shall
publicly post a notice of the change.
   (D)   In all meetings of the Town Board of Trustees, the vote of each member
must be publicly cast and recorded.
   (E)   No informal gatherings or any electronic or telephonic communications
among a majority of the Trustees shall be used to decide any action or to take
any vote on any matter.
   (F)   Executive sessions of the Town Board of Trustees will be permitted
only for the purpose of discussing the employment, hiring, appointment,
promotion, demotion, discipline, and resignation of any individual salaried
officer or employee or for the purpose of confidential communications between
the town and its attorney concerning a pending investigation, claim, or action.
Any vote or action on any matter discussed in executive session must be taken
in public meeting with the vote of each member publicly cast and recorded. No
executive session of the Town Board of Trustees shall occur except on a vote by
a majority of a quorum of the members present.
   (G)   Special or emergency Town Board meetings may be called by the Mayor or
by a majority of the Trustees in accordance with the following provisions.
      (1)   Special meetings shall not be held without public notice being
given at least 48 hours prior to said meeting. Such public notice of the date,
time, and place of a special meeting shall be given in writing, in person, or
by telephonic means to the Town Clerk.
      (2)   At least 24 hours prior to the special meeting, a written public
notice of the special meeting shall be prominently posted in the Town Hall.
Such notice shall include the date, time, place, and agenda for the special
meeting, and only items appearing on the agenda shall be considered at the
meeting. The 24-hour public posting shall exclude Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays legally declared by the state.
      (3)   In the event of an emergency, an emergency meeting of the Town
Board of Trustees may be held without public notice. Should an emergency
meeting be required, as much advance public notice as is reasonable and
possible under the circumstances shall be made in person or by telephonic or
electronic means.
(Prior Code, § 1-14)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 25 O.S. §§ 301 et seq., 304.1 et seq., 305, 306,
311.1, 311.8, and 311.12
§ 30.24 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   (A)   The Mayor or any Trustee may be removed from office for any cause
specified by applicable state law for the removal of officers, including 22
O.S. §§ 1181 et seq., as amended. Due process procedures are provided in §
31.04.
   (B)   Whenever a member of the Town Board of Trustees is absent from more
than half of all meetings of said Town Board (regular and special) held within
a period of four consecutive months, he or she shall thereupon automatically
cease to hold office.
   (C)   Except for Mayor, vacancies in the membership of the Town Board of
Trustees shall be filled by appointment by a majority vote of the remaining
members of the Town Board. The appointment shall expire at the next general
election when a successor is elected and qualified. Such successor shall serve
the balance of any unexpired term. If a vacancy has not been filled by
appointment within 60 days after it occurs, the Town Board shall call for a
special election unless such vacancy occurs within 120 days of a general
election.
(Prior Code, § 1-15)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 8-107 through 8-109 and 22 O.S. §§ 181 et
seq.
§ 30.25 SUPERVISORY DESIGNATION.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees may appoint its own members to supervisory
positions over designated personnel, departments, and/or activities of the
municipality.
   (B)   Such Trustees may be given an appropriate title and shall be, in
effect, a committee of one of the Town Board of Trustees and be subordinate to
said Town Board.
   (C)   A member of the Town Board shall not receive compensation for any
municipal office or position other than his or her elected office.
(Prior Code, § 1-16)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 8-106
§ 30.26 ADOPTING ORDINANCES; ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   (1)   The enacting clause of all ordinances passed by the Town Board
of Trustees shall be: “Be it ordained by the Board of Trustees of the Town of
Arapaho, Oklahoma,” and all ordinances proposed by the voters under their power
or initiative shall be: “Be it ordained by the People of the Town of Arapaho,
Oklahoma.”
      (2)   All proposed ordinances shall be considered at a public meeting of
the Town Board. A vote of a majority of all the Trustees shall be required for
final passage.
      (3)   The Mayor shall have no power to veto any ordinance.
      (4)   Every ordinance, except those for appropriation or monies, shall be
published by title or in full within 15 days after its passage in a newspaper
of general circulation within the town or county or posted in ten public places
within the town.
      (5)   Every ordinance, except an emergency ordinance, shall become
effective 30 days after its final passage unless it specifies a later date.
      (6)   An emergency ordinance is an ordinance which, in the judgment of
the Town Board of Trustees, is necessary for the immediate preservation of the
peace, health, or safety and which should become effective prior to the time
when a regular ordinance would become effective. Every such ordinance shall
contain, as a part of its title, the words “and declaring an emergency” and, in
a separate section (herein called the emergency section), shall declare the
emergency. The Town Board of Trustees shall vote on the emergency section
separately and must adopt the emergency section by a vote of at least three-
fourths of all the members of said Town Board. An emergency ordinance shall
take effect upon final passage, unless it specifies a later date.
(Prior Code, § 1-204)
   (B)   The Town Board of Trustees, by ordinance, may adopt codes, ordinances,
and standards by reference relating to building, plumbing, and electrical
installations and other matters which it has the power to regulate. Such a
code, ordinance, or standard so adopted need not be enrolled herein; provided,
one copy is filed and kept in the office of the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-205)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 14-102 through 14-104 and 14-106
§ 30.27 POWER TO AMEND CODE.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees shall have the power to repeal, alter, or
amend this code of ordinances.
   (B)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or
in any way affect said code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system of this code and printed for inclusion therein. When subsequent
ordinances repeal any chapter, section, or subsection or any portion thereof,
such repealed portions may be excluded from this code by omission thereof from
reprinted pages. Such inclusion of ordinances passed subsequent to this code
which amend or add to this code (except in the case of repeal) shall be prima
facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this code and
subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are re-adopted as a new code by the
Town Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code of ordinances shall
be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the chapter,
article, and section numbers of this code in the following language: “Be it
ordained by the of the Town of Arapaho that Section __ of Chapter __, of the
code of ordinances, Town of Arapaho, Oklahoma, is hereby amended to read as
follows.” The new provisions shall then be set out in full, as desired.
   (D)   In the event that a new section not heretofore existing in the code of
ordinances is to be added, the following language shall be used: “That the Code
of Ordinances, Town of Arapaho, Oklahoma, is hereby amended by adding a section
to Article __ of Chapter __, to be numbered, which said section reads as
follows.” The new section shall then be set out in full, as desired.
(Prior Code, § 1-207)
MAYOR
§ 30.40 ELECTION, VACANCY, AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees shall elect one of its members as Mayor.
The Mayor shall be elected in each odd-numbered year at the first Town Board
meeting held after the Trustees’ terms begin or as soon thereafter as
practicable.
   (B)   When a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, the Town Board of
Trustees shall elect another Mayor from among its members to serve for the
duration of the unexpired term.
   (C)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Town Board of Trustees
and may call special meetings thereof.
   (D)   The Mayor shall certify to the correct enrollment of all ordinances
and resolutions passed by the Town Board of Trustees. The Mayor shall have all
the powers, rights, privileges, duties, and responsibilities of a Trustee and,
as an elected representative of the citizens, may vote on all matters that come
before the Town Board of Trustees.
   (E)   The Mayor shall be recognized as the head of the municipal government
for all ceremonial purposes.
   (F)   During the absence, disability, or suspension of the Mayor, the Town
Board of Trustees shall elect an Acting Mayor from among its members.
   (G)   The Mayor shall perform all other duties prescribed by state law or
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-25)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 12-104 and 12-105
CHAPTER 31: EMPLOYEES, OFFICERS, AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Consolidation of town offices
   
31.02   Bonds
   
31.03   Compensation; salaries
   
31.04   Appointments and removals
   
31.05   Nepotism
   
31.06   Retirement
Officers
   
31.20   Town Clerk
   
31.21   Town Treasurer
   
31.22   Municipal Judge
   
31.23   Town Attorney
   
31.24   Fire Chief
   
31.25   Assistant Fire Chief; other officers
   
31.26   Building Inspector
   
31.27   Electrical Inspector
   
31.28   Plumbing Inspector
   
31.29   Utilities Superintendent
   
31.30   Civil Emergency Management Director
Organizations
   
31.45   Police Department
   
31.46   Civil Emergency Management Advisory Committee
   
31.47   Park Board
   
31.48   Fair Housing Board
   
31.49   Municipal Board of Health
   
31.50   Volunteer Fire Department
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 CONSOLIDATION OF TOWN OFFICES.
   The Town Board may combine, merge, or consolidate, by ordinance, any of the
various offices of town government as it deems necessary and convenient for the
administration of the town government. Such ordinance must be enacted at least
30 days prior to the date of all next municipal primary election. Any
consolidation of elected town offices shall go into effect at the end of the
term of the office to be consolidated or when a vacancy occurs.
(Prior Code, § 1-28)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 12-112
§ 31.02 BONDS.
   (A)   The Town Clerk or purchasing agent shall give a $7,000 bond payable to
the town within ten days after election or appointment.
   (B)   The Town Treasurer shall give a $7,000 bond payable to the town within
ten days after election or appointment.
   (C)   The Police Chief shall give a $1,000 bond payable to the town within
ten days after election or appointment.
   (D)   The Municipal Court Clerk shall give a $1,000 bond payable to the
town.
   (E)   The town shall pay the premiums on such bonds.
(Prior Code, § 1-199)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 8-105 and 27-109
§ 31.03 COMPENSATION; SALARIES.
   (A)   The basic monthly compensation of the following elected municipal
officers shall be as indicated below:
      (1)   Each Trustee: $12.50 per meeting attended;
      (2)   Town Clerk: $12.50 per meeting attended; and
      (3)   Town Treasurer: $12.50 per meeting attended.
   (B)   The basic salaries of elected municipal officials shall not be changed
after their election or during their term of office according to State
Constitution Article 23, § 10.
   (C)   The Town Board of Trustees may determine or regulate the number and
class of officers and employees and determine or change their compensation by
motion or resolution.
(Prior Code, § 1-200)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 12-113
§ 31.04 APPOINTMENTS AND REMOVALS.
   Appointments and promotions in the service of the town shall be made solely
on the basis of merit and fitness; and removals, demotions, suspensions, and
layoffs shall be made solely for the good of the service. In addition, the
Board of Trustees may remove for cause any appointive officer by a majority
vote of all its members.
(Prior Code, § 1-203) (Am. Ord. 2025-01, passed 4-17-2025)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 22 O.S. § 1181 and 75 O.S.
§ 31.05 NEPOTISM.
   (A)   No member of the Town Board of Trustees or any other elected or
appointed official or authority of the town may appoint or vote for the
appointment of any person related by affinity or consanguinity within the third
degree to any member of Town Board to any office or position of profit in the
municipal government.
   (B)   The following relatives shall be considered as within the third degree
of consanguinity or affinity: children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren,
brothers, sisters, aunts, uncles, nephews, nieces, grandparents, great-
grandparents, in-laws of the same degree of relationships, stepchildren, and
step-parents. A divorce decree shall be deemed to dissolve all relationships
arising from marriage.
   (C)   Except as may be otherwise provided by ordinance, the same person may
hold more than one office or position in the municipal government. A member of
the Town Board, however, shall not receive compensation for service in any
municipal office or position other than his or her elected office.
(Prior Code, § 1-202)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 8-106
§ 31.06 RETIREMENT.
   The town’s retirement plan, as outlined in Ordinance 2022-1 and any
attachments thereto, is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as
if set out in full.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-3-2022)
OFFICERS
§ 31.20 TOWN CLERK.
   (A)   The Town Clerk shall attend all meetings of the Town Board of Trustees
and keep the journal of the proceedings of said Town Board.
   (B)   The Town Clerk shall have custody of all documents, records, and
archives of the town as well as be custodian of the town seal.
   (C)   The Town Clerk shall attest and affix said seal of the town to
documents as required by law or by ordinance and shall see that all ordinances
passed are properly enrolled and kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk,
as required by §§
30.05,
30.26, and
30.27.
   (D)   The Town Clerk shall have such other powers, duties, and functions as
may be prescribed by law or ordinance including duties not related to his or
her position as Town Clerk. Salary for such duties shall be fixed by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-26)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 12-109.1, 12-109.3, and 12-109.5
§ 31.21 TOWN TREASURER.
   (A)   The Town Treasurer is an officer of the town and shall keep his or her
accounts to show where and from what sources all monies paid to him or her have
been derived and to whom and when such monies or any part thereof have been
paid. His or her books, accounts, and vouchers shall, at all times, be subject
to the examination of the Town Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Town Treasurer shall make daily deposits of funds received for the
town in such depositories as the Town Board may designate and shall maintain a
general accounting system for the municipal government.
   (C)   The Town Treasurer shall have such other powers, duties, and functions
as may be prescribed by law or ordinance including duties not related to his or
her position as Town Treasurer. Salary for such duties shall be fixed by
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-27)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 12-110.1 through 12-110.3
§ 31.22 MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
   (A)   There shall be one Judge of the Municipal Court and he or she shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the Town Board of Trustees; the
Mayor may be designated as Judge upon approval of said Town Board.
   (B)   The Municipal Judge shall be at least 21 years of age, have a high
school education (or equivalent), and be of good moral character. The Judge, if
he or she is not an attorney, shall be a resident of the town or shall reside
within 20 miles of the boundaries of the municipality. A Judge who is a
licensed attorney shall either reside in the county or maintain a permanent
office in the town. A Judge who is a licensed attorney may engage in the
practice of law in other courts, but he or she shall not accept employment that
conflicts with his or her duties as a Municipal Judge.
   (C)   The official term of the Municipal Judge shall be two years, expiring
on June 1 in each odd-numbered year. The Municipal Judge, unless sooner removed
for proper cause, shall serve until his or her successor is appointed and
qualified.
   (D)   The Judge of the Municipal Court shall receive a salary as prescribed
by the Town Board of Trustees paid in the same manner as the salaries of other
municipal employees.
   (E)   The Municipal Judge may prescribe rules consistent with the
constitution and laws of the state and this code of ordinances for the proper
conduct of the business of the Municipal Court.
   (F)   The Mayor, with the consent of the Town Board, may appoint an
Alternate Judge of the Municipal Court possessed of the same qualifications as
the Municipal Judge. His or her appointment shall be for the same term and made
in the same manner as the Municipal Judge. He or she shall sit as Acting Judge
of the Municipal Court if the Municipal Judge is absent from the Court or is
unable to act as Municipal Judge in a case.
   (G)   If, at any time, there is no Municipal Judge or Alternate Judge duly
appointed and qualified available to sit as Municipal Judge, the Mayor may
appoint some person possessing the qualifications required herein for the
Municipal Judge who shall preside as Acting Judge over the Municipal Court in
the disposition of pending matters until such time as a Municipal Judge or
Alternate Judge shall be available.
   (H)   An Alternate Judge or an Acting Judge shall be paid, as prescribed by
the Town Board of Trustees by ordinance, for each day devoted to the
performance of his or her duties except for any month the total payments so
calculated shall not exceed the salary of the Municipal Judge in whose stead he
or she sits. An Alternate or Acting Judge who sits for an entire month shall
receive the amount specified by the Town Board of Trustees as the salary of the
Municipal Judge in whose stead he or she sits.
   (I)   Judges may be removed for cause by majority vote of all the members of
the Town Board in accordance with procedures set forth under §
31.04.
   (J)   A vacancy in the office of Municipal Judge shall occur if the
incumbent dies, resigns, ceases to possess the qualifications for the office,
or is removed. Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of Municipal
Judge, the Mayor, with the consent of the Town Board, shall appoint a successor
to complete the unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 1-30)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 12-114, 14-111, 27-104.A, 27-104.B, 27-
106, 27-107, 27-113, and 27-114 and 22 O.S. § 22-1181
§ 31.23 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Town Attorney may be appointed by the Town Board of Trustees on a
contractual basis.
   (B)   The Town Attorney shall be the prosecuting officer of the Municipal
Court and shall have the power to prosecute for violations of ordinances and to
prosecute and resist appeals and proceedings in error and review.
   (C)   The Town Attorney shall perform such other duties as the Town Board of
Trustees may require provided such duties are included within the scope of the
contractual arrangement.
(Prior Code, § 1-31)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 27-108
§ 31.24 FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Chief of the Fire Department.
The Chief shall be appointed for an indefinite term by the Town Board of
Trustees. His or her services may be terminated by death, resignation, or
removal by said Town Board.
   (B)   The Chief shall be head of the Department, subject to the laws of the
state, ordinances of this town, and the rules and regulations herein adopted.
The Chief, subject to the supervision and control of the governing body, may
contract to supply fire protection to owners of individual properties and shall
establish, maintain, and administer an enterprise fund to finance costs for the
operation of the Fire Department, consistent with state laws and this section.
(Prior Code, § 1-32)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 17-206, 17-207, 17-212, and 29-106
§ 31.25 ASSISTANT FIRE CHIEF; OTHER OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Assistant Chief of the Fire Department shall be appointed by the
Town Board of Trustees. In the absence of the Fire Chief, the Assistant Fire
Chief shall command the Fire Department and be held responsible therefore in
all respects, with the full powers and responsibilities of the Fire Chief.
   (B)   The officers of the Fire Department shall be selected upon their
ability to lead people and their knowledge of firefighting and firefighting
equipment.
   (C)   One member elected by the members of the Fire Department shall be
Secretary/Treasurer. His or her duties shall consist of calling the roll at
each meeting, keeping the minutes of each meeting, and collecting any money due
to said Department by the members.
   (D)   All new members shall be on probation for one year after their
appointment. Upon completion of their probation period, new members must be
approved by the majority of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 1-33)
Statutory reference:
   Related provision, see 11 O.S. § 29-204
§ 31.26 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of the Building Inspector for the
town. The Building Inspector shall be appointed by the Town Board of Trustees.
The Town Board of Trustees may contract for building inspection services with
another municipality or intergovernmental agency.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall be in good health and shall be physically
capable of performing the duties of his or her office.
   (C)   The powers and duties of the Building Inspector shall be as follows:
      (1)   To enforce all provisions of the building codes adopted by this
code of ordinances;
      (2)   To receive and process applications required by such building codes
or this code of ordinances;
      (3)   To review building permit applications and other permit
applications and to issue required certificates;
      (4)   To examine premises for which permits have been issued under such
building codes of this code of ordinances and make necessary inspections to see
that the provisions of the building codes of this code of ordinances are
complied with and that construction is done safely;
      (5)   To investigate, when requested by the Town Board of Trustees or
when the public interest so requires, matters referred to in such codes and
render written reports on the same;
      (6)   To issue such notices or orders as may be necessary to enforce
compliance with the adopted building codes or this code of ordinances, to
remove illegal or unsafe conditions, to secure the necessary safeguards during
construction, or to require adequate exit facilities in buildings and
structures; and
      (7)   To make inspections required under the provisions of the building
codes adopted herein.
   (D)   During the temporary absence or disability of the Building Inspector,
the Town Board of Trustees may designate an Acting Building Inspector.
   (E)   The Building Inspector, while in the discharge of his or her official
duty, shall have the authority to enter any building or premises for the
purpose of inspection for compliance with the conditions of the building
permit.
   (F)   The Building Inspector may also serve as the Electrical or Plumbing
Inspector if so designated by the Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-34)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 12-106 and 12-112
§ 31.27 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Electrical Inspector for the
town. The Electrical Inspector shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to
confirmation by the Town Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Electrical Inspector shall have had experience as an electrician,
shall be of good moral character, and shall be either licensed by the state or
certified by BOCA. The Electrical Inspector may hold other positions in the
municipal government.
   (C)   The Electrical Inspector shall have all of the powers and duties
prescribed by the electrical codes adopted by this code of ordinances; he or
she shall also ensure that all municipal ordinances and regulations relating to
electrical safety are properly enforced.
(Prior Code, § 1-35)
§ 31.28 PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Plumbing Inspector for the town.
   (B)   The Plumbing Inspector shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to
confirmation by the Town Board of Trustees; the Plumbing Inspector may also
hold other positions in the municipal government.
   (C)   The Plumbing Inspector shall have all of the powers and duties
prescribed by the plumbing codes adopted by this code of ordinances; he or she
shall also ensure that all municipal ordinances and regulations relating to
water and sanitary plumbing are properly enforced.
(Prior Code, § 1-36)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 59 O.S. § 1016
§ 31.29 UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Utilities Superintendent for the
town. The Utilities Superintendent shall be appointed by the Town Board of
Trustees and his or her appointment shall continue during good behavior and
satisfactory service.
   (B)   He or she shall have charge of the maintenance and operation of all
municipal utilities and perform such duties in connection therewith as are
required of him or her by the Town Board of Trustees.
   (C)   The Utilities Superintendent shall have no power to incur any
expenditures unless the same shall be authorized and approved by the Town Board
of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-37)
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 12-106 and 12-112
§ 31.30 CIVIL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The office of Civil Emergency Management Director is hereby created to
be appointed by the Mayor.
   (B)   The Civil Emergency Management Director shall be executive head of the
Department of Civil Emergency Management and shall be responsible for carrying
out the Civil Emergency Management Program of the town.
   (C)   The Director of Civil Emergency Management shall have the authority,
duty, and responsibility to:
      (1)   Form an organization to prepare and implement a Civil Emergency
Management Program;
      (2)   Form committees to perfect such an organization;
      (3)   Appoint the Chairperson of such committees;
      (4)   Cooperate with other governmental civil emergency management
agencies; and
      (5)   Formulate plans, gather information, and maintain records for said
civil emergency management organization.
   (D)   The Director of Civil Emergency Management may be reimbursed for
expenses incurred in the performance of his or her duties; provided, such
expenses are at the direction of and approved by the Town Board of Trustees.
   (E)   In the event of an enemy-caused emergency or emergency resulting from
natural causes, the Civil Emergency Management Director, after authorization
from the Mayor, shall have the authority to enforce all regulations relating to
civil emergency management for the purpose of protecting the residents of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 1-38)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 63 O.S. § 683.11
ORGANIZATIONS
§ 31.45 POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Police Department for the town, the head of
which shall be the Chief of Police. The Chief of Police shall be appointed by
the Town Board of Trustees. His or her term of office shall be two years
running concurrent with Town Board elections or until his or her services are
terminated by death, resignation, removal by the Town Board of Trustees, or by
other legal manner.
   (B)   One or more police officers may be appointed by the Chief of Police,
subject to confirmation by the Town Board of Trustees; said police officers may
be removed for cause at a regular meeting by a majority vote of the Town Board.
Due process procedures are set forth in §
31.04.
   (C)   The Chief of Police and municipal police officers shall possess the
powers and be subject to the liabilities conferred by law in executing the
orders of the Trustees and enforcing this code of ordinances.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police and/or all municipal
police officers to bring to justice all violators of municipal ordinances and
federal and state laws and to turn such violators over to the proper
authorities. The Chief of Police shall serve all warrants, writs, executions,
and other process properly directed and delivered to him or her.
   (E)   The Chief of Police and each municipal police officer shall be paid
such compensation as the Town Board of Trustees, by motion, may prescribe.
   (F)   All personal property other than money or legal tender of the United
States coming in any manner into the possession of any municipal police
officer, which is not known to belong to some person or has not been claimed,
shall be delivered into the charge of the Chief of Police who shall retain such
property in custody for a period of six months. The Chief of Police shall make
a permanent, written record of said property including the date and
circumstances of the receipt thereof and the name of the person from whom it
was taken (or the place it was found) and may sell such property for cash to
the highest bidder provided that the property is no longer needed to be held as
evidence or for any other purpose connected with any litigation. The Chief of
Police shall record the subsequent disposal thereof, the date of sale, name,
and address of the purchaser and the amount for which it was sold.
   (G)   The Chief of Police shall file an application in the District Court to
enter an order authorizing him or her to transfer the proceeds of the sale or
the money or legal tender to the Town Clerk for deposit in the Municipal
General Fund. The application shall describe the proceeds, any serial numbers,
the date the proceeds came into his or her possession, and the name of the
owner and his or her address if known. The failure of anyone to appear to prove
ownership to said proceeds shall result in a court order to deposit the
proceeds in the Municipal General Fund, whereupon the Chief of Police shall
transfer the proceeds to the Town Clerk for deposit.
   (H)   The sale of personal property, money, or legal tender having a fair
market value of more than its face value requires prior authority from the
District Court.
   (I)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any dangerous or
deadly weapons, narcotics or poisonous drugs, explosives, or any property of
any kind or character which the possession of is prohibited by law. By order of
the trial court, any such property filed as an exhibit or held by the
municipality shall be sold or disposed of pursuant to the conditions prescribed
in such order.
   (J)   If any property is sold, as herein provided, and the owner thereof
takes and recovers possession of same from the purchaser, the amount deposited
into the Municipal General Fund shall be returned to the purchaser upon
verified claim being submitted and approved by the Town Board of Trustees.
   (K)   The Chief of Police or his or her designated representative is
authorized to direct that any regularly employed police officer of the town may
provide law enforcement assistance to another municipality in an emergency;
provided, a request from an official representative of the other municipality
has been received by the town. The Chief of Police shall report to the Mayor
within 24 hours of each such occurrence. The town shall provide salaries,
insurance, and other regular benefits to these officers.
   (L)   The Mayor or, in his or her absence, the Chief of Police of the town
is authorized to request law enforcement assistance from other municipalities
in emergency situations. In such cases, the assisting officers of the other
municipalities shall have the same powers and duties as though employed by the
town; however, salaries, insurance, and other benefits shall not be paid by the
town.
   (M)   In all events, the police officers of the town shall return to their
regular duties when directed to do so by the Town Police Chief or the Police
Chief of the requesting municipality, whichever direction occurs first.
   (N)   When the Town Police Chief directs the assisting police officers of
the other municipalities to return to their own regularly scheduled duties in
their own municipalities, those assisting police officers shall cease to have
the powers and duties of police officers regularly employed by the town.
   (O)   The Chief of Police and each police officer shall perform all other
duties prescribed by law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-29)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 12-111, 12-114, 34-101 et seq., 34-103,
and 34-104 and 22 O.S. §§ 91 et seq.
§ 31.46 CIVIL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The Civil Emergency Management Advisory Committee shall consist of the
Mayor who shall serve as Committee Chairperson and five members appointed by
the Mayor with the approval of the Town Board of Trustees. Said members shall
serve at the pleasure of the Town Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Civil Emergency Management Advisory Committee shall select from
its members a Vice-Chairperson and a Secretary.
   (C)   The Civil Emergency Management Advisory Committee shall hold such
meetings as are directed by the Mayor or the Town Board of Trustees.
   (D)   The function of the Civil Emergency Management Advisory Committee
shall be to act in an advisory capacity to and as needed or requested by the
Mayor or the Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-39)
§ 31.47 PARK BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Park Board, consisting of the five members
of the Town Board of Trustees, who shall be responsible for the care,
management, and control of all municipal parks and recreation areas.
   (B)   The Park Board may make such rules and regulations governing its
operations as it may deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 1-41)
§ 31.48 FAIR HOUSING BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Fair Housing Board for the town to assist in
the enforcement of all municipal fair housing regulations and ordinances.
   (B)   The Town Board of Trustees shall serve as the Fair Housing Board of
said community.
(Prior Code, § 1-42)
§ 31.49 MUNICIPAL BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees shall serve, ex officio, as the Municipal
Board of Health and shall adopt and enforce such ordinances, rules, and
regulations as it deems necessary for the protection of the public health.
   (B)   It shall be the general duty of the Municipal Board of Health to
examine and consider all measures necessary for the preservation of the public
health of residents of the town and to oversee enforcement of all ordinances
and regulations in relation thereto.
   (C)   The Municipal Board of Health may appoint a Local Health Officer to
carry out its health programs and policies. Until such appointment is made, the
County Health Officer or his or her authorized representative (pursuant to an
agreement between the town and the County Board of Health) may perform the
duties of a Local Health Officer and enforce the public health ordinances of
the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-44)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 63 O.S. § 1-209
§ 31.50 VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Volunteer Fire Department.
      (1)   There is hereby established for the town a Volunteer Fire
Department under the provisions of the State Volunteer Fireman’s Act, 11 O.S.
§§ 29-201 et seq.
      (2)   The Town Volunteer Fire Department shall consist of not less than
eight and not more than 20 members. The Department shall not employ more than
two full-time, salaried firefighters.
(Prior Code, § 8-1)
   (B)   Minimum rules and regulations of Volunteer Fire Department.
      (1)   The Fire Department shall adopt a code of minimum rules and
regulations in substantial compliance with the following:
         (a)   The Fire Chief.
            1.   The Chief shall be the head of the Department, subject to the
laws of the state, ordinances of this municipality, and the rules and
regulations adopted pursuant hereto. The Chief shall be appointed in the manner
provided by the law applicable to this municipality for the appointment of
municipal officers.
            2.   The Chief shall be responsible for the general condition and
efficient operation of the Department, the training of members, and the
performance of all other duties imposed upon him or her by law or the
municipality.
            3.   The Chief may inspect or cause to be inspected by members of
the Department the municipal fire hydrants, cisterns, and other sources of
water supply of the municipality at least twice a year.
            4.   The Chief shall maintain a library or file of publications on
fire prevention and fire protection and shall make use of it to the best
advantage of all members.
            5.   The Chief shall make every effort to attend all fires and
shall direct the officers and members in the performance of their duties.
            6.   The Chief shall see that the citizens are kept informed on
fire hazards in the community and on the activities of the Department.
            7.   The Chief shall see that each fire is carefully investigated
to determine its cause and, in the case of suspicion of incendiarism, shall
notify proper authorities. The Chief shall secure and preserve all possible
evidence for future use in the case of suspicious incendiarism.
            8.   The Chief shall file the appropriate activity report forms
with the office of the State Fire Marshal each calendar year of those instances
that include loss of life, personal injury, or property damage exceeding
$15,000. The reports shall include but shall not be limited to notification of
all fire-related injuries and deaths in the respective jurisdiction, amount of
property damage, and of firefighter injuries in the line of duty requiring the
services of a physician.
         (b)   The Assistant Chief. In the absence of the Chief, the Assistant
Chief on duty shall command the Department and shall have the full powers and
responsibilities of the Chief.
         (c)   Company officers. The company officers shall be selected upon
their:
            1.   Knowledge of firefighting;
            2.   Leadership ability; and
            3.   Knowledge of firefighting equipment.
         (d)   The Secretary/Treasurer. One member elected by the Fire
Department shall be Secretary/Treasurer. His or her duties shall consist of the
following:
            1.   Calling the roll at the opening of each meeting;
            2.   Keeping the minutes of each meeting; and
            3.   Collecting any money due to the Department by the members.
         (e)   New members.
            1.   All new members shall be on probation for one year after their
appointment.
            2.   New volunteer members, upon completion of their probation
period, must be approved by the majority of the Fire Department.
         (f)   Bylaws. The bylaws of the Department shall include, but shall
not be limited to, the following.
            1.   All volunteer firefighters are required to respond to alarms
of fire and other emergencies when notified.
            2.   A volunteer firefighter is required to be present at all
regular meetings and call meetings and schools presented for the benefit of the
firefighters.
            3.   There shall be at least one regular business meeting each
month.
            4.   Any volunteer firefighter having two unexcused absences in
succession or three unexcused absences in a period of three months will be
expelled from the Fire Department rolls.
            5.   Volunteer firefighters leaving the municipality for an
extended period of time will be expelled from the rolls.
            6.   Any volunteer firefighter refusing to attend training classes
provided for him or her will be expelled from the rolls.
            7.   Any volunteer member of the Fire Department shall be expelled
from the rolls for the following offenses:
               a.   Conduct unbecoming of a firefighter;
               b.   Any act of insubordination;
               c.   Neglect of duty;
               d.   Any violation of rules and regulations governing the Fire
Department; or
               e.   Conviction of a felony.
      (2)   Copies of this code of ordinances and any amendments thereto
relating to the Volunteer Fire Department shall be submitted to the State
Insurance Commission when such ordinances are adopted or amended by the Town
Board.
(Prior Code, § 8-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 29-101, 29-201, 29-203, and 29-204
CHAPTER 32: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Application
   
32.02   Jurisdiction
   
32.03   Fees, fines, and forfeitures
   
32.04   Prosecution for same offense
   
32.05   Jury trials; selection of jurors
Judges and Officers of the Court
   
32.20   Compensation of Judges
   
32.21   Disqualification of Judges
   
32.22   Chief of Police
   
32.23   Attorney
   
32.24   Clerk of Court
Procedures
   
32.35   Misdemeanor Traffic Violation release procedures
   
32.36   Non-traffic violations
   
32.37   Complaints against a corporation
   
32.38   Citation; summons; failure to appear
   
32.39   Forfeiture of bonds
   
32.40   Warrants of arrest
   
32.41   Style of prosecutions
   
32.42   Bail
   
32.43   Arraignment
   
32.44   Contempt of Court
   
32.45   Appeals
Judgment and Sentencing
   
32.60   Witness fees
   
32.61   Costs
   
32.62   Suspension; reconfinement; execution of sentence
 
   
32.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the Municipal
Court as put into operation and continued by resolution, duly passed, and filed
in the office of the County Clerk and the office of the Clerk of the Supreme
Court.
(Prior Code, § 13-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 27-102
§ 32.02 JURISDICTION.
   The Municipal Court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and
determine all prosecutions wherein a violation of any provisions of this code
of ordinances or of any other ordinance of the town is charged, including any
such prosecutions transferred to said Court, in accordance with applicable
laws.
(Prior Code, § 13-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 27-103
§ 32.03 FEES, FINES, AND FORFEITURES.
   All of the fees, fines, and forfeitures which come into the Municipal Court
shall be paid by the Clerk of the Court to the Municipal Treasurer. The
Treasurer shall credit such deposits to the fund designated by the municipal
governing body. The Court Clerk shall make duplicate receipts for the fees,
fines, and forfeitures collected by him or her, one copy of which shall be
retained by the Municipal Treasurer together with a detailed statement of all
costs, the style of the case in which they were paid, and the name of the party
paying the same.
(Prior Code, § 13-16)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 27-112
§ 32.04 PROSECUTION FOR SAME OFFENSE.
   When a defendant has been in jeopardy for the same or any lesser-included
offenses in a Municipal Court or District Court, he or she shall not be
prosecuted in another court for the same or a lesser-included offense.
(Prior Code, § 13-32)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 27-127
§ 32.05 JURY TRIALS; SELECTION OF JURORS.
   (A)   Postponement. Before trial commences in the Municipal Court, either
party, upon good cause shown, may obtain a reasonable postponement thereof.
   (B)   Presence of defendant. The defendant in any action in the Municipal
Court must be present in person at the trial.
   (C)   Trial procedure. In all trials, as to matters not covered in this
chapter, or by the statutes relating to municipal criminal courts, or by rules
duly promulgated by the Supreme Court of the state, the procedure applicable in
trials of misdemeanors in the district courts shall apply to the extent that
they can be made effective.
   (D)   Judgment rendered. At the close of trial, judgment must be rendered
immediately by the judge who shall cause it to be entered in his or her docket.
   (E)   Acquittal. If judgment is of acquittal, and the defendant is not to be
detained for any other legal cause, he or she must be discharged at once.
(Prior Code, §§ 13-26 and 13-27)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 27-119 and 27-120
JUDGES AND OFFICERS OF THE COURT
§ 32.20 COMPENSATION OF JUDGES.
   The compensation of the Judge and the Alternate or Acting Judges of the
Municipal Court of the shall be as determined by resolution of the Town Board
of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 13-11)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S.§ 27-104.A
§ 32.21 DISQUALIFICATION OF JUDGES.
   (A)   In prosecutions before the Municipal Court, no change of venue shall
be allowed, but the Municipal Judge before whom the case is pending may certify
his or her disqualification or he or she may be disqualified from sitting under
the terms, conditions, and procedures provided by law for courts of record.
   (B)   If the Municipal Judge is disqualified, the matter shall be heard by
an Alternate or Acting Judge appointed as provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 13-12)
Statutory reference;
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 27-105 and 28-105
§ 32.22 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   All writs on process of the Municipal Court shall be directed to the Chief
of Police who shall serve as Marshal of the Court.
(Prior Code, § 13-13)
Statutory reference
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 27-110
§ 32.23 ATTORNEY.
   The Municipal Attorney or his or her duly designated assistant shall be the
Prosecutor of the Municipal Court and shall be empowered to prosecute all
alleged violations of the ordinances of the town and to prosecute and resist
appeals and proceedings in error and review from the Court to any other courts
of the state; he or she shall also be authorized to represent the town in all
proceedings arising out of matters of the Court.
(Prior Code, § 13-14)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 27-108
§ 32.24 CLERK OF COURT.
   (A)   The Town Clerk or a deputy designated by him or her shall be ex
officio Clerk of the Court.
   (B)   The Court Clerk shall:
      (1)   Assist the Municipal Judge in recording the proceedings of the
Court and in preparing writs, process, and other papers;
      (2)   Administer oaths required in proceedings before the Court;
      (3)   Enter all pleadings, process, and proceedings in the dockets of the
Court;
      (4)   Perform such other clerical duties relating to the proceeding of
the Court as the Municipal Judge shall direct;
      (5)   Receive and receipt for forfeitures, fees, deposits, and sums of
money payable to the Court;
      (6)   Deliver to the Town Treasurer or the Town Clerk, upon receipt, all
money so received by him or her (except such special deposits for fees as shall
be received to be disbursed by him or her for such special purposes) to be
placed in the Municipal General Fund or in such other fund and in such manner
as the Town Board of Trustees may direct, by motion or resolution; and
      (7)   Give bond to the town in the sum of $1,000.
(Prior Code, § 13-15)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 27-109 and 27-112
PROCEDURES
§ 32.35 MISDEMEANOR TRAFFIC VIOLATION RELEASE PROCEDURES.
   If a resident or nonresident of a municipality having a Municipal Court is
arrested by a law enforcement officer solely for a misdemeanor violation of a
traffic ordinance (other than an ordinance pertaining to a parking or standing
traffic violation), the arrested person is eligible to sign a written promise
to appear and be released upon personal recognizance. A municipality, by
ordinance, may prescribe a bail bond schedule for this purpose and may provide
for bail to be used as payment of the fine and cost upon a plea of guilty or
nolo contendere. In the absence of such ordinance, the Municipal Court may
prescribe a bail bond schedule for traffic offenses. The amount of bail shall
not exceed the maximum fine provided by ordinance for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 13-18)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 27-117.1
§ 32.36 NON-TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   A resident who is arrested for the violation of a non-traffic
ordinance shall be released immediately by the arresting officer if the
resident acknowledges receipt of a citation by signing it unless it reasonably
appears to the officers:
      (1)   The person may cause injury to himself, herself, or others or
damage to property if released;
      (2)   The person will not appear in response to the citation; or
      (3)   The person is arrested for an offense against a person or property.
   (B)   If a person fails to appear in response to a citation, a warrant shall
be issued for his or her arrest, and his or her appearance shall be compelled.
   (C)   If a resident is not permitted to secure his or her own release by
signing the citation, he or she shall be admitted to bail either before or
after arraignment or shall be released on his or her own recognizance.
   (D)   If a nonresident is arrested, he or she shall be admitted to bail
either before or after arraignment.
   (E)   Bail shall not be more than the maximum fine provided for by ordinance
or each offense charged.
(Prior Code, § 13-23)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 27-117
§ 32.37 COMPLAINTS AGAINST A CORPORATION.
   (A)   Upon complaint against a corporation being filed with the Municipal
Judge, said Judge shall issue a summons in a form outlined in this chapter,
signed by him or her with his or her title of office, requiring the corporation
to appear before him or her at a specific time and place to answer the
complaint.
   (B)   The summons must be served at least five days before the day of
appearance fixed herein, by delivering a copy thereof and showing the original
to the President, Secretary, Cashier, or Managing Agent or Director of the
corporation.
   (C)   At the time appointed in the summons, the Municipal Judge shall try
the complaint in the same manner as in the case of any person brought before
him or her.
   (D)   When a fine is imposed upon conviction, it may be collected by the
Municipal Judge making a transcript of his or her proceedings thereof together
with the judgment of the Court duly certified and filed with the Clerk of the
District Court, and execution shall be issued thereon and served by the Sheriff
of the County as in cases of execution generally.
(Prior Code, § 13-21)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 21 O.S. § 105 and 22 O.S. § 4
§ 32.38 CITATION; SUMMONS; FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   (A)   A law enforcement officer who has arrested a person on a misdemeanor
charge or violation of town ordinance, without a warrant, may issue a citation
to such person to appear in Court.
   (B)   In issuing a citation hereunder, the officer shall proceed as follows:
      (1)   He or she shall prepare a written citation to appear in Court
containing the name and address of the cited person and the offense charge and
stating when the person shall appear in Court. Unless the person requests an
earlier date, the time specified in the citation to appear shall be at least
five days after the issuance of the citation.
      (2)   One copy of the citation to appear shall be delivered to the person
cited, and such person shall sign a duplicate written citation which shall be
retained by the officer.
      (3)   The officer shall thereupon release the cited person from any
custody.
      (4)   As soon as practicable, the officer shall file one copy of the
citation with the Court specified therein and shall deliver one copy to the
prosecuting attorney.
   (C)   In any case in which the judicial officer finds sufficient grounds for
issuing a warrant, he or she may issue a summons commanding the defendant to
appear in lieu of a warrant.
   (D)   If a person summoned fails to appear in response to the summons, a
warrant for his or her arrest shall be issued, and any person who willfully
fails to appear in response to a summons is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 13-20)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 22-209
§ 32.39 FORFEITURE OF BONDS.
   If, without sufficient excuse, a defendant fails to appear according to the
terms or conditions of his or her bond (either for the hearing, arraignment,
trial, or judgment or upon any other occasion when his or her presence in Court
or before the Magistrate may be lawfully required) the Judge may direct that
fact to be entered upon the court minutes, thereby declaring the bond to be
forfeited. Without advancing court costs, the Judge shall then cause the
forfeiture to be certified to the County District Court, where it shall be
entered upon the judgment docket with the full force and effect of a District
Court judgment. Court costs shall be collectible from the proceeds of the bond.
(Prior Code, § 13-24)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 27-118
§ 32.40 WARRANTS OF ARREST.
   (A)   Except as may otherwise be provided herein, upon the filing of a
complaint and approval by the Municipal Judge, there shall be issued a warrant
of arrest in substantially the following form:
 
The Town of Arapaho, Oklahoma, to the Marshal of the Municipal Court of
Arapaho, Oklahoma:
Complaint upon oath, having this day been made by  (name of complainant)  that
the offense of  (cite ordinance)  has been committed and accusing  (name of
defendant(s))  thereof, you are commanded therefore forthwith to arrest the
above named  (name of defendant(s))  and bring  (him, her, them)  before me at
my office at the Arapaho, Oklahoma, Municipal Court Room.
 
Witnessed my hand this _________day of ________, 20____.
 
____________________________________________
Judge of the Municipal Court of the Town of Arapaho, Oklahoma.
 
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Marshal of the Court to execute such
warrant as promptly as possible either personally, through a duly constituted
member of the police force of the town or through any other person lawfully
authorized to act.
(Prior Code, § 13-22)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 22 O.S. §§ 172 through 174
§ 32.41 STYLE OF PROSECUTIONS.
   All prosecutions shall be by complaint subscribed by the complainant and
verified before a Judge, Court Clerk, Deputy Court Clerk, or law enforcement
officer. No warrant for arrest shall be issued until the complaint has been
approved by the Municipal Judge. All prosecutions for the violation of
municipal ordinances shall be styled, “The Town of Arapaho vs. (name of person
(s) charged).”
(Prior Code, § 13-19)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 27-115
§ 32.42 BAIL.
   (A)   If a resident of a municipality served by a Municipal Court is
arrested by a law enforcement officer for the violation of any traffic
ordinance for which §
32.35 does not apply, or is arrested for the violation of a non-traffic
ordinance, the officer shall immediately release said person if the person
acknowledges receipt of a citation by signing it. Provided, however, the
arresting officer need not release said person if it reasonably appears to the
officer that the person may cause injury to himself, herself, or others or
damage to property, that the person will not appear in response to the
citation, or the person is arrested for an offense against a person or
property. If said person fails to appear in response to the citation, a warrant
shall be issued for his or her arrest and his or her appearance shall be
compelled.
   (B)   If the arrested resident is not released by being permitted to sign a
citation as provided for in this subsection, he or she shall be admitted to
bail either before or after arraignment, or shall be released on personal
recognizance. A municipality may prescribe a fine for up to the maximum amount
authorized by courts not of record for failure of a person to have a valid
driver’s license when charged with a traffic violation.
   (C)   If a nonresident of a municipality served by a Municipal Court is
arrested by a law enforcement officer of a violation of any ordinance for which
§
32.35 does not apply, the defendant shall be eligible to be admitted to bail
either before or after arraignment.
   (D)   The amount and conditions of bail granted pursuant to the provisions
of division (A) above shall be determined by the Judge who shall prescribe
rules for the receipt of bail and for the release on personal recognizance. In
the event of arrests at night, emergencies, or when the Judge is not available,
a court official, the Chief of Police, or his or her designated representative
may be authorized by the Judge, subject to such conditions as shall be
prescribed by the Judge, to accept a temporary cash bond in a sufficient amount
to secure the appearance of the accused. The cash bond shall not exceed the
maximum fine provided for by ordinance for each offense charged. The court
official, Chief of Police, or his or her designated representative is
authorized, subject to such conditions as shall be prescribed by the Judge, to
release a resident of the municipality on personal recognizance.
(Prior Code, § 13-17)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 27-117
§ 32.43 ARRAIGNMENT.
   The arraignment shall be made by the Court. The Municipal Judge or the
Prosecutor shall read the complaint to the defendant, inform him or her of his
or her legal rights and of the consequences of conviction, and ask him or her
whether he or she pleads guilty or not guilty. If the defendant pleads guilty,
the Court may proceed to judgment and sentence or may continue the matter for
subsequent disposition. If the plea is not guilty, the Court may proceed to try
the case or may set a date for hearing.
(Prior Code, § 13-25)
§ 32.44 CONTEMPT OF COURT.
   The Judge shall have power to enforce due obedience to orders, rules, and
judgments made by him or her and may fine or imprison for contempt offered to
the Judge while holding his or her Court or to process issued by him or her in
the same manner and to the same extent as the State District Courts.
(Prior Code, § 13-31)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 27-125
§ 32.45 APPEALS.
   Appeals by a defendant from a final judgement of the Municipal Court, may be
taken in accordance with 11 O.S. § 27-129.
(Prior Code, §§ 13-33 and 13-34)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 27-130 and 11 O.S. § 27-129
JUDGMENT AND SENTENCING
§ 32.60 WITNESS FEES.
   (A)   Fees allowed. Witnesses in any proceeding in the Court, other than
police officers, shall be entitled to the fees established by ordinance.
However, no witness shall receive fees or mileage in more than one case for the
same period of time or the same travel.
   (B)   Subpoena; deposit; exception for indigents.
      (1)   Deposit required. A defendant seeking to subpoena witnesses must
deposit with the Clerk of the Court a sum sufficient to cover fees and mileage
for one day of attendance for each witness to be summoned.
      (2)   Indigents.
         (a)   Such deposit shall not be required from an indigent defendant
who files an affidavit setting out:
            1.   The names of no more than three witnesses;
            2.   The defendant, by reason of his or her poverty, is unable to
provide the fees and mileage allowed by law;
            3.   The testimony of such witnesses is material; and
            4.   Their attendance at the trial is necessary for his or her
proper defense.
         (b)   The fees of such witnesses shall be paid by the town.
(Prior Code, § 13-28)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 27-121
§ 32.61 COSTS.
   Upon entry of judgment, the Clerk of the Court shall tax the costs to the
defendant in a sum not exceeding the amount established by 11 O.S. § 27-126,
plus any fees assessed by the court, all of which the defendant shall pay, in
addition to any fine that may be imposed.
(Prior Code, § 13-29)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 27-126
§ 32.62 SUSPENSION; RECONFINEMENT; EXECUTION OF SENTENCE.
   (A)   After sentencing, the Judge may suspend the judgment or costs or both
and allow the person so convinced to be released upon his or her own
recognizance. Any person so released shall be required to report at such times
and to such person or officer as the Judge shall direct. The Judge may cause a
warrant to be issued for any person so released if it shall be made to appear
to the Judge that such person:
      (1)   Has been guilty of the violation of any law after his or her
release;
      (2)   Is habitually associating with lewd or vicious persons; or
      (3)   Is indulging in vicious habits.
   (B)   Upon the issuance of the warrant by the Judge, the person shall be
delivered forthwith to the place of confinement to which he or she was
originally sentenced and shall serve out the full term for which he or she was
originally sentenced.
   (C)   Execution of municipal sentences shall be carried out in accordance
with the provisions of 11 O.S. § 27-122.1 providing for community service
without compensation in lieu of imprisonment; manner of imprisonment;
modification, reduction, suspension, and deferral of sentencing; continuing or
delaying the imposition of judgment and sentence; and for administrative fee in
the event of imposition of a deferred sentence.
(Prior Code, § 13-30)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 27-122.1 and 27-123
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   If the Judge of the Municipal Court of the town is a licensed
attorney and the trial is to the Court, the Court may impose a fine not to
exceed $500.
      (2)   If the Judge is not a licensed attorney, the Court may impose a
fine not to exceed $50.
(Prior Code, § 13-40)
Statutory reference:
Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 27-104
CHAPTER 33: FINANCES AND FUNDS
Section
   
33.01   Purchasing and sales procedures
   
33.02   Competitive bidding
   
33.03   Insurance
   
33.04   Firefighter’s Pension
§ 33.01 PURCHASING AND SALES PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees, by a vote of a majority of its members,
shall contract for and purchase or issue purchase authorizations for all
supplies, materials, equipment, and contractual services for the operation of
the municipal government. Before the purchase of or contract for any supplies,
materials, or equipment or the sale of any surplus or obsolete supplies,
materials, or equipment ample opportunity for competitive bidding, under such
regulations and with such exceptions as said Town Board may prescribe, shall be
given.
   (B)   Contractual services, for the purpose of this section, shall include
any type of personal or professional service, employment, or undertaking
including such services as utilities, pest control, maintenance, and repairs
except services performed by municipal officials or persons employed by the
municipality.
   (C)   The Mayor or other town official designated by the Town Board of
Trustees as a purchasing officer may contract for and purchase or issue
purchase authorization for supplies, materials, equipment, or contractual
services which do not exceed $25,000 in a single transaction without
competitive bidding.
   (D)   Subject to the provisions of this section, surplus or obsolete
supplies, materials, or equipment belonging to the town may be sold pursuant to
a vote carrying a majority of the Town Board of Trustees. No sale shall be made
under this section until the Town Board of Trustees has declared the supplies,
materials, or equipment involved to be surplus or obsolete. Except as may
otherwise be provided, the Town Board of Trustees shall advertise any sale
under this section in a newspaper of general circulation in the town or county
or in such other manner as deemed necessary to adequately reach prospective
buyers to give them an opportunity to make bids. All bids shall be sealed and
opened in public at a designated time and place except when the sale is by
auction. The Town Board of Trustees shall sell such supplies, materials, and
equipment to the highest responsible bidder and, if necessary, shall cast lots
in case of a tie to determine to whom to sell. The Town Board of Trustees may
sell surplus or obsolete supplies, materials, or equipment the total value of
which does not exceed $25,000 in a single transaction without giving an
opportunity for competitive bidding.
   (E)   No member of the Town Board of Trustees may sell or furnish for a
consideration, any materials or supplies for use by the town, and any member of
the Town Board voting for or consenting to such contract or purchase is
personally liable for any obligation in violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-50)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 17-102 and 17-211; 21 O.S. § 344; 62 O.S.
§§ 310.1, 355, and 357; and 74 O.S. § 85.2
§ 33.02 COMPETITIVE BIDDING.
   All public construction contracts of the town shall be in accordance with
the Public Competitive Bidding Act of 1974, 61 O.S. §§ 101 et seq. and other
appropriate state laws.
(Prior Code, § 1-51)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 61 O.S. §§ 101 et seq.
§ 33.03 INSURANCE.
   The town and its employees acting within the scope of their employment shall
be liable for loss resulting from their torts subject to the limitations and
exceptions set forth in the Governmental Tort Claims Act (51 O.S. §§ 151 et
seq.).
(Prior Code, § 1-52)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 23-101 and 23-102 and 51 O.S. §§ 151 et
seq., 153, and 155.
§ 33.04 FIREFIGHTER’S PENSION.
   For each member of the Volunteer Fire Department, the town shall deposit
yearly with the State Firefighters Pension and Retirement Board the amount in
accordance to state laws. Such contributions shall be reevaluated by the next
scheduled actuarial study and the amount of contribution shall be adjusted
accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 1-114)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 49-122.1 et seq.
CHAPTER 34: TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Power to levy and assess tax
   
34.02   Application of tax
   
34.03   Tax levied and payable
   
34.04   Failure to pay tax
   
34.05   Lien for tax
Sales Tax
   
34.20   Title, purpose, and effective date
   
34.21   Definitions
   
34.22   Classification of taxpayers
   
34.23   Tax rate; sales subject to tax
   
34.24   Exemptions
   
34.25   When due
   
34.26   Remittance of tax; tax brackets
   
34.27   Tax constitutes debt
   
34.28   Vendor’s duty to collect tax
   
34.29   Credits and discounts
   
34.30   Interest and penalties; delinquencies
   
34.31   Waiver or remission of interest or penalty
   
34.32   Erroneous payment
   
34.33   Records confidential
   
34.34   Report
   
34.35   Amendments
   
34.36   Provisions cumulative
Use Tax
   
34.50   Excise tax; personal property levied
   
34.51   Exemptions
   
34.52   When due; tax constitutes debt
   
34.53   Collection by vendor
   
34.54   Revoking permits
   
34.55   Remunerative deductions
   
34.56   Interest and penalties; delinquencies
   
34.57   Refund and waiver of interest
   
34.58   Erroneous payment
   
34.59   Records confidential
   
34.60   Provisions cumulative
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 POWER TO LEVY AND ASSESS TAX.
   From and after the effective date of this chapter, there is hereby levied
and assessed an annual tax of 2% upon the gross receipts from residential and
commercial sales of power, light, heat, gas, electricity, or water in said town
which tax shall be in lieu of any other franchise, license, occupation, or
excise tax levied by such town.
(Prior Code, § 1-159)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 68 O.S. § 2601-2605
§ 34.02 APPLICATION OF TAX.
   The tax levied under §
34.01 shall, when levied, apply to all persons, firms, associations, or
corporations engaged in the business of furnishing power, light, heat, gas,
electricity, or water within the town limits; except, it shall not apply to any
person, firm, association, or corporation operating under a valid franchise
from said town nor to the town when providing any such services.
(Prior Code, § 1-160)
§ 34.03 TAX LEVIED AND PAYABLE.
   The tax levied under §
34.01 shall be levied for a term of not less than one year and shall be payable
monthly and placed in the General Revenue Fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-161)
§ 34.04 FAILURE TO PAY TAX.
   Any person, firm, or corporation failing or refusing to pay such tax when
levied shall be regarded as a trespasser and may be ousted from such town, and
in addition thereto, an action may be maintained against such person, firm, or
corporation for the amount of the tax and all expenses of collection same
including reasonable attorney’s fees.
(Prior Code, § 1-162)
§ 34.05 LIEN FOR TAX.
   The tax so imposed shall constitute a first and prior lien on all the assets
located within the said town of any person, firm, or corporation engaged in the
business of selling power, light, heat, electricity, or water within the town
limits.
(Prior Code, § 1-163)
SALES TAX
§ 34.20 TITLE, PURPOSE, AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   Title. This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the Town
Sales Tax Ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-60)
   (B)   Effective. This subchapter shall become and be effective on and after
September 10, 1985, subject to approval by a majority of the registered voters
of the town voting on the same at a general or special municipal election.
(Prior Code, § 1-64)
   (C)   Purpose. It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this subchapter to
provide revenues for the support of the functions of municipal government of
the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-65)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 68 O.S. §§ 1352, 2701, and 2705
§ 34.21 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Definitions generally. The definitions of words, terms, and phrases
contained in the State Sales Tax Code, 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq., as amended, are
hereby adopted and incorporated by reference into this subchapter. For the
purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
(Prior Code, § 1-61)
   (B)   Tax collector defined. The term TAX COLLECTOR, as used herein, means
the department of the municipal government or the official agency of the state
duly designated according to law or contract authorized by law to administer
the collection of the tax herein levied.
(Prior Code, § 1-62)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 68 O.S. §§ 1351 et seq.
§ 34.22 CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the classification of taxpayers
hereunder shall be as prescribed by the State Sales Tax Code, 68 O.S. §§ 1350
et seq.
(Prior Code, § 1-63)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 68 O.S. § 1350
§ 34.23 TAX RATE; SALES SUBJECT TO TAX.
   There is hereby levied upon all sales not otherwise exempted in the State
Sales Tax Code, 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq., a Municipal Excise Tax of 3% of the
gross receipts or gross proceeds from the sale of the following:
   (A)   Tangible personal property;
   (B)   Natural or artificial gas, electricity, ice, steam, or any other
utility or public service except water and those specifically exempt;
   (C)   Transportation for hire by common carriers;
   (D)   Service by telephone or telegraph companies to subscribers or users;
   (E)   Printing or printed matter of all types, kinds, or character and any
service of printing or over-printing, duplicating written or printed matter in
any manner, or the production of microfiche containing information on magnetic
tapes furnished by customers;
   (F)   Service of furnishing rooms by hotel, apartment hotel, public rooming
house, motel, public lodging house, or tourist camp;
   (G)   Foods, confections, and all drinks sold or dispensed;
   (H)   Advertising, advertising devices, and servicing said devices;
   (I)   Dues or fees to clubs;
   (J)   Tickets for admission to or voluntary contributions made to places of
amusement, sports, entertainment, exhibition, display, or recreational events
or activities;
   (K)   Charges made for the privilege of using items for amusement, sports,
entertainment, exhibition, display, or recreational events or activities;
   (L)   The rental of equipment for amusement;
   (M)   The gross receipts from sales from any vending machine;
   (N)   The gross receipts or gross proceeds from the rental or lease of
tangible personal property;
   (O)   Any licensing agreement, rental, lease, or other device or instrument
whereby rights to possess or exhibit motion pictures or filmed performances or
rights to receive images, pictures, or performances for telecast by any method
are transferred. Persons regularly engaged in the business of exhibiting motion
pictures for which the sale of tickets or admissions is taxed pursuant to the
provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be consumers or users in
respect to the licensing or exhibiting of copyrighted motion picture features,
shorts, cartoons, and scenes from copyrighted features, and the sale or
licensing of such films shall not be considered a sale within the purview of
the State Sales Tax Code, 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq.;
   (P)   Flowers, plants, shrubs, trees, and other floral items, whether or not
produced by the vendor, sold by persons engaged in florist or nursery business
in this state;
   (Q)   Any taxable services and tangible personal property including
materials, supplies, and equipment sold to contractors for the purpose of
developing and improving real estate even though said real estate is intended
for resale as real property hereby declared to be sales to consumers or users;
   (R)   Any taxable services and tangible personal property sold to persons
who are primarily engaged in selling their services, such as repairpeople, are
hereby declared to be sales to consumers or users; and
   (S)   The sale, preparation, or serving of ice or nonalcoholic beverages
that are sold, prepared, or served for the purpose of being mixed with
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where such sale,
preparation, or service occurs.
(Prior Code, § 1-66)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 68 O.S. § 1354
§ 34.24 EXEMPTIONS.
   All items that are exempt from the State Sales Tax shall be exempt from any
sales tax levied by this subchapter. These exemptions include exemptions of
sales subject to other taxes (68 O.S. § 1355), of sales to governmental and
non-profit entities (68 O.S. § 1356), and of sales of certain agricultural
products (68 O.S. § 1358) as well as general exemptions (68 O.S. § 1357) and
exemptions for manufacturers (68 O.S. § 1359) and for corporations and
partnerships (68 O.S. § 1360).
(Prior Code, § 1-67)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 68 O.S. §§ 1355 through 1360
§ 34.25 WHEN DUE.
   The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the State Sales Tax under the State
Sales Tax Code.
(Prior Code, § 1-68)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 68 O.S. § 1365
§ 34.26 REMITTANCE OF TAX; TAX BRACKETS.
   (A)   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the tax collector at the time
and in the manner and form provided for payment of the State Sales Tax under
the State Sales Tax Code.
   (B)   The bracket system shall be used for the collection of both the 3%
Municipal Sales Tax and the 4.5% State Sales Tax.
(Prior Code, § 1-69)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 68 O.S. § 1362
§ 34.27 TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT.
   The taxes, fees, penalty, and interest due hereunder shall at all times
constitute a prior, superior, and paramount claim as against the claims of
unsecured creditors and may be collected by suit as any other personal debt.
(Prior Code, § 1-70)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 68 O.S. §§ 213 and 230
§ 34.28 VENDOR’S DUTY TO COLLECT TAX.
   (A)   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor, and it shall be the duty of each and every vendor in this town to
collect from the consumer or user the full amount of the tax levied by this
subchapter or any amount equal, as nearly as possible or practicable, to the
average equivalent thereof. Every person required to collect any tax imposed by
this subchapter and, in the case of a corporation, each principal officer
thereof shall be personally liable for said tax.
   (B)   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder or the average equivalent
thereof to the sales price or charge, and, when added, such tax shall
constitute a part of such price or charge, shall be debt from the consumer or
user to the vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable by law in the same
manner as other debts.
(Prior Code, § 1-71)
Statutory reference:
   Related provision, see 68 O.S. § 1361
§ 34.29 CREDITS AND DISCOUNTS.
   Remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same credits
and discounts as may be allowed by the State Sales Tax Code, 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et
seq., for collection of sales taxes of the state.
(Prior Code, § 1-72)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 68 O.S.§ 1366
§ 34.30 INTEREST AND PENALTIES; DELINQUENCIES.
   (A)   As amended, 68 O.S. § 217 is hereby adopted and incorporated by
reference as a part of this subchapter; interest and penalties at the rates and
in the amounts as therein specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable
in cases of delinquency in reporting and paying the tax levied by this
subchapter.
   (B)   The failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make and transmit the report
and remittances of tax in the time and manner required herein shall cause such
tax to be delinquent. In addition, if any such delinquency continues for a
period of five days, the taxpayer shall forfeit his or her claim to any
discount allowed hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 1-73)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 68 O.S. § 217
§ 34.31 WAIVER OR REMISSION OF INTEREST OR PENALTY.
   (A)   The interest or penalty or any portion thereof ordinarily accruing by
reason of a taxpayer’s failure to pay a municipal tax within the statutory
period allowed for its payment may be waived or remitted provided that the
taxpayer’s failure to pay the tax is satisfactorily explained or provided such
failure has resulted from a mistake by the taxpayer of either the law or the
facts subjecting him or her to such tax or inability to pay such interest of
penalty resulting from insolvency.
   (B)   The waiver or remission of all or any part of any such interest or
penalties shall not become effective unless approved by a majority of the Town
Board. The application for the approval of such waiver or remission shall be
filed in the office of the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-74)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 68 O.S. § 220
§ 34.32 ERRONEOUS PAYMENT.
   Any taxpayer who has paid to the town, through error of fact or computation
or misinterpretation of law, any municipal tax may be refunded the amount of
such tax so erroneously paid, without interest. Such taxpayer must file a
verified claim for refund within three years from the date of payment of such
tax erroneously paid.
(Prior Code, § 1-75)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 68 O.S. § 227
§ 34.33 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The records and files of the State Tax Commission concerning the
administration of this subchapter or of any state tax law shall be considered
confidential and privileged except as otherwise provided for by 68 O.S. § 205,
and neither the Tax Commission nor its employees nor any official or employee
of the town charged with the custody of such records or files shall disclose
any information therefrom. (Prior Code, § 1-77)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 68 O.S. § 205
§ 34.34 REPORT.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees shall receive, by mail from the State Tax
Commission, a quarterly report containing the following information:
      (1)   A list of names and addresses of persons who report doing business
within the town during the preceding calendar year and who have a sales tax
permit; and
      (2)   A list of persons who are more than 60 days delinquent in remitting
sales taxes.
   (B)   The report is intended to enable the Town Board of Trustees to
determine the actual Municipal Sales Tax liability of any person engaged in
business within the town.
   (C)   In addition to the penalty for wrongful disclosure of information set
forth in §
34.33, town officials or employees who violate the confidentiality of a
taxpayer’s records and files may be removed or dismissed from office.
(Prior Code, § 1-78)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 68 O.S. §§ 205 et seq.
§ 34.35 AMENDMENTS.
   The people of the town, by their approval of this subchapter at the election
hereinbefore provided, have authorized the town, by ordinances duly enacted, to
make such administrative and technical changes or additions in the method and
manner of administering and enforcing this subchapter as may be necessary or
proper for efficiency and fairness; provided, the rate of the tax herein
provided shall not be changed without approval of the qualified electors of the
municipality as provided by law and §
34.20(B).
(Prior Code, § 1-79)
§ 34.36 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions hereof shall be cumulative and in addition to any and all
other taxing provisions of municipal ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-80)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 68 O.S. § 2706
USE TAX
§ 34.50 EXCISE TAX; PERSONAL PROPERTY LEVIED.
   (A)   There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by every person
storing, using, or otherwise consuming within the municipality tangible,
personal property purchased or brought into this municipality an excise tax on
the storage, use, or other consuming within the municipality of such property
at the rate of 3% of the purchase price of such property. Such tax shall be
paid by every person storing, using, or otherwise consuming (within the
municipality) tangible, personal property purchased or brought into the
municipality.
   (B)   The additional tax levied hereunder shall be paid at the time of
importation or storage of the property within the municipality and shall be
assessed to only property purchased outside the state; provided, the tax levied
herein shall not be levied against tangible, personal property intended solely
for use outside the municipality but which is stored in the municipality
pending shipment outside the municipality or which is temporarily retained in
the municipality for the purpose of fabrication, repair, testing, alteration,
maintenance, or other service. Any person liable for payment of the tax
authorized herein, may deduct from such tax any Local or Municipal Sales Tax
previously paid on such goods or services; provided, the amount deducted shall
not exceed the amount that would have been due if the taxed imposed by the
municipality had been levied on the sale of such goods or services.
(Prior Code, § 1-85)
§ 34.51 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply:
   (A)   In respect to the use of an article of tangible, personal property
brought into the municipality by a nonresident individual visiting in this
municipality for his or her personal use or enjoyment while within the
municipality;
   (B)   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property purchased for
resale before being used;
   (C)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property on
which a tax (equal to or in excess of that levied by both the State Use Tax
Code and the Town Use Tax Ordinance) had been paid by the person, such
tangible, personal property in the municipality regardless of whether such tax
was levied under the laws of the state or some other state or municipality of
the United States. If any article of tangible, personal property has already
been subjected to a tax by the state or any other state or municipality (in
respect to its sale or use) in an amount less than the tax imposed by both the
State Use Tax Code and the Town Use Tax Ordinance, the provisions of this
subchapter shall also apply to it by a rate measured by difference only between
the rate provided by both the State Use Tax Code and the Town Use Tax Ordinance
and the rate by which the previous tax upon the sale or use was computed.
Provided, no credit shall be given for taxes paid in another state or
municipality if that state or municipality does not grant like credit for taxes
paid in the state and the municipality;
   (D)   In respect to the use of machinery and equipment purchased and used by
persons establishing new manufacturing or processing plants in the municipality
and machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons to the operation of
manufacturing plants already established in the municipality. Provided, this
exemption shall not apply unless such machinery and equipment is incorporated
into and is directly used in the process of manufacturing property subject to
taxation under the Sales Tax Code, 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq., of the
municipality. The term MANUFACTURING PLANTS shall mean those establishments
primarily engaged in manufacturing or processing operations and generally
recognized as such;
   (E)   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property now specifically
exempted from taxation under the Sales Tax Code, 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq., of
the municipality;
   (F)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property
brought into the municipality by an individual with intent to become a resident
of this municipality where such personal property is for such individual’s
personal use or enjoyment;
   (G)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property
used or to be used by commercial airlines or railroads; and
   (H)   In respect to livestock purchased outside the state and brought into
this municipality for feeding or breeding purposes and which is later resold.
(Prior Code, § 1-86)
§ 34.52 WHEN DUE; TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT.
   (A)   Time when due; returns; payments. The tax levied by this subchapter is
due and payable at the time and in the manner and form prescribed for payment
of the State Use Tax under the State Use Tax Code.
(Prior Code, § 1-87)
   (B)   Tax constitutes debt. Such taxes, penalties, and interests due
hereunder shall, at all times, constitute a prior, superior, and paramount
claim as against the claims of unsecured creditor and may be collected by suit
as any other debt.
(Prior Code, § 1-88)
§ 34.53 COLLECTION BY VENDOR.
   (A)   Every retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within
and outside of the state and making sales of tangible, personal property from a
place of business outside this state for use in this municipality shall, at the
time of making such sales, collect the use tax levied herein from the purchaser
and give to the purchaser a receipt therefor in the manner and form prescribed
by the Tax Commission if the Tax Commission shall, by regulation, require such
receipt. Each retailer or vendor shall list with the Tax Commission the name
and address of all his or her agents operating in this municipality and
location of any and all distribution or sales houses or offices or other places
of business in this town.
(Prior Code, § 1-89)
   (B)   In its discretion, The Tax Commission may, upon application, authorize
the collection of the tax herein levied by any retailer or vendor not
maintaining a place of business within this state but who makes sales of
tangible, personal property for use in this municipality and by the out-of-
state place of business of any retailer or vendor maintaining places of
business both within and outside of the state and making sales of tangible,
personal property at such out-of-state place of business for use in this
municipality. Such retailer or vendor may be issued, without charge, a permit
to collect such taxes, by the Tax Commission in such manner and subject to such
regulations and agreements as it shall prescribe. When so authorized, it shall
be the duty of such retailer or vendor to collect the tax upon all tangible,
personal property sold to his or her knowledge for use within this
municipality. Provided, however, in all instances where such sales are made or
completed by delivery to the purchaser within this municipality by the retailer
or vendor in such retailer’s or vendor’s vehicle (whether owned or leased, not
by common carrier), such sales or transactions shall continue to be subject to
applicable Municipal Sales Tax as the point of delivery and the tax shall be
collected and reported under taxpayer’s sales tax permit number accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 1-90)
§ 34.54 REVOKING PERMITS.
   Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in this
state or both within and outside this state and authorized to collect the tax
herein levied fails to comply with any of the provisions of this subchapter of
the State Tax Use Code or any order, rules, or regulations of the Tax
Commission, the Tax Commission may, upon notice and hearing (as provided for in
68 O.S. § 1408), by order, revoke the use tax permit, if any, issued to such
retailer or vendor, and, if any such retailer or vendor is a corporation
authorized to do business in this state, may, after notice and hearing above
provided, cancel said corporation’s license to do business in this state and
shall issue a new license only when such corporation has complied with the
obligations under this subchapter, the State Use Tax Code, or any order, rules,
or regulations of the Tax Commission.
(Prior Code, § 1-91)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 68 O.S. § 1408
§ 34.55 REMUNERATIVE DEDUCTIONS.
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the Tax Commission at the time and in the manner, form, and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances required by the State Use Tax Code, and
remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same discount as
may be allowed by said code for the collection of State Use Taxes.
(Prior Code, § 1-92)
§ 34.56 INTEREST AND PENALTIES; DELINQUENCIES.
   The provisions of 68 O.S. § 217 are hereby adopted and made a part of this
subchapter; interest and penalties at the rates and in the amounts as therein
specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in
reporting and paying the tax levied by this subchapter. Provided, the failure
or refusal of any retailer or vendor to make and transmit the reports and
remittances of tax in the time and manner required by this subchapter shall
cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if such delinquency continues for
a period of five days, the retailer or vendor shall forfeit his or her claim to
any discount allowed under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-93)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 68 O.S. § 217
§ 34.57 REFUND AND WAIVER.
   The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by reason of a
retailer’s or vendor’s failure to pay the Municipality Tax herein levied may be
waived or remitted in the same manner as provided for said waiver or remittance
as applied in administration of the State Use Tax provided in 68 O.S. §§ 220
and 227, and to accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable
provisions of said §§ 220 and 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a
part of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-94)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 68 O.S. § 227
§ 34.58 ERRONEOUS PAYMENT.
   Refund of erroneous payment of the Municipality Use Tax herein levied may be
made to any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and
procedure and under the same limitations of time as provided for administration
of the State Use Tax, as set forth in 68 O.S. § 227, and to accomplish the
purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of said § 227 are hereby
adopted by reference and made a part of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-95)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 68 O.S. § 227
§ 34.59 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the Municipality Use Tax is legislatively recognized and
declared and to protect the same the provisions of 68 O.S. § 205 of the State
Use Tax Code, and each subsection thereof is hereby adopted by reference and
made fully effective and applicable to administration of the Municipality Use
Tax as is herein set forth in full.
(Prior Code, § 1-97)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 68 O.S. § 205
§ 34.60 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions hereof shall be cumulative and in addition to any and all
other taxing provisions of the municipality’s ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-98)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Municipal utility systems
   
50.02   Use of systems
   
50.03   Application for services
   
50.04   Authority and inspections
   
50.05   Town not responsible
   
50.06   Customer responsible
   
50.07   Gas permits
Use of Utilities
   
50.20   Connection to meters
   
50.21   Turning on utilities unlawfully
   
50.22   Utilities cut-off; turned back on
   
50.23   Interference with hydrants or town utilities
Rates and Billing
   
50.35   Disconnection for late payment
   
50.36   Connection permitted when bills paid
   
50.37   Fees and rates generally
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 MUNICIPAL UTILITY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Water and sewer services are provided to residents of the town through
the Public Works Authority’s Municipal Trust.
   (B)   The town provides solid waste collection and disposal services to
residents of the community. The town may contract with any public or private
entity for the provision of these services.
   (C)   Any reference to the Town Clerk shall mean the Public Works
Authority’s Secretary.
(Prior Code, § 20-1)
§ 50.02 USE OF SYSTEMS.
   Every resident within the corporate town limits of the town and every
commercial or industrial establishment shall utilize the municipal utility
system of said town, unless it is impossible to do so, and pay fees as
established by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 20-2)
§ 50.03 APPLICATION FOR SERVICES.
   Applications shall be as set forth in resolutions.
(Prior Code, §§ 20-3 and 20-4)
§ 50.04 AUTHORITY AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Authority to turn on. When a utility has been turned off by town
personnel, it shall not be turned on again without written permission of the
Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 20-10)
   (B)   Inspections. The Superintendent and other municipal personnel may
enter any private premises served by municipal utilities at any reasonable time
and inspect pipes, fixtures, and/or wiring on the premises or read and examine
meters.
(Prior Code, § 20-14)
§ 50.05 TOWN NOT RESPONSIBLE.
   The town shall not be responsible for any damages due to stoppage or
interruption of any utility or service.
(Prior Code, § 20-13)
§ 50.06 CUSTOMER RESPONSIBLE.
   All customers using town utilities shall keep their service pipes and other
apparatus in good repair and in proper operation and shall not unnecessarily
waste water nor contribute to unsanitary conditions.
(Prior Code, § 20-12)
§ 50.07 GAS PERMITS.
   Any persons, firms, associations, or corporations engaged in the business of
furnishing gas within the town limits not operating under a valid franchise
from said town and upon whom the tax provided under §
34.01 is imposed is hereby granted a revocable permit by said town for so long
as this section remains in effect and the taxes are paid in accordance with the
terms herein to acquire, construct, erect, install, extend, repay, remove,
relocate, replace, operate, and maintain a system of works, pipes, pipelines,
apparatus, structures, and appurtenances in, across, upon, and under the
streets, alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, parks, parkways, sidewalks,
parkings, driveways, rights-of-way, utility easements, and other public ways,
places, areas, and grounds (all being sometimes referred to herein as “streets,
alleys, avenues, and other public ways, places, and grounds”) in the town as
now constitute and as may be added to hereafter for the purpose of
transporting, distributing, and selling gas to said town, its inhabitants, and
the public generally for domestic, commercial, and industrial uses and for any
and all other purposes for which gas (during the period of this revocable
permit) may be used together with the right to enter upon the streets, alleys,
avenues, and other public ways, places, and grounds of said town for the
purpose of construction, erecting, installing, extending, relocating,
operating, maintaining, removing, and repairing said works, pipes, pipelines,
and all necessary apparatus, machinery, structures, and appurtenances.
(Prior Code, § 1-164)
USE OF UTILITIES
§ 50.20 CONNECTION TO METERS.
   No more than one premises may be connected to any one water meter or sewer
tap without special arrangements being made with the town. No customer shall
make or permit to be made any subsidiary connections of another’s premises with
his or her water or sewer service.
(Prior Code, § 20-5) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.21 TURNING ON UTILITIES UNLAWFULLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to turn any utility on to any premises
from any municipal system, without written permission of the Town Clerk.
Utilities shall not be turned on until the plumbing or electrical wiring, as
the case may be, has been inspected and approved by the Building Official or
his or her designated representative, as provided by ordinance, and until any
and all deposits and charges have been paid. The Town Clerk will see that the
utility is turned on when all requirements for service have been complied with.
(Prior Code, § 20-6) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.22 UTILITIES CUT-OFF; TURNED BACK ON.
   (A)   Utilities may be cut off.
      (1)   Utilities may be cut off and service discontinued for any of the
following reasons:
         (a)   violation of any ordinance, provision relating to a municipal
utility, or violation of any ordinance provision or any provision of a code
adopted by reference relating to water and sanitary plumbing or electrical
installations;
         (b)   Any act or omission in regard to the water system or sanitary
sewer system, the use of water, or the disposal of liquid wastes which
jeopardizes the public health or safety, creates a public nuisance, or
interferes with the rights of others; or
         (c)   Failure to pay a utility bill or other proper charge made in
connection with a municipal utility system by the time specified by ordinance.
      (2)   A particular service may be cut off for any act or omission in
regard to the abuse of another system or service which jeopardizes the public
health or safety, creates a public nuisance, or interferes with the rights of
others.
      (3)   The town reserves the right to cut off or reduce any utility or
service to any customer when necessary to conserve water, protect life or
property, or repair or improve the system.
      (4)   In case of emergency caused by a water shortage in the municipal
water system, it shall be the duty of the Town Board of Trustees to immediately
give notice by publication to the system’s water consumers not to use water
obtained from the system for any purpose other than for strictly domestic use
and such other use as the Town Board may designate so long as the water
shortage lasts. Therefore, and until the governing body declares the emergency
at an end, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation during
such emergency to use water obtained from the municipal water system for any
purpose other than strictly domestic use and such other uses as the Town Board
may have designated.
(Prior Code, § 20-8)
   (B)   Turning utilities on again. When a customer’s utility service has been
cut off because of delinquency or act or omission of the customer, it may be
turned on again only when all charges have been paid or other change in the
conditions justify it. Charges shall be determined by Board action and posted
at Town Hall.
(Prior Code, § 20-9) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.23 INTERFERENCE WITH HYDRANTS OR TOWN UTILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, unless duly authorized by the
town, to open, turn on or off, interfere with, attach any pipe or hose to, or
connect anything with any fire hydrant belonging to the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to, in any manner, obstruct access
to any fire hydrant by placing around or thereon brick, lumber, dirt, or other
things.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, destroy, or tamper with
any pipes, lines, meters, or other equipment or property which is a part of
municipal utility system.
(Prior Code, § 20-15) Penalty, see §
50.99
RATES AND BILLING
§ 50.35 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill;
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his bill shall have
a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in person and
by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present orally or
in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town official in charge
of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that the
customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a
final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $20.
(Prior Code, § 20-7)
§ 50.36 CONNECTION PERMITTED WHEN BILLS PAID.
   A person owing delinquent municipal utility bills or other charges in
connection with a municipal utility system shall not be extended additional
services until such bills and charges have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 20-11)
§ 50.37 FEES AND RATES GENERALLY.
   All fees, rates, and deposits associated with water and sewer services shall
be as established by resolution of the Public Works Authority and adopted by
the Town Board of Trustees. All fees, rates, and deposits associated with solid
waste services shall be as established by motion of the Town Board of Trustees.
A schedule of all fees, rates, and deposits shall be posted publicly in the
Town Hall.
(Prior Code, § 20-63)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
50.01 through
50.06,
50.20 through
50.23,
50.35 through
50.37,
51.01 through
51.05,
51.20 through
51.23,
52.01 through
52.07,
52.20 through
52.23, and
53.01 through
53.03 or of any ordinance, code, or standard adopted herein or maintains or
permits to continue any public nuisance as defined by these provisions shall be
guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine
and costs as provided for in §
10.99. Every day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 20-73)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Purpose
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Municipal function declared
   
51.04   Accumulation a nuisance; containers
   
51.05   Rates; collection of charges
Removal and Disposition
   
51.20   Who may remove
   
51.21   Burning solid waste prohibited
   
51.22   Machine grinding
   
51.23   Disposition of animal carcasses
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter and it is hereby declared to be the policy
of the town, pursuant to the authority of the State Solid Waste Management Act,
27A O.S. §§ 2-10-101 et seq., to regulate the collection and disposal of solid
wastes in a manner that will protect the public health and welfare, prevent air
and water pollution, prevent the spread of disease and the creation of
nuisances, conserve the natural resources, and enhance and preserve the beauty
and quality of the town’s environment.
(Prior Code, § 20-49)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 63 O.S. §§ 2251 through 2265
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, company, firm, partnership,
association, trust, or other legal entity however constituted or organized.
   REFUSE. Tree trimmings, junked building and roofing materials, manufacturing
waste, rocks, dirt, and other waste material not defined as solid waste or
trash.
   SOLID WASTE. All putrescible and nonputrescible refuse in solid or semi-
solid form including, but not limited to, garbage, refuse, rubbish, ashes or
incinerator residue, street refuse, dead animals, demolition wastes,
construction wastes, and solid or semi-solid commercial and industrial wastes
or hazardous wastes including explosives, pathological wastes, chemical wastes,
herbicides, and pesticide wastes.
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM. The entire process of storage, collection
transportation, processing, and burying solid wastes at or in a site approved
by the State Department of Health.
   TRASH. Paper, rags, containers of paper, tin cans, yard and house sweepings,
and all other household waste (but not tree trimmings, building and
manufacturing waste, sewage, rocks, raw dirt, rainwater, and other liquid
refuse) properly disposable through the sanitary sewers of the town.
(Prior Code, § 20-50)
§ 51.03 MUNICIPAL FUNCTION DECLARED.
   The collection and disposal of garbage, trash, and refuse is hereby declared
to be a municipal function of the town as a protection of the public health;
the police powers of the town shall be invoked when necessary for the
enforcement of this chapter. In addition, the town may collect and dispose of
refuse, as it deems necessary, provided that such disposal shall be by an
approved method of incineration (no open burning) or by landfill and daily
cover.
(Prior Code, § 20-48)
§ 51.04 ACCUMULATION A NUISANCE; CONTAINERS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person in charge of any lot or piece of ground
to allow solid waste to accumulate thereon so as to cause an offensive odor to
be emitted therefrom or to become injurious or dangerous to the health of the
neighborhood or an inhabitant thereof. Any such condition is hereby declared a
violation of this section and punishable as such and, in addition, is declared
to be a nuisance and may be abated as such.
   (B)   Any person constructing any structure within said town shall, prior to
construction on any premises in said town, furnish and place on said premises a
container of suitable size and design to contain all solid waste which might,
by the winds or elements, be distributed and blown from the premises; said
containers shall be used by the person concerned at all times to keep the
premises from becoming unsightly with solid waste.
   (C)   Any person who fails to keep the premises on which any structure is
being built or installed free from solid waste and who allows said waste to
blow or be carried from the premises to adjoining or other property or into the
town streets shall be deemed guilty of causing a nuisance and shall be subject
to the penalties in this code of ordinances prescribed therefor.
   (D)   All persons in charge of any premises or piece of ground shall deposit
for collection all solid waste in containers provided by the town or its
contract agent. In the event the town or its contract agent does not provide
such containers, all persons in charge of any premises or property in the town
shall place all solid waste in watertight metallic or plastic cans or
containers of sufficient size to hold not less than 20 nor more than 32 gallons
and have close-fitting covers and handles on the sides. If the town or its
contract disposal agent does not furnish receptacles on the public right-of-way
for the collection of solid wastes on a block basis, then cans or containers
herein required shall be placed by the person in charge of said premises or
piece of ground on the alley or at some convenient place on the lot, premises,
or piece of ground so as to provide access thereto by a collector.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any person to deposit for collection or other
purpose any solid waste on any street, alley, or public parking area or on any
private property unless the same is deposited in cans or containers as provided
in division (D) above. If the town or its contract solid waste disposal agent
furnishes or otherwise provides bulk metal receptacles or containers on the
public rights-of-way for use by persons residing or doing business on a block
for which said receptacles or containers are furnished or provided, persons in
charge of premises, lots, or pieces of ground within the town shall transfer
the solid waste accumulated on their own premises and contained in receptacles
or containers, as described in division (D) above, to the block containers
furnished or provided by the town or its solid waste disposal contract agent.
   (F)   Containers used for holding combustible or noncombustible wastes shall
be maintained in good condition. Any waste container that does not conform to
the provisions herein, that may have ragged or sharp edges, or that may have
any other defect liable to hamper or injure the person collecting the contents
thereof must be promptly replaced by a proper receptacle upon receipt of notice
to that effect from the collector; if not so replaced within ten days after
receipt of such notice, the nonconforming or defective containers may be
collected and disposed of by said collector.
(Prior Code, § 20-51)
§ 51.05 RATES; COLLECTION OF CHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   To facilitate the collection of the solid waste rates and
charges levied and assessed herein, the Clerk or other designated agent of the
town is hereby further directed to include said charges on the same bill by
which the town bills for and collects for its sewer, water, or other services
to the end that the rates and charges herein levied shall be paid and collected
by the town at the same time. The rates and charges levied shall be shown on
said bill as a separate and distinct item of charge.
      (2)   In the event any owner, occupant, or person in charge of any user
unit against whom a charge has been herein levied and assessed fails or
otherwise refuses to pay said charge, the Clerk or other person responsible is
hereby directed to terminate all services rendered thereto, including water
services, when said account has been delinquent for a period of 30 days. No
services thus terminated shall be reconnected or renewed until such time as all
charges have been paid in full to the then current date. In addition, the Clerk
is further directed to institute any appropriate legal action to collect said
delinquency if the same is not paid after the expiration of 60 days.
(Prior Code, § 20-56)
   (B)   All fees, rates, and deposits associated with solid waste services
shall be as established by motion of the Town Board of Trustees. A schedule of
all fees, rates, and deposits shall be posted publicly in the Town Hall.
(Res. 2023-3, passed 2-16-2023)
REMOVAL AND DISPOSITION
§ 51.20 WHO MAY REMOVE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except under contract as is hereinafter
provided for, to remove or cause to be removed any solid waste materials from
any garbage can or other receptacle used for the deposit of same or to
transport, haul, carry, or otherwise move over any of the streets, alleys, or
other public ways any solid waste materials.
(Prior Code, § 20-53) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 51.21 BURNING SOLID WASTE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to start or maintain any fire or
cause any fire to be started or maintained for the purpose of burning or
incinerating any solid waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to construct or install within any building in
the town any incinerator design to burn solid wastes.
(Prior Code, § 20-52) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 51.22 MACHINE GRINDING.
   It shall be unlawful to construct or to install within any retail store or
other commercial or industrial establishment within the town any mechanical or
power-driven device or machine for the grinding of solid waste materials
designed to be introduced into the sewer system of said town, unless the same
has been approved by the Town Board of Trustees, to ensure that such waste will
not block or otherwise interfere with the sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 20-54) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 51.23 DISPOSITION OF ANIMAL CARCASSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bury or cause to be buried the
carcass of any dead animal at any place within the town. The town shall not be
responsible for the disposition of dead animals.
(Prior Code, § 20-55) Penalty, see §
50.99
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Water system defined
   
52.02   Meters and connections
   
52.03   Service line maintenance; shutoff valve required
   
52.04   Right of entry
   
52.05   Tampering with waterworks property
   
52.06   Private water well restrictions
   
52.07   Water well permits
Uses
   
52.20   Domestic use of water wells
   
52.21   Use of water from water mains
   
52.22   Use of water interconnections prohibited
   
52.23   Use restrictions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 WATER SYSTEM DEFINED.
   As used in this chapter, the term WATER SYSTEM, WATERWORKS, or WATER
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM shall mean the water works utility system of the town.
(Prior Code, § 20-20)
§ 52.02 METERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Meters. Water from the water system shall be furnished to customers
only through meters. All meters shall be set only under the directions of the
Superintendent of the Utilities Systems.
(Prior Code, § 20-21)
   (B)   Town to make and maintain water connections.
      (1)   The town shall make, inspect, and maintain all connections to its
water lines. It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a duly authorized
agent or employee of the town, to make a connection to any water line belonging
to or controlled by the town.
      (2)   Installation of all water lines from any premises to the main water
lines of the town shall be the responsibility of the premises owner.
Maintenance of all service lines from the meter to the premises shall be the
responsibility of the owner. The town shall maintain all meters and service
lines from the meter to the main lines.
      (3)   Installation of all service lines and meters shall be conducted
only by plumbers duly licensed by the state and the town.
(Prior Code, § 20-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.03 SERVICE LINE MAINTENANCE; SHUTOFF VALVE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each consumer of water furnished by the town shall lay his or her own
pipeline from the premises to the property line for the purpose of conveying
water to such point on his or her premises as he or she may desire; he or she
shall thereafter be required to keep the same in good repair and sanitary
condition.
   (B)   All service lines to be installed after the effective date of this
chapter shall include a master shutoff valve between the meter and the
premises.
(Prior Code, § 20-23)
§ 52.04 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Consumers taking water from the town shall, at all reasonable hours, grant
any person authorized by the Town Board free access to all parts of the
premises to which water is delivered for the purpose of inspection and
examination of fixtures or to read the meters. Occupied premises that are not
accessible shall be required to make said premises accessible and shall be
assessed a fee of $50 per visit when accessibility is denied.
(Prior Code, § 20-24)
§ 52.05 TAMPERING WITH WATERWORKS PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, deface, or in any way
tamper with any hydrant, meter, valve, pipeline, or any part of the waterworks
system or to turn the water off or on from any main at any at any time or place
unless he or she is duly authorized so to do by the Town Board.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person(s) except duly authorized officers
and employees of the town to scale, climb, or go upon the town’s water tower.
(Prior Code, § 20-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.06 PRIVATE WATER WELL RESTRICTIONS.
   No privately-owned water well within the town shall hereafter be drilled to
nor shall any existing well hereafter be deepened to nor any privately-owned
well be completed at such depth as will interfere or allow water to be taken
and produced from the water producing sands from which the town obtains its
municipal water supply except in those instances and in those areas where water
is not available to the prospective user from the town’s regular system.
(Prior Code, § 20-30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.07 WATER WELL PERMITS.
   (A)   Any person who otherwise qualifies for the drilling and use of water
well within the town may apply in writing to the Town Clerk for a permit for
the use of said water well. Said person shall, upon making said application,
pay to the Town Clerk a permit fee of $10. An authorized officer of the town
shall review said application to determine if the proposed water well complies
with the ordinances of the town, the laws of the state, and the regulations of
the State Department Environmental Quality. Said authorized officer may require
the applicant to furnish in writing any additional information required to make
said determination. Upon approval of said application by the Board of Trustees,
the Town Clerk shall issue a permit for the drilling and use of said water
well.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued by the Town Clerk to any person, firm, or
corporation unless such person, firm, or corporation has been duly licensed by
the appropriate agency of the state. Furthermore, it shall be unlawful for any
person, firm, or corporation not so licensed to drill any well within the
corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 20-31)
USES
§ 52.20 DOMESTIC USE OF WATER WELLS.
   (A)   Use of water wells for domestic purposes. No person shall have the
right to drill any water within the limits of the town for any purpose other
than for domestic purposes; provided, however, in the event a person shall
desire to drill a water well for purposes and the town is unwilling or unable
for reason to provide said person a supply of water commensurate with the needs
of that person, said person may make application for the drilling and use of a
water well for purposes other than domestic purposes, and upon a showing to the
Board of Trustees of the town that the drilling and use of said water well will
not jeopardize or otherwise interfere with the water supply of the town, said
application may, in the discretion of the Board of Trustees, be granted;
provided, however, at such time as the town is able and willing to provide said
person water, the town may require said person to tie into the water main of
the town to plug and abandon the well used by said person.
(Prior Code, § 20-26)
   (B)   Domestic use. DOMESTIC USE means the use of water by a natural
individual or by a family or household for household purposes.
(Prior Code, § 20-28)
§ 52.21 USE OF WATER FROM WATER MAINS.
   No person shall have the right to drill a water well for domestic use except
when the town main lines are not available to said person; in which event, said
person shall have the right to drill and use a water well for domestic purposes
only after proper application has been made, approved, and a permit for the use
thereof has been issued.
(Prior Code, § 20-27) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.22 USE OF WATER INTERCONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   Except as herein otherwise provided, water from privately-owned wells within
the town shall be used only for domestic purposes on the premises where the
well is located, and there shall be no interconnection thereto or extension
thereof. In the case of wells in use prior to the effective date of this
chapter, use of the water therefrom may be continued to the same extent and for
the same purposes, but such uses shall not be extended or increased. No
domestic water well shall be utilized to fill a natural or human-made earthen
basin nor maintain water in the same nor shall the water well be used for
recreational purposes or any purposes which may constitute waste.
(Prior Code, § 20-29)
§ 52.23 USE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Water use restrictions will be mandatory between April 1 and October
30 unless exempted pursuant to division (D) below. Use restrictions shall
include the following restrictions.
      (1)   Outdoor irrigation of landscaping/lawns utilizing hand watering
shall be allowed every day of the week for one hour per day between 6:00 a.m.
and 8:00 a.m. or 8:00 p.m. and 12:00 a.m. only. All hoses must be equipped with
a positive shutoff valve.
      (2)   After June 1 of each year, existing swimming pools can only be
filled to replace normal water loss due to evaporation. No permits for new
pools will be issued.
      (3)   Use of fountains is prohibited.
      (4)   Restaurants may only serve a glass of water upon request by the
customer.
      (5)   Washing of personal vehicles is prohibited at any location not
specifically designed and permitted for vehicle washing.
      (6)   Washing down of sidewalks, walkways, driveways, parking lots,
streets, and gutters is prohibited.
      (7)   Washing down of buildings is prohibited unless for fire protection.
      (8)   All water leaks must be repaired within a reasonable time frame.
   (B)   Water restrictions shall remain in effect until rescinded by action of
the Town Board of Trustees. The restrictions shall be mandatory between April 1
and October 30 unless exempted pursuant to division (D) below.
   (C)   Private wells must be registered with the town. A weather-resistant
sign indicating “well on site” must be placed in a manner visible from the
street. Well hydrants must be marked with a weather-resistant sign or colored
stake to indicate well water use.
   (D)   During periods of excess water or in the opinion of the Board that use
restrictions are not needed, the Board may adopt a resolution lifting the use
restrictions described herein.
(Prior Code, § 20-32) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 53: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Maintenance of sewer connections
   
53.02   Mandatory sewer connections
   
53.03   Private sewage disposal
Industrial Wastes
   
53.15   Definitions
   
53.16   Power of entry
   
53.17   Authority to disconnect service
   
53.18   Prohibited discharges
   
53.19   Impairment of facilities
   
53.20   Pretreatment and the like
   
53.21   Sampling and testing
   
53.22   Permits
   
53.23   Grease, oil, and sand traps or interceptors
 
   
53.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 MAINTENANCE OF SEWER CONNECTIONS.
(A)The town shall make, inspect, and maintain all extensions or additions to
its main sewer lines. It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a duly
authorized agent or employee of the town to make a connection to any sewer line
belonging to or controlled by the town.
(B)Installation and maintenance of all service lines and lateral lines from the
point where such lines connect with sewer mains to the premises being served
shall be the responsibility of the owner of the premises being served;
provided, however, all installation and maintenance shall be provided only by
plumbers duly licensed by the state and the town.
(Prior Code, § 20-40) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.02 MANDATORY SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The owners of all houses, buildings, or property used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is located a
public sanitary sewer of the town are hereby required, at their own expense, to
install suitable toilet facilities therein and to have such facilities
connected directly with the proper public sewer within 60 days after the date
of official notice to do so provided that such public sewer is within 300 feet
of the property line. Any lift station required for proper connection to the
public sewer shall be installed and maintained by the person in charge of the
premises.
   (B)   Said notice in division (A) above shall be served by any member of the
Town Board or other duly authorized agent by delivering a true and correct copy
to the property owner or leaving the same at his or her usual place of
residence with a member of his or her family over the age of 15 years or, if
such owner cannot be found, by posting a copy of such notice at the front
entrance of the building involved.
   (C)   Any person who shall fail, neglect, or refuse to comply with the terms
of this section after having been notified so to do, as provided herein, shall
be guilty of an offense, and each 24-hour period thereafter shall constitute a
separate offense. In the event of a continuous violation of this section by any
property owner, the town shall discontinue the furnishing of water to such
property owner until such time as a proper sewer connection has been made.
(Prior Code, § 20-41)
§ 53.03 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided in this section, it shall be unlawful
for any person to construct or maintain any privy vault, septic tank, cesspool,
or other facility intended to be used for the disposal of sewage within the
corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   Where a connection to a public sanitary sewer line is not required
under the provisions of §
53.02, a private septic tank or cesspool or other facility for sewage disposal
may be constructed and maintained under the rules and regulations of the town
and in compliance with the recommendations and requirements of the State
Department of Environmental Quality. No septic tank or cesspool shall be
permitted to discharge to any public sewer or natural outlet.
   (C)   The owner of private septic tanks or cesspools shall operate and
maintain the same in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the town,
and no statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere with
any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Department of
Environmental Quality of the town, county, or state.
   (D)   At such times as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a septic tank or cesspool, a direct connection shall be made to such public
sewer in compliance with §
53.02, and the septic tank or cesspool shall immediately be abandoned and
filled with suitable material.
(Prior Code, § 20-42) Penalty, see §
53.99
INDUSTRIAL WASTES
§ 53.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Waste or waste resulting from any process of industry,
manufacturing, trade, business, institutional, or governmental exercise or from
the development of any natural resource or any mixture of waste with water or
normal waste water or distinct from normal waste water.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE CHARGE. The charge made on those persons who discharge
industrial wastes into the municipal sewerage system.
   WASTEWATER. A combination of the water-carried waste from residences,
business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments together with
any ground, storm, and surface water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. Includes all facilities for collection, pumping,
treating, and disposing of wastewater and industrial wastes.
   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge on all users of the public sewer
system whose wastes do not exceed, in strength, the concentration values
established as representative of normal wastewater.
(Prior Code, § 11-1)
§ 53.16 POWER OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Officially-designated municipal representatives and other duly
authorized municipal employees bearing proper credentials and identification
are entitled to enter any public or private property, at any reasonable time,
for the purpose of enforcing this subchapter.
   (B)   Anyone acting under this authority shall observe the rules and
regulations concerning safety, internal security, and fire protection.
(Prior Code, § 11-2)
§ 53.17 AUTHORITY TO DISCONNECT SERVICE.
   The town may terminate water and wastewater disposal service and disconnect
an industrial customer from the system when:
   (A)   Acids or chemicals damaging to sewer lines or treatment process are
released to the sewer causing rapid deterioration of these structures or
interfering with proper conveyance and treatment of wastewater;
   (B)   A governmental agency informs the town that the effluent from the
wastewater treatment plant is no longer of a quality permitted for discharge to
a watercourse, and it is found that the customer is delivering wastewater to
the municipal system that cannot be sufficiently treated or requires treatment
that is not provided as normal domestic treatment; or
   (C)   The industrial customer:
      (1)   Discharges industrial waste or wastewater that is in violation of
the permit issued by the approving governmental authority;
      (2)   Discharges wastewater at an uncontrolled, variable rate in
sufficient quantity to cause an imbalance in the wastewater treatment system;
      (3)   Fails to pay monthly bills for water and sanitary sewer services
when due; or
      (4)   Repeats a discharge of prohibited wastes to public sewers.
(Prior Code, § 11-3)
§ 53.18 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person may discharge into public sewers any waste which by itself
or by interaction with other wastes:
      (1)   Injures or interferes with wastewater treatment processes or
facilities;
      (2)   Constitutes a hazard to humans or environment; or
      (3)   Constitutes a hazard in receiving waters of the wastewater
treatment plant effluent.
   (B)   No person may discharge any wastewater, industrial waste, or polluted
liquids on public or private property adjacent to any area within the
jurisdiction of the town unless authorized by the State Department of
Environmental Quality.
(Prior Code, § 11-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 77 O.S. § 37-115
§ 53.19 IMPAIRMENT OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   No person may discharge into public sewers any substance capable of
causing:
      (1)   Obstruction to the flow in sewers;
      (2)   Interference with the operation of treatment processes or
facilities; or
      (3)   Excessive loading of treatment facilities.
   (B)   No person may discharge into public sewers any substance that may:
      (1)   Deposit grease or oil in the sewer lines in such a manner as to
clog the sewers;
      (2)   Overload skimming and grease-handling equipment;
      (3)   Pass to the receiving waters without being effectively treated by
normal wastewater treatment processes due to the non-amenability of the
substance to bacterial action; or
      (4)   Deleteriously affect the treatment process due to excessive
quantities.
   (C)   No person may discharge any substance into public sewers which:
      (1)   Is not amenable to treatment or reduction by the processes and
facilities employed; or
      (2)   Is amenable to treatment only to such a degree that the treatment
plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
   (D)   The approving authority shall regulate the flow and concentration of
slugs when they may:
      (1)   Impair the treatment process;
      (2)   Cause damage to collection facilities;
      (3)   Incur treatment costs exceeding those for normal wastewater; or
      (4)   Render the waste unfit for stream disposal or industrial use.
   (E)   No person may discharge into public sewers any viscous substances in
sufficient quantity or size which may violate division (A) above including, but
not limited to:
      (1)   Ashes, cinders, and sands;
      (2)   Mud and tar;
      (3)   Straw and shavings;
      (4)   Rags;
      (5)   Feathers;
      (6)   Plastics, wood, glass, and metal;
      (7)   Unground garbage;
      (8)   Whole blood, entrails, paunch manure, and hair and fleshing;
      (9)   Paper products, either whole or ground by garbage grinders;
      (10)   Slops;
      (11)   Chemical residues;
      (12)   Paint residues; or
      (13)   Bulk solids.
(Prior Code, § 11-11) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.20 PRETREATMENT AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   If pretreatment or control is required, the approving authority shall
review and approve the design and installation of equipment and processes.
Standards for review shall be consistent with the standards adopted by the
State Department of Environmental Quality.
   (B)   Any person responsible for discharges requiring pretreatment, flow-
equalizing, or other facilities shall provide and maintain the facilities in
effective operating condition at his or her own expense.
(Prior Code, § 11-12)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions 27A O.S. § 2-6-303
§ 53.21 SAMPLING AND TESTING.
   (A)   Sampling shall be conducted in accordance with the standard methods
employed by the State Department of Environmental Quality.
   (B)   Examination and analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes
required by this subchapter shall be:
      (1)   Conducted in accordance with the latest edition of State Department
Environmental Quality standards; and
      (2)   Determined from suitable samples taken at the control manhole
provided or other control point authorized by the approving authority.
   (C)   Sampling is at DEQ’s discretion and is written into the permit.
(Prior Code, § 11-13)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 27A O.S. § 2-6-303
§ 53.22 PERMITS.
   (A)   The town may grant a discharge permit provided that the applicant:
      (1)   Submits an application within 180 days after the effective date of
this subchapter;
      (2)   Secures approval of plans and specifications for pretreatment
facilities when required;
      (3)   Has complied with all requirements for agreements or arrangements
including, but not limited to, provisions for:
         (a)   Payment of reasonable industrial waste and wastewater service
charges;
         (b)   Installation and operation of pretreatment facilities; and
         (c)   Sampling and analysis to determine quantity and strength.
      (4)   Provides a sampling point subject to the provisions of this
subchapter and approval of the approving authority.
   (B)   A person applying for a new discharge shall:
      (1)   Meet all conditions of division (A) above; and
      (2)   Secure a permit prior to discharging any waste.
(Prior Code, § 11-14)
§ 53.23 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND TRAPS OR INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil, and sand traps or interceptors shall be provided by an
owner when, in the opinion of the Water Superintendent, they are necessary for
the proper handling of liquid waste containing grease in excessive amounts or
any flammable waste, sand, or any other harmful ingredients.
   (B)   Grease, oil, and sand traps or interceptors shall be provided for the
proper handling of liquid waste containing grease in excessive amounts,
flammable waste, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except, such interceptors
shall not be required for private living quarters or dwellings.
      (1)   All interceptors or traps shall be of a type and capacity approved
by the Town Water Superintendent with the advice and participation of the Town
Board and shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of
impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature. They shall be of substantial construction, watertight, and
equipped with easily removable covers which, when bolted in place, shall be
gas-tight and watertight.
      (2)   All installed grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be
maintained in a continually efficient operation by owner of said interceptor at
the owner’s expense.
      (3)   The use of hot water, enzymes, chemicals, or other agents or
devices for the purpose of causing the oil, grease, or sand to pass through the
interceptor and/or the facility shelling provided is prohibited.
      (4)   Materials removed from these facilities shall be either utilized by
industry or properly disposed of at designated and approved locations for the
disposal of such wastes.
   (C)   When, in the opinion of the Town Board, surface or commercial grease
storage and disposal equipment will suffice for collection of disposal of
grease or oil, the Town Board may allow and require that surface or commercial
grease disposal facilities be required for the deposit and proper disposal of
grease waste created by sewer customers within the town.
(Prior Code, § 11-15)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
50.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §§
53.15 through
53.23 or continues any violation beyond a time limit designated in these
sections shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by fine and costs as provided for in §
10.99 of this code. Each day on which any such violation shall continue shall
be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 11-25)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
      
72.   VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND REQUIREMENTS
      
73.   PEDESTRIANS
      
74.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
75.   PARKING RULES
      
76.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   State Highway Traffic Safety Code adopted
   
70.02   Obedience to Traffic Code
   
70.03   Motor vehicle security verification
   
70.04   Construction zones
   
70.05   Application to public officials and employees
   
70.06   Dangerous objects on streets
§ 70.01 STATE HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The State Highway Traffic Safety Code (47 O.S.) is hereby adopted and
incorporated in the Code of Ordinances of the town as if set out at length
herein for the purposes of establishing locally appropriate rules and
regulations for the control of traffic within said municipality.
   (B)   The definitions of words used in the traffic code shall be the same as
those definitions in 47 O.S. §§ 1-130 through 1-147, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 22-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 1-130 through 1-147
§ 70.02 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CODE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to authorize
or knowingly to permit any vehicle registered in his, her, or its name to be
driven or be parked in violation of any provision of this traffic code.
   (B)   The parent or guardian of any child or ward shall not authorize or
knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of
this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 22-110) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.03 MOTOR VEHICLE SECURITY VERIFICATION.
   (A)   Security verification required; exemptions.
      (1)   The owner of a motor vehicle registered in this state and operating
said vehicle within the town’s boundaries shall carry in such vehicle at all
times a current owner’s security verification form listing the vehicle or an
equivalent form which has been issued by the State Department of Public Safety
which shall be produced by any driver thereof upon request for inspection by
any law enforcement officer and, in case of a collision, the form shall be
shown upon request to any person affected by said collision.
      (2)   The following shall not be required to carry an owner’s or
operator’s security form or any equivalent form from the State Department of
Public Safety during operation of the vehicle and shall not be required to
surrender such form for vehicle registration purposes:
         (a)   Any vehicle owned or leased by the federal or state government
or any agency or political subdivision thereof;
         (b)   Any vehicle bearing the name, symbol, or logo of the business,
corporation, or utility on the exterior and which is in compliance with the
Compulsory Insurance Law according to records of the State Department of Public
Safety which reflect a deposit, bond, self-insurance, or fleet policy;
         (c)   Any vehicle authorized for operation under a permit number
issued by the Interstate Commerce Commission or the State Corporation
Commission;
         (d)   Any licensed taxicab; and
         (e)   Any vehicle owned by a licensed used motor vehicle dealer.
(Prior Code, § 22-100)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this traffic code, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COMPULSORY INSURANCE LAW. The law requiring liability insurance in
conjunction with the operation of a motor vehicle in the state as found in 47
O.S. Chapter 7, Article 6.
      OPERATOR’S POLICY. An OPERATOR’S POLICY of liability insurance shall
insure the named person against loss from the liability imposed upon him or her
by law for damages arising out of the operation or use by him or her of any
motor vehicle not owned by him or her, subject to the same limits of liability
required in an owner’s policy.
      OWNER’S POLICY. An OWNER’S POLICY of liability insurance:
         (a)   Shall designate, by explicit description or by appropriate
reference, all vehicles with respect to which coverage is thereby to be
granted;
         (b)   Shall insure the person named therein and insure any other
person, except as provided in division (c) below, using an insured vehicle with
the express or implied permission of the named insured against loss from the
liability imposed by law for damages arising out of the ownership, maintenance,
operation, or use of such vehicle;
         (c)   May provide for exclusions from coverage in accordance with
existing laws; and
         (d)   Shall be issued by an authorized carrier providing coverage in
accordance with 47 O.S. § 7-204.
      SECURITY.
         (a)   A policy of bond meeting the requirements of 47 O.S. § 7-204;
         (b)   A deposit of cash or securities having the equivalency of limits
required under 47 O.S. § 7-204 as acceptable limits for a policy or bond; and
         (c)   Self-insurance, pursuant to the provisions of 47 O.S. § 7-503,
having the equivalency of limits required under 47 O.S. § 7-204 as acceptable
limits for a policy or bond.
      SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM. A form approved by the State Board for
Property and Casualty Rates verifying the existence of security required by the
Compulsory Insurance Law of the state.
(Prior Code, § 22-101)
   (C)   When possession of security verification form required. Every operator
of a motor vehicle registered in this state shall (while operating or using
such vehicle within the town’s boundaries) carry either an operator’s or an
owner’s security verification form issued by a carrier (provided the operator
is not excluded from coverage thereon) or an equivalent form issued by the
Department of Public Safety reflecting liability coverage.
(Prior Code, § 22-102)
   (D)   Failure to maintain security an offense.
      (1)   Any owner or operator who fails to produce for inspection a valid
and current security verification form or equivalent form which has been issued
by the State Department of Public Safety upon request of any peace officer of
the Town Police Department shall be guilty of an offense.
      (2)   A sentence imposed for any violation of this section may be
suspended or deferred in whole or in part by the Court.
      (3)   Any person producing proof in Court that a current security
verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by the State
Department of Public Safety reflecting this liability coverage for such person
was in force at the time of the alleged offense shall be entitled to dismissal
of such charge.
      (4)   Upon conviction, bond forfeiture, or deferral of sentence, the
Court Clerk shall forward an abstract to the State Department of Public Safety
within ten days reflecting the action taken by the Court.
(Prior Code, § 22-103)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 7-204 and 7-503 and Chapter 7, Article 6
§ 70.04 CONSTRUCTION ZONES.
   (A)   Municipal personnel, contractors, or utility companies (while
repairing or improving the streets of the town or when installing, improving,
or repairing lines or other utility facilities in the streets) are hereby
authorized, subject to control by the Town Board, to close any street or
section thereof to traffic.
   (B)   When any street has been closed to traffic under the provisions of
division (A) above and traffic control devices or barricades have been erected,
it shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle under, over, around,
or through such traffic control devices or barricades or otherwise to enter the
closed area; except, the provisions of this chapter shall not apply to persons
while engaged in such construction, maintenance, and repair to persons entering
therein for the protection of lives or property or to persons having their
places of residence or business within such closed area who may travel through
such area at their own risk.
   (C)   Whenever construction, repair, or maintenance of any street, utility
line, or facility is being performed and the street is not closed to traffic in
accordance with this section, the municipal personnel, contractor, or utility
company concerned shall erect warning devices for the public. Every person
using such street shall obey such warning devices.
(Prior Code, § 22-116)
§ 70.05 APPLICATION TO PUBLIC OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Public officials and employees.
      (1)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of
any vehicle owned by or used in the service of the federal government and any
state, county, municipality, or other governmental unit or agency as well as to
other vehicles; it shall be unlawful for any said driver to violate any of the
provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted herein or by
state laws.
      (2)   This traffic code shall not apply to the military forces of the
United States and organizations of the National Guard when performing military
duty.
(Prior Code, § 22-111)
   (B)   Persons working on streets.
      (1)   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this traffic
code, except those relating to reckless driving and driving while intoxicated,
shall not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment while
actually engaged in work upon the surface of a street or to persons, motor
vehicles, and other equipment while actually engaged in construction,
maintenance, or repair of public utilities; provided, all highway and public
utility operations shall be protected by adequate warning signs, signals,
devices, or flaggers.
      (2)   However, the provisions of this traffic code shall apply to such
persons and vehicles when traveling to or from such work.
(Prior Code, § 22-117) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.06 DANGEROUS OBJECTS ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, cause to be placed, or let
fall and remain in or upon any street any scrap iron, nail, tack, glass, stick,
or other thing which is likely to injure persons, damage property, or render a
street unsafe for traffic.
(Prior Code, § 22-119) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
Authority
   
71.01   Town Board to adopt and enforce regulations
   
71.02   Citation tags; failure to comply
   
71.03   Duties of police officers and firefighters
   
71.04   Accident reports; leaving an accident
   
71.05   Inspection of vehicles
   
71.06   Eluding police officers
Impoundment
   
71.20   Purpose and effect of impoundment
   
71.21   Place of impoundment
   
71.22   Duration of impoundment
   
71.23   Redemption and release of vehicle
   
71.24   Authority to impound
   
71.25   Causes for impoundment
Traffic Control Devices
   
71.40   Installation
   
71.41   Specifications
   
71.42   Turn signs and indicators
   
71.43   One-way streets, traffic lanes, and crosswalks designated
   
71.44   Unauthorized signs or devices
   
71.45   Street classification
   
71.46   Signs to be in proper place
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see
Chapter 94
   Misdemeanor traffic violation procedure, see §
32.35
   Vehicle equipment and requirements, see
Chapter 72
AUTHORITY
§ 71.01 TOWN BOARD TO ADOPT AND ENFORCE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Town Board is hereby empowered to adopt and enforce regulations
necessary to make the provisions of this traffic code and any other traffic or
related ordinances of the town effective and to adopt and enforce temporary
regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions.
   (B)   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful
order or direction of the Chief of Police, any police officer, firefighter, or
any other authorized municipal employee.
(Prior Code, § 22-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.02 CITATION TAGS; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   Police officers are hereby authorized to give notice to persons
violating provisions of this traffic code by delivering citation tags to
violators or, in cases where vehicles without drivers are parked or stopped in
violation of this traffic code, by affixing such tags to the vehicles by means
of which the violation occurred. Such citation tags shall indicate briefly the
charge, shall bear the registration number of the vehicle, and shall direct the
violator to present the tag at the police station or other designated place
within five days or such other reasonable time as may be specified thereon.
Nothing in this section shall abridge the power to arrest any violator, to take
him or her into custody, or to file a complaint against him or her at any time.
   (B)   The Town Board may require that police officers use serially-numbered
citation tags furnished by the Town Clerk, and said Town Board may also
regulate the use and handling of citation tags.
   (C)   If a violator of any provision of this traffic code who has been given
a citation tag, as provided in division (A) above, fails to appear in
accordance with the instructions of such tag, the Chief of Police or his or her
authorized agent shall send a letter or other written notice to the owner of
the vehicle involved informing him or her of the violation, warning him or her
to appear, and directing that, in the event such letter or notice is
disregarded for a period of five days, a complaint will be filed and a warrant
of arrest issued; provided, nothing in this section shall abridge the power to
file a complaint against him or her prior to the expiration of such time.
   (D)   In the event any person fails to comply with a citation tag given to
such person or attached to a vehicle, the Chief of Police shall have a
complaint entered against such person before the Municipal Judge, and said
Judge shall issue a warrant for his or her arrest.
(Prior Code, § 22-7)
§ 71.03 DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS AND FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police and any police officers to
enforce the traffic regulations of the town and all of the state vehicle laws
applicable to traffic in said municipality to make arrests for traffic
violations, to investigate accidents, to cooperate with other municipal
officials in the administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways to
improve traffic conditions, and to carry out those duties specifically imposed
upon said officers by this traffic code and any other traffic or related
ordinances of said municipality.
   (B)   The Chief of Police and his or her assistants are hereby authorized to
direct all traffic by voice, hand, or signal in conformance with traffic laws
and ordinances. In the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite
traffic or safeguard pedestrians, such officers may direct traffic as
conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws and
ordinances.
   (C)   Firefighters, when at the scene of a fire, may direct or assist the
police in directing traffic.
(Prior Code, § 22-9)
§ 71.04 ACCIDENT REPORTS; LEAVING AN ACCIDENT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
resulting in bodily injury to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle
or other property to an apparent extent of more than $50 shall, as soon as
practicable, report such accident to the Chief of Police or to the Police
Department. Making a written report of the accident in the Police Department,
as soon as practicable after the accident (to be forwarded to the State
Department of Public Safety in accordance with the law), shall be deemed
compliance with this section.
   (B)   Leaving the scene of an accident, as defined by current state law,
shall be unlawful within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 22-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.05 INSPECTION OF VEHICLES.
   Police officers shall have authority to inspect and test any vehicle upon
the streets of the town at any time, with reasonable cause, to determine
whether it is safe, properly equipped, and whether its equipment is in proper
adjustment and repair.
(Prior Code, § 22-114)
§ 71.06 ELUDING POLICE OFFICERS.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any operator of a motor vehicle who
has received a visual and/or an audible signal (red light and/or siren) from a
police officer driving a motor vehicle (with insignia showing the same to be an
official police, sheriff, or highway patrol car) directing the operator to
bring his or her vehicle to a stop to willfully increase his or her speed or
extinguish his or her lights in an attempt to elude such police officer or to
willfully attempt, in any other manner, to elude such police officer.
(Prior Code, § 22-121) Penalty, see §
10.99
IMPOUNDMENT
§ 71.20 PURPOSE AND EFFECT OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Impoundment of vehicles, under authority of the provisions of this
subchapter, shall be construed an enforcement procedure for protection of the
public peace, safety, welfare, and safeguarding of property and shall be used
generally for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention and
abatement of public nuisances existing from traffic hazards, prevention and
abatement of public nuisances existing from traffic law violations, protection
of the public rights in the use of streets and thoroughfares in the town from
obstructions placed and left in derogation of those rights, and for
safeguarding and protecting recovered stolen vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 22-25)
§ 71.21 PLACE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every vehicle that is impounded under the provisions of this subchapter
shall be removed to the nearest garage or other place of safekeeping designated
by the Town Board and shall not be removed to any other place.
(Prior Code, § 22-26)
§ 71.22 DURATION OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided hereinafter, any vehicle impounded under the
provisions of this code of ordinances shall be stored and held safely until a
written order for its release, signed by the Chief of Police or his or her
designated representative, has been issued.
   (B)   The written order for release shall be conditioned upon:
      (1)   Payment of all impoundment costs and accrued storage charges
assessed against the vehicle by the person to whom the release is issued; and
      (2)   Payment of all fines and costs due to the town because of traffic
law or other law violations involving the vehicle or proper security posted for
said fine or law violation.
(Prior Code, § 22-27)
§ 71.23 REDEMPTION AND RELEASE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   The person holding the written order for release shall be entitled to
obtain possession of the vehicle upon presentation of the order for release at
the place of impoundment together with payment or tender of payment of all
impoundment costs and accrued storage charges due.
   (B)   The Town Clerk is hereby authorized to release vehicles which have
been impounded to persons other than the registered owner of the vehicle and to
accept agreements and bonds to save the town harmless by such releases.
   (C)   Any party claiming an interest in an impounded vehicle shall submit,
by written instruments on other documents, to the Chief of Police proof of
compliance with the following requirements:
      (1)   Proof of interest;
      (2)   Agreement to save and hold harmless the town and all of its
employees; and
      (3)   Proof of financial responsibility showing the net worth of the
party seeking the vehicle to be in excess of $20,000 or a surety bond in an
amount no less than double the value of the vehicle sought to be released.
(Prior Code, § 22-28)
§ 71.24 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND.
   (A)   The Chief of Police of the town and members of the Municipal Police
Department are hereby authorized, within the limits set forth in this traffic
code, to impound vehicles under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated.
   (B)   No impoundment shall be valid unless made under order of an authorized
police officer and in strict adherence to the procedures established in this
subchapter and by other policies of the town.
(Prior Code, § 22-29)
§ 71.25 CAUSES FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may be impounded under the
following circumstances:
      (1)   If left unattended and improperly parked on a street or highway;
      (2)   If left unattended longer than 48 hours on the shoulder of any
highway; or
      (3)   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated
to such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal.
   (B)   An unattended vehicle left upon any bridge, viaduct, causeway, or
within the structure of grade separation may be impounded.
   (C)   Whenever the driver or person in charge of any vehicle is placed under
arrest, taken into custody, and detained by police under circumstances which
leave or will leave a vehicle unattended on any street or highway, the vehicle
may be impounded.
   (D)   A vehicle left unattended upon any street, alley, or thoroughfare and
so parked illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic shall be impounded.
   (E)   When any derelict vehicle is discovered by the Police Department to
have been parked upon any street in the town for a period of 72 hours or more,
the Police Department is authorized to impound the vehicle, and if the owner of
the vehicle may be ascertained by reasonable diligence, the owner shall be
notified of the action by the Police Department.
   (F)   A trespassing, unattended vehicle found may be impounded when the
required complaint has been properly made and filed. The owner or legal
occupant who complains shall sign a complaint against the person parking the
vehicle on the owner’s or legal occupant’s property. If the identity of the
person parking the vehicle is unknown, the complaint may be filed against the
registered owner of the vehicle. The complaint shall be verified and shall
allege that the complaining party is the owner or legal occupant of the
property upon which the vehicle is parked or standing. Upon filing of the
complaint by the property owner or legal occupant, and if there appears to be
proper cause to believe a violation has occurred, the Police Department shall
cause the vehicle to be impounded and placed in storage.
   (G)   Any unattended vehicle parked at the street curbing of any zone where
parking is prohibited and where official signs are in place giving notice
thereof in violation of the prohibition may be impounded.
   (H)   Any vehicle illegally parked in such a manner that it blocks a fire
escape, ladder, or exit or blocks ready access to a fire hydrant shall be
impounded.
   (I)   Any unattended vehicle illegally parked in any street intersection
shall be impounded. A disabled vehicle in an intersection with the person in
charge of the vehicle being present shall be moved out of the intersection and
to the nearest available legal parking space at the street curbing.
   (J)   Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police and the registered
owner cannot be found within a reasonable time, not exceeding eight hours, or
cannot be determined from the registration papers or other identification in
the vehicle or from records or information available from reports of stolen
cars, the vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized place of impoundment
and the registered owner of the vehicle notified of the location of the place
of impoundment as soon as possible by the Police Department. If the registered
owner is identified, located, and notified of the recovery of the stolen
vehicle, the owner shall be given the right to make his or her own arrangements
for the removal of the vehicle within a period of 24 hours from the time he or
she is actually notified of its recovery; if the owner is unable or unwilling
to effect the removal within the time specified, the vehicle may be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 22-30)
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
§ 71.40 INSTALLATION.
   The Town Board shall have traffic control signs, signals, and devices placed
and maintained when, as required under the ordinances of the town, to make the
provisions of such ordinance effective.
(Prior Code, § 22-45)
§ 71.41 SPECIFICATIONS.
   All traffic control signs, signals, and devices shall conform to the manual
and specifications approved by the State Highway Department. All signs and
signals required hereunder for a particular purpose shall, so far as
practicable, be uniform as to type and location throughout the municipality.
All traffic control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions
of state law or this traffic code shall be official traffic control devices.
(Prior Code, § 22-46)
§ 71.42 TURN SIGNS AND INDICATORS.
   (A)   The Town Board is hereby authorized to determine those intersections
at which drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left, or U-turn and shall
have placed proper signs at such intersections. The making of such turns may be
prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours; in
which event, the same shall be plainly indicated on said signs.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right, left,
or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of
any such sign.
   (C)   Unless otherwise indicated by such signs, a right turn on red or stop
shall be permitted after the vehicle has come to a complete stop.
(Prior Code, § 22-47) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.43 ONE-WAY STREETS, TRAFFIC LANES, AND CROSSWALKS DESIGNATED.
   (A)   Designation and marking of one-way streets. Whenever the Town Board
designates any street, alley, or part thereof as a one-way street or alley,
said Town Board shall have signs placed giving notice thereof. Signs indicating
the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every intersection
where movement of traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 22-48)
   (B)   Marking of traffic lanes.
      (1)   The Town Board is hereby authorized to have traffic lanes marked
upon the roadway of any street where a regular alignment of traffic is
necessary.
      (2)   Where traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lanes except when lawfully passing another vehicle,
preparing to make a lawful turning movement, or as otherwise authorized by
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 22-49)
   (C)   Designation and marking of crosswalks. By appropriate devices or
lines, the Town Board shall have the authority to designate, upon the surface
of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections or other places where, in its
opinion, there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 22-50) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.44 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS OR DEVICES.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any
highway, an unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be,
is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic control device or railroad
sign or signal which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, which projects
any flashing or revolving beams of light, or which hides from view or
interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic control device or any
railroad sign or signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit upon any highway any traffic sign, signal, or device bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   (C)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the placement upon
private property of signs giving useful directional information and of a type
that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (D)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, marking, or device is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance, and the Town Board is hereby empowered to
remove the same or cause it to be removed.
(Prior Code, § 22-51) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.45 STREET CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   The Town Board may adopt, by resolution, a street classification
system for the town. Whenever such a system is adopted, it shall be the duty of
said Town Board to have stop signs placed and maintained or, if deemed more
appropriate at any intersection, yield signs on each and every street involved
in the implementation of the classification system unless traffic at any
intersection is controlled at all times by traffic control signals.
   (B)   The Town Board is hereby authorized to determine and designate
intersections where a particular hazard exists and to determine:
      (1)   Whether vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any such
intersection; in which event, it shall cause to be erected a stop sign at every
such place where a stop is required; or
      (2)   Whether vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles on a
different street at such intersection; in which event, it shall cause to be
erected a yield sign at every place where obedience thereto is required.
   (C)   Every stop and yield sign shall be erected as near as practicable to
the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if
there is no crosswalk, as near as practicable to the nearest line of the
intersecting roadway.
(Prior Code, § 22-52)
§ 71.46 SIGNS TO BE IN PROPER PLACE.
   No provisions of this traffic code for which signs are required shall be
enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged
violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible
to be seen by an ordinary observant person. Whenever a particular section does
not state that signs are required, such section shall be effective even though
no signs are erected or in place.
(Prior Code, § 22-112)
CHAPTER 72: VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND REQUIREMENTS
Section
   
72.01   Proper equipment required; license displayed
   
72.02   Injurious or obstructive vehicles
   
72.03   Size and weight of vehicles
   
72.04   Safety belts
   
72.05   Jake brakes
§ 72.01 PROPER EQUIPMENT REQUIRED; LICENSE DISPLAYED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle which is not equipped as
required by law upon any street within the town. It shall also be unlawful to
fail to use such equipment in the manner required by law, use it in a manner
prohibited by law, or to operate a vehicle which has equipment prohibited by
law upon any street within said town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle of any kind upon a street of
the town unless such vehicle is licensed and displays a valid license plate
thereon as required by state law.
(Prior Code, § 22-113) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.02 INJURIOUS OR OBSTRUCTIVE VEHICLES.
   (A)   No vehicle or object which injures or is likely to injure any street
within the town shall be driven or moved on any street within said
municipality.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle which is in such condition so
constructed or so loaded as to cause or be likely to cause a delay in traffic
or constitute a hazard to persons or property without having obtained a permit
from the office of the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 22-35) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.03 SIZE AND WEIGHT OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall drive or convey through any street any vehicle the
width, height, length, weight, or load of which exceeds that authorized by
state laws except in accordance with a permit issued by state authority.
   (B)   The Town Manager may prescribe routes through the municipality for the
use of trucks in general or trucks of particular kinds and/or other vehicles
which are not ordinary private passenger vehicles passing through the town.
   (C)   The Town Manager shall see that appropriate and adequate signs are
placed along such routes so that drivers of such vehicles may follow the
routes. When such signs are erected and in place, the driver of a truck or
other vehicle for which a route has been so prescribed, while passing through
the town, shall keep on such route and shall not deviate there from except in
case of emergency.
(Prior Code, § 22-36)
§ 72.04 SAFETY BELTS.
   (A)   Every operator and front seat passenger of a passenger car operated in
this municipality shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened safety seat belt
system required to be installed in the motor vehicle when manufactured pursuant
to Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208, being 449 C.F.R. § 571.208. For
the purposes of this section, PASSENGER CAR shall mean AUTOMOBILE, as defined
in 47 O.S. § 1102, except that PASSENGER CAR shall not include trucks, pick-up
trucks, truck-tractors, recreational vehicles, vans, motorcycles, or motorized
bicycles.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to an operator or passenger of a
passenger car in which the operator or passenger possesses a written
verification from a physician licensed in this state that he or she is unable
to wear a safety seat belt system for medical reasons.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to an operator of a motor vehicle who is
a route carrier of the U.S. Postal Service.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to any passenger vehicle which was
manufactured or assembled before the 1966 models unless such vehicle is now
equipped with a properly adjusted and fastened safety seat belt system.
   (E)   No law enforcement officer shall make routine stops of motorists for
the purpose of enforcing this act.
(Prior Code, § 22-37) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 47 O.S. § 1102
§ 72.05 JAKE BRAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for Jake Brakes to be used within the corporate limits
of the town.
(Prior Code, § 22-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 73: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
73.01   Application
   
73.02   Right-of-way; crosswalks
   
73.03   Drivers to exercise due care
§ 73.01 APPLICATION.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals and, at all other
places, shall be granted those rights and be subject to those restrictions in
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 22-90)
§ 73.02 RIGHT-OF-WAY; CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   When traffic control signals are not in place or in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave any place of safety and walk or run
into the path of a vehicle.
   (C)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 22-91) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.03 DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this chapter, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway, shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary, and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(Prior Code, § 22-92)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
74.01   Unauthorized drivers prohibited
   
74.02   View obstructions
   
74.03   Riding or clinging to vehicles
   
74.04   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
74.05   Motor vehicles
   
74.06   Funerals
Operations
   
74.20   Speed regulations
   
74.21   Reckless driving
   
74.22   Driving under the influence
   
74.23   Driving on sidewalks prohibited
   
74.24   Following too closely
   
74.25   Following fire apparatus
   
74.26   Crossing fire hose
   
74.27   Backing
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 74.01 UNAUTHORIZED DRIVERS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person who does not have a valid driver’s
license, as required by state law, to operate a motor vehicle within the
corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to permit an
unlicensed driver to operate a motor vehicle within the corporate limits of the
town.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to authorize or
knowingly permit any vehicle owned by him or her or under his or her control to
be driven upon any of the streets or highways of the town by any person who is
not authorized under the laws of the state to operate such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 22-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.02 VIEW OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded or when there
are, in the front seat, such a number of persons exceeding three or as to
obstruct the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to
interfere with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides or to interfere with his or her
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 22-124) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.03 RIDING OR CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall ride upon any vehicle or portion thereof not designed
or intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty or persons riding within
truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
   (B)   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, or
toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle upon a
roadway.
(Prior Code, § 22-118) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.04 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle (when responding to an
emergency call, when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of a law
or ordinance, or when responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire alarm)
may exercise the following privileges:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this traffic code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or sign, slowing down as may be
necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; or
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specific directions.
   (B)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only when the driver of any such vehicle is making use of audible and/or
visual signals except that an authorized emergency vehicle, operated as a
police vehicle, need not be equipped with or display a red light visible from
the front of the vehicle.
   (C)   Except when otherwise directed by a police officer, upon the immediate
approach of any authorized emergency vehicle making required use of audible
and/or visual signals or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use
of an audible signal only, the driver of every other vehicle shall:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way;
      (2)   Immediately drive to a position parallel to and as close as
possible to the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any
intersection or shall clear the roadway in the safest possible manner; and
      (3)   Stop and remain in such position until the authorized emergency
vehicle has passed.
   (D)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the
consequences of reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 22-8)
§ 74.05 MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   A person operating a motorcycle, motor scooter, or motor bicycle shall
ride only upon the permanent and regular seat attached thereon and shall not
carry any other person nor shall any other person ride on the vehicle unless it
is designed to carry more than one person.
   (B)   In such event, a passenger may ride only upon the permanent and
regular seat, if designed for two persons, or upon another seat firmly attached
to the rear or side of the operator.
(Prior Code, § 22-115) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.06 FUNERALS.
   (A)   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a
funeral or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such
vehicles are conspicuously designated.
   (B)   This provision shall not apply at intersections where traffic is
controlled by traffic control signals or police officers.
(Prior Code, § 22-120) Penalty, see §
10.99
OPERATIONS
§ 74.20 SPEED REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle on any street within the corporate
limits of the town at a speed greater or less than is reasonable or prudent
under the conditions then existing including, among other things, the condition
of the vehicle, roadway, or weather; visibility; amount of traffic; presence of
pedestrians; and any obstruction of view.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon a street at a speed greater
than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
   (C)   No person shall drive any vehicle, except an authorized emergency
vehicle (as provided herein), at a speed greater than:
      (1)   Fifteen mph on any street adjacent to any school or as established
by the State Department of Transportation along U.S. Highway 183 within the
corporate boundaries of the town or any school zone between 7:00 a.m. and 4:00
p.m. on days when school is in session; and
      (2)    Twenty-five mph on other streets and on streets adjacent to
schools at other times than that specified in division (C)(1) above unless
otherwise posted.
(Prior Code, § 22-6) (Ord. passed 8-1-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.21 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle within the
corporate limits of the town in a careless, negligent, or reckless manner
without regard for the safety of persons, property, or the lawful use of the
streets; such person shall be guilty of reckless driving.
(Prior Code, § 22-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.22 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who is under the influence of alcoholic
beverages, narcotic drugs, or other controlled, dangerous substances to drive
or be in actual physical control of any vehicle within the corporate limits of
the town.
(Prior Code, § 22-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.23 DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not drive upon any sidewalk or sidewalk area
except at a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 22-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.24 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely than
is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of both vehicles and
the traffic upon and the condition of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 22-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.25 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS.
   The driver of any vehicle, other than when on official business, shall not
follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than 500
feet or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where fire apparatus
has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(Prior Code, § 22-122) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.26 CROSSING FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of any Fire Department
when laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire without the consent of the Fire Department official in command.
(Prior Code, § 22-123) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.27 BACKING.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement
can be made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle shall not back the same a greater distance
than is necessary to permit it to enter the immediately available proper
driving lane; no extended backing shall be permitted.
(Prior Code, § 22-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 75: PARKING RULES
Section
   
75.01   Stopped school bus
   
75.02   Loading zones
   
75.03   Parking prohibited for heavy trucks
   
75.04   Where parking or stopping prohibited
   
75.05   Angle parking
   
75.06   Parking close to curb; brakes
   
75.07   Parking on private property
   
75.08   Illegal parking presumption
§ 75.01 STOPPED SCHOOL BUS.
   (A)   No person shall pass any school bus (as defined by state law) when
such bus is stopped for the purpose of discharging or taking on passengers and
is displaying flashing red lights as required by state law.
   (B)   All persons shall stop upon approaching a stopped school bus, as
described in division (A) above, regardless of the direction of said approach.
(Prior Code, § 22-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 75.02 LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   The Town Board is hereby authorized to determine the location of
passenger and freight curb loading zones and shall have appropriate signs
placed, indicating the same and stating the hours during which the provisions
of this section are applicable. By the same authority, such loading zones may
be changed or discontinued.
   (B)   When such a loading zone is established (upon the request of any
person, firm, or corporation) the Town Board shall not have signs placed until
the applicant has paid to the Town Clerk an amount of money estimated by said
Town Board to be adequate to reimburse the town for all costs of establishing
and signing the same.
   (C)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup
and loading of materials in any place marked as freight curb loading zones
during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect.
(Prior Code, § 22-70) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 75.03 PARKING PROHIBITED FOR HEAVY TRUCKS.
   (A)   All trucks, truck tractors, and trailers and other motor vehicles
which exceed a weight limit of one ton, except moving vans and rental trucks
and trailers during a reasonable period of time for loading and unloading, are
hereby prohibited from using the streets and alleys of the residential areas of
the town for parking purposes except at such times and places as specifically
set out in divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   All trucks, truck tractors, and trailers and other motor vehicles
which exceed a weight limit of one ton, except moving vans and rental trucks
and trailers during a reasonable period of time for loading and unloading, are
hereby prohibited from using the streets and alleys of the commercial areas of
the town for parking purposes.
   (C)   A maximum of one-hour parking shall be allowed between the hours of 8:
00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. daily on all streets and alleys in areas zoned as
commercial.
(Prior Code, § 22-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 75.04 WHERE PARKING OR STOPPING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall stop or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
a conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law, ordinance, the
directions of a police officer or traffic control device, or in an emergency
situation in any of the following places:
      (1)   On any sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of or obstructing any driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant (except in an officially-marked
parking space);
      (5)   Within or on a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station;
      (7)   Near any street work or excavation when stopping or parking would
obstruct traffic;
      (8)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street (double-parking or double-stopping);
      (9)   In any alley where less than ten feet of the roadway will be left
available for the movement of vehicular traffic; or
      (10)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   (B)   The Town Board is hereby authorized to establish parking time limits
and to prohibit parking on designated streets and parts of streets by having
appropriate signs placed thereon.
(Prior Code, § 22-65) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 75.05 ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   The Town Board shall determine upon what streets and parts of streets
angle parking shall be permitted and shall have such streets marked or signed.
   (B)   On those streets which have been so signed or marked for angle
parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the
curb or edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or markings or outside of
the area enclosed by said markings.
(Prior Code, § 22-66) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 75.06 PARKING CLOSE TO CURB; BRAKES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall be so stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels of such vehicle parallel to and within 18
inches of the right-hand curb; provided, every vehicle stopped or parked upon
the left-hand side of a one-way street where there are adjacent curbs shall be
parked or stopped with the left-hand wheels parallel to and within 18 inches of
the left-hand curb.
   (B)   Adequate brakes shall be set on all parked vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 22-67) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 75.07 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to place or park a motor vehicle or a trailer
upon the posted private property of another without first obtaining permission
from the person in charge of such property, except where said placing or
parking is involuntary.
   (B)   A landowner or other person in charge of the land may cause any motor
vehicle or trailer which is left on private property after posted hours to be
removed and impounded by an appropriate wrecker service. The Police Department
or any police officer is also authorized to remove any unauthorized vehicles
from private property upon direction of the owner of the property or persons in
charge of the property. In the town, any landowner or person in charge of the
property shall not be liable for any damages which may occur to the trespassing
vehicle or trailer under the terms of this section while the same is
trespassing, while it is being removed from his or her property, or while it is
in storage.
(Prior Code, § 22-68) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 75.08 ILLEGAL PARKING PRESUMPTION.
   (A)   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any such law or
regulation together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was,
at the time of such parking, the registered owner of such vehicle shall
constitute, in evidence, a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
such vehicle was the person who parked or placed such vehicle at the point
where and for the time during which such violation occurred.
   (B)   The foregoing stated presumption shall apply only when the procedure
of giving a citation tag has been followed.
(Prior Code, § 22-69) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 76: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
76.01   Traffic laws applicable
   
76.02   Equipment
   
76.03   Obedience to traffic control devices
   
76.04   Riding on bicycles
Mini-Bikes, Trail Bikes, ATVs, and Golf Carts
   
76.15   Regulations
   
76.16   Application of regulations
BICYCLES
§ 76.01 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLICABLE.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of this state declaring the rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by the ordinances of the town applicable to the driver of a vehicle
except as to special regulations in this subchapter and to those provisions of
laws or ordinances which, by their nature, can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 22-80)
§ 76.02 EQUIPMENT.
   Every bicycle in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp on the front
which shall emit a white light visible from all distances up to 500 feet to the
front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type which shall be visible
from all distances up to 300 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful
upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 22-81)
§ 76.03 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic control signals, signs, and other control devices applicable to
vehicles unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Wherever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right, left,
or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any such sign except where such person dismounts from the bicycle
to make any such turn; in which event, such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 22-82) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 76.04 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at a time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
   (B)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a vehicle standing or proceeding in the same direction.
   (C)   Wherever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use such path and not the roadway.
   (D)   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
   (E)   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway, or
building shall yield the right-of-way to all approaching pedestrians and, upon
entering a roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on
such roadway.
   (F)   The Town Board is authorized to have signs placed on any traffic way
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person; when such signs are
in place, no person shall disobey the same.
(Prior Code, § 22-83) Penalty, see §
10.99
MINI-BIKES, TRAIL BIKES, ATVS, AND GOLF CARTS
§ 76.15 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the definitions of the terms motor vehicle and
motorcycle contained in the Motor Vehicle License and Registration Act, 47 O.S.
§ 562, motor-driven cycles (known and commonly referred to as trail bikes,
unless the trail bikes are used by participants in parades, and other trade
names) shall not be permitted to be operated on the streets or highways of the
town.
   (B)   Golf carts and all-terrain vehicles such as four-wheelers, side-by-
side four-wheelers, and small vehicles known as mini-trucks are prohibited from
operating on federal and state highways and town streets within the town limits
except as follows:
      (1)   When the all-terrain vehicle or golf cart is operated by a person
16 years of age or older and the operator possesses a valid operator’s license
during the hours of sunrise to sunset; and
      (2)   All-terrain vehicles and golf carts may operate on federal or state
highways only if making a perpendicular crossing of a federal or state highway
located within the town limits.
   (C)   Every person operating an all-terrain vehicle or golf cart upon a
street shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by the laws of this state
declaring rules of the road applicable to vehicles or by the traffic ordinances
of this town applicable to the driver’s vehicle except as to special
regulations in this subchapter and except as to those provisions of laws and
ordinances which by their nature can have no application.
   (D)   All vehicles covered under this subchapter must display an annual
permit issued by the town. The fee for the permit will be $10.
   (E)   All such golf carts and all-terrain vehicles operating in the limits
of the town shall have a safety flag affixed to a standard, such as a bicycle
flag, which shall be affixed to the rear portion of the aforementioned vehicle
or SMV, slow-moving vehicle, placard.
   (F)   All vehicles covered under this subchapter shall be covered by
insurance as part of the operator’s normal vehicle policy. Proof of insurance
must be provided at the time of permit application. Should the insurance policy
be cancelled at any time during the valid term of the permit, the permit will
immediately become void, and a new permit must be applied for after the
insurance has been reinstated.
   (G)   All vehicles covered under this subchapter shall be equipped with a
fender over each wheel. All fenders shall be of the type provided by the
manufacturer. No open-wheeled vehicles will be allowed.
   (H)   No person under the age of 18 shall operate or ride upon any four-
wheeler covered by this subchapter unless such person is equipped with and
wearing on the head a crash helmet of the type and design manufactured for use
by the operators of such vehicles. All crash helmets should consist of lining,
padding, a chin strap, and be of the type as not to distort the view of the
driver. Chin straps must be fastened at all time while the vehicle is in
motion.
   (I)   The driver and all passengers of vehicles covered by this subchapter
shall wear seatbelts if they are provided by the original equipment
manufacturer of the vehicle.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 12-21-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 47 O.S. § 562
§ 76.16 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall also apply to those motor-
driven or operated vehicles known as go-carts and other motor vehicles which
are manufactured principally for use off the streets and highways.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be interpreted as prohibiting farm
vehicles from using the streets or highways.
   (C)   All town vehicles are exempt from this subchapter.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 12-21-2017)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
94.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
95.   FAIR HOUSING
      
96.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Zoning Ordinance to prevail
   
90.03   Keeping animals
   
90.04   Responsibilities of owners
   
90.05   Animals as nuisance
   
90.06   Animals at large
   
90.07   Cruelty to animals
   
90.08   Pasturing in public areas
   
90.09   Confinement
   
90.10   Inspections
   
90.11   Rabies; vaccination requirements
   
90.12   Vicious animals
Fees and Licenses
   
90.25   Pet shops and kennels
   
90.26   Dog Tax; registration and tags
   
90.27   License to harbor certain animals
Municipal Pound
   
90.40   Authorization
   
90.41   Impoundment rules
   
90.42   Redemption and fees
   
90.43   Sale of impounded animals
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 92
   Police animal provisions, see §
134.09
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. All vertebrate and invertebrate animals, whether domesticated or
wild, including, but not limited to, bees, birds and fowl (including
parakeets), cattle, cats, chickens, dogs, ducks, geese, goats, horses,
livestock of all types, mammals (including elephants), rabbits, all reptiles,
rodents, sheep, swine, and turkey.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The person(s) responsible for enforcement of the
ordinances and regulations pertaining to animal control in the town.
   ANIMAL SHELTER or MUNICIPAL POUND. Any premises formally designated by the
Town Board of Trustees for the purpose of impounding and caring for animals
held under the authority of this chapter, regardless of whether or not said
premises are within the municipality’s corporate boundaries and regardless of
whether or not said premises are under actual municipal ownership or provided
for under a contractual arrangement between the town and private owner(s).
   AT LARGE. Not under restraint, as defined herein below.
   DANGEROUS BIRDS. Any warm-blooded, feathered vertebrate which may constitute
a physical threat to human beings.
   HARBORING. When used in this chapter, allowing any animal habitually to
remain or be fed on premises.
   KENNEL. Any structure or place where three or more dogs over six months of
age are kept, bred, or trained at any single time or any facility designed or
built to accommodate the temporary boarding of more than three dogs over six
months of age.
   LIVESTOCK. All animals other than dogs, cats, small caged birds, or small
aquatic or amphibian animals.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, or corporation owning, harboring, or keeping an
animal; occupants of any premises to which a domesticated or tamed animal
customarily returns for a period of ten days or more shall be deemed to be
harboring or keeping the animal and thereby considered to be an owner of said
animal.
   PET. Any animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
   RESTRAINT. An animal shall be deemed to be under RESTRAINT if confined on
the premises of its owner, if on a leash and accompanied by a responsible
person, or, in the case of a hunting dog, if accompanied by its owner engaged
in the act of hunting.
   VICIOUS DOG OR ANIMAL. Any dog or animal which has bitten or attempted to
bite any person without provocation or which attacks, barks, or growls at and
acts as if it intended to attack or bite any person or persons when not
provoked. The owner or owners of such dogs or animals shall be liable to the
full amount when such animal bites or injures any person while such person is
in or on a place where he or she has a lawful right to be.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal which can normally be found living in a naturally
wild state and is not ordinarily tamed or domesticated; the term shall include
animals which may be owned by a circus or wild animal show or exhibition.
(Prior Code, § 3-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 4 O.S. § 42.1
§ 90.02 ZONING ORDINANCE TO PREVAIL.
   In case of conflict between this chapter and any future zoning ordinance,
the provisions of said zoning ordinance shall prevail and supersede the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-15)
§ 90.03 KEEPING ANIMALS.
   (A)   No livestock shall be kept on any property that is zoned as commercial
within the corporate limits of the town.
      (1)   No swine will be kept within the corporate limits of the town.
      (2)   The keeping of horses, sheep, and goats shall be permitted on
noncommercially-zoned property within the corporate limits of the town, subject
to the following conditions.
         (a)   The property where such animals are kept must be a minimum of
one acre in size and must be owned by a single person or joint tenants or a
single entity. Separate owners may not combine tracts to meet the minimum one-
acre requirement.
         (b)   The number of animals per acre must not exceed two horses or
cows or three sheep or goats. Any combination of the permitted animals must not
exceed two animals per acre.
         (c)   Permits are required for any animals kept under this section
with fees as established by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Every structure wherein any authorized animal is kept within the
corporate limits of the town shall be constructed of such material and in such
a manner that it can be kept clean and sanitary at all times, and it shall be
maintained in said condition, devoid of rodents and vermin, and free from
objectionable odors in order to avert the creation of a nuisance to the public
health.
      (1)   Every such structure, if located within 200 feet of any tenement,
apartment house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house, retail food store, or
building used for educational, religious, or hospital purposes or residence
(other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises upon which
such animal is kept) shall be provided with a watertight and fly-tight
receptacle for manure or such size as to hold all accumulations of manure. Such
receptacle shall be emptied sufficiently often and in such manner as to prevent
it from being or becoming a nuisance and shall be kept covered at all times
except when open during the deposit or removal of manure or refuse.
      (2)   No manure shall be allowed to accumulate on the premises except in
such receptacle.
   (C)   In locations where animals are confined by fence, said fence shall be
of sufficient construction to ensure that the animal(s) shall not escape.
   (D)   The keeping or raising of bees within the corporate limits of the town
shall be permitted only on large lots over two acres. A permit shall be
required to keep or raise bees.
   (E)   The raising of chickens, parakeets, and/or other small birds or
similar fowl shall be permitted within the town without license or permit
requirements, subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   All activities associated with the raising of such fowls shall be
completely enclosed and out of the public view.
      (2)   Premises used for the raising of such fowl shall be maintained in
accordance with divisions (C) and (D) above.
   (F)   The raising or keeping of rodents for any purpose shall be permitted
in accordance with the provisions of divisions (C) and (D) above and the
license and permit requirements outlined in §§
90.26 and
90.27; provided, however, the keeping of rodents shall be confined to an
enclosed structure.
   (G)   The raising or keeping of rabbits shall be permitted in accordance
with the provisions of divisions (C) and (D) above.
   (H)   The keeping or raising of any wild animals shall be prohibited within
the town except for those wild animals which may be under the care of traveling
shows or circuses and for which the license requirements of §§
90.26 and
90.27 are met and a permit obtained.
   (I)   The keeping of pets or other animals not specifically mentioned or
regulated within this chapter shall be subject only to such generally
applicable provisions requiring the maintenance of sanitary conditions and the
avoidance of a nuisance.
   (J)   No venomous snakes may be kept within the corporate limits of the town
except under the conditions and provisions of the license required for such
snakes in §
90.27; it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to keep or
raise such snakes within said town without having met permit requirements and
obtained a permit.
   (K)   All fees and/or permits shall be in the amounts and for the periods of
time as shall be established by motion of the Town Board of Trustees. Said
fees, when established, shall be posted for public view in the Town Hall.
(Prior Code, § 3-5) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 4 O.S. § 154
§ 90.04 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS.
   (A)   In addition to any duties previously outlined, the owner of any animal
shall have the following additional responsibilities.
   (B)   Owners shall:
      (1)   Owners shall exercise proper care and control of their animals to
prevent them from becoming a public nuisance;
      (2)   Owners shall provide proper care and treatment of their animals;
and
      (3)   Owners shall not abandon their animals.
(Prior Code, § 3-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 21 O.S. § 1691
§ 90.05 ANIMALS AS NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be a public nuisance for any person to keep any dog or other
animal which (by barking, howling, or otherwise) disturbs the peace and quiet
of or creates a nuisance for any person(s).
   (B)   It shall also be a public nuisance for any person to keep any dog or
other animal which attacks other animals or damages private or public property.
   (C)   Abatement of such public nuisances shall be handled in accordance with
the provisions of
Chapter 92.
(Prior Code, § 3-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 50 O.S. §§ 2 and 16
§ 90.06 ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   (A)   Regulation and taxation. The town shall regulate and prohibit animals
running at large. The Board of Trustees of the town may provide for pens,
pounds, and buildings for the use of the municipality. They may also regulate
and provide for taxing the owners and harbors of such animals and may authorize
the extermination of animals which are found at large in violation of these
provisions.
(Prior Code, § 3-2)
   (B)   Animals not to be at large; exception.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any owner to permit any
animals (including chickens and other fowl) owned, harbored, or kept by him or
her, except a cat, to be at large.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to:
         (a)   Keep, own, harbor, or possess any dog within the corporate
limits of the town without providing a substantial and secure pen or fenced-in
area in which said dog shall be confined (which pen or fenced-in area shall be
sufficient in size that no sanitation or health problem shall be created);
         (b)   Keep or harbor any dog in the front yard of any property; or
         (c)   Place a dog on a leash which permits the dog to reach or bite
any person who may be using the public thoroughfares of the town to reach
beyond the limits of the lot or premises upon which said dog is kept and
confined or to reach any person who may be rendering necessary services to the
premises where said dog may be kept, harbored, or possessed.
(Prior Code, § 3-3)
   (C)   Turning confined animals at large unlawful. It shall be unlawful for
any person to open any enclosure in which an animal is confined (as required by
ordinance) so as to turn such animal at large or to, in any other manner, turn
such animal at large.
(Prior Code, § 3-8)
   (D)   Certain dogs running loose to be killed. The animal control officer,
his or her designated representatives, or any law enforcement officer of the
town shall be required to kill any dog running loose within the corporate
limits of the town which is determined by the animal control officer or law
enforcement officer to be vicious or crazed and a threat to the public health
and safety and which dog is found running at large without being restrained in
a pen or on a leash without keeping said dog in the Municipal Pound for any
period of time.
(Prior Code, § 3-12)
Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 22-115
§ 90.07 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly, willfully, or
maliciously to overdrive, overload, torture, destroy or kill, or cruelly beat,
injure, maim, or mutilate any animal in subjugation or captivity, whether wild
or tame, and whether belonging to himself or herself or to another or deprive
any such animal of necessary food, drink, or shelter or who shall cause,
procure, or permit same or who shall willfully set on foot, instigate, engage
in, or in any way further any act of cruelty to any animal or any act tending
to produce such cruelty.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to instigate or encourage a fight
between animals or to keep a house, pit, or other place used for fights between
animals.
(Prior Code, § 3-7) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 21 O.S. §§ 1682, 1683, and 1685
§ 90.08 PASTURING IN PUBLIC AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stake, confine, or pasture any animal
on any public property (federal, state, municipal, or other) or on any railroad
right-of-way without the consent of the proper authorities.
(Prior Code, § 3-9) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 CONFINEMENT.
   Every female dog or cat in heat shall be confined in a building or secure
enclosure in such a manner that such animal cannot come into contact with
another animal except for planned breeding.
(Prior Code, § 3-11)
§ 90.10 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Local or County Health Officer or any member of the Town Board of
Trustees, upon complaint of any person or on his or her own initiative, shall
inspect or cause to be inspected any structure or place wherein an animal is
kept.
   (B)   The Local or County Health Officer may issue any such reasonable order
as he or she may deem necessary to the owner of such animal to cause such
animal to be kept as provided in this chapter or in a manner so as not to
constitute a nuisance.
   (C)   The Local or County Health Officer may make a complaint before the
Municipal Judge against any person for violation of any provision of this
chapter or for any such reasonable order, but this shall not abridge the right
of others to make such complaints.
(Prior Code, § 3-14)
§ 90.11 RABIES; VACCINATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any warm-blooded animal capable of transmitting the rabies virus
maintained or harbored at any time in the town shall be vaccinated against
rabies with an approved vaccine either live or inactivated (killed virus).
      (1)   Live virus vaccine can only be sold to and administered by a
licensed veterinarian. Veterinarians shall be required to keep a record of the
type and/or brand of the rabies vaccine administered to each animal for a
period of three years.
      (2)   Inactivated (killed virus) vaccine may be administered by persons
who are not licensed veterinarians. The individual who administers the vaccine
must keep a record for three years which includes: name and address of the
owner of the animal, date of vaccination, brand name of vaccine used, lot
serial number of vaccine used, person or firm from whom purchased, their
address and date of purchase, expiration date of vaccine used, and the name,
address, and telephone number (if any) of the individual administering the
vaccine. (See Rabies Prevention Guidelines, OSDH, most recent edition.)
      (3)   A certification of rabies inoculation must accompany all
applications for permits for keeping of animals; certification shall be made by
veterinarians or by observation by a police officer or animal control officer.
   (B)   The identity and address of the owner of any animal that bites a
person shall be promptly furnished to the animal control officer and County
Health Department. The animal control officer shall securely quarantine such
animal until reasonable determination has been made that the animal is not
infected with rabies. At the discretion of the animal control officer, such
quarantine may be on the premises of the owner, at a veterinary hospital of the
owner’s choice (at the owner’s expense), or at the Municipal Pound. In case of
animals whose ownership is unknown, such quarantine shall be at the Municipal
Pound. Said animal may be reclaimed by the owner if adjudged free of rabies;
such owner shall then pay any related charges for confinement. Quarantined
animals shall be under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian for a period
of ten days. (See Rabies Prevention Guidelines, OSDH, most recent edition.)
   (C)   When an animal under quarantine has been diagnosed as being rabid or
is suspected of having rabies by a licensed veterinarian and dies while under
such observation, the animal control officer, veterinarian, or other designated
person shall immediately send the necessary part of such animal to the State
Health Department for pathological examination and shall notify the proper
health officer of any reports of human contact.
   (D)   When a report gives a positive diagnosis of rabies and the County
Health Director feels that a rabies crisis may be imminent, the Health
Department may recommend to the Town Board of Trustees a town-wide quarantine,
upon the invoking of such quarantine by the Town Board of Trustees, no animal
shall be taken into the streets or permitted to be in the streets except for
short periods of exercise (under leash and control of a competent adult).
During such quarantine, no animal may be taken or removed from the town without
written permission of the animal control officer.
   (E)   During such period of rabies quarantine, every animal bitten by an
animal adjudged to be rabid shall be destroyed forthwith or, at the owner’s
expense and option, shall be treated for a rabies infection by a licensed
veterinarian or shall be held under six-month quarantine by the owner in the
same manner as a female in season. The period of quarantine may be extended
from time to time.
   (F)   No person shall remove from the town any animal suspected of having
been exposed to rabies or any animal which has bitten a human except as herein
provided. The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall be surrendered
to the animal control officer upon demand; the animal control officer shall
direct disposition of said animal. No person shall refuse to surrender any
animal for quarantine or destruction when such demand is lawfully made by the
animal control officer.
   (G)   It shall be the duty of every person owning or harboring any dog or
cat which is six months old or older within the corporate limits of the town to
obtain a rabies vaccination certificate from a graduate licensed veterinarian
or agent authorized by the Town Board showing the vaccination has been made,
the date of vaccination, by whom the vaccination was given, and the date when
such vaccination shall expire.
   (H)   Failure to abide by the municipal vaccination requirements within 15
days of establishing residency within the town shall be unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 3-10) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 63 O.S. § 1-508
§ 90.12 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any owner, as herein defined,
within the corporate limits of the town to harbor, keep, or have possession of
any vicious dog or animal as herein defined.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the animal control officer, Chief of Police,
or person authorized to seize and impound any dog or animal by him or her found
to be vicious and, in such an event, to cause proceedings to be instituted in
the Municipal Court against the owner of said dog or animal for violation of
this section. If such seized and impounded dog or animal shall have bitten a
human being one or more times before such seizure or impounding, the procedure
set out in §
90.11 herein shall apply provided that said procedure shall be subject to the
ultimate decision of the Municipal Court. In any event, if the Court shall fail
to find that the dog or animal so seized and impounded is a vicious dog or
animal, then the Court shall order (and it shall be the duty of the Chief of
Police to cause) the surrender and return of said dog or animal to the owner
thereof, but in the event that such dog or animal is found by the Court to be a
vicious dog or animal, the Court shall order the Chief of Police or person
designated by him or her to destroy said vicious dog immediately.
(Prior Code, § 3-16) Penalty, see §
90.99
FEES AND LICENSES
§ 90.25 PET SHOPS AND KENNELS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to maintain a pet shop
or kennel, including boarding kennel, for business unless such owner shall
first pay to the town an occupation tax of $25 and obtain from the Town Clerk a
license. Said license shall be posted at all times and shall be in lieu of all
other registration fees prescribed provided that all animals in such a kennel
or shop shall, at all times, be confined on the premises. Should animals
belonging to such owner or keeper be allowed off the premises, the owner or
keeper shall pay the same tax and registration fee as required for all animals
not kept under this provision.
   (B)   Pet shops and kennels shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition at all times and shall be subject to inspection by the animal control
officer at any reasonable time.
   (C)   All pet shops and kennels, excluding private boarding kennels, shall:
      (1)   Maintain records and retain such records for a two-year period on
all animals maintained in such facility. Such records shall show type/breed,
color, markings, sex, age, date, and source of the animal; period for which the
animal is maintained; date of disposition of the animal (including name and
address of new owner); and disease prevention and/or treatment and by whom;
      (2)   Provide general environmental conditions to assure adequate
physical space for such animal, control of parasites, clean food and water,
weather protection, and clean and sanitary facilities; and
      (3)   Provide cages and pens of easily cleanable materials, if used for
confinement, and keep such cages and pens clean and sanitary.
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation operating a private boarding kennel
shall maintain such kennel in a sanitary condition and shall be subject to the
provisions of this code of ordinances and any future zoning ordinance.
   (E)   No pet shop, kennel, private boarding kennel, stable, coop, or other
establishment wherein animals are kept shall be maintained closer than 40 feet
to any tenement or apartment house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house, retail
food store, or building used for educational, religious, or hospital purposes
or residence, other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises
upon which such animal is kept.
(Prior Code, § 3-13) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26 DOG TAX; REGISTRATION AND TAGS.
   (A)   No person, without first obtaining a written license from the Town
Clerk, shall own, keep, harbor, or have custody of any dog over six months of
age.
   (B)   No license shall be required for animals temporarily brought and kept
within the town or for seeing-eye dogs when such dogs are actually used to aid
blind persons.
   (C)   Licenses shall be issued only upon presentation of proof of current
vaccination for rabies as required by this chapter.
   (D)   The owner of the dog shall, at the time of paying the license fee,
register the dog by giving the Town Clerk the name and address of the owner;
the name, breed, color, and sex of the dog; and such other reasonable
information as said Town Clerk may require.
   (E)   The Town Clerk shall deliver an appropriate tag for the dog in
addition to the written receipt. The tag shall constitute the license.
   (F)   The owner shall cause the tag received from the Town Clerk to be
affixed to the collar or harness of the dog upon which the license fee has been
paid and the owner shall ensure that the tag is so worn at all times.
   (G)   Dog license tags shall not be transferable from one dog to another,
and no refunds shall be made for any dog license fee because of the death of
the dog or the owner’s departure from the community.
   (H)   No person shall counterfeit or attempt to counterfeit any tag issued
for a dog as provided in this chapter.
   (I)   A tax of $5 for every male or spayed female dog more than six months
of age and a tax of $10 per year for every unspayed female dog more than six
months of age shall be levied upon the owner or harborer of any such dog within
the town.
   (J)   All license fees shall be paid to the Town Clerk and shall be due
annually but not later than July 1 of each year or within 15 days after
bringing such an animal into the town.
   (K)   In the event of loss of the tag before the end of the year for which
it was issued, the owner may secure another for the dog by presenting the
original receipt and the sum of $0.50 to the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 3-25) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 22-115
§ 90.27 LICENSE TO HARBOR CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   No person shall keep or harbor bees, dangerous birds, venomous snakes,
rodents, rabbits, or wild animals without first obtaining a license. The
license shall be issued by the Town Clerk upon a determination that issuance is
consistent with public health, safety, and welfare and upon prior payment of a
license fee in the amount of $10.
(Prior Code, § 3-26) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 22-107
MUNICIPAL POUND
§ 90.40 AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees is hereby authorized to establish a
Municipal Pound under the jurisdiction of the Chief of Police or the animal
control officer who shall provide proper sustenance for all animals impounded
and shall treat them in a humane manner.
   (B)   The Municipal Pound may be established on a shared or contractual
basis with other units of government or with a private individual or firm and
need not be physically located within the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-35)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 22-115
§ 90.41 IMPOUNDMENT RULES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the animal control officer or any other
designated officer or employee of the town to take into custody and impound any
animal running at large in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The animal control officer shall also proceed to impound any dog that
is running at large within the corporate limits of the town regardless of
whether the dog bears a tag or the owner has a permit.
   (C)   The animal control officer shall immediately capture and impound any
and all dogs which are kept, owned, possessed, or harbored in violation of any
of the terms and provisions of this code.
   (D)   Any person appearing at the Municipal Pound who shall satisfy the
keeper of the same of the fact of ownership or the right to the possession of
any dog therein impounded shall have such dog returned to him or her, upon the
payment of the charges due, as authorized by the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Animals of no apparent value taken into custody, as provided herein,
shall be destroyed in a humane manner by the animal control officer provided no
animal taken into custody shall be destroyed until such animal shall have been
impounded at least three days. During such time, the owner may reclaim the
animal or a proper home may be established for such animal by any person
desiring the animal as a pet and willing to pay applicable license fees and
expenses incurred in the dog’s detention.
   (F)   Should any licensed institution request of the animal control officer
that animals be delivered to it for scientific or educational research, such
animals may be released to said institution provided no animal taken into
custody shall be delivered to such institution until such animal has been
impounded for at least 15 days for dogs without a license and at least 30 days
for dogs with license and unclaimed and unredeemed by their owner or any other
person desiring such animal as a pet and willing to pay applicable license fees
and the reasonable expenses incurred in the dogs detention.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to, in any manner, obstruct the
duties and activities of the municipal official or employee responsible for
impounding animals.
(Prior Code, § 3-36) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 4 O.S. §§ 391 et seq.
§ 90.42 REDEMPTION AND FEES.
   (A)   An owner or harborer of an impounded dog may redeem the animal prior
to its sale, destruction, or delivery to an institution by obtaining the
license and tag and paying the tax hereinabove set forth or by showing proof
that he or she has obtained the aforementioned and by paying an additional $10
for every 24 hours or portion of 24 hours during which such dog has been
impounded.
   (B)   The fees for impounding and keeping animals, other than dogs to be
paid upon redemption, shall be $10 for every 24 hours or portion of 24 hours
during which said animal has been impounded and by obtaining any required
license set forth in §§
90.26 and
90.27.
   (C)   All fees shall be paid to the Town Clerk. Receipt for payment of fees
on an impounded animal shall be presented to the animal control officer before
the animal shall be released.
(Prior Code, § 3-37)
§ 90.43 SALE OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   As soon as practicable after any animal of apparent value has been
impounded, the animal control officer or the Chief of Police shall post a
conspicuously-visible notice thereof at the Town Hall. Such notice shall
describe the animal, notify the owner to pay the charges thereon prior to the
time fixed for the sale, and also state that, unless the animal is claimed, the
animal will be sold at public auction at the time and place specified in the
notice. Such sale for all animals shall not occur before the tenth day after
the posting of the notice.
   (B)   Sales provided herein shall be for cash to the highest bidder; the
minimum bid shall cover fees for impounding and keeping the animal until the
date of sale plus a $5 fee to reimburse the town for sale expense and shall be
conducted by or under the direction of the Chief of Police. If there is no bid,
the Chief of Police may provide for and conduct another sale after posting
notice thereof at the Town Hall if he or she believes that a bid would be made
at a later time; otherwise, the animal shall be disposed of by the animal
control officer in accordance with this chapter.
   (C)   A purchaser of an animal at a sale held as provided herein shall
acquire absolute title to the animal purchased.
   (D)   The Chief of Police shall transfer to the Town Clerk all money
received from the sale of impounded animals on the day it is received or on the
next day upon which the office of said Town Clerk is open for business.
   (E)   The owner of an impounded animal sold, as provided herein, may claim
the excess of the sale price of the animal above, the fees for impounding and
keeping the animal, and a fee of $5 to reimburse the town for the expense it
has incurred in making the sale. Such claim may be made at any time within 90
days after the sale. If a claim is so made and approved by the Town Board of
Trustees, the Town Clerk shall pay the claimant the excess; if a claim is not
so made, the excess shall belong to the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-38)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 4 O.S. § 85.6
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of §§
90.01 through
90.12,
90.25 through
90.27, and
90.40 through
90.43 or who violates or neglects to carry out any reasonable order made by any
Health Officer, the Chief of Police, or the animal control officer (pursuant to
this chapter) shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished by fine and costs as provided for in §
10.99. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense. In addition to any fine or imprisonment, licenses issued under this
chapter may be revoked.
(Prior Code, § 3-45)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
Section
   
91.01   Fire Prevention Code enforced
   
91.02   Fire Department boundaries
   
91.03   Duties outside of town limits
   
91.04   Right-of-way
   
91.05   Fireworks
   
91.06   Explosives
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 FIRE PREVENTION CODE ENFORCED.
   (A)   The Fire Prevention Code adopted by the Town Board of Trustees in §
150.01 shall be enforced by the Town Volunteer Fire Department under the
supervision of the Fire Chief; members of said Department may be detailed as
inspectors by the Fire Chief if he or she deems it necessary.
   (B)   The Chief of the Town Volunteer Fire Department, with the approval of
the Town Board of Trustees, shall have the power to grant a variance to any of
the provisions of the Fire Prevention Code, upon application in writing by the
owner or lessee (or his or her duly authorized agent), when there are practical
difficulties in carrying out the strict letter of said code; provided, the
spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety secured, and substantial
justice done. The particulars of such modifications, when granted or allowed,
and the decision of the Fire Chief thereon shall be entered upon the records of
the Department and a signed copy shall be furnished to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 8-3)
§ 91.02 FIRE DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES.
   The Fire Department of the town is hereby authorized and directed to answer
all outside calls within an area of 255 square miles with the following
boundaries: approximately five miles east, ten miles west, nine miles north,
and eight miles south from the nearest fire station except when, in the opinion
of the Fire Chief, it is inexpedient to do so or because of another fire in the
town, broken apparatus, impassable or dangerous highways, or other such
physical conditions.
(Prior Code, § 8-10)
§ 91.03 DUTIES OUTSIDE OF TOWN LIMITS.
   (A)   Firefighters on regular duty. All firefighters of the Fire Department
of the town attending and serving at fires or doing fire prevention work
outside the corporate limits of the town, as herein provided, shall be
considered as serving in their regular line of duty as fully as if they were
serving within the corporate limits of the town, and said firefighters shall be
entitled to all the benefits of any Firemen’s Pension and Relief Fund in the
same manner as if the firefighting or fire prevention work was being done
within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-11)
   (B)   Municipality not liable. The Fire Department of the town, in answering
any fire alarm or call or performing any fire prevention services outside the
corporate limits of the town, shall be considered as an agent of the state and
acting solely and alone in a governmental capacity, and said municipality shall
not be liable in damages for any act of commission, omission, or negligence
while answering or returning from any fire or reported fire or doing any fire
prevention work under and by virtue of §§
91.02 and
91.03.
(Prior Code, § 8-12)
§ 91.04 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   All motorized equipment of the Fire Department of the town shall have the
right-of-way over all other commercial and pleasure vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 8-13)
§ 91.05 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Unlawful sale and possession of fireworks. It shall be unlawful for
any person, firm, partnership, or corporation to offer for sale or to possess
any fireworks within the corporate limits of the town at any time during the
year except as allowed by §
91.05(B).
(Prior Code, § 8-20)
   (B)   Unlawful use of fireworks. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
partnership, or corporation to discharge, ignite, or use fireworks within the
corporate limits of the town except on July 4 between the hours of 8:00 a.m.
and 12:00 p.m. (midnight); provided, no fireworks shall be used at any time
within the fire zone of the town or within 300 feet of any hospital, church,
public meeting place, or flammable agricultural crop.
(Prior Code, § 8-21)
   (C)   Definition. The term FIREWORKS shall mean and include any composition
or device for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by
combustion, explosion, deflagration, or detonation and which is defined as
common or special fireworks by the United States Department of Transportation
(DOT). The term FIREWORKS shall not include toy cap pistols and caps, blank
cartridges, railroad flares, and model rockets.
(Prior Code, § 8-22) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 68 O.S. §§ 1622, 1627, and 1631
§ 91.06 EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person(s) to store or keep or have on
his, her, or their premises or in his, her, or their possession any explosive
materials of any kind or nature without first certifying to the Fire Chief that
such person has complied fully with the laws of the state for the purpose of
selling, storing, or keeping such articles.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or store any explosive on
any premises which are occupied as a dwelling or school. Any person storing
explosives for sale to the general public must comply with the laws of the
state concerning the sale and storage of said explosives.
(Prior Code, § 8-23) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 63 O.S. §§ 121.1 et seq.
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall fail to do anything
required by §§
91.01 through
91.06 or by any code adopted herein who shall otherwise violate any provision
therein or of any code adopted herein or who shall violate any lawful
regulation or order made by any of the officers provided for herein shall be
guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine
and costs as set forth in §
10.99. Each day in which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-30)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Nuisance
   
92.02   Determination of nuisance
   
92.03   Nuisance defined
   
92.04   Public and private nuisances
   
92.05   Liability
   
92.06   Procedures cumulative
Abatement of Nuisances
   
92.20   Summary abatement of nuisances
   
92.21   Abatement of public health nuisance
   
92.22   Removal of unsafe structures
   
92.23   Securing dilapidated buildings
   
92.24   Property nuisance remedy
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see
Chapter 94
   Animals as nuisances, see §
90.05
   Health and sanitation, see
Chapter 93
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, lessee, or other to create or
maintain a nuisance or to permit a nuisance to remain on premises under his or
her control within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 14-1) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 DETERMINATION OF NUISANCE.
   The Town Board has the power to determine what is and what shall constitute
a nuisance within the corporate limits of the town and (for the protection of
the public health, parks, and water supply) shall have power outside of said
town’s corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 14-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 50 O.S. § 16
§ 92.03 NUISANCE DEFINED.
   A NUISANCE consists of unlawfully doing an act, omitting to perform a duty,
or any condition or thing which:
   (A)   Annoys, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety
of others;
   (B)   Offends public decency;
   (C)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct, or renders
dangerous for use any lake, drainage way, stream, stream basin, public park,
street, or other public property; or
   (D)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property.
(Prior Code, § 14-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 50 O.S. § 1
§ 92.04 PUBLIC AND PRIVATE NUISANCES.
   (A)   Public nuisances; possible remedies. A PUBLIC NUISANCE is one which
affects (at the same time) an entire community, neighborhood, or any
considerable number of persons although the extent of the annoyance or damage
inflicted upon the individuals may be unequal.
      (1)   The possible remedies against a public nuisance are:
         (a)   Prosecution on complaint before the Municipal Court;
         (b)   Prosecution of information or indictment before another
appropriate court;
         (c)   Civil action; and
         (d)   Abatement:
            1.   By the person injured; or
            2.   By the municipality in accordance with law or ordinance.
      (2)   No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an
actual obstruction of public right.
(Prior Code, § 14-4)
   (B)   Private nuisances; possible remedies.
      (1)   Every nuisance not included in division (A) above is a PRIVATE
NUISANCE.
      (2)   The possible remedies against a private nuisance are:
         (a)   Civil action; and
         (b)   Abatement:
            1.   By the person injured; or
            2.   By the municipality in accordance with law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 14-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 50 O.S. §§ 2, 7, and 14
§ 92.05 LIABILITY.
   Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing
nuisance upon or in the use of such property created by a former owner is
liable therefor in the same manner as the person who first created it.
(Prior Code, § 14-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 50 O.S. § 5
§ 92.06 PROCEDURES CUMULATIVE.
   The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this chapter and
by other provisions of law and ordinances shall be cumulative one to the other;
the Town Board may elect to follow any such procedure which is applicable in
abating any particular nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 14-7)
ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES
§ 92.20 SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   (A)   Whenever it is practical to do so, the Town Board has the power
summarily to abate any such nuisance after notice to the owner and an
opportunity for him or her to be heard if this can be done.
   (B)   Some nuisances are of such nature as to constitute a grave and
immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals, or welfare of one or
more persons of the public generally, and it is recognized that in such
circumstances the Mayor or his or her representative may be justified or
required to take immediate and proper action summarily to abate such nuisances
or to reduce or suspend the danger until more deliberate action can be taken
toward such abatement.
   (C)   The Fire Chief, the Chief of Police, the Town Attorney, the Health
Officer, any Trustee, any resident of the town, or any other officer
subordinate to the Town Board may submit to said Town Board a statement as to
the existence of a nuisance defined by state law or the ordinances of the town
and a request or recommendation that it be abated.
   (D)   The Town Board shall determine whether or not the alleged nuisance is
a nuisance in fact, and before proceeding, to have the nuisance abated, the
said Town Board shall give notice of a hearing on the proposed abatement to the
owner of any property concerned and to any other person alleged or deemed
responsible for or to be causing the nuisance and an adequate opportunity to be
heard if such notice and opportunity for a hearing can be given.
      (1)   Such notice to the owner and other persons concerned shall be given
in writing by mail or by service by a police officer if their names and
addresses are known.
      (2)   If the names and addresses are not known and the peace, health,
safety, morals, or welfare of the person(s) or public adversely affected would
not be unduly jeopardized by the necessary delay, a notice of the hearing shall
be posted on the premises or published in a newspaper of general circulation
within the town or county.
   (E)   If the Town Board finds that a nuisance does in fact exist, it shall
direct the owner and/or other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance
to abate it within a specified time if the peace, health, safety, morals, or
welfare of the person(s) or public adversely affected would not be unduly
jeopardized by the consequent delay. If such peace, health, safety, morals, or
welfare would be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay, or if the owner or
other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance do not abate it within
the specified time, the Town Board shall direct the Mayor to abate the nuisance
or have it abated if summary abatement is practicable.
   (F)   The Town Clerk shall send a statement of the cost of such summary
abatement to the owner and/or other persons responsible for or causing the
nuisance as may be just under the circumstances if their names and addresses
are known. Until paid, such cost shall constitute a debt to the town
collectible as other debts of the town may be collected.
(Prior Code, § 14-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 22-111 and 50 O.S. § 16
§ 92.21 ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCE.
   (A)   The Local or County Health Officer shall have the authority to order,
in writing, the owner or occupant of any private premises in the town to remove
from such premises within a reasonable length of time and at his or her own
expense any source of filth, cause of sickness, or condition conducive to the
breeding of insects or rodents that might contribute to the transmission of
disease or any other condition adversely affecting the public health; failure
to do so shall constitute an offense. Such order shall be served on the owner
or occupant (or his or her agent) of the premises by the Local or County Health
Officer or a police officer. If the premises are unoccupied and the residence
of the owner, occupant, or agent is unknown or is out of state, the order may
be served by posting a copy thereof on the premises or by publication in at
least one issue of a newspaper having a general circulation in the town or
county.
   (B)   If the order is not complied with, the Health Officer may cause the
order to be executed, and the cost thereof shall be certified to the Town
Clerk; the cost of abating such nuisance shall be added to the municipal
utility bill of the owner or occupant, if he or she is a user of any municipal
utility service, and shall become due and payable and be subject to the same
regulations relating to delinquency in payment as the utility bill itself. If
such owner or occupant is not a user of any municipal utility service, such
costs, after certification to the Town Clerk, may be collected in any manner in
which any other debt due the town may be collected.
(Prior Code, § 14-11)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 63 O.S. § 1-1011
§ 92.22 REMOVAL OF UNSAFE STRUCTURES.
   The Board of Trustees may cause dilapidated buildings within the municipal
limits to be torn down and removed in accordance with the provisions of 11 O.S.
§ 22-112.
(Prior Code, § 14-12)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 1-102 and 22-112
§ 92.23 SECURING DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS.
   After a building has been declared dilapidated, as provided in §
92.24, and before the commencement of the tearing down and removal of a
dilapidated building, the governing body of any municipality may authorize that
such a building be boarded and secured in accordance with the provisions of 11
O.S. § 22-112.1.
(Prior Code, § 14-14)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 22-112 and 22-112.1
§ 92.24 PROPERTY NUISANCE REMEDY.
   (A)   A municipal governing body may cause property within the municipal
limits to be cleaned of trash and weeds or grass to be cut or mowed in
accordance with the following procedure.
      (1)   At least ten days’ notice shall be given to the owner of the
property by mail at the address shown by the current year’s tax rolls in the
County Treasurer’s office before the governing body holds a hearing or takes
action. The notice shall order the property owner to clean the property of
trash or to cut or mow the weeds or grass on the property, as appropriate; said
notice shall further state that, unless such work is performed within ten days
of the date of the notice, the work shall be done by the municipality and a
notice of lien shall be filed with the County Clerk against the property for
the costs due and owing the municipality. At the time of mailing of notice to
the property owner, the municipality shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the
postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name
and address of the mailee.
         (a)   However, if the property owner cannot be located within ten days
from the date of mailing by the municipal governing body, notice may be given
by posting a copy of the notice on the property or by publication (as defined
in 11 O.S. § 1-102) one time not less than ten days prior to any hearing or
action by the municipality.
         (b)   If a municipal governing body anticipates summary abatement of a
nuisance in accordance with the provisions of division (B) below, the notice
(whether by certified mail, posting, or publication) shall state that any
accumulations of trash or excessive weed or grass growth on the owner’s
property occurring within six months after the removal of trash or cutting or
mowing of weeds or grass on the property pursuant to such notice may be
summarily abated by the municipal governing body, that the costs of such
abatement shall be assessed against the owner, and that a lien may be imposed
on the property to secure such payment, all without further prior notice to the
property owner.
      (2)   The owner of the property may give his or her written consent to
the municipality authorizing removal of the trash or the mowing of the weeds or
grass. By giving said written consent, the owner waives his or her right to a
hearing by the municipality.
      (3)   A hearing may be held by the municipal governing body to determine
whether the accumulation of trash or the growth of weeds or grass has caused
the property to become detrimental to the health, benefit, and welfare of the
public and the community or a hazard to traffic or creates a fire hazard to the
danger of property.
      (4)   Upon a finding that the condition of the property constitutes a
detriment or hazard and that the property would benefit by the removal of such
conditions, the agents of the municipality are granted the right of entry on
the property for the removal of trash, mowing of weeds or grass, and
performance of the necessary duties as a governmental function of the
municipality. Immediately following the cleaning or mowing of the property, the
Municipal Clerk shall file a notice of lien with the County Clerk describing
the property and the work performed by the municipality and stating that the
municipality claims a lien on said property for the cleaning or mowing costs.
      (5)   The governing body shall determine the actual cost of such cleaning
and mowing and any other expenses as may be necessary in connection therewith
including the cost of notice and mailing. The Municipal Clerk shall forward by
mail to the property owner specified in division (A)(1) above a statement of
such actual cost and demand payment. If the cleaning and mowing are done by the
municipality, the cost to the property owner for said cleaning and mowing shall
not exceed the actual cost of the labor, maintenance, and equipment required.
If the cleaning and mowing are done on a private contract basis, the contract
shall be awarded to the lowest and best bidder.
      (6)   If payment is not made within 30 days from the date of the mailing
of the statement, the Municipal Clerk shall forward a certified statement of
the amount of the cost to the County Treasurer of the county in which the
property is located and the same shall be levied on the property and collected
by the County Treasurer as other taxes authorized by law. Until fully paid, the
cost and the interest thereon shall be the personal obligation of the property
owner for and after the date the cost is certified to the County Treasurer.
         (a)   In addition, the cost and the interest thereon shall be a lien
against the property from the date the cost is certified to the County
Treasurer, coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes and
special assessments and prior and superior to all other titles and liens
against the property, and the lien shall continue until the cost shall be fully
paid.
         (b)   At the time of collection, the County Treasurer shall collect a
fee of $5 for each parcel of property. Said fee shall be deposited to the
credit of the County General Fund. At any time prior to the collection, as
provided in this division (A)(6)(b), the municipality may pursue any civil
remedy for collection of the amount owing and interest thereon including an
action in personam against the property owner and an action in rem to foreclose
its lien against the property.
         (c)   A mineral interest, if severed from the surface interest and not
owned by the surface owner, shall not be subject to any tax or judgment lien
created pursuant to this section.
         (d)   Upon receiving payment, if any, the Municipal Clerk shall
forward to the County Treasurer a notice of such payment and directing
discharge of the lien.
      (7)   The municipality may designate, by ordinance, an administrative
officer or administrative body to carry out the duties of the governing body in
this division (A). The property owner shall have a right of appeal to the
municipal governing body from any order of the administrative officer or
administrative body. Such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of
appeal with the Municipal Clerk within ten days after the administrative order
is rendered.
   (B)   If a municipal governing body causes property within the municipal
limits to be cleaned of trash and weeds or grass to be cut or mowed in
accordance with the procedures provided for in this division (A), any
subsequent accumulations of trash or excessive weed or grass growth on the
property occurring within a six-month period may be declared to be a nuisance
and may be summarily abated without further prior notice to the property owner.
At the time of each such summary abatement, the municipality shall notify the
property owner of the abatement and the costs thereof. The notice shall state
that the property owner may request a hearing within ten days after the date of
mailing the notice. The notice and hearing shall be as provided for in division
(A) above. Unless otherwise determined at the hearing, the cost of such
abatement shall be determined and collected as provided for in divisions (A)(5)
and (A)(7) above.
   (C)   The municipal governing body may enact ordinances to prohibit owners
of property or persons otherwise in possession or control located within the
municipal limits from allowing trash to accumulate or weeds to grow or stand
upon the premises and may impose penalties for violation of said ordinances.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CLEANING. The removal of trash from property.
      OWNER. The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the
County Treasurer.
      TRASH. Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible
materials, rubbish, offal, or waste, or matter of any kind or form which is not
cared for, discarded, or abandoned.
      WEED. 
         (a)   Includes, but is not limited to, poison ivy, poison oak, or
poison sumac and all vegetation at any state of maturity which:
            1.   Exceeds 12 inches in height except healthy trees, shrubs, or
produce for human consumption grown in a tended and cultivated garden unless
such trees and shrubbery, by their density or location, constitute a detriment
to the health, benefit, and welfare of the public and community or a hazard to
traffic or a fire hazard to the property or otherwise interfere with the mowing
of said weeds;
            2.   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals, or invites deposit or
accumulation of refuse or trash;
            3.   Harbors rodents or vermin;
            4.   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
            5.   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
            6.   Is dead or diseased.
         (b)   WEED shall not include tended crops on land zoned for
agricultural use which are planted more than 150 feet from a parcel zoned for
other than agricultural use.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any property zoned
and used for agriculture purposes.
(Prior Code, § 14-13)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 1-102 and 22-111
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
92.01 through
92.06 and 92.20 through 92.24 by doing any act prohibited, declared to be
unlawful thereby, or declared to be a nuisance, an offense, or misdemeanor
thereby; who fails to do any act required by any such provision; who fails to
do any act when such provision declares such failure to be unlawful or to be an
offense or misdemeanor; who violates any legal order or regulation made
pursuant to these provisions; or who maintains any nuisance, as defined herein,
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
by fine and costs as provided for in §
10.99. Every day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 14-25)
CHAPTER 93: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Abandoned iceboxes, refrigerators, and containers
   
93.02   Outdoor and open burning
Contagious Diseases
   
93.15   Introducing diseases
   
93.16   Report
   
93.17   Quarantine
Toilet Facilities
   
93.30   Definitions
   
93.31   Proper facilities required
   
93.32   Proper disposal
   
93.33   Unauthorized facilities a nuisance
Milk and Food Safety
   
93.45   Food Service Sanitation Code adopted
   
93.46   Milk Ordinance adopted
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 ABANDONED ICEBOXES, REFRIGERATORS, AND CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to leave in a
place accessible to children any abandoned or discarded icebox, refrigerator,
or other container which has an air-tight door with a lock or other fastening
device which cannot be easily released for opening from the inside of the
icebox, refrigerator, or container without first removing the door, lock, or
fastener.
(Prior Code, § 10-20)
§ 93.02 OUTDOOR AND OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Purpose. This section is intended to promote the public health,
safety, and welfare and to safeguard the health, comfort, living conditions,
safety, and welfare of the citizens of the town by regulating the air pollution
and fire hazards of open burning and outdoor burning.
(Prior Code, § 10-21)
   (B)   Applicability. This section applies to all outdoor burning and open
burning within the town.
      (1)   This section does not apply to grilling or cooking food using
charcoal, wood, propane, or natural gas cooking of grilling appliances.
      (2)   This section does not apply to burning for the purpose of
generating heat in a stove, furnace, fireplace, or other heating device within
a building used for human or animal habitation.
      (3)   This section does not apply to the use of propane, acetylene,
natural gas, gasoline, or kerosene in a device intended for heating,
construction, or maintenance activities.
(Prior Code, § 10-22)
   (C)   Severability. Should any portion of this section be declared
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of this section shall not be affected.
(Prior Code, § 10-23)
   (D)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CAMPFIRE. A small outdoor fire intended for recreation or cooking but not
including a fire intended for disposal of waste wood or refuse.
      CLEAN WOOD. Natural wood which has not been painted, varnished, or coated
with a similar material; has not been pressure-treated with preservatives; and
does not contain resins or glues as in plywood or other composite wood
products.
      CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE. Building waste materials including,
but not limited to: waste shingles, insulation, lumber, treated wood, painted
wood, wiring, plastics, packaging, and rubble that results from construction,
remodeling, repair, and demolition operations on a house, commercial or
industrial building, or other structure.
      FIRE CHIEF. The Chief of the Town Fire Department or other person
designated by the Fire Chief.
      MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Arapaho, Oklahoma.
      OPEN BURNING. Kindling or maintaining a fire where the products of
combustion are emitted directly into the ambient air without passing through a
stack or a chimney. This includes burning in a burn barrel.
      OUTDOOR BURNING. Open burning or burning in an outdoor wood-fired boiler
or patio wood-burning unit.
      OUTDOOR WOOD-FIRED BOILER. A wood-fired boiler, stove, or furnace that is
not located within a building intended for habitation by humans or domestic
animals.
      PATIO WOOD-BURNING UNIT. A chiminea, patio warmer, or other portable
wood-burning device used for outdoor recreation and/or heating.
      REFUSE. Any waste material except trees, logs, brush, stumps, leaves,
grass clipping, and other vegetative matter.
(Prior Code, § 10-24)
   (E)   General prohibition. Open burning and outdoor burning are prohibited
in the town limits unless the burning is specifically permitted by divisions
(B) through (H) in this section.
(Prior Code, § 10-25)
   (F)   Open burning of refuse. Open burning of refuse is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 10-26)
   (G)   Open burning of trees, logs, brush, stumps, leaves, and grass
clippings. Open burning of trees, logs, brush, stumps, leaves, and grass
clippings are prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 10-27)
   (H)   Patio wood-burning units.
      (1)   The patio wood-burning unit shall not be used to burn refuse.
      (2)   The patio wood-burning unit shall burn only clean wood.
      (3)   The patio wood-burning unit shall be located at least 25 feet from
the nearest structure which is not on the same property as the patio wood-
burning unit.
      (4)   The patio wood-burning unit shall not cause a nuisance to
neighbors.
(Prior Code, § 10-28)
   (I)   Liability. A person utilizing or maintaining an outdoor fire shall be
responsible for all fire suppression costs and any other liability resulting
from damage caused by the fire.
(Prior Code, § 10-29)
   (J)   Right of entry and inspection. The Fire Chief or any authorized
officer, agent, employee, or representative of the town who presents
credentials may inspect any property for the purpose of ascertaining compliance
with the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 10-30)
   (K)   Enforcement. The Fire Chief, Chief of Police, and other designated
town officials are authorized to enforce the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 10-31) Penalty, see §
10.99
CONTAGIOUS DISEASES
§ 93.15 INTRODUCING DISEASES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person affected with or exposed to any
contagious or infectious disease to be upon any street or in any public place
in the town. The purpose of this provision is to avoid exposing other persons
to such a disease.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian, or person having charge
of any child or children to allow or permit such child or children to attend
any classes, school, or any gathering of people or to appear upon any street or
in any public place in the town while infected with or exposed to any
contagious or infectious disease or in any manner to allow other persons to be
exposed to such a disease.
   (C)   No person suffering from, or infected with, the communicable form of a
venereal disease or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) shall engage in
any occupation involving food or food products or intimate contact with
persons.
(Prior Code, § 10-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 22-120, 21 O.S. § 1199, and 63 O.S. § 1-
507
§ 93.16 REPORT.
   (A)   Every physician practicing in the town shall report to the County
Health Official within six hours after the diagnosis or appearance of any of
the following diseases: diphtheria (including membranous croup), scarlet fever,
smallpox, yellow fever, typhoid fever, acute anterior, poliomyelitis (infantile
paralysis), epidemic cerebrospinal meningitis, whooping cough, mumps, or any
other pestilential, infectious, or contagious disease.
   (B)   Syphilis, gonococcus infection, and cancroid are hereby and
hereinafter recognized and declared to be contagious, infectious, communicable,
and dangerous to the public health. The term VENEREAL DISEASE, as used in this
subchapter, shall include all such diseases.
   (C)   The statutes of the state governing prevention and control of the
diseases stated hereinbefore shall apply to all cases of this nature after said
report is made.
(Prior Code, § 10-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 63 O.S. § 1-503
§ 93.17 QUARANTINE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter or go upon any ground or
premises under quarantine, without first having obtained permission to do so
from the Local or County Health Officials.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person whom the Local or County Health
Official shall have ordered to be detained in quarantine to neglect or refuse
to be so detained or to willfully violate any quarantine regulation thereof.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tear down, remove, deface,
mutilate, or destroy any order, notice, or flag that may be posted or displayed
by the Local or County Heath Official.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully violate or refuse to
comply with any lawful order, direction, prohibition, rule, or regulation of
any officer or official charged with enforcement of such order, direction,
prohibition, rule, or regulation.
(Prior Code, § 10-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 21 O.S. § 1195 and 63 O.S. § 1-504
TOILET FACILITIES
§ 93.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HUMAN EXCREMENT. The bowel and kidney discharge of human beings.
   SANITARY PIT PRIVY. A privy which is built, rebuilt, or constructed to
conform to the specifications approved by the State Department of Health.
   SANITARY WATER CLOSET. The flush-type toilet which is connected with a
sanitary sewer line of such capacity and construction as to carry away the
contents at all times.
(Prior Code, § 10-10)
§ 93.31 PROPER FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every owner of a residence or other building in which humans reside,
are employed, or congregate shall install, equip, and maintain adequate
sanitary facilities for the disposal of human excrement; this requirement shall
include a sanitary water closet or closets, a water closet or closets connected
to an approved septic tank, or a sanitary pit privy or privies.
   (B)   The closets and toilets required herein shall be of the sanitary water
closet type when located within 300 feet of any municipal sanitary sewer line
and accessible thereto. It shall be the duty of every owner of property so
located to connect or cause to be connected his or her toilet(s) with the
municipal sanitary sewer system and to ensure that each toilet is properly
connected with said sewer system.
   (C)   When not so located, the closet or toilet shall be of the sanitary
water closet type so connected to a sanitary sewer (notwithstanding the
distance from it), the water closet type connected to a septic tank approved by
the County Health Officer, or the sanitary pit privy type approved by the
County Health Officer.
(Prior Code, § 10-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.32 PROPER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   All human excrement shall be disposed of in closets and privies of the
type described in §
93.31.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of property to permit the disposal
of human excrement thereon in any other manner or for any person to dispose of
human excrement in any other manner.
(Prior Code, § 10-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.33 UNAUTHORIZED FACILITIES A NUISANCE.
   All facilities for the disposal of human excrement in a manner different
from that required by this code of ordinances and all privies and closets so
constructed, situated, or maintained as to endanger the public health are
hereby declared to be public nuisances and may be dealt with and abated as
such.
(Prior Code, § 10-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
MILK AND FOOD SAFETY
§ 93.45 FOOD SERVICE SANITATION CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The United States Public Health Service’s Food Service Sanitation
Ordinance and Code, current edition, is hereby adopted and incorporated as
fully as if set out at length herein.
   (B)   From the date on which this subchapter shall take effect, the
provisions of said code, as herein modified, shall be controlling in the
regulation of food service establishments within the corporate limits of the
town.
   (C)   One copy of said code is on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
   (D)   No fee shall be required for a municipal permit to operate a food
service establishment.
(Prior Code, § 10-35)
§ 93.46 MILK ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The production, transportation, processing, handling, sampling,
examination, grading, labeling, and sale of all milk and milk products sold for
the ultimate consumption within the town; the inspection of dairy herds, dairy
farms, and milk plants; and the issuing and revocation of permits to milk
producers, haulers, and distributors shall be regulated in accordance with the
provisions of the Milk Ordinance (recommendations of the public health service,
revised to comply with state statutes).
   (B)   From the date on which this subchapter shall take effect, the
provisions of said ordinance, as herein modified, shall regulate milk and milk
products within the corporate limits of the town.
   (C)   One copy of said ordinance is on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 10-36)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 2 O.S. §§ 7-401 et seq.
CHAPTER 94: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Prohibited acts; nuisances; exception
   
94.03   Presumption of abandonment
   
94.04   Notice of removal and abatement
   
94.05   Hearing
   
94.06   Notice of impoundment
   
94.07   Authority to impound
   
94.08   Causes for impoundment on public property
   
94.09   Purpose and effect of impoundment
   
94.10   Place and duration of impoundment
   
94.11   Redemption and release of vehicle
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER. The Mayor or his or her designee.
   JUNK VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, as defined herein, which is wrecked,
dismantled, partially dismantled, inoperative, abandoned, or discarded but does
not include motor vehicles or vehicles parked on private property which display
current license tags.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is self-propelled and designed to travel
along the ground or water and the term shall include, but is not limited to,
automobiles, boats, buses, motorbikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, trucks,
tractors, go-carts, and farm equipment.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property within the town which is not public
property.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any real property which is dedicated to the public use
which the federal or any state or municipal government or any political
subdivision thereof owns or leases or exercises control and dominion over for
public purposes.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power, other than human power, designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or slides and to
transport persons or property or pull machinery and includes, without
limitation, automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy, wagon, and
farm equipment.
(Prior Code, § 15-71)
§ 94.02 PROHIBITED ACTS; NUISANCES; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to park, store, or leave
or to permit parking, storing, or leaving of any junk vehicle of any kind which
is in an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, rusted, junked, or
partially dismantled condition, whether attended or not, upon private property
within the town for a period of time in excess of 30 days.
   (B)   The presence of any junk vehicle, farm equipment, or any abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, rusted, junked, or partially dismantled
vehicle or boat or parts thereof on private property is hereby declared a
public nuisance which may be abated as such in accordance with the provisions
herein.
   (C)   The provisions listed above shall not apply to any vehicle or motor
vehicle that is:
      (1)   Enclosed within a building on private property;
      (2)   Held in connection with a lawful business enterprise which is
properly operated; or
      (3)   In operable condition which is not a junk vehicle as defined
herein.
(Prior Code, § 15-72) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 PRESUMPTION OF ABANDONMENT.
   A rebuttal presumption shall exist that vehicles have been abandoned when:
   (A)   Weed or grass undergrowth would indicate to a reasonable person that
the vehicle has not been moved, thereby permitting such growth to occur;
   (B)   One or more wheels are flat or missing and the vehicle or boat
displays an expired license tag;
   (C)   Portions of the vehicle, which are needed for its operation or
control, are missing;
   (D)   The town has received reports from others as to the length of time
such vehicle has been standing in one place without being moved or that parts
are being taken from or added to such vehicle, indicating a salvage or garbage
operation; or
   (E)   Evidence exist that provisions of this code pertaining to junk and
salvage yards are being violated.
(Prior Code, § 15-73)
§ 94.04 NOTICE OF REMOVAL AND ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Notice to remove from private property. The Mayor or his or her
designee shall give notice of removal to the owner or occupant of the private
property where any junk vehicle or any abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or
inoperative vehicle, boat, or farm equipment is located at least 30 days before
the time set for compliance.
      (1)   The notice shall be given to the owner of the property by mail at
the address shown by the current year’s tax rolls in the County Treasurer’s
office before the governing body holds a hearing or takes action. However, if
the owner cannot be located within the 30 days from the date of mailing by the
municipal governing body, notice may be given by posting a copy of the notice
to remove on the property or by publication one time and not less than 30 days
to any hearing or action by the municipality.
      (2)   The notice to remove shall contain the demand for removal within 30
days and the notice to remove shall state that, upon failure to comply with the
notice to remove, the town shall prosecute a criminal complaint for failure to
abate the nuisance or undertake such removal with the cost to be levied against
the owner of the junk vehicle or the occupant of the property.
(Prior Code, § 15-74)
   (B)   Procedures for abatement. The provisions for abatement of public
nuisance contained in §
92.04(A) shall not apply to junk vehicles or to those which are on abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, rusted, junked, or partially dismantled
condition (whether attended or not) upon any public property within the town
for a period of time in excess of 24 hours.
(Prior Code, § 15-75)
§ 94.05 HEARING.
   (A)   Any person to whom any notice to remove is directed pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter or any other interested party or any duly authorized
agent thereof may file a written request for a hearing before the Town Board of
Trustees within the 30-day compliance period for the purpose of contesting the
town’s demand for removal. The Town Board of Trustees or designee shall
constitute a hearing to hear the request.
   (B)   The hearing shall be held as soon as practicable but not earlier than
five days after receipt of the request and not later than 15 days after such
receipt. Notice of time and place of the hearing shall be directed to the
person making the request. At any such hearing, the town and the person to whom
notice has been directed may introduce witnesses and evidence.
   (C)   Persons to whom the notice to remove has not been remedied within the
30-day period of compliance or in the event that a notice requesting a hearing
is timely filled, a hearing had, and the existence of the violation is affirmed
by the Mayor or his or her designee, the Town Board shall institute and
prosecute additional charges on a daily basis for failure to abate the
nuisance, and the town shall, in the discretion of the Mayor or his or her
designee, take possession of the junk vehicle and remove it from the premises.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with or hinder anyone
whom the town or the Mayor or his or her designee authorized to enter upon
private property for the purpose of removing a vehicle under the provisions of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 15-76) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Within 48 hours of the removal of such junk vehicle, the Mayor or his or her
designee shall give notice to the registered owner of the junk vehicle, if
known, or occupant of the land or the landowner that the vehicle has been
impounded and stored for violation of this chapter. The notice shall give the
location where the vehicle is stored and the proper procedure for redeeming the
vehicle including the cost of redemption.
(Prior Code, § 15-77)
§ 94.07 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND.
   (A)   The office of the Chief of Police is hereby authorized, within the
limits set forth in this chapter, to impound vehicles under the circumstances
hereafter enumerated.
   (B)   No impoundment shall be valid unless made under order of an authorized
police officer and in strict adherence to the procedures established herein and
by other policies of the town.
(Prior Code, § 15-82)
§ 94.08 CAUSES FOR IMPOUNDMENT ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may be impounded under the
following circumstances:
      (1)   If left unattended and improperly parked on a street or highway;
      (2)   If left unattended longer than 48 hours on the shoulder of any
highway; or
      (3)   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated
to such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal.
   (B)   An unattended vehicle left upon any bridge, viaduct, causeway, or
within the structure of grade separation may be impounded.
   (C)   Whenever the driver or person in charge of any vehicle is placed under
arrest, taken into custody, and detained by police under circumstances which
leave or will leave a vehicle unattended on any street or highway, the vehicle
may be impounded.
   (D)   A vehicle left unattended upon any street, alley, or thoroughfare and
so parked illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic shall be impounded.
   (E)   When any derelict vehicle is discovered by the Police Department to
have been parked upon any street in the town for a period of 72 hours or more,
the Police Department is authorized to impound the vehicle; if the owner of the
vehicle may be ascertained by reasonable diligence, the owner shall be notified
of the action by the Police Department.
   (F)   A trespassing, unattended vehicle found may be impounded when the
required complaint has been properly made and filed. The owner or legal
occupant who complains shall sign a complaint against the person parking the
vehicle on the owner’s or legal occupant’s property. If the identity of the
person parking the vehicle is unknown, the complaint may be filed.
(Prior Code, § 15-83)
§ 94.09 PURPOSE AND EFFECT OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Impoundment of vehicles under authority of the provisions of this chapter
shall be construed an enforcement procedure for the protection of the public
peace, safety, welfare, and safeguarding of the property and shall be used
generally for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention, and
abatement of public nuisances existing from traffic law violations, protection
of the public rights in the use of streets, and thoroughfares in the town from
obstructions placed and left in derogation of those rights and for safeguarding
and protection recovered stolen vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 15-78)
§ 94.10 PLACE AND DURATION OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Place of impoundment. Every vehicle that is impounded under the
provisions of this chapter shall be removed to the nearest place of safekeeping
designated by the Town Board of Trustees and shall not be removed to any other
place.
(Prior Code, § 15-79)
   (B)   Duration of impoundment. Unless otherwise provided hereinafter, any
vehicle impounded under the provisions of the code of ordinances shall be
stored and held safely until a written order for its release, signed by the
Chief of Police or his or her designated representative, has been issued. The
written order for release shall be conditioned upon:
      (1)   Payment of all impoundment costs and accrued storage charges
assessed against the vehicle by the person to whom the release is issued; and
      (2)   Payment of all fines and costs due or because of traffic law or
other law violation involving the vehicle or proper security posted for said
fine or law violation.
(Prior Code, § 15-80)
§ 94.11 REDEMPTION AND RELEASE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   The person holding the written order for release shall be entitled to
obtain possession of the vehicle upon presentation of the order for release at
the place of impoundment together with payment or tender of payment of all
impoundment costs and accrued storage charges due.
   (B)   Any party claiming an interest or proof of compliance with the
following requirements:
      (1)   Proof of interest; and
      (2)   Agreement to save and hold harmless the town and all its employees.
(Prior Code, § 15-81)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of the
chapter shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by fine and costs as provided for in §
10.99. Each day’s continuation of any such violation shall be a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 15-100)
CHAPTER 95: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
95.01   Purpose
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Unlawful practice
   
95.04   Discrimination in sale or rental of housing
   
95.05   Discrimination in the financing of housing
   
95.06   Discrimination in the provisions of brokerage services
   
95.07   Exemption
   
95.08   Administration
   
95.09   Education and conciliation
   
95.10   Complaints filed
   
95.11   Investigations
   
95.12   Enforcement by private persons
   
95.13   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
§ 95.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional limitations,
for fair housing throughout the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-175)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under this chapter.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as
or designed or intended for occupancy as a residence by one or more families
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure, or portion thereof.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representative, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers, and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for
a consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant.
(Prior Code, § 1-176)
§ 95.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this chapter, the prohibitions against
discrimination in the sale or rental of housing shall apply to all dwellings
except as exempted by division (B) below.
   (B)   Nothing in §
95.04 shall apply to any single-family house sold or rented by an owner
provided that:
      (1)   Such private individual owner does not own more than three such
single-family houses at any one time;
      (2)   In the case of the sale of any such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in such house at the time of such sale or
who was not the most recent resident of such house prior to such sale, the
exemption granted by this division (B)(2) shall apply only with respect to one
such sale within any 24-month period;
      (3)   Such bona fide private individual owner does not own any interest
in nor is there owned or reserved on his or her behalf (under any express or
voluntary agreement) title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds
from the sale of rental of more than three such single-family houses at any one
time;
      (4)   The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
accepted from the application of this title only if such house is sold or
rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent, or
salesperson or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of
selling or renting dwellings or of any employee or agent of any such broker,
agent, salesperson, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting, or mailing (after notice of
any advertisement or written notice in violation) of these provisions, but
nothing in these provisions shall prohibit the use of attorneys, escrow agents,
abstractors, title companies, and other such professional assistance as
necessary to perfect or transfer the title of property.
      (5)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purpose of these provisions, a person shall be deemed to be in
the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as an
agent (other than in the sales of his or her own personal residence) in
providing sales or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest
therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for
occupancy by or occupied by five or more families.
(Prior Code, § 1-177) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.04 DISCRIMINATION IN SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable herein and except as exempted, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of or otherwise make unavailable or
deny a dwelling to any person because of race, sex, color, religion, national
origin, handicap, or familial status;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, condition, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith because of race, sex, color, religion,
national origin, handicap, or familial status;
   (C)   To make, print, or publish or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental or
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, sex, color, religion, or national origin, handicap, or familial status or
an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, sex, color, religion, or
national origin that any dwelling is not available or inspection, sale, or
rental when such dwelling is in fact so available; and/or
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling, by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, sex, color,
religion, national origin, handicap, or familial status.
(Prior Code, § 1-178) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.05 DISCRIMINATION IN THE FINANCING OF HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company, or other corporation, association, firm, or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the
purpose of purchasing, construction, improving, repairing, or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him or her in the fixing of the amount,
interest rate, duration, or other terms or conditions of such loan or other
financial assistance because of the race, sex, color, religion, national
origin, handicap, or familial status of such person or of any person associated
with him or her in connection with such loan or other financial assistance or
of the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants, or occupants of the
dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such loan or other financial
assistance is to be made or given provided that nothing contained in this
section shall impair the scope or effectiveness of the exception contained in §
95.07.
(Prior Code, § 1-179) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISIONS OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, rental, or facility relating to
the business of selling or renting dwellings or to discriminate against him or
her in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation on
account of race, sex, color, religion, national origin, handicap, or familial
status.
(Prior Code, § 1-180) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.07 EXEMPTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion or from giving preference to such person unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, sex, color,
national origin, handicap, or familial status. Nothing in this chapter shall
prohibit a private club not open to the public (which, as an incident to its
primary purpose or purposes, provides lodgings which it owns or operates for
other than a commercial purpose) from limiting the rental or occupancy of such
lodgings to its members or from giving preference to its members.
(Prior Code, § 1-181)
§ 95.08 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for administering this chapter shall
be in the Chief Executive Officer of the town.
   (B)   The Chief Executive Officer may delegate any of these functions,
duties, and powers to employees of the town or to boards of such employees
(including functions, duties, and powers) with respect to investigating,
conciliating, hearing, determining, ordering, certifying, reporting, or
otherwise acting as to any work, business, or matter under this chapter. The
Chief Executive Officer shall, by rule, prescribe such rights of appeal from
the decisions of his or her hearing examiners or to himself or herself as shall
be appropriate and in accordance with law.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies shall administer their programs
and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner
affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with
the Chief Executive Officer to further such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 1-182)
§ 95.09 EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION.
   Immediately after the enactment of this chapter, the Chief Executive Officer
shall commence such educational and conciliatory activities as will further the
purpose of this chapter. He or she shall call conferences of persons in the
housing industry and other interested parties to acquaint them with the
provisions of this chapter and his or her suggested means of implementing it
and shall endeavor with their advice to work other programs of voluntary
compliance and of enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 1-183)
§ 95.10 COMPLAINTS FILED.
   (A)   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice or who believes that he or she will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter referred to
as person aggrieved) may file a complaint with the Chief Executive Officer.
      (1)   Complaints shall be in writing and shall contain such information
and be such form as the Chief Executive Officer requires. Upon receipt of such
a complaint, the Chief Executive Officer shall furnish a copy of the same to
the person or persons who allegedly committed or were about to commit the
alleged discriminatory housing practice. Within 30 days after receiving a
complaint or within 30 days after the expiration of any period of reference,
the Chief Executive Officer shall investigate the complaint and give notice in
writing to the person aggrieved whether he or she intends to resolve it. If the
Chief Executive Officer decides to resolve the complaints, he or she shall
proceed to try to eliminate or correct the alleged discriminatory housing
practice by informal methods of conference, conciliation, and persuasion.
      (2)   Nothing said or done in the course of such informal endeavors may
be made public or used as evidence in a subsequent proceeding under this
chapter without the written consent of the persons concerned.
   (B)   A complaint shall be filed within 180 days after the alleged
discriminatory housing practice occurred. Complaints shall be in writing and
shall state the facts upon which the allegations of a discriminatory housing
practice are based. Complaints may be reasonably and fairly amended at any
time. A respondent may file an answer to the complaint against him or her and
(with the leave of the Chief Executive Officer, which shall be granted whenever
it would be reasonable and fair to do so) may amend his or her answer at any
time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   (C)   If, within 30 days after a complaint is filed with the Chief Executive
Officer, the Chief Executive Officer has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance with this chapter, the person aggrieved may, within 30 days
thereafter, file a complaint with the Secretary of the Department of Housing
and Urban Development. The Chief Executive Officer will assist in this filing.
   (D)   If the Chief Executive Officer has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance within 30 days of the complaint, the persons aggrieved may, within
30 days, hereafter commence a civil action in any appropriate court against the
respondent named in the complaint to enforce the rights granted or protected by
this chapter insofar as such rights relate to the subject of the complaint. If
the court finds that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is about
to occur, the court may enjoin the respondent from engaging in such practice or
order such affirmative action as may be appropriate.
   (E)   In any proceeding brought pursuant to this chapter, the burden of
proof shall be on the complainant.
   (F)   Whenever an action filed by an individual shall come to trial, the
Chief Executive Officer shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain
voluntary compliance.
(Prior Code, § 1-184) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.11 INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   In conducting an investigation, the Chief Executive Officer shall have
access at all reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals,
and other evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record, and
copy such materials and take record of the testimony or statements of such
persons as are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation;
provided however, the Chief Executive Officer first complies with the
provisions of the U.S. Constitution, Amendment IV, relating to unreasonable
searches and seizures. The Chief Executive Officer may issue subpoena to
complete his or her access to or the production of such materials or the
appearance of such person and may issue interrogatories to a respondent to the
same extent and subject to the same limitations that would apply if the
subpoenas or interrogatories were issued or served in aid of a civil action in
the United States District Court for the district in which the investigation is
taking place. The Chief Executive Officer may administer oaths.
   (B)   Upon written application to the Chief Executive Officer, a respondent
shall be entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number of subpoenas by and in
the name of the Chief Executive Officer to the same extent and subject to the
same limitations as subpoenas issued at the request of a respondent, shall show
on their face the name and address of such respondent, and shall state that
they were issued at this request.
   (C)   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the Chief Executive Officer shall be
entitled to the same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings
in the United States District Courts. Fees payable to a witness summoned by a
subpoena issued at the request of a respondent shall be paid by him or her.
   (D)   Within five days after service of a subpoena upon any person, such
person may petition the Chief Executive Officer to revoke or modify the
subpoena. The Chief Executive Officer shall grant the petition if he or she
finds that the subpoena requires appearance or attendance at unreasonable time
or place; that it does not relate to any matter under investigation; that it
does not describe, with sufficient particularity, the evidence to be produced;
that compliance would be unduly onerous; or for other good reason.
   (E)   In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the Chief
Executive Officer or other person at whose request it was issued may petition
for its enforcement in the Municipal or State Court for the district in which
the person to whom the subpoena was addressed resides or was served to transact
business.
   (F)   Any person who willfully fails or neglects to attend and testify or to
answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents, or other evidence,
if in his or her power to do so and in obedience to the subpoena or lawful
order of the Chief Executive Officer, may be issued punishment allowed by state
law. Any person who, with intent thereby to mislead the Chief Executive
Officer, shall make or cause to be made any false entry or statement of fact in
any report, account, record, or other document submitted to the Chief Executive
Officer pursuant to his or her subpoena or other order or shall willfully
neglect or fail to make or cause to be made full, true, and correct entries in
such reports, accounts, records, or other documents or shall willfully
mutilate, alter, or by any other means falsify any documentary evidence shall
be punished to the full extent of the law allows.
   (G)   The Town Attorney shall conduct all litigation in which the Chief
Executive Officer participates as a party or as amicus pursuant to this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-185)
§ 95.12 ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   (A)   The rights granted by these provisions may be enforced by civil action
in state or local courts of general jurisdiction.
   (B)   A civil action shall be commenced within 180 days after the alleged
discriminatory housing practice occurred, provided:
      (1)   The Court shall continue such civil case from time to time before
bringing it to trial if the Court believes that the conciliation efforts of the
Chief Executive Officer are likely to result in satisfactory settlement of the
discriminatory housing practice complained of in the complaint made to the
Chief Executive Officer and which practice forms the basis for the action in
Court; and
      (2)   Any sale, encumbrance, or rental consummated prior to the issuance
of any court order issued under the authority of this chapter and involving a
bona fide purchase, encumbrance, or tenant without actual notice of the
existence of the filing of a complaint or civil action under the provisions of
this chapter shall not be affected.
(Prior Code, § 1-186)
§ 95.13 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   (A)   Interference, coercion, or intimidation. It shall be unlawful to
coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any person in the exercise or
enjoyment of or on account of his or her having exercised or enjoyed or on
account of his or her having aided or encouraged any other person in the
exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by these provisions.
This section may be enforced by appropriate civil action.
(Prior Code, § 1-187)
   (B)   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases. To the fullest
extent of law, it shall be an offense for whoever, whether or not acting under
the color of law (by force or threat of force) to willfully injure, intimidate,
or interfere with or attempts to injure, intimidate, or interfere with:
      (1)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, national
origin, handicap, or familial status and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, contracting, or negotiating
for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any dwelling or
applying for or participating in any service, organization, or facility
relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
      (2)   Any person because he or she is or has been or in order to
intimidate such person or any other person or any class of person from:
         (a)   Participating (without discrimination, on account of race,
color, religion, national origin, handicap, or familial status) in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in §
95.03; or
         (b)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
      (3)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate (without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, or national origin) in any of the activities, services,
organizations, or facilities described herein or participating lawfully in
speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity to so
participate.
(Prior Code, § 1-188) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 96: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
96.01   Public parks declared
   
96.02   Vehicles to keep right
   
96.03   Prohibited acts
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 PUBLIC PARKS DECLARED.
   All places heretofore owned by the town and used as parks are hereby
declared to be public parks within the meaning of this chapter and are subject
to all rules and regulations set out herein.
(Prior Code, § 17-10)
§ 96.02 VEHICLES TO KEEP RIGHT.
   All automobiles, vehicles, or equestrians (when meeting on the driveway in
any park) shall keep to the right and also comply with all other requirements
of the traffic ordinances of the town in the use of the driveways by
automobiles or other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 17-23)
§ 96.03 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Defacing property. No person shall write upon or mark or deface in any
manner or use in any improper way any water closet, park seat, building, fence,
or other property in any park.
(Prior Code, § 17-11)
   (B)   Driving in parks. No person shall drive or ride upon the grass or
footways or walks or elsewhere in a town park other than upon the roads
provided for the use of automobiles and other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 17-12)
   (C)   Speed. No person shall drive or ride at a greater rate of speed than
20 mph within any town park.
(Prior Code, § 17-13)
   (D)   Injuring trees and the like. No person shall break, cut, mutilate,
injure, remove, or carry away any trees, shrubs, plants, flowers, stone, stone
walk, bench, chair, seat, bower, stand, structure, fence, property, or anything
whatsoever in, upon, or near any park or any street, avenue, or highway around
the same.
(Prior Code, § 17-14)
   (E)   Nuisance or indecency. No person shall commit any nuisance or any
offense against decency and good morals in the parks.
(Prior Code, § 17-15)
   (F)   Throwing stone or rubbish. No person shall throw stones or rubbish of
any kind into any lake or pond or stream or other place in the parks except
into receptacles designated for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 17-16)
   (G)   Molesting animals. No person shall chase, kill, set snares for, pet,
or tease any rabbit, squirrel, bird, fish, or any other animal or thing
belonging to the parks or kept therein.
(Prior Code, § 17-17)
   (H)   Bill posting. No person shall paste, affix, or inscribe any handbill,
poster, card, device, or inscription to or upon or against any fence,
structure, or property of or on any park, highway, street, or avenue
surrounding the same.
(Prior Code, § 17-18)
   (I)   Disorderly behavior. No person shall curse, swear, or use abusive
language or fight, throw stones, or behave in a riotous or disorderly manner in
any park.
(Prior Code, § 17-19)
   (J)   License for selling. No person shall set up any booth, table, stand,
or other device for vending or retailing any candies, ice cream, or other
articles whatsoever without first obtaining permission therefor from the Mayor
and Board.
(Prior Code, § 17-20)
   (K)   Fouling water. No person shall foul in any manner any pool, spring,
drinking fountain, or stream in any park.
(Prior Code, § 17-21)
   (L)   Hitching animals. No person shall fasten any horse, cow, or other
animal to any tree, stake, building, post, or other fastening in any park.
(Prior Code, § 17-22)
   (M)   Trespassing. No person shall go or walk upon any space in the parks
reserved for flowers or other plants or otherwise invade any plot reserved by
the town for shrubbery, grass, or flowers or for any other purposes.
(Prior Code, § 17-24)
   (N)   Disturbing picnics. No person shall disturb or interfere with any
picnic or social gathering or program of any group or persons in any town park.
(Prior Code, § 17-25)
   (O)   Domestic fowls at large. No person shall permit any domestic fowls to
run at large in the parks.
(Prior Code, § 17-26)
Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provisions of §§
96.01 through
96.03, including the provisions of any code adopted by the town, shall be
guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine
and costs as provided in §
10.99. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 17-27)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS REGULATIONS GENERALLY
      
111.   AMUSEMENT AND LEISURE
      
112.   ALCOHOL
      
113.   SALES AND SERVICES
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS REGULATIONS GENERALLY
Section
Licenses and Taxes
   
110.01   Licenses and taxes
   
110.02   License transfers
   
110.03   Revocation, suspension, and expiration
   
110.04   Occupations subject to license or registration
Itinerant Occupations
   
110.15   Itinerant occupations defined
   
110.16   Licenses; fees
   
110.17   License provisions; operations of business
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic beverage occupation tax, see §
112.15
   Electrician fees, see §
150.06
   Kennel licenses, see §
90.25
   Plumber fees, see §
150.05
LICENSES AND TAXES
§ 110.01 LICENSES AND TAXES.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees hereby levies a license tax upon
occupations as set forth in this chapter and elsewhere in this code.
   (B)   The taxes so levied shall be collected by the Town Treasurer prior to
the issuance of each license. Revenues from said taxes shall be deposited by
the Town Treasurer in accordance with §
31.21.
(Prior Code, § 5-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 22-106 and 22-107
§ 110.02 LICENSE TRANSFERS.
   No license shall be assigned or transferred.
(Prior Code, § 5-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 22-107
§ 110.03 REVOCATION, SUSPENSION, AND EXPIRATION.
   (A)   Revocation. A license may be revoked by the Town Board of Trustees
after adequate notice and opportunity for hearing if:
      (1)   The licensee is pursuing or engaging in a business or occupation in
such a manner that he or she has created or is creating a public nuisance; or
      (2)   The licensee has committed a serious or repeated violation of state
law or municipal ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 5-3)
   (B)   Suspension. A license may be suspended by the Town Board of Trustees
in any case in which revocation action has been initiated. A suspension of
license may remain in effect until the conclusion of the revocation action or
for 45 days, whichever occurs first.
(Prior Code, § 5-4)
   (C)   Expiration. Any license issued by the Town Board shall expire one year
after the date of issuance or on June 30 each year unless earlier specified.
(Prior Code, § 5-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 22-106 and 22-107
§ 110.04 OCCUPATIONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE OR REGISTRATION.
   Occupations, other than itinerant occupations, which are subject to license
or registration under other provisions of this code include:
   (A)   Alcoholic beverage manufacturers, distributors, and sellers;
   (B)   Non-alcoholic beverage retail dealers;
   (C)   Plumbers;
   (D)   Electricians; and
   (E)   Pet shops and kennels.
(Prior Code, § 5-15)
ITINERANT OCCUPATIONS
§ 110.15 ITINERANT OCCUPATIONS DEFINED.
   ITINERANT OCCUPATIONS shall mean those occupations, trades, and businesses
having no permanent warehouse, building, structure, residence, or place of
business within the town at which a permanent business is carried on throughout
the year or usual production season in good faith (and not for the purpose of
evading the provisions of this chapter) and shall include occupations, trades,
and businesses housed in temporary stands or quarters (including permanent
quarters occupied pursuant to any temporary arrangement) or carried on by means
of house-to-house solicitation upon the streets and sidewalks of the town;
provided, however, no occupation, trade, or business engaged in by a
charitable, educational, or religious organization, association, or club having
a membership duly enrolled in accordance with the rules, regulations, and
bylaws of said organization, association, or club and the majority of said
members being residents of the town or of the county shall be considered an
ITINERANT OCCUPATION.
(Prior Code, § 5-10)
§ 110.16 LICENSES; FEES.
   (A)   It shall be an offense for any persons to engage in any kind of
itinerant occupation in the town without first having obtained an itinerant
occupation license from the office of the Town Clerk.
   (B)   There is hereby levied an itinerant occupation tax in the amount of
$25 per day against persons, firms, associations, and corporations engaged in
itinerant occupations within the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-11) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 22-106
§ 110.17 LICENSE PROVISIONS; OPERATIONS OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Every person, firm, association, or corporation who engages in an
occupation or business for which an itinerant occupation license is required
shall pay the tax and secure a separate license for each such business or
occupation.
   (B)   Every holder of an itinerant occupation license shall carry the
license and shall display it to any person who requests to see it.
   (C)   Whenever an itinerant occupation license has been lost or destroyed
without any wrongful act or connivance by the holder, the Town Clerk, on
application, may issue a duplicate license for the unexpired time. Before the
duplicate is issued, the holder shall make and file with said Town Clerk an
affidavit that the license has not been transferred, that it has been lost or
destroyed without any wrongful act or connivance by the holder, and that, if
believed lost, he or she has made a diligent search for it and has not been
able to find it. The fee for every duplicate license issued shall be $3.
   (D)   No person, firm, association, or corporation to whom an itinerant
occupation license has been issued shall conduct or pursue the business or
occupation for which such license is issued at any time on a Sunday or holiday
or between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. on the following day or on any
day unless expressly authorized by the Town Board.
(Prior Code, § 5-12) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
110.01 through
110.04,
110.15 through
110.17,
111.01,
113.01, and
113.02 shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by fine and costs as provided for in §
10.99. In addition to any such fine and costs, any license issued hereunder may
be revoked. Each day upon which a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-30)
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENT AND LEISURE
Section
111.01 Shooting galleries
§ 111.01 SHOOTING GALLERIES.
   Every shooting gallery constructed, established, set up, or operated
hereafter within the corporate limits of the town shall be constructed,
established, set up, and operated in accordance with the standards,
specifications, and requirements of state law. No shooting gallery shall be
operated until any permits or licenses required by this code of ordinances have
been secured therefor.
(Prior Code, § 5-17) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 63 O.S. § 701-708
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOL
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   State Alcoholic Beverage Control Act adopted
   
112.02   Definitions and interpretations
Alcoholic Beverages
   
112.15   Occupation tax
   
112.16   Payment required
   
112.17   Annual report
   
112.18   Application for certification
   
112.19   Issuance of certification of compliance
   
112.20   Off-premises consumption
   
112.21   On-premises consumption
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 STATE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ACT ADOPTED.
   (A)   The State Alcoholic Beverage Control Act (37A O.S. § 1-101-6-129, as
amended) is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference in the code of
ordinances of the town.
   (B)   Applicable provisions of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Act are
hereby declared to be in full force as if included herein in complete detail.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 37A O.S. § 1-101-6-129
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   All words, phrases, and terms used in this and other chapters relating to
the use of alcoholic beverages and not defined herein shall be interpreted and
construed in conformity with the definitions of the same set forth in the State
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed - -)
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
§ 112.15 OCCUPATION TAX.
   There is hereby levied and assessed an annual occupation tax on every
business or occupation relating to alcoholic beverages as specifically
enumerated and in the amount herein stated:
License Type Fee
License Type                        Fee
Agent                               $55 (initial)
Beer distributor license            $750
Brewer license                      $1,250
Carrier                             $23 (initial)
Distiller license                   $3,125
Rectifier license                   $3,125
Retail beer license                 $500
Retail wine license                 $1,000
Small brewer license                $125
Small farm winery license           $75
Special event                       $50 (per day)
Spirts license                      $305
Storage                             $23 (per day)
Wine and spirits wholesaler license $3,000
Winemaker                           $625
 
(Ord. 2019-1, passed - -)
§ 112.16 PAYMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any state licensee originally entering upon any occupation herein
listed shall pay the tax therefor at the office of the Town Clerk on or before
the date upon which he or she enters upon such occupation. Said licensee shall
provide a copy of his or her current state license before payment of an
occupation tax will be accepted. Thereafter, the licensee shall pay the tax
annually on or before July 1.
   (B)   The occupation tax subject to this subchapter shall be prorated on a
monthly basis for the year in which an occupation begins operations.
   (C)   Upon payment of the said occupation tax, the Town Clerk shall issue a
receipt to said state licensee. Said licensee shall post the receipt in a
conspicuous place on the premises wherein they carry on their occupation.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed - -)
§ 112.17 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Town Clerk shall make an annual report to the ABLE Commission covering
the fiscal year and showing the number and class of licensees subject to the
occupation tax and the amount of money collected from said tax.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed - -)
§ 112.18 APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   Every applicant for a certificate of compliance with the fire, health,
and safety codes of the town, required by 37A O.S., shall apply at the office
of the Town Clerk by:
      (1)   Filing a written application on forms prescribed by that office;
and
      (2)   Paying a verification and certification fee in the amount of $25 at
the time of filing.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for a certificate of compliance, the
Town Clerk shall cause an investigation to be made to determine whether the
premises proposed for licensed operations comply with the provisions of any
health, fire, building, and other safety codes applicable to it.
   (C)   The Town Clerk shall act on all such applications within 20 days of
receipt thereof.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 37A O.S.
§ 112.19 ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a certification is
in compliance with all applicable fire, safety, and health codes, a certificate
of compliance shall be issued to the ABLE Commission.
   (B)   The above certificate of compliance shall be signed by the Mayor.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed - -)
§ 112.20 OFF-PREMISES CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   The location of a retail spirits and retail stores selling wine or
beer for off-premises consumption store is specifically prohibited within 300
feet of a public school or any church property primarily and regularly used for
worship services and religious activities; provided, if any such church or
school shall be established within 300 feet of any licensed retail premises
after such premises have been licensed, this shall not be a bar to the renewal
of such license so long as it has been in continuous force and effect.
      (1)   The distance indicated in division (A) above shall be measured from
the nearest property line of such church or school to the nearest public
entrance door of the premises of such package store along the street right-of-
way line providing the nearest direct route usually traveled by pedestrians
between such points.
      (2)   For the purpose of determining measured distance, property situated
on the opposite side of the street from such church or school shall be
considered as if it were located on the same side of the street with such
school or church.
      (3)   A license shall not be issued for a location on any block where a
school or church is located.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person holding a license for a retail
spirits store or retail store or any employee or agent thereof to:
      (1)   Knowingly sell, deliver, or furnish any alcoholic beverages to any
person under the legal age in the state for alcoholic beverages, an intoxicated
person, or any person who has been adjudged insane or mentally deficient;
      (2)   Employ any person under 21 years of age in the selling of spirits;
      (3)   Permit any person under 21 years of age to enter into, remain
within, or loiter about a retail spirit store;
      (4)   Permit any person to open a retail container or consume alcoholic
beverages on the premises of a retail spirits store or retail store selling
wine or beer for off-premises consumption; or
      (5)   Advertise any alcoholic beverages or the sale of same, except on a
sign at the retail outlet bearing the words “retail alcoholic liquor store” or
any combination thereof in letters that shall not exceed four inches in height
and three inches in width.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.21 ON-PREMISES CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   The location of a licensed retail dealer selling wine or beer for on-
premises consumption store is specifically prohibited within 300 feet of a
public school or any church property primarily and regularly used for worship
services and religious activities; provided, if any such church or school shall
be established within 300 feet of any licensed retail premises after such
premises have been licensed, this shall not be a bar to the renewal of such
license so long as it has been in continuous force and effect.
   (B)   The distance indicated in this section shall be measured from the
nearest property line of such church or school to the nearest public entrance
door of the premises of such package store along the street right-of-way line
providing the nearest direct route usually traveled by pedestrians between such
points.
   (C)   For the purpose of determining measured distance, property situated on
the opposite side of the street from such church or school shall be considered
as if it were located on the same side of the street with such school or
church.
   (D)   A license shall not be issued for a location on any block where a
school or church is located.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provisions of §§
112.01,
112.02, and
112.15 through
112.20 shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by fine and cost as provided for in §
10.99. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense. In addition to any fine or imprisonment, any license issued hereunder
may be revoked.
   (C)   Any person who engages in any of the occupations taxed by §§
112.15 through
112.20 without paying said occupation tax imposed therefor in advance of such
operation is guilty of an offense against the town and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished by fine, costs, and imprisonment as provided for in
§
10.99. Each day of such violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
112.20 shall be guilty of a criminal offense and shall be fined and/or
imprisoned in accordance with §
10.99.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed - -)
CHAPTER 113: SALES AND SERVICES
Section
   
113.01   Sale of merchandise on vacant property
   
113.02   Weights and measures prohibited
§ 113.01 SALE OF MERCHANDISE ON VACANT PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to sell, trade, or
transfer any merchandise of any kind on or in any vacant property without the
consent of the owner or person exercising dominion over said property.
(Prior Code, § 5-16) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 113.02 WEIGHTS AND MEASURES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to sell or offer
for sale any food, fuel, clothing, or any other commodity which does not weigh
or measure fully as much, according to standard weights or measures of the
state, as the weight or measure for which it is sold or offered for sale.
(Prior Code, § 5-18) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 2 O.S. § 14-38
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC DECENCY AND MORALS
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST THE PEACE
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST AUTHORITY
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Offenses defined
   
130.02   Attempts to commit an offense
   
130.03   Aiding in an offense
   
130.04   Intoxication not a defense
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 OFFENSES DEFINED.
   An OFFENSE is hereby defined as the doing of any act or thing which, by
Chapters 130 through
134 or any ordinance of the town, is prohibited, forbidden, or declared to be
unlawful or the failure or refusal to do any act or perform any duty which, by
any provision herein or by any ordinance of the town is commanded or required
to be done.
(Prior Code, § 15-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 21 O.S. §§ 1-3
§ 130.02 ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE.
   Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the code of
ordinances of the town and in such attempt does any act toward the commission
of such offense but fails or is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration
thereof shall be guilty of an offense and shall be punished in the manner
prescribed for the offense itself.
(Prior Code, § 15-2) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 21 O.S. §§ 42 et seq.
§ 130.03 AIDING IN AN OFFENSE.
   When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a
particular offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who
counsels or aids another in the commission of such shall be guilty of an
offense and punishable in the same manner as the principal offender.
(Prior Code, § 15-4) Penalty, see §
130.03
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 21 O.S. §§ 171 et seq.
§ 130.04 INTOXICATION NOT A DEFENSE.
   No act committed by any person while in a state of voluntary intoxication,
whether from alcoholic beverages or drugs, shall be deemed less an offense by
reason of his or her being in such condition.
(Prior Code, § 15-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 21 O.S. §§ 153 et seq.
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of
Chapters 130 through
134 for which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §§
130.01 through
130.04,
131.01 through
131.07,
132.01 through
132.08,
133.01 through
133.09, and
134.01 through
134.10 shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by fine and costs as provided for in §
10.99. Each day’s continuation of any such violation shall be a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 15-100)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC DECENCY AND MORALS
Section
Generally
   
131.01   Gambling
   
131.02   Harmful deception
   
131.03   Loitering; prowling
   
131.04   Immoral conduct, shows, or exhibitions; nudity
   
131.05   Prostitution; illicit sexual relations
   
131.06   Conduct near school grounds
   
131.07   Controlled substances and illicit chemical compounds
Alcoholic Beverages
   
131.20   Definitions
   
131.21   Violation of state law
   
131.22   Minors restricted
   
131.23   Consumption in public
   
131.24   Obstruction of enforcement
   
131.25   Consumption prohibited in package store
   
131.26   Transportation generally
   
131.27   Public drunkenness
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 131.01 GAMBLING.
   No person, firm, or corporation (or agent or employee thereof) shall play,
open or cause to be opened, operate, carry on, or conduct any game of roulette,
craps, or any percentage played with dice for money, checks, chips, credit, or
any other things of value or shall set up, operate, or permit to be operated
any slot machine or other device whatsoever where money, checks, chips, credit,
or any other things of value are played when the act of playing the same might
result in a gain or loss to the party playing or shall gamble knowingly in any
other similar manner or knowingly shall permit his, her, or its premises,
houses, lots, or other property to be used in connection with or for any act
declared unlawful in this herein.
(Prior Code, § 15-10) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 21 O.S. §§ 941 et seq.
§ 131.02 HARMFUL DECEPTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another (whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation, or otherwise), when such deception results in
or contributes to the loss, damage, harm, or injury of the person deceived or
of a third party or results in or contributes to the benefit of the deceiver.
(Prior Code, § 15-12) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 21 O.S. § 1541.1
§ 131.03 LOITERING; PROWLING.
   (A)   Loitering.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without lawful reason, between
the hours of 12:00 a.m. (midnight) and 5:00 a.m. to sleep upon any street or in
any other public place or on any property of another person without expressed
or tacit consent of the owner or person in charge of such place.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in or about any
public building, in or about the station or depot of a public carrier, or on or
about the premises of a public or private school.
      (3)   No person shall loiter in the immediate vicinity where a person or
persons are gambling by the use of any means or device.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter, loaf, wander, stand,
or remain idle (either alone or in consort with others) in a public place or
building in such a manner as to:
         (a)   Obstruct any public street, highway, sidewalk, or any other
public place or building by hindering, impeding, or tending to hinder or impede
the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic, or pedestrians; or
         (b)   Commit in or upon any public street, highway, sidewalk, or any
other public place or building any act or thing which is an obstruction or
interference to the free and interrupted use of property or any business
lawfully conducted by anyone in, upon, facing, or fronting on any such public
street, highway, sidewalk, or any other public place or building, all of which
prevents the free and uninterrupted ingress, egress, and regress therein,
thereon, and thereto.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years old
to remain idle, wander, stroll, play, loaf, or loiter in any public place,
either on foot or in a vehicle, between the hours of 12:00 p.m. (midnight) and
5:00 a.m. unless accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian, or other adult
person having custody or control of such person or unless the person is on an
emergency errand or specific business or activity directed or permitted by his
or her parent, guardian, or other adult person having the care and custody of
such person or where the presence of such person is connected with or required
by some legitimate employment, trade, profession, or occupation; it shall also
be unlawful for any parent, guardian, or other adult person having the care and
custody of such person to permit such a person to remain idle, loaf, loiter, or
the like in a public place at such times as are specified hereinabove except
for those reasons listed above.
(Prior Code, § 15-13)
   (B)   Prowling. Any person who surreptitiously hides, prowls, lurks, slinks,
lies in wait, or furtively or inconspicuously sneaks about or upon any property
of another or of the occupant thereof shall be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 15-21) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.04 IMMORAL CONDUCT, SHOWS, OR EXHIBITIONS; NUDITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct himself or herself in a
lewd or immoral manner in any public place within the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to show obscene of immoral motion pictures or
present any kind of a show or exhibition within the town which is obscene or
immoral.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in any public place
within the town in a state of total nudity or for any person to make an
indecent public exposure of his or her person.
(Prior Code, § 15-16) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 21 O.S. §§ 1021 et seq.
§ 131.05 PROSTITUTION; ILLICIT SEXUAL RELATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, ILLICIT SEXUAL RELATIONS shall mean
sexual relations with any person other than one’s lawful husband or wife.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to offer, submit, or give himself
or herself to a lewd or immoral use, such as illicit sexual relations, or to
engage in any lewd or immoral act for money or any other thing of value.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in illicit sexual
relations or any other immoral act, to knowingly consort with a prostitute or
other person of immoral vocation, or to consort with another for an immoral
purpose in any public place within the town.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation or any agent
or employee thereof to keep or assist in keeping a house of prostitution or a
house or place within the town where persons meet or assemble for illicit
sexual relations or for any other lewd or immoral purpose or to permit a known
prostitute or other person of known immoral vocation to become or remain a
guest in a hotel or rooming house.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to act as a
procurer for any house or place of prostitution or for any prostitute or other
person engaged in an immoral vocation or to procure, assist in procuring, or
attempt to procure any person for another for illicit sexual relations or any
other immoral purpose.
(Prior Code, § 15-17) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 21 O.S. §§ 1025 et seq.
§ 131.06 CONDUCT NEAR SCHOOL GROUNDS.
   No person shall engage in any conduct or commit any of the acts enumerated
herein, around, or on the grounds of any school in the town or in any street or
alley adjacent to a school:
   (A)   Loitering by any person not having lawful business in connection with
the school and employees thereof or student therein;
   (B)   Any conduct that disturbs the orderly conduct of the school;
   (C)   Annoy or molest any student or employee of the school;
   (D)   Lewd or wanton conduct; or
   (E)   Moving or parking any vehicle in the vicinity of any school or in any
street or alley adjacent thereto in such a manner as to annoy or molest any
student or employee of the school.
(Prior Code, § 15-18) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.07 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES AND ILLICIT CHEMICAL COMPOUNDS.
   (A)   Offenses relating to controlled, dangerous substances. It shall be
unlawful for any person under the influence of any narcotic or other
controlled, dangerous substance to appear or be upon or in any street, alley,
place of business, or other public place within the town or for any person to
use any narcotic or other controlled, dangerous substance upon or in any
street, alley, place of business, or other public place within said town or for
any person to use any narcotic or other controlled, dangerous substance in any
place within said town except as legally prescribed by a physician licensed to
practice medicine or for any person to loiter about a place where any narcotic
or other controlled, dangerous substance is sold or furnished illegally or for
any person to sell or furnish illegally to another person any narcotic or other
controlled, dangerous substance or for any person to be in possession of any
narcotic or other controlled, dangerous substance in any place within said town
except as legally prescribed by a physician licensed to practice medicine. (See
Ord. 335, 1-584.)
(Prior Code, § 15-14)
   (B)   Illicit use of certain chemical compounds.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deliberately smell, inhale,
breathe, drink, or otherwise consume any compound, liquid, chemical, narcotic,
drug, or any other substance or chemical containing any ketones, aldehydes,
organic acetones, ether, or chlorinated hydrocarbons (such as gasoline, glue,
fingernail polish, adhesive cement, mucilage, dope, paint, or any other
substance or combination thereof containing solvents releasing toxic vapors)
with the intent to cause conditions of intoxication, inebriation, excitement,
elation, stupefaction, paralysis, irrationality, dulling of the brain or
nervous system, or any other changing, distorting, or disturbing of the
eyesight, thinking processes, judgment, balance, or coordination of such
person.
      (2)   The provisions of this division (B) shall not pertain to any person
who inhales, breathes, drinks, or otherwise consumes such material or substance
pursuant to the direction or prescription of any licensed doctor, physician,
surgeon, dentist, or podiatrist nor to the consumption of intoxicating liquor.
(Prior Code, § 15-15)
Penalty, see §
130.99
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
§ 131.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABLE COMMISSION or COMMISSION. The Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement
Commission.
   ALCOHOL. Hydrated oxide of ethyl, ethyl alcohol, ethanol or spirits of wine,
from whatever source or by whatever process produced. It does not include wood
alcohol or ALCOHOL which has been denatured or produced as denatured in
accordance with Acts of Congress and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Alcohol, spirits, beer and wine as those terms are
defined herein and also includes every liquid or solid, patented or not,
containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and capable of being consumed as a
beverage by human beings.
   APPLICANT. Any individual, legal or commercial business entity, or any
individual involved in any legal or commercial business entity allowed to hold
any license issued in accordance with the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control
Act.
   BEER. Any beverage of alcohol by volume and obtained by the alcoholic
fermentation of an infusion or decoction of barley, or other grain, malt or
similar products. BEER may or may not contain hops or other vegetable products.
BEER includes, among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and
other malt or brewed liquors, but does not include sake, known as Japanese rice
wine.
   BEER DISTRIBUTOR. Any person licensed to distribute beer for retail sale in
the state, but does not include a holder of a small brewer self-distribution
license or brewpub self-distribution license. The term DISTRIBUTOR, as used in
this subchapter, shall be construed to refer to a BEER DISTRIBUTOR.
   BEER KEG. Any manufacturer-sealed, single container that contains not less
than four gallons of beer.
   BOTTLE CLUB. Any establishment in a county which has not authorized the
retail sale of alcoholic beverages by the individual drink, which is required
to be licensed to keep, mix and serve alcoholic beverages belonging to club
members on club premises.
   BRAND. Any word, name, group of letters, symbol or combination thereof, that
is adopted and used by a licensed manufacturer to identify a specific beer and
to distinguish that product from another beer.
   BRAND EXTENSION.
      (1)   After the effective date of this subchapter, any brand of beer
introduced by a manufacturer in this state which either:
         (a)   Incorporates all or a substantial part of the unique features of
a pre-existing brand of the same licensed manufacturer; or
         (b)   Relies to a significant extent on the goodwill associated with
the pre-existing brand.
      (2)   Any brand of beer that a manufacturer, the majority of whose total
volume of all brands of beer distributed in this state by such manufacturer on
January 1, 2016, was distributed as low-point beer, desires to sell,
introduces, begins selling or theretofore has sold and desires to continue
selling a strong beer in this state which either:
         (a)   Incorporates or incorporated all or a substantial part of the
unique features of a preexisting low-point beer brand of the same licensed
manufacturer; or
         (b)   Relies or relied to a significant extent on the goodwill
associated with a pre-existing low-point beer brand.
   BREWER. Any person who manufactures for human consumption by the use of raw
materials or other ingredients any beer upon which a license fee and a tax are
imposed by any law of this state.
   BREWPUB. A licensed establishment operated on the premises of, or on
premises located contiguous to, a small brewer, that prepares and serves food
and beverages, including alcoholic beverages, for on-premises consumption.
   CIDER. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of
fruit juice, including but not limited to, flavored, sparkling or carbonated
cider. For the purposes of the distribution of this product, CIDER may be
distributed by either wine and spirits wholesalers or beer distributors.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. Any person primarily engaged in retailing a limited range
of general household items and groceries, with extended hours of operation,
whether or not engaged in retail sales of automotive fuels in combination with
such sales.
   CONVICTED and CONVICTION. A finding of guilt resulting from a plea of guilty
or nolo contendere, the decision of a court or magistrate or the verdict of a
jury, irrespective of the pronouncement of judgment or the suspension thereof.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the ABLE Commission.
   DISTILLER. Any person who produces spirits from any source or substance, or
any person who brews or makes mash, wort or wash, fit for distillation or for
the production of spirits (except a person making or using such material in the
authorized production of wine or beer, or the production of vinegar by
fermentation), or any person who by any process separates alcoholic spirits
from any fermented substance, or any person who, making or keeping mash, wort
or wash, has also in his or her possession or use, a still.
   DISTRIBUTOR AGREEMENT. The written agreement between the distributor and
manufacturer as set forth in 37A O.S. § 3-108.
   DRUG STORE. A person primarily engaged in retailing prescription and
nonprescription drugs and medicines.
   DUAL-STRENGTH BEER.
      (1)   A brand of beer that, immediately prior to the effective date of
this subchapter, was being sold and distributed in this state:
         (a)   As a low-point beer pursuant to the Low-Point Beer Distribution
Act in effect immediately prior to the effective date of this subchapter; and
         (b)   As strong beer pursuant to the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act in
effect immediately prior to the effective date of this subchapter.
      (2)   DUAL-STRENGTH BEER does not include a brand of beer that arose as a
result of a brand extension as defined in this section.
   FAIR MARKET VALUE. The value in the subject territory covered by the written
agreement with the distributor or wholesaler that would be determined in an
arm’s length transaction entered into without duress or threat of termination
of the distributor’s or wholesaler’s rights and shall include all elements of
value, including goodwill and going-concern value.
   GOOD CAUSE.
      (1)   Failure by the distributor to comply with the material and
reasonable provisions of a written agreement or understanding with the
manufacturer; or
      (2)   Failure by the distributor to comply with the duty of good faith.
   GOOD FAITH. The duty of each party to any distributor agreement and all
officers, employees or agents thereof to act with honesty in fact and within
reasonable standards of fair dealing in the trade.
   GROCERY STORE. A person primarily engaged in retailing a general line of
food, such as canned or frozen foods, fresh fruits and vegetables, and fresh
and prepared meats, fish and poultry.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. An establishment which is licensed to sell alcoholic
beverages by the individual drink and which contains guestroom accommodations
with respect to which the predominant relationship existing between the
occupants thereof and the owner or operator of the establishment is that of
innkeeper and guest. For purposes of this section, the existence of other legal
relationships as between some occupants and the owner or operator thereof shall
be immaterial.
   LEGAL NEWSPAPER. A newspaper meeting the requisites of a newspaper for
publication of legal notices as prescribed in 25 O.S. §§ 101 through 114.
   LICENSEE. Any person holding a license under the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage
Control Act, and any agent, servant or employee of such licensee while in the
performance of any act or duty in connection with the licensed business or on
the licensed premises.
   LOW-POINT BEER. Any beverages containing more than 0.5% alcohol by volume,
and not more than 3.2% alcohol by weight, including but not limited to, beer or
cereal malt beverages obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion by
barley or other grain, malt or similar products.
   MANUFACTURER. A brewer, distiller, winemaker, rectifier or bottler of any
alcoholic beverage and its subsidiaries, affiliates and parent companies.
   MANUFACTURER’S AGENT. A salaried or commissioned salesperson who is the
agent authorized to act on behalf of the manufacturer or nonresident seller in
the state.
   MEALS. Foods commonly ordered at lunch or dinner and at least part of which
is cooked on the licensed premises and requires the use of dining implements
for consumption. Provided, that the service of only food such as appetizers,
sandwiches, salads or desserts shall not be considered MEALS.
   MINI-BAR. A closed container, either refrigerated in whole or in part, or
nonrefrigerated, and access to the interior of which is:
      (1)   Restricted by means of a locking device which requires the use of a
key, magnetic card or similar device; or
      (2)   Controlled at all times by the licensee.
   MIXED BEVERAGE COOLER. Any beverage, by whatever name designated, consisting
of an alcoholic beverage and fruit or vegetable juice, fruit or vegetable
flavorings, dairy products or carbonated water containing more than 0.5% of
alcohol measured by volume but not more than 7% alcohol by volume at 60°F and
which is packaged in a container not larger than 375 milliliters. Such term
shall include but not be limited to the beverage popularly known as a “wine
cooler.”
   MIXED BEVERAGES. One or more servings of a beverage composed in whole or
part of an alcoholic beverage in a sealed or unsealed container of any legal
size for consumption on the premises where served or sold by the holder of a
mixed beverage, beer and wine, caterer, public event, charitable event or
special event license.
   MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An establishment which is licensed by 37A O.S. § 2-
110 to sell alcoholic beverages by the individual drink and where motion
pictures are exhibited, and to which the general public is admitted.
   NONRESIDENT SELLER. Any person licensed pursuant to 37A O.S. § 2-135.
   OCCUPATION. The sites occupied as the places of business of the
manufacturers, wholesalers, beer distributors, retailers, mixed beverage
licensees, on-premises beer and wine licensees, bottle clubs, caterers, public
event and special event licensees.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any container of alcoholic beverage filled and stamped or
sealed by the manufacturer.
   PACKAGE STORE. Any sole proprietor or partnership that qualifies to sell
wine, beer and/or spirits for off-premises consumption and that is not a
grocery store, convenience store or drug store, or other retail outlet that is
not permitted to sell wine or beer for off-premises consumption.
   PATRON. Any person, customer or visitor who is not employed by a licensee or
who is not a licensee.
   PERSON. An individual, any type of partnership, corporation, association,
limited liability company or any individual involved in the legal structure of
any such business entity.
   PREMISES.
      (1)   The grounds and all buildings and appurtenances pertaining to the
grounds including any adjacent premises if under the direct or indirect control
of the licensee and the rooms and equipment under the control of the licensee
and used in connection with or in furtherance of the business covered by a
license. Provided that the ABLE Commission shall have the authority to
designate areas to be excluded from the licensed premises solely for the
purpose of:
         (a)   Allowing the presence and consumption of alcoholic beverages by
private parties which are closed to the general public; or
         (b)   Allowing the services of a caterer serving alcoholic beverages
provided by a private party.
      (2)   This exception shall in no way limit the licensee’s concurrent
responsibility for any violations of the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control
Act occurring on the licensed premises.
   PRIVATE EVENT. A social gathering or event attended by invited guests who
share a common cause, membership, business or task and have a prior established
relationship. For purposes of this definition, advertisement for general public
attendance or sales of tickets to the general public shall not constitute a
PRIVATE EVENT.
   PUBLIC EVENT. Any event that can be attended by the general public.
   RECTIFIER. Any person who rectifies, purifies or refines spirits or wines by
any process (other than by original and continuous distillation, or original
and continuous processing, from mash, wort, wash or other substance, through
continuous closed vessels and pipes, until the production thereof is complete),
and any person who, without rectifying, purifying or refining spirits, shall by
mixing (except for immediate consumption on the premises where mixed) such
spirits, wine or other liquor with any material, manufactures any spurious,
imitation or compound liquors for sale, under the name of whiskey, brandy, rum,
gin, wine, spirits, cordials or any other name.
   REGULATION or RULE. A formal rule of general application promulgated by the
ABLE Commission as herein required.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment that is licensed to sell alcoholic beverages by
the individual drink for on-premises consumption and where food is prepared and
sold for immediate consumption on the premises.
   RETAIL CONTAINER FOR SPIRITS AND WINES. An original package of any capacity
approved by the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms.
   RETAIL SALESPERSON. A salesperson soliciting orders from and calling upon
retail alcoholic beverage stores with regard to his or her product.
   RETAILER. A package store, grocery store, convenience store or drug store
licensed to sell alcoholic beverages for off- premises consumption pursuant to
a retail spirits license, retail wine license or retail beer license.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner or by any means
whatsoever, and includes and means all sales made by any person, whether as
principal, proprietor or as an agent, servant or employee. The term SALE is
also declared to be and include the use or consumption in this state of any
alcoholic beverage obtained within or imported from without this state, upon
which the excise tax levied by the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act has
not been paid or exempted.
   SHORT-ORDER FOOD. Food other than full meals including but not limited to
sandwiches, soups and salads. Provided that popcorn, chips and other similar
snack food shall not be considered SHORT-ORDER FOOD.
   SMALL BREWER. A brewer who manufactures less than 25,000 barrels of beer
annually pursuant to a validly issued small brewer license hereunder.
   SMALL FARM WINE. A wine that is produced by a small farm winery with 75% or
more Oklahoma-grown grapes, berries, other fruits, honey or vegetables.
   SMALL FARM WINERY. A wine-making establishment that does not annually
produce for sale more than 15,000 gallons of wine as reported on the United
States Department of the Treasury, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau,
Report of Wine Premises Operations (TTB Form 5120.17).
   SPARKLING WINE. Champagne or any artificially carbonated wine.
   SPECIAL EVENT. An entertainment, recreation or marketing event that occurs
at a single location on an irregular basis and at which alcoholic beverages are
sold.
   SPIRITS. Any beverage other than wine or beer, which contains more than 0.5%
alcohol measured by volume, and obtained by distillation, whether or not mixed
with other substances in solution and includes those products known as whiskey,
brandy, rum, gin, vodka, liqueurs, cordials and fortified wines and similar
compounds, but shall not include any alcohol liquid completely denatured in
accordance with the Acts of Congress and regulations pursuant thereto.
   STRONG BEER. Beer which, prior to the effective date of this subchapter, was
distributed pursuant to the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, 37 O.S. §§
501 et seq.
   SUCCESSOR MANUFACTURER. A primary source of supply, a brewer or an importer
that acquires rights to a beer brand from a predecessor manufacturer.
   TAX COMMISSION. The Oklahoma Tax Commission.
   TERRITORY. A geographic region with a specified boundary.
   WINE. Any beverage containing more than 0.5% alcohol by volume and not more
than 24% alcohol by volume at 60°F obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits, vegetables, honey, milk or other products containing sugar,
whether or not other ingredients are added, and includes vermouth and sake,
known as Japanese rice wine.
   WINE AND SPIRITS WHOLESALER or WINE AND SPIRITS DISTRIBUTOR. Any sole
proprietorship or partnership licensed to distribute wine and spirits in the
state. The term WHOLESALER, as used in this subchapter, shall be construed to
refer to a WINE AND SPIRITS WHOLESALER.
§ 131.21 VIOLATION OF STATE LAW.
   No person shall receive, possess or use any alcoholic beverage in violation
of the provisions of the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act.
§ 131.22 MINORS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   Consumption or possession. No person under 21 years of age shall
consume or possess any alcoholic beverage or LOW POINT BEER, as defined in 37
O.S. It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to purchase or
attempt to purchase alcoholic beverages or low point beer, except under
supervision of law enforcement officers.
      (1)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this division (A)(1)
shall be guilty, upon conviction, of a misdemeanor and punished by a fine not
to exceed $300 or ordered to perform community service not to exceed 30 hours,
or both such fine and community service. In addition, if the person has a state
driver’s license issued by the State Department of Public Safety, that license
shall be revoked for the period of time provided in 47 O.S. § 6-107.1. If the
person does not have a state driver’s license, the person shall be ineligible
to obtain a state driver’s license for the period of time provided in 47 O.S. §
6-107.1.
      (2)   For a second offense, any person who is convicted of violating the
provisions of this division (A)(2) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
punished by a fine of not to exceed $600 or ordered to perform community
service not to exceed 60 hours, or both such fine and community service. In
addition, if the person has a state driver’s license issued by the State
Department of Public Safety, that license shall be revoked for the period of
time provided in 47 O.S. § 6-107.1. If the person does not have a state
driver’s license, the person shall be ineligible to obtain a state driver’s
license for the period of time provided in 47 O.S. § 6-107.1.
      (3)   For a third offense, any person who is convicted of violating the
provisions of this division (A)(3) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
punished by a fine of not to exceed $900 or ordered to perform community
service not to exceed 90 hours, or both such fine and community service. In
addition, if the person has a state driver’s license issued by the State
Department of Public Safety, that license shall be revoked for the period of
time provided in 47 O.S. § 6-107.1. If the person does not have a state
driver’s license, the person shall be ineligible to obtain a state driver’s
license for the period of time provided in 47 O.S. § 6-107.1.
      (4)   Provided, the provisions of this division (A)(4) shall not apply
when such persons are under the direct supervision of their parent or guardian,
but in no instance shall this exception be interpreted to allow such persons to
consume such beverages in any place licensed to dispense alcoholic beverages or
low point beer.
   (B)   Misrepresentation of age.
      (1)   Any person under 21 years of age who shall misrepresent his or her
age in writing or by presenting false documentation of age for the purpose of
inducing any person to sell or serve him or her alcoholic beverages or issue
him or her a bottle club membership card, or who enters or attempts to enter a
package store or a separate or enclosed bar area as designated by the ABLE
Commission, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more than $50. In
addition, if a person is convicted or pleads guilty to a violation of the
provisions of this division (B)(1) in any court having jurisdiction over said
offense, the court may order the State Department of Public Safety to cancel or
deny the offender’s privilege to operate a motor vehicle and, upon such order,
shall require that the operator’s or chauffeur’s license, if any, be
surrendered to the State Department of Public Safety pursuant to 47 O.S. § 6-
209. The cancellation or denial period shall be for one year, or until the
person reaches 21 years of age, whichever is longer. Any person whose driving
privileges are ordered cancelled or denied pursuant to this division (B)(1) may
petition the court of original jurisdiction for review of the order. Upon
notice and hearing, the court may modify or withdraw the order as the court
deems appropriate, except:
         (a)   A court may not withdraw an order for at least 90 days following
the issuance of the order if it is the first such order issued regarding the
person named; and
         (b)   A court may not withdraw an order for at least six months
following the issuance of the order if it is the second or subsequent such
order issued regarding the person named.
      (2)   If the State Department of Public Safety receives written notice
from the court of original jurisdiction that it has withdrawn such an order,
said Department shall immediately reinstate any driving privileges that have
been canceled or denied under this subsection, without requiring payment of a
reinstatement fee.
   (C)   Substance abuse prevention program. In addition to any other penalty
provided by law, a person convicted of a violation of the provisions of this
section shall be required to complete a substance abuse prevention program
conducted by the Department of Mental Health and Substance Abuse Services or a
private entity approved by the Department. Such program shall include at least
two sessions, each of which shall not be less than two hours in length. The
cost of the program shall be paid by the person required to complete the
program.
§ 131.23 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC.
   (A)   Prohibition. Except as otherwise provided by law, any person who
shall, in any public place or building, or upon any public or private road or
alley, or upon any parking or vacant lot, drink or otherwise consume any
intoxicating beverage or liquor of any kind or beer, including low point beer,
or, who shall be intoxicated in any public place or building or public or
private road, street or alley, or any public gathering, or who shall be drunk
or intoxicated and shall disturb the peace of any person, shall be guilty of an
offense.
   (B)   Public place defined. PUBLIC PLACE shall mean any place other than the
premises of a licensee of the ABLE Commission who is authorized to sell or
serve alcoholic beverages by the individual drink or on the premises of any
place for which any person has received a special event or caterer’s license
from the ABLE Commission.
§ 131.24 OBSTRUCTION OF ENFORCEMENT.
   No person shall forcibly resist lawful arrest, or by physical contact
interfere with an investigation of any infringement of the Oklahoma Alcoholic
Beverage Control Act or with any lawful search or seizure being made by an
inspector or agent of the ABLE Commission, when such person knows or should
know that such acts are being performed by a state, county or municipal
officer, inspector or agent of the ABLE Commission.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.25 CONSUMPTION PROHIBITED IN PACKAGE STORE.
   No person shall open a retail container or consume alcoholic beverages on
the premises of a retail package store.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.26 TRANSPORTATION GENERALLY.
   No person shall knowingly transport in any vehicle upon a public highway,
street or alley in the town any alcoholic beverage except in the original
container which shall not have been opened and the seal upon which shall not
have been broken and from which the original cap or cork shall not have been
removed, unless the opened container be in the rear trunk or rear compartment,
which shall include the spare tire compartment in a vehicle commonly known as a
station wagon and panel truck, or any outside compartment which is not
accessible to the driver or any other person in such vehicle while it is in
motion.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.27 PUBLIC DRUNKENNESS.
   (A)   Generally. It shall be an offense for any person to be drunk in or on
any highway, street, alley, public building or any public place within the
town.
   (B)   Cafes and clubs. No person operating a cafe, restaurant, club or any
place of recreation shall permit any person to be drunk or intoxicated in such
place of business.
Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PEACE
Section
   
132.01   Carrying concealed weapon
   
132.02   Discharging firearms
   
132.03   Unlawful assemblies
   
132.04   Disturbing lawful assemblies
   
132.05   Disturbing the peace
   
132.06   Assault and battery
   
132.07   Throwing or shooting objects
   
132.08   False fire alarms
§ 132.01 CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPON.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry concealed upon or about his or
her person any pistol, revolver, knife, dagger, metal knuckle, or other
dangerous or deadly weapon or instrument except when doing so in the line of
duty or as may be permitted by law.
(Prior Code, § 15-30) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.02 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm within the
corporate limits of the town except when doing so in the line of duty when
lawfully doing so in defense of oneself or of another person or property; when
otherwise authorized by law or ordinance; when doing so for the preservation of
the peace, health, or safety of residents or the abatement of nuisances; or
when engaged in authorized hunting or other related activities. It shall also
be unlawful to discharge an air rifle or BB gun within the town in such a
manner as to harm or damage persons or property.
(Prior Code, § 15-31) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.03 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLIES.
   It shall be unlawful for two or more persons to assemble together to act in
concert to do any unlawful act against the peace or to the terror of others or
to make any movement thereto or any preparation therefor or otherwise to
assemble together for other unlawful purposes.
(Prior Code, § 15-32) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.04 DISTURBING LAWFUL ASSEMBLIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb any lawful gathering by
making noise; by rude, indecent, or improper behavior; by profane, improper, or
loud language; or in any other manner either within the place of assembly or
within hearing distance thereof.
(Prior Code, § 15-33) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.05 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb the peace of another or
others by violent or improper conduct; by loud or unusual noise; by unseemly,
obscene, insulting, offensive, or abusive language; or by conducting oneself in
a disorderly manner.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use a telephone to:
      (1)   Make any obscene, lewd, lascivious, filthy, or indecent comment,
suggestion, or proposal;
      (2)   Make a telephone call without disclosing his or her identity and
with intent to annoy, abuse, threaten, or harass any person at the called
number;
      (3)   Knowingly permit any telephone under his or her control to be used
for any purpose prohibited in this division (B); or
      (4)   In conspiracy or concerted action with other persons, make repeated
or continuous calls solely to harass any person at the called number.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, demonstrate, or otherwise
symbolize any obscene gesture by use of said person’s extremities toward any
other human being or object within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 15-34) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.06 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   (A)   An assault is any willful and unlawful attempt or offer with force or
violence to do a corporal hurt to another.
   (B)   A battery is any willful and unlawful use of force or violence upon
the person of another.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to commit an assault or an assault and battery
within the town.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person, without
justifiable or excusable cause, to knowingly commit any assault, battery, or
assault and battery upon the person of a police officer or officer of the law
while said person is performing his or her duties.
(Prior Code, § 15-40) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 21 O.S. §§ 645 et seq.
§ 132.07 THROWING OR SHOOTING OBJECTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any stone, shot, or
other object into or across any street or alley or in any place where he or she
is likely to hit another person wrongfully or to injure property or to throw or
shoot any stone, shot, or other object at any person, vehicle, structure,
electric light, or other property of another, whether public or private, except
in the case where such is done in defense of oneself, of another person, or of
property.
(Prior Code, § 15-60) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.08 FALSE FIRE ALARMS.
   No person shall turn in a false fire alarm or in any manner deceive or
attempt to deceive the Fire Department or any officer of employee with
reference to any fire alarm or reported fire or knowingly shall cause the Fire
Department or its officers or employees to make a useless run.
(Prior Code, § 15-93) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
133.01   Petty larceny
   
133.02   Receiving stolen property
   
133.03   Damaging or destroying property
   
133.04   Trespass
   
133.05   Parking on private property
   
133.06   Unlawful posting of advertising matter
   
133.07   Damaging utility poles
   
133.08   Littering
   
133.09   Interference with fire alarm systems
§ 133.01 PETTY LARCENY.
   (A)   PETTY LARCENY is the taking of personal property of value not to
exceed $50 accomplished by fraud or stealth or with intent to deprive another
thereof when the property is not taken from the person of another.
   (B)   Petty larceny is unlawful and any person who commits petty larceny
shall be guilty of an offense and shall be punished in accordance with §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 15-50)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 21 O.S. §§ 1701 et seq.
§ 133.02 RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to buy, receive, or bring into the town
any property that he or she knows has been stolen.
(Prior Code, § 15-51) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.03 DAMAGING OR DESTROYING PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to destroy, injure, deface, besmear, or
molest any structure, building, outbuilding, fence, or any other property (real
or personal, public or private) belonging to another, including automobiles or
other vehicles; to use any such property wrongfully to the detriment of the
owner or other person entitled to its use; or to interfere wrongfully with the
use of any such property by its owner or any other person entitled to its use.
(Prior Code, § 15-52) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.04 TRESPASS.
   (A)   Every person who intrudes or squats upon any lot or piece of land
within the town without license or authority from the owner thereof or who
erects or occupies thereon any hut, hovel, shanty, or other structure without
such license or authority; every person who places, erects, or occupies within
the bounds of any street, alley, or avenue of the town any hut, hovel, shanty,
or other structure whatever is guilty of an offense.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter upon the property of
another or into an area of structure on such property (whether such property,
area, or structure is public or private) when such entrance is plainly
forbidden by signs, voice, or otherwise or when the property, area, or
structure is enclosed, except when such entrance is in the line of duty,
without the expressed or tacit consent of the owner or person in charge or
otherwise by authority of law or ordinances.
   (C)   TRESPASS shall mean:
      (1)   Each and every actual entry upon the premises of an owner or other
person in lawful possession of the premises without the express or the implied
consent of the owner or other person in lawful possession;
      (2)   Remaining upon the premises of an owner or other person, lawful
possession of the premises after having been told to leave the premises by the
owner or the agent or employee of the owner or other person in lawful
possession of the premises;
      (3)   The act of remaining on private property at any time other than
during posted hours of business operation after having been directed to vacate
such premises by a police officer; provided, the provisions of this sentence
shall not apply to persons, including employees, whose presence upon such
premises is authorized by the owner or by a person in lawful possession of such
premises nor shall the provisions of this sentence apply unless hours of
business operations are posted upon such premises; and
      (4)   The act of returning to private property before the posted time of
opening for business operation on the next business day after having been
directed to vacate such premises under the terms of this section.
(Prior Code, § 15-53) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.05 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Parking on private property without consent prohibited. It shall be
unlawful and an offense to make an entry with any vehicle upon real property
privately owned or legally occupied by another without such owner’s or
occupant’s consent except where such private property is provided as public
parking and the general use of such property is not restricted by signs or
proper markings to allow parking by customers only.
(Prior Code, § 15-54)
   (B)   Burden on driver to show permission to park. In all cases where
parking (as prohibited by division (A) above) is made and is complained of by
the owner or legal occupant of the premises, the burden is put upon the person
making the entry to show that permission for such entry was given.
(Prior Code, § 15-55)
   (C)   Complaint required.
      (1)   In all instances where there occurs a violation of the provisions
of division (A) above, the owner or legal occupant who complains thereof shall
sign a complaint against the person parking such vehicle on the owner’s or
legal occupant’s property, or if the identity of the person parking the vehicle
in violation of the provisions thereof is unknown, the complaint may be filed
against the registered owner of the vehicle.
      (2)   The complaint so filed shall be verified and shall allege that the
complainant is the owner or legal occupant of the property upon which such
vehicle is parking or standing.
(Prior Code, § 15-56)
   (D)   Impoundment permitted upon filing complaint. Upon the filing of a
complaint, as required by division (C) above, by the property owner or legal
occupant and if there appears to be proper cause to believe the provisions of
division (A) above have been violated, it shall be the duty of the Police
Department to cause the vehicle to be impounded from the property so
trespassing and placed in storage.
(Prior Code, § 15-57)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.06 UNLAWFUL POSTING OF ADVERTISING MATTER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, post, paint, mark, write, or
print any sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement, device, or
inscription upon any public or private building, fence, sidewalk, bridge,
automobile, other vehicle, or other property of another without the consent of
the owner or person in charge thereof.
(Prior Code, § 15-58) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.07 DAMAGING UTILITY POLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to mark, write, print, paint upon,
or otherwise make any signs or marks by indentation or otherwise or by posting
signs or posters upon any telephone, television, telegraph, electric, or power
pole or wood, concrete, steel, or of any other substance within the corporate
limits of the town. The word POLE shall be construed to mean any pole
supporting telephone, television, electric, or power wires or braces and any
device used to support or brace such a pole.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the owners of such poles who may make
such necessary or authorized marks or signs thereon.
(Prior Code, § 15-59) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.08 LITTERING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, LITTER is defined to be any garbage,
refuse, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned automobiles,
paper, wrappings, cigarette butts, cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, leaves,
wood, grass, bedding, or crockery and similar materials commonly referred to as
rubbish or trash.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any open or vacant
property within the town irrespective of the ownership of such property.
   (C)   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place within the town except in public receptacles
authorized private receptacles or in the municipal sanitary landfill.
   (D)   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other
public place within the town the accumulation of litter from any building or
lot or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway; any person(s) owning or
occupying property shall keep the sidewalk in front of his, her, or their
premises free of litter.
   (E)   No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the
town unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load,
contents, or litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley, or
other public place nor shall any person drive or move any vehicle or truck
within the town, the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in any
street, alley, or other public place any mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter,
or foreign matter of any kind in excessive or damaging amounts.
   (F)   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill on or upon any sidewalk, street, or other public place within the
town; no person shall hand out, distribute, or sell commercial handbills in
public places.
   (G)   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or upon any vehicle; however, it shall not be unlawful, in any
public place, for a person to hand out or distribute, without charge to the
receiver, a noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is willing
to accept it.
   (H)   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or upon any private premises which are temporary or continuously
vacant.
   (I)   No person shall throw, deposit, or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill upon any private premises if requested not to do so or
if signs are posted bearing the words “no trespassing,” “no peddlers or
agents,” “no advertisement,” or similar notice indicating that the occupants do
not desire to have their privacy disturbed.
   (J)   No person shall throw, deposit, or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or upon private premises which are inhabited except
by transmitting them directly to the owner, occupant, or persons present upon
such private premises; in cases of inhabited private premises which are not
posted, handbills must be placed securely to prevent them from blowing on
sidewalks or other public places.
   (K)   The provisions of division (J) above shall not apply to the
distribution of mail by the United States nor to newspapers; except, newspapers
shall be placed on private property so as to prevent being carried or deposited
upon any street, sidewalk, or public place or on other private property.
(Prior Code, § 15-61) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 21 O.S. §§ 1753.3 and 1761.1
§ 133.09 INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS.
   (A)   No person shall cut or sever or cause to be cut or severed or
interfere with in any manner any wire of the fire alarm system in the town or
remove or change the same or cut, injure, change, alter, or remove any pole,
cross-arm, bracket, or other support upon which said wires rest or in which
said wires are enclosed; disconnect said wires or any of them from the guns,
alarm boxes, or instruments connected with said fire alarm systems; or cause,
in any manner, the working of the same to become obstructed or interfered with
without being first duly authorized to do so by the Chief of the Fire
Department.
   (B)   No person shall deface or in any manner injure any of the fire alarm
boxes or any instruments or appliances connected with or belonging to said fire
alarm system; tamper with said fire alarm or obstruct in any manner the boxes,
keys, or glass upon any of said boxes; or make or cause to be made, without
authority from the Chief of the Fire Department, keys to any alarm box or boxes
or use or cause to be used any such key so made.
   (C)   No person shall place or fasten over or upon any fire alarm box a
handbill, notice, or sign of any kind except the signs placed upon the same at
the direction of the Chief of the Fire Department and pertaining to the fire or
cause to be hitched any horse or animal to any pole on which is situated a fire
alarm box.
(Prior Code, § 15-92) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST AUTHORITY
Section
   
134.01   Resisting arrest
   
134.02   Impersonation
   
134.03   False representation
   
134.04   Escape of prisoners
   
134.05   Assisting escape of prisoners
   
134.06   Removal of barricades
   
134.07   Flight from officer
   
134.08   Refusing or failing to assist an officer
   
134.09   Injuring or killing police animal
   
134.10   Interference with emergency care
§ 134.01 RESISTING ARREST.
   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly or willfully to resist,
oppose, or obstruct the Chief of Police, any police officer, the Municipal
Judge, or other municipal officer or employee in the discharge of his or her
official duties by threats or otherwise to intimidate or attempt to intimidate
any such officer or employee from the discharge of his or her official duties
or to assault, beat, revile, abuse, be disrespectful to, or use abusive or
indecent language toward or about any such officer or employee while such
officer or employee is in the discharge of his or her official duties.
(Prior Code, § 15-84) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.02 IMPERSONATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to impersonate any municipal officer,
employee, firefighter, emergency medical technician, or any other emergency
medical care provider or exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties,
functions, or powers of any municipal officer employee, firefighters, emergency
medical technician, or any other emergency medical care provider without being
duly authorized to do so.
(Prior Code, § 15-85) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.03 FALSE REPRESENTATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to make any material
misrepresentation to any municipal officer, employee, or agency in any official
application to or official dealing or negotiation with such officer or agency
or to commit perjury before any tribunal or office of the town.
(Prior Code, § 15-86) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.04 ESCAPE OF PRISONERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person confined in the Municipal Jail or other
place of confinement by the town working upon the streets or other public
places of the town, in pursuance of any judgment or otherwise held in legal
custody by authority of the town, to escape or attempt to escape from any such
Municipal Jail, prison, or custody.
(Prior Code, § 15-87) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.05 ASSISTING ESCAPE OF PRISONERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, in any unlawful manner, to set at
liberty, rescue, or attempt to set at liberty or rescue any prisoner from any
officer or employee of the town having legal custody of such prisoner or from
the Municipal Jail or other place of confinement by the town or to assist such
prisoner in any manner to escape from such prison or custody or to give such
prisoner any weapon or object which might be used as a weapon or instrument to
assist him or her in escape or to give such prisoner any alcoholic beverages,
narcotics, or other controlled, dangerous substances.
(Prior Code, § 15-88) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.06 REMOVAL OF BARRICADES.
   No person, unless authorized by proper authority, shall remove any barricade
or obstruction placed by authority of the town to keep traffic off any
pavement, street, curb, sidewalk, or other area.
(Prior Code, § 15-89) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.07 FLIGHT FROM OFFICER.
   A person commits the offense of flight from an officer if:
   (A)   He or she is the operator of a vehicle and refuses to stop his or her
vehicle, as soon as is safely possible, when signaled to do so by a law
enforcement officer or, upon stopping his or her vehicle at the signal of a law
enforcement officer, abandons said vehicle and leaves or attempts to leave the
immediate area without the permission of the law enforcement officer; or
   (B)   He or she is a passenger in a vehicle and abandons the vehicle after a
law enforcement officer has signaled the vehicle to stop or, after the vehicle
has stopped, leaves the immediate area without the permission of the law
enforcement officer; or
   (C)   He or she is a pedestrian and leaves or attempts to leave the
immediate area after being directed by a law enforcement officer to stop or to
remain in said area for a reasonable length of time.
(Prior Code, § 15-90) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.08 REFUSING OR FAILING TO ASSIST AN OFFICER.
   (A)   Any police officer of the town making or about to make an arrest or
executing or about to execute a warrant or other process, in accordance with
the town code or with state or federal law, or suppressing or about to suppress
a riot, affray, or unlawful assembly may call upon a person or persons to
assist him or her in making such arrest, executing such process, or suppressing
such riot, affray, or unlawful assembly.
   (B)   No person lawfully called upon thus to assist any police officer of
the town shall refuse or fail to do so whenever such assistance is reasonably
possible.
(Prior Code, § 15-91) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.09 INJURING OR KILLING POLICE ANIMAL.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      POLICE DOG. Any dog used by a law enforcement department of this town
which is especially trained for law enforcement work and is subject to the
control of a dog handler.
      POLICE HORSE. Any horse which is used by any law enforcement department
of this town for law enforcement work.
(Prior Code, § 15-94)
   (B)   Injuring police dog or police horse.
      (1)   No person shall willfully torture, torment, beat, mutilate, injure,
disable, or otherwise mistreat a police dog or police horse owned, or the
service of which is employed, by a law enforcement department of the town.
      (2)   No person shall willfully interfere with the lawful performance of
any police dog or police horse.
(Prior Code, § 15-95)
   (C)   Killing police dog or police horse. No person shall willfully kill any
police dog or police horse owned, or the service of which is employed, by any
law enforcement department of the town.
(Prior Code, § 15-96) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.10 INTERFERENCE WITH EMERGENCY CARE.
   (A)   Every person who willfully delays, obstructs, or in any way interferes
with an emergency medical technician or other emergency medical care provider
in the performance of or attempt to perform emergency medical care and
treatment or in going to or returning from the scene of a medical emergency,
upon conviction, is guilty of an offense.
   (B)   Every person who, without justifiable or excusable cause and with
intent to do bodily harm, commits any assault, battery, or assault and battery
upon the person of an emergency medical technician or other emergency medical
care provider, upon conviction, is guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 15-97) Penalty, see §
130.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
153.   MOBILE AND MODULAR HOUSING
      
154.   PLANNING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
      
155.   OIL AND GAS DRILLING
      
156.   RAILROADS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Codes adopted; modified; in effect
   
150.02   Appointment and duties of Building Inspectors
   
150.03   Building permits
   
150.04   Movement of frame buildings
   
150.05   Plumbing
   
150.06   Electricity
   
150.07   Liability
   
150.08   House numbering system
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 CODES ADOPTED; MODIFIED; IN EFFECT.
   (A)   Codes adopted. The particular codes listed in divisions (A)(1) through
(A)(6) (with revisions as may be hereinafter set forth) are hereby adopted and
incorporated in this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein
for the purposes of establishing rules and regulations for the following
activities carried on within the corporate limits of the town.
      (1)   Building Code. The building code (State Uniform Building Code,
current edition) hereby adopted provides for the construction, alteration,
removal, demolition, equipment, use, occupancy, location, and maintenance of
buildings and structures.
      (2)   Plumbing Code. The plumbing code (State Uniform Building Code,
current edition) hereby adopted provides for the installation or alteration of
plumbing and drainage systems for buildings and structures.
      (3)   Electrical Code. The electrical code (State Uniform Building Code,
current edition) hereby adopted provides for the installation or alteration of
electrical equipment for buildings or structures.
      (4)   Housing Code. The provisions of the herein adopted housing code
(State Uniform Building Code, current edition) provides for the basic, minimum
housing standards for the preservation of the health, safety, and welfare of
occupants.
      (5)   Fire Prevention Code. The fire prevention code (State Uniform
Building Code, current edition) hereby adopted contains basic safeguards to
life and property from the hazards of fire and explosion.
      (6)   Safety Code. The safety code (State Uniform Building Code, current
edition) hereby adopted provides for the use and occupancy of buildings or
structures.
(Prior Code, § 4-1)
   (B)   Modifications of adopted codes.
      (1)   Wherever the words “city,” “town,” or “municipality” are used in
those codes adopted, it shall refer to this town.
      (2)   Wherever the words “Inspector,” “Building Inspector,” or
“Administrative Official” are used in those codes adopted, it shall mean the
municipal official currently assuming the duties and responsibilities of
Municipal Building Inspector.
      (3)   All official titles used in those codes adopted shall be
interpreted as defined in this code of ordinances.
      (4)   Maximum penalties for violation of provisions of those codes are
provided in §
10.99 of this code.
      (5)   Notwithstanding any provisions of those codes adopted by this
chapter, wood shingles may be used for roofing.
      (6)   All limits referred to in any of those codes adopted by this
chapter are hereby established as the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-2)
   (C)   Adopted codes on file. One copy of those codes adopted by the town
shall be retained in the office of the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 4-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 14-107.A
§ 150.02 APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees may appoint or designate a municipal
official, employee, or other person to be responsible for enforcing the codes
adopted by these ordinances.
   (B)   Said person may bear such titles as “Building Inspector,” “Gas
Inspector,” “Plumbing Inspector,” “Electrical Inspector,” and the like as may
be deemed appropriate to indicate their respective areas of concern. The
Building Inspector shall:
      (1)   Enforce all the provisions of this code and shall act on any
question relative to the mode or manner of construction and the materials to be
used in the erection of, addition to, or alteration, repair, removal,
demolition, and/or installation of service equipment and the location, use,
occupancy, and maintenance of all buildings and structures except as may
otherwise be specifically provided for by statutory requirements or as provided
herein;
      (2)   Receive applications and issue permits for the erection and
alteration of buildings and structures, inspect the premises for which such
permits have been issued, and enforce compliance with the provisions of this
code;
      (3)   Issue all necessary notices or orders to remove illegal or unsafe
conditions, to require the necessary safeguards during construction, to require
adequate exit facilities in existing buildings and structures, and to ensure
compliance with all the code requirements for the health, safety, and general
welfare of the public;
      (4)   Make all the required inspections or the Building Official may
accept reports of inspection by approved agencies or individuals, and all
reports of such inspections shall be in writing and certified by a responsible
officer of such approved agency or by the responsible individual. The Building
Official may engage such expert opinion as may be deemed necessary to report
upon unusual technical issues that may arise subject to the approval of the
appointing authority;
      (5)   Carry proper credentials of their respective office for the purpose
of inspecting any and all buildings and premises in the performance of duties
under this code;
      (6)   Have power as may be necessary in the interest of public health,
safety, and general welfare; to adopt and promulgate rules and regulations; to
interpret and implement the provisions of this code; to secure the intent
thereof; and to designate requirements applicable because of local climatic or
other conditions, but such rates shall not have the effect of waiving working
stresses or fire- resistive requirements specifically provided in this code or
violating accepted engineering practice involving public safety;
      (7)   Keep official records of applications received, permits and
certificates issued, fees collected, inspections reported, and notices and
orders issued. Such records shall be retained in the official records so long
as the building or structure to which they relate remains in existence unless
otherwise provided by other regulations; and
      (8)   Submit annually to the Town Board of Trustees a written statement
of operations in the form and content as shall be prescribed by such authority.
(Prior Code, § 4-6)
§ 150.03 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall erect, enlarge, construct, relocate, substantially
improve, repair, place, alter, move, or demolish any building, structure,
mobile or modular home, or other construction without first obtaining a
separate building permit for each such building or structure from the office of
the Town Clerk.
   (B)   The Town Board of Trustees shall establish policies and procedures for
the application and issuance of building permits. Said policies and procedures
shall be provided to applicants of building permits at the time application for
permit is made.
   (C)   Fees for building permits shall be as established by the Town Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 4-7)
§ 150.04 MOVEMENT OF FRAME BUILDINGS.
   No frame building shall be moved from outside to within the corporate limits
of the town which (by reason of its age, state of repair, condition of wiring,
or for any other reason) is unfit for human habitation or which might endanger
the public peace, safety, health, or welfare.
(Prior Code, § 4-51) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.05 PLUMBING.
   (A)   Plumbing registration required; fees; revocation.
      (1)   Any person engaged or about to engage in the business of plumbing
in the town shall register with the Town Clerk and pay a registration fee of
$25 per annum or fraction thereof. Annual re-registration shall be conducted on
June 30 each year. Registration shall include proof of state license.
      (2)   No person shall do any gas fitting, extensions, connection of
fixtures, or repairs to any gas fitting, except qualified license persons, as
provided in this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 4-52)
   (B)   Plumbing permit. In addition to the registration fee required under
division (A)(1) above, the applicant shall obtain a permit from the Town Clerk.
The cost of such permit shall be $5. The application for permit shall contain a
description of the work to be done.
(Prior Code, § 4-53) Penalty, see §
150.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 59 O.S. §§ 1016 and 1020
§ 150.06 ELECTRICITY.
   (A)   Registration of electricians; fees; revocation.
      (1)   All persons, firms, partnerships, corporations, or individuals
engaged locally or hereafter engaging in the business of installing electrical
fixtures, wiring, or apparatus in or on any building within the corporate
limits of the town shall register with the Town Clerk before he, she, or they
may engage in said business. Registration shall include proof that a state
license has been obtained.
      (2)   The electrical contractor’s registration fee shall be $25.
      (3)   Registration is current for a period of one year or any part
thereof and shall be renewed on June 30 of each year. Registration for a
fraction of the year shall be for the same amount as for a whole year and shall
expire on June 30, regardless of the date obtained.
      (4)   Violations of the Electrical License Act, 59 O.S. §§ 1680 et seq.
and relevant section of this code may results in the revocation of registration
and, if warranted, prosecution under §
150.99.
(Prior Code, § 4-54)
   (B)   Electrical permits. In addition to the registration fee required under
division (A) above, the applicant shall obtain a permit from the Town Clerk.
The cost of such permit shall be $5. The application for permit shall contain a
description of the work to be done.
(Prior Code, § 4-55)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 59 O.S. §§ 1693 and 1696
§ 150.07 LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any officer or employee of the town charged with the enforcement of
this chapter, while acting in good faith and without malice, for the town, in
the discharge of his or her duties, shall not thereby render himself or herself
liable personally, and he or she is hereby relieved from all personal liability
for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act or
omission required or permitted in the discharge of such duties.
   (B)   Any suit brought against any officer or employee because of such act
or omission performed by him or her in the enforcement of any provisions of
such codes may be defended by the Town Attorney until the final termination of
the proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 4-56)
§ 150.08 HOUSE NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   (A)   All buildings and houses in the town shall be numbered. The Mayor
shall be responsible for designating the proper numbers for houses and
buildings.
   (B)   The north and south base line shall be Santa Fe Avenue; buildings west
of the base line shall be know and numbered as west.
   (C)   The east and west line shall be Main Street; all buildings south of
this base line shall be known and numbered as south.
   (D)   There shall be 100 numbers applicable to each block, commencing with
one on the odd side and two on the even side of the street.
   (E)   Each 25 feet of frontage on each block shall be entitled to a separate
number.
   (F)   The first block from the base line in either direction shall be given
numbers from one through 99 and the second block shall be given numbers from
100 through 199 and so on in consecutive order by hundreds to each block in
succession.
   (G)   The odd numbers shall be on the east side of the streets extending
north and south and on the north side of the streets extending east and west;
the even numbers shall be on the opposite side of such streets. Except on all
east/west streets between Sixth Street and Seventh Street, the numbers shall be
as follows: beginning at Sixth Street, numbers shall begin at 600 and increase
towards the west to 650, ending at Broadway. Thence from Broadway, numbers
shall begin at 650 and increase to the west to 699, ending at Seventh Street.
   (H)   The affixed one-half shall be added to the last proceeding number in
designating stairways or garage apartments.
   (I)   It shall be the duty of the owner of any house or building in the town
to have such house or building numbered in accordance with this section.
   (J)   In situations where the plat or pattern of the area does not fit this
numbering system, the Town Board of Trustees shall study and determine for
adoption by ordinance an appropriate amendment to this section.
(Prior Code, § 4-57)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall fail to do anything
required by §§
150.01 through
150.08 or by any code adopted by these provisions, who shall otherwise violate
any provision of these provisions or of any code adopted herein, or who shall
violate any lawful regulation or order made by any of the officers provided for
herein shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by fine and costs as provided for in §
10.99. Each day in which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense. In addition to such fine or imprisonment, licenses issued hereunder
may be revoked.
(Prior Code, § 4-70)
CHAPTER 151: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
   
151.01   Trees and shrubbery
   
151.02   Rights-of-way and easement
   
151.03   Obstructions
   
151.04   Drainage of polluting substances
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 TREES AND SHRUBBERY.
   (A)   The owner of any premises abutting on any street shall trim all trees
and shrubbery growing in the public right-of-way and on any part of the
premises adjacent to any street or alley in such a manner that the boughs or
limbs thereof shall not obstruct free and convenient passage and travel along
any streets, sidewalks, or alleys. When such premises are occupied by some
person other than the owner, such occupant shall trim the trees and shrubbery
in the same manner as herein required of the owner.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure any tree or shrubbery
within any public right-of-way; provided, this shall not prohibit the lawful
and proper care and removal of such trees and shrubbery.
(Prior Code, § 21-1) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.02 RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND EASEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to obstruct
or otherwise prevent access to any publicly-used street, alley, easement, or
other municipally-owned property whether platted or unplatted; provided, the
town may prevent or provide access to such streets, alleys, easements, and
municipally-owned properties from time to time in the public interest.
   (B)   The Town Board of Trustees may permit certain streets, alleys,
easements, and municipal properties which are dedicated but not required for
traffic or other public access or use to be fenced or otherwise made
inaccessible to the public (as in the case of land being farmed or grazed as a
part of a larger field or pasture); provided, said Town Board or any of its
officers or employees shall have the right of ingress, egress, and easement for
the purpose of installing or maintaining utilities, cleaning, grading, mowing,
or any other activity which is in the public interest.
   (C)   Persons, companies, corporations, or individuals who have fenced in or
are farming or grazing dedicated (but unopened) streets, alleys, easements, or
municipally-owned properties, as permitted above, shall:
      (1)   Not construct any building, structure, earthworks, or ponds nor, in
any other way, disturb the general grade and slope of the land;
      (2)   Maintain the property so that no nuisance is created;
      (3)   Immediately relinquish any rights presumed to be held concerning
the property upon notice by the town; and
      (4)   Permit access to the property at any time when requested to do so
by a municipal officer or employee.
(Prior Code, § 21-2) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or obstruct the sidewalks,
streets, alleys, easements, or public rights-of-way of the town in any manner
so as to interfere unduly with pedestrian or other lawful traffic and parking
thereon or to interfere unduly with the purpose(s) of said easement or right-
of-way.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to deposit,
throw, or sweep into or upon streets, alleys, parking areas, or sidewalks any
paper, rubbish, grass, weeds, tree trimmings, dirt, trash, crates, boxes, or
other refuse of any kind.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of property abutting
upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area to permit the sidewalk or sidewalk area
adjacent to the property to become a hazard to persons using the sidewalk.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to permit to be
open or leave open any cellar door, manhole, or grating of any kind in or upon
any street, sidewalk, or alley of the town.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any excavation or cutting
in any street, sidewalk, alley, or public grounds or to remove any earth or
construction material therefrom except where authorized to do so by the Town
Board of Trustees; excavations so authorized shall be properly guarded and
protected to prevent said excavations from being or becoming dangerous to life
or limb.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to obstruct
any street, sidewalk, alley, or drainage easement by placing any approach,
driveway, or other obstruction or substance whatever that will obstruct or
prevent the natural flow of water through the easement or into the storm sewers
or drains or dam the same so as to back any water upon the streets, alleys,
sidewalks, or gutters.
(Prior Code, § 21-3) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04 DRAINAGE OF POLLUTING SUBSTANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any residence, business, or industry to allow
drainage of a polluting substance (as defined by 82 O.S. § 1084.2, as amended)
into any street, alley, sidewalk, or public right-of-way of the town.
(Prior Code, § 21-4) Penalty, see §
151.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 82 O.S. § 926.1
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any owner or occupant who fails, refuses, or neglects to trim
trees and shrubbery as provided in §
151.01, after receiving ten days’ notice from the Chief of Police or duly
authorized agent to do so, shall be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 21-1)
      (2)   Any violation of §§
151.01 through
151.04 shall be deemed an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine and costs as provided for in §
10.99. Every day upon which a violation continues will constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 21-21)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
152.01   Authorization and application
   
152.02   Purpose
   
152.03   Compliance; interpretation; liability
   
152.04   Definitions
   
152.05   Findings of fact
   
152.06   Methods of reducing flood loss
   
152.07   Basis for establishing areas of special flood hazard
   
152.08   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.09   Development permit; procedures
   
152.10   Floodplain Administrator
   
152.11   Variances
   
152.12   General standards
   
152.13   Specific standards
   
152.14   Subdivision proposal standards
§ 152.01 AUTHORIZATION AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The State Legislature has, in 82 O.S. §§ 1601
et seq., delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt
regulations designed to minimize flood losses.
(Prior Code, § 4-15)
   (B)   Lands to which this chapter applies. This chapter shall apply to all
areas of special flood hazard with the jurisdiction of the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-20)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 82 O.S. §§ 1601 et seq.
§ 152.02 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood-control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains; electric, telephone, and sewer lines; and streets and bridges
located in floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood-
blight areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
(Prior Code, § 4-17)
§ 152.03 COMPLIANCE; INTERPRETATION; LIABILITY.
   (A)   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered,
or have its use changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations.
(Prior Code, § 4-23)
   (B)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be considered as minimum requirements, liberally construed
in favor of the governing body, and deemed neither to limit nor repeal any
other powers granted under state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 4-25)
   (C)   Officers and employees not liable.
      (1)   Any officer or employee of the town charged with the enforcement of
this chapter, while acting in good faith and without malice, for the town, in
the discharge of his duties, shall not thereby render himself or herself liable
personally, and he or she is hereby relieved from all personal liability for
any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act or
omission required or permitted in the discharge of such duties.
      (2)   Any suit brought against any officer or employee because of such
act or omission performed by him or her, in the enforcement of any provisions
of such codes, may be defended by the Town Attorney until the final termination
of the proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 4-56)
§ 152.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPEAL. A request for review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may
be designated as Zone A on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM). After detailed
rate making has been completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone
A usually is refined into Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-3O, VE, or V.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood-
protection system without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change in improved and unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING.
      (1)   A non-basement building built:
         (a)   In the case of a building in Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B,
C, X, and D, to have the top of the elevated floor or (in the case of a
building in Zones V1-30, VE, or V) to have the bottom of the lowest horizontal
structure member of the elevated floor elevated above the ground level by means
of pilings, columns (posts and piers), or shear walls parallel to the floor of
the water; and
         (b)   Adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity
of the building during a flood of up to the magnitude of the base flood.
      (2)   In the case of Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D,
ELEVATED BUILDING also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid
foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movement of floodwaters.
      (3)   In the case of Zones V1-30, VE, or V, ELEVATED BUILDING also
includes a building otherwise meeting the definition of ELEVATED BUILDING, even
though the lower area is enclosed by means of breakaway walls if the breakaway
walls meet the standards of § 60.3(e)(5) of the National Flood Insurance
Program regulations.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the start of construction commenced before the effective date of the FIRM
or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency has delineated the boundaries of the flood,
mudslide (such as mud flow), and related erosion areas having special hazard
have been designated as Zone A, M, and/or E.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been
constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of
the areas within a community subject to a special flood hazard and the extent
of the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes
hurricane tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees, or dikes. These specialized
flood-modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound
engineering standards.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. (See FLOOD or FLOODING.)
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood-protection system which consists of a levee or levees
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including
basement. An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR provided that such enclosure is not
built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirement of § 60.3 of the National Flood Insurance Program
regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For floodplain
management purposes, the term MANUFACTURE HOME also includes park trailers,
travel trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than
180 consecutive days. For insurance purposes, the term MANUFACTURED HOME does
not include park trailers, travel trailers, and other similar vehicles.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1988 or other datum to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map are
referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purpose, structures for which
the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of a
floodplain management regulation adopted by a community.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. Law No. 97-348),
includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued provided that the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within 180 days
of the permit date. The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on a site such as the pouring of slab or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation (such as
clearing, grading, and filling) nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers,
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings (such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure). A
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the alteration of any wall,
ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences, whether or
not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure either before the improvement or repair is started or, if the
structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the damage occurred.
For the purpose of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to
occur when the alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part
of the building commences whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however, include either any
project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or local
health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions or any alteration of a structure listed on the
National Register of Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this
chapter when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A
VARIANCE, therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise
prohibited herein. (For full requirements, see § 60.6 of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations.)
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in the National Flood Insurance
Program § 60.3 (b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is
presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1988 or other datum, where specified, of floods of
various magnitude and frequency in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Prior Code, § 4-19)
§ 152.05 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health, and safety hazards
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, by the occupancy of flood hazard areas, and by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
flood- proofed, or otherwise protected from flood damage.
(Prior Code, § 4-16)
§ 152.06 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSS.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following
methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flood or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Prior Code, § 4-18)
§ 152.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency on its Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM), Community No.
400342, dated December 17, 1976, and any revisions thereto are hereby adopted
by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-21)
§ 152.08 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions, greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the community or any official or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 4-26)
§ 152.09 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Establishment of development permit. A development permit shall be
required to ensure conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-22)
   (B)   Permit procedures.
      (1)   Application for a development permit shall be presented to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and may include, but
not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, and the location of the foregoing in relation to areas of
special flood hazard. Additionally, the following information is required:
         (a)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure shall be flood-proofed;
         (c)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or
architect that the nonresidential flood-proofed structure shall meet the flood-
proofing criteria of §
152.13(B)(2);
         (d)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
         (e)   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with §
152.10(B)(1).
      (2)   Approval or denial of a development permit by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the
following relevant factors:
         (a)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (b)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (c)   The danger that materials may be swept on to other lands to the
injury of others;
         (d)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (e)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (f)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges and
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems;
         (g)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site;
         (h)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         (i)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
         (j)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan
for that area.
(Prior Code, § 4-29)
§ 152.10 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator. The Town Clerk is hereby
appointed the Floodplain Administrator to administer and implement the
provisions of this chapter and other appropriate sections of 44 C.F.R.
(National Flood Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining to floodplain
management.
(Prior Code, § 4-27)
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator. Duties
and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Review permit application to determine whether proposed building
site will be reasonably safe from flooding;
      (3)   Review, approve, or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter;
      (4)   Review permits for proposed developments to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state, or local
governmental agencies (including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act, amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334) from which prior approval is
required;
      (5)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation;
      (6)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State
Coordinating Agency, which is the State Water Resources Board, prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
      (7)   Assure that the flood-carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained; and
      (8)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
152.07, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available from a
federal, state, or other source in order to administer the provisions of
Article 5.
(Prior Code, § 4-28)
§ 152.11 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Appeal Board, as established by the community, shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
   (C)   Any person(s) aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal
such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation, or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   (F)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level provided that the relevant factors in §
152.09(C)(2) have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the
one-half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
   (G)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objective of this
chapter (§§
152.02 and
152.03).
   (H)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (I)   Prerequisites for granting variances:
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon showing a good and sufficient
cause, a determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant, and a determination that the granting of
a variance will not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to
public safety, extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on
or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or
ordinances.
      (3)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
   (J)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functional dependent use provided that the criteria outlined in §§
152.09(B)(2)(a) through (B)(2)(i) are met and the structure or other
development is protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base
flood and create no additional threats to public safety.
(Prior Code, § 4-30)
§ 152.12 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards, the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements.
   (A)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed or
modified and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads
including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air-conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the systems into floodwaters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Prior Code, § 4-31)
§ 152.13 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has
been provided, as set forth in §§
152.06, 152.10(B)(8) or 152.14(D), the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated to or above the base flood elevation. A registered professional
engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the
Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this division (A) as proposed in
§
152.09(B)(1)(c), is satisfied.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above
the base flood level or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications, and
plans for the construction and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
in this section. A record of such certification which includes the specific
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are flood-
proofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   All manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A are required to
be installed using methods and practices which minimize flood damage. For the
purpose of this requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored
to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may
include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground
anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable state and local
anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
      (2)   All manufactured homes shall be in compliance with division (A)
above.
(Prior Code, § 4-32)
§ 152.14 SUBDIVISION PROPOSAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals, including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions, shall be consistent with §
152.03.
   (B)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions, including
manufactured home parks and subdivisions, shall meet development permit
requirements of §§
152.09,
152.10,
152.12, and
152.13.
   (C)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development, including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions, which is greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is lesser,
if not otherwise provided pursuant to §§
152.08 or
152.10(B)(8).
   (D)   All subdivision proposals including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damage.
(Prior Code, § 4-33)
CHAPTER 153: MOBILE AND MODULAR HOUSING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Purpose
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Permitted placement
   
153.04   Nonresidential mobile trailers
   
153.05   Nonconforming homes
   
153.06   Additions or alterations
Manufactured Homes
   
153.20   Exterior appearance
   
153.21   Type I manufactured home
   
153.22   Type II manufactured home
   
153.23   Type III manufactured home
   
153.24   Permitted uses
   
153.25   Installation standards
   
153.26   Manufactured home subdivisions
Mobile Homes
   
153.40   Mobile homes
   
153.41   Mobile home subdivision
Mobile Home and Recreational Vehicle Parks
   
153.55   Licenses and temporary permits
   
153.56   License or permit to be posted
   
153.57   Inspections
   
153.58   Notices, hearings, and orders
   
153.59   Supervision
   
153.60   Location and design
   
153.61   Service buildings
   
153.62   Utilities
   
153.63   Insect and rodent control
   
153.64   Fuel
   
153.65   Fire protection
   
153.66   Alterations and additions
   
153.67   Registration of owners and occupants
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide areas within the corporate
boundaries of the town wherein the location and development of manufactured
homes, manufactured home subdivisions, mobile homes, mobile home parks,
recreational vehicles, and mobile home subdivisions may be safely continued and
encouraged.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this chapter to encourage the provision of
alternative modest income housing in general residential areas by permitting
the use of type I and type II manufactured homes, as defined herein, in all
districts in which similar dwellings constructed on site are permitted, subject
to the requirements and procedures set forth herein, to assure acceptable
similarity in exterior appearance between such type I and type II manufactured
homes and dwellings that have been or might be constructed under these and
other lawful regulations on adjacent or nearby lots in the same district.
   (C)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to encourage the provision
of alternative modest income housing in certain residential areas by permitting
the use of type III manufactured housing, as defined herein, in certain
specified districts when they are shown to meet the requirements and procedures
set forth herein.
   (D)   It is the purpose of this chapter to recognize mobile homes
constructed prior to June 15, 1975, as distinct and different from units
designated as manufactured homes types I, II, and III and to prescribe
appropriate procedures and requirements for their placement in the community.
   (E)   The regulations set forth in this chapter are designed to promote
stable neighborhoods, prevent health and safety hazards, and encourage the
economical and orderly development and operation of manufactured home
subdivisions, mobile home parks and subdivisions, and recreational vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 12-1)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADD-A-ROOM UNIT. A unit of manufactured housing, not designed as a part of
the original structure, which may have less occupied space than a manufactured
housing section.
   ANCHORING SYSTEM. An approved system of straps, cables, turnbuckles, chains,
ties, or other approved materials used to secure a manufactured or mobile home.
   ANSI/NFPA 501 A STANDARD FOR INSTALLATION OF (MANUFACTURED) MOBILE HOMES.
Those model mobile homes, as adopted and copyrighted by the National Fire
Protection Association and the Manufactured Housing Institute.
   APPROVED. Acceptable to the appropriate authority having jurisdiction by
reason of investigation, accepted principles, or tests by nationally recognized
organizations.
   BUILDING CODE. The officially adopted building code in effect within the
municipality.
   EXPANDO UNIT. An expandable manufactured housing unit.
   FOUNDATION CODE. The Standard for the Permanent Installation of Manufactured
Homes, as adopted by ordinance.
   FOUNDATION SIDING/SKIRTING. A type of wainscoting constructed of fire-
resistant and weather-resistant material (such as aluminum, asbestos board,
treated pressed wood, or other approved materials) enclosing the entire
undercarriage of the manufactured or mobile home.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The legally-designated health authority of the Town of
Arapaho, Oklahoma, or his or her authorized representative or the authorized
representative of the Custer County Health Department or the State Department
of Health.
   INSPECTION OFFICER. The Building Official of the Town of Arapaho, Oklahoma,
or his or her authorized agent.
   LICENSEE. Any person licensed to operate and maintain a mobile home park
under the provisions of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit fabricated on or after June 15, 1976, in
an off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the building
site, bearing a seal certifying that it is built in compliance with the Federal
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Code. The three types of
manufactured homes (type I, type II, and type III) are defined as meeting all
the appropriate requirements of §
153.04.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A parcel of land platted for subdivision,
according to all requirements of the Comprehensive Plan, designed or intended
for lots to be conveyed by deed to individual owners for residential occupancy
primarily by manufactured homes.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS CODE. Title VI of the
1974 Housing and Community Development Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.), as
amended, (previously known as the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety
Act) and the rules and regulations adopted thereunder (including information
supplied by the home manufacturer which has been stamped and approved by a
Design Approval Primary Inspection Agency, an agent of the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development, pursuant to HUD rules) which became effective
for mobile/manufactured home construction on June 15, 1976.
   MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOME COMMUNITY (PARK). A parcel of land on which two
or more manufactured or mobile homes are occupied as residences.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable structure larger than 320 square feet, designed
to be used as a year-round residential dwelling, and built prior to the
enactment of the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety Act of 1974, which
became effective for all mobile home construction June 15, 1976.
   MOBILE HOME DEPENDENT. Considered to be the same as a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE,
unless otherwise specified.
   MOBILE HOME INDEPENDENT. Any mobile home which meets the minimum gross floor
area or habitable space requirement of any municipal regulations and which has
a flush toilet and a bath or shower. Unless otherwise indicated herein, the
term MOBILE HOME shall mean an INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. A plot of ground within a mobile home park designed for
the accommodation of one mobile home and not located on a mobile home sales
lot.
   MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision designed and intended for
residential use, where residence is in mobile homes exclusively, and mobile
home lots are sold for occupancy.
   NONRESIDENTIAL MOBILE TRAILER. Any vehicle having the basic characteristics
of a mobile home travel trailer but which is used for purposes other than
residential and is not being offered for sale (as indicated by clearly
displayed sign on or near the trailer).
   OCCUPIED SPACE. The total area of earth horizontally covered by the
structure, excluding accessory structures such as, but not limited to, garages,
patios, and porches.
   PARK. A mobile home and/or recreational vehicle park.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION. Any structure system for transposing loads from a
structure to the earth at a depth below the established frost line without
exceeding the safe bearing capacity of the supporting soil.
   PERMANENT PERIMETER ENCLOSURE. A permanent perimeter system completely
enclosing the space between the floor joist of the home and the ground.
   PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a temporary permit is issued to maintain or
operate a mobile home park under the provisions of this chapter.
   PUBLIC WATER OR SEWER SYSTEM. Any such system built and owned by or
dedicated to and accepted by the Town of Arapaho, Oklahoma; all other such
systems shall be deemed private systems.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A portable vehicular structure not built to the
Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Code (or the
obsolete ANSI 119.1 Mobile Home Design and Construction Standard) designed for
travel, recreational camping, or vacation purposes either having its own motor
power or mounted onto or drawn by another vehicle and including, but not
limited to, travel and camping trailers, truck campers, and motor homes.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. Any plot of ground upon which two or more
recreational vehicles occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes are located
regardless of whether or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SPACE. A plot of ground within a recreational vehicle
park designed for accommodation of one recreational vehicle.
   RURAL AREA. Any area within the existing or future corporate boundaries of
the Town of Arapaho, Oklahoma, which is zoned agriculturally; this shall not
include areas zoned for low-density, residential, estate-type uses.
   SECTION. A unit of a manufactured home at least ten body feet in width and
30 body feet in length.
   SERVICE BUILDING. Any building housing toilet and bathing facilities for men
and/or women and may also include buildings containing laundry facilities and
other facilities, as required by this chapter or desired by the park operator.
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION PERMIT. A device for permitting a use within a district
other than a principally permitted use.
   SUPPORT SYSTEM. A pad or a combination of footings, piers, caps, plates, and
shims which, when properly installed, support the manufactured or mobile home.
   URBAN. All areas within the existing or future corporate boundaries of the
Town of Arapaho, Oklahoma, zoned for urban intensity development.
(Prior Code, § 12-2)
§ 153.03 PERMITTED PLACEMENT.
   (A)   The establishment, location, and use of manufactured homes as
permanent residences approved individually by specific materials or by design
shall be permitted in any zone permitting installation of a dwelling unit,
subject to requirements and limitations applying generally to such residential
use in the district.
   (B)   Such homes shall meet the following requirements and limitations.
      (1)   The dwelling shall meet the appropriate exterior appearance
standards section as hereinafter set forth.
      (2)   The dwelling shall be sited in a district where such use is
permitted in the uses permitted section, as hereinafter set forth.
      (3)   The dwelling shall receive all required permits and conform with
the Comprehensive Plan and other ordinances of the town, if applicable.
(Prior Code, § 12-3)
§ 153.04 NONRESIDENTIAL MOBILE TRAILERS.
   (A)   No nonresidential mobile trailers shall be permitted in the town
unless a license for its operation is issued by the Inspection Officer.
   (B)   Such license shall specify the permitted use of the nonresidential
mobile trailer, the location of such operation, and the termination date of the
permit.
   (C)   No license shall be issued for a use which would violate any local,
state, or federal ordinance, law, or regulation.
   (D)   An annual fee of $25 shall be charged for each nonresidential mobile
trailer license; provided, no governmental or non-profit agency shall be
charged for such a fee.
   (E)   Operation of nonresidential trailers by contractors or construction
projects for which building permits have been issued or which are otherwise
approved by governmental units is permitted during the term of such
construction project without issuance of a license.
   (F)   This section shall not be construed as permitting or authorizing the
permanent location of any nonresidential mobile trailer within the town.
(Prior Code, § 12-4)
§ 153.05 NONCONFORMING HOMES.
   A manufactured or mobile home placed and maintained on a tract of land and
deemed to be a legal nonconforming use prior to the adoption of this chapter
shall continue to be a legal nonconforming use. If the nonconforming use is
discontinued, the land thereafter must be used in conformity with all
provisions of the Zoning Ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 12-5)
§ 153.06 ADDITIONS OR ALTERATIONS.
   Due to its integral design, any structural alteration or modification of a
manufactured or mobile home, after it is placed on the site, must be approved
by the Building Inspector or other authorized administrative official of the
town. All structural additions shall comply with the town’s building codes.
(Prior Code, § 12-6)
MANUFACTURED HOMES
§ 153.20 EXTERIOR APPEARANCE.
   Manufactured homes shall be classified as to acceptable compatibility or
similarity in appearance with site-constructed residences, as set forth in the
following sections.
(Prior Code, § 12-10)
§ 153.21 TYPE I MANUFACTURED HOME.
   Type I manufactured homes shall:
   (A)   Have more than 950 square feet of occupied space in a typically
double-section or larger multi-section unit;
   (B)   Be placed onto a permanent foundation;
   (C)   Utilize a permanent perimeter enclosure in accordance with approved
installation standards, as specified in §
153.25;
   (D)   Be anchored to the ground in accordance with the town code and to the
manufacturer’s specifications;
   (E)   Have wheels, axles, and hitch mechanisms removed;
   (F)   Have utilities connected in accordance with the local codes and
manufacturer’s specifications;
   (G)   Have siding material of a type customarily used on site-constructed
residences;
   (H)   Have roofing material of a type customarily used on site-constructed
residences; and
   (I)   Have open, covered, and/or enclosed parking structure which is
compatible with other housing in immediate area, and all parking surfaces shall
be hard surfaced.
(Prior Code, § 12-11)
§ 153.22 TYPE II MANUFACTURED HOME.
   Type II manufactured homes shall:
   (A)   Have more than 720 square feet of occupied space in a single, double,
expando, or multi- section unit (including those with add-a-room units);
   (B)   Be placed onto a permanent foundation;
   (C)   Utilize a permanent perimeter enclosure in accordance with approved
installation standards, as specified in §
153.25;
   (D)   Be anchored to the ground in accordance with manufacturer’s
specifications and local codes;
   (E)   Have wheels, axles, and hitch mechanisms removed;
   (F)   Have utilities connected in accordance with manufacturer’s
specifications or the local codes, whichever is more restrictive;
   (G)   Have siding material of a type customarily used on on-site constructed
residences;
   (H)   Have roofing material of a type customarily used on on-site
constructed residences; and
   (I)   Have a covered and/or enclosed parking structure which is compatible
with other housing in immediate area, and all parking surfaces shall be hard-
surfaced.
(Prior Code, § 12-12)
§ 153.23 TYPE III MANUFACTURED HOME.
   Type III manufactured homes shall:
   (A)   Have more than 400 square feet of occupied space in a single, double,
expando, or multi-section unit (including those with add-a-room units);
   (B)   Be placed onto a support system in accordance with approved
installation standards, as specified in §
153.25;
   (C)   Be enclosed with foundation siding/skirting in accordance with
approved installation standards, as specified in §
153.25;
   (D)   Be anchored to the ground in accordance with manufacturer’s
specifications and the local codes; and
   (E)   Have utilities connected in accordance with manufacturer’s
specifications or the local codes.
(Prior Code, § 12-13)
§ 153.24 PERMITTED USES.
   Manufactured homes (aged three years or less from the date of manufacture)
or mobile homes are permitted uses, as follows.
   (A)   A-1, Agricultural District. Permitted uses include type I, II, and III
manufactured homes. Mobile homes may be permitted with a special exception
permit.
   (B)   R-1, Single-Family Residential District. Permitted uses include type I
manufactured homes. Types II and III may be permitted with a special exception
permit. Mobile homes are prohibited.
   (C)   R-2, Two-Family Residential District. Permitted uses include type I
manufactured homes. Types II and III may be permitted with a special exception
permit. Mobile homes are prohibited.
   (D)   R-3, Multi-Family Residential District. Permitted uses include type I
manufactured homes. Types II and III may be permitted with a special exception
permit. Mobile homes are prohibited.
   (E)   R-4, Residential Estate District. Permitted uses include type I
manufactured homes. Types II and III may be permitted with a special exception
permit.
   (F)   C-1, Convenience Commercial District. Allows no permitted uses. Types
I, II, and III and mobile homes may be permitted with a special exception
permit.
   (G)   C-2, Highway Commercial and Commercial Recreation District. Allows no
permitted uses. Types I, II, and III and mobile homes may be permitted with a
special exception permit.
   (H)   C-3, General Commercial District. Allows no permitted uses. Types I,
II, and III and mobile homes may be permitted with a special exception permit.
   (I)   I-1, Light Industrial District. Allows no permitted uses, and all uses
are prohibited.
   (J)   I-2, Heavy Industrial District. Allows no permitted uses, and all uses
are prohibited.
   (K)   MHC, Manufactured Home Community/Park. Permitted uses include types I,
II, and III and mobile homes.
   (L)   MHS, Manufactured Home Subdivision. Permitted uses include types I and
II. Type III and mobile homes are prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 12-15)
§ 153.25 INSTALLATION STANDARDS.
   Manufactured or mobile home installation standards are as follows.
   (A)   Permanent perimeter enclosure. Those manufactured homes designated in
the Zoning Ordinance as requiring perimeter enclosure must be set onto an
excavated area, with permanent perimeter enclosure, foundations, footings, and
crawl space or basement walls constructed in accordance with the terms of the
foundation code. The space between the floor joints of the home and the
excavated underfloor grade shall be completely enclosed with the permanent
perimeter enclosure (except for required openings).
   (B)   Foundation siding/skirting (for temporary structures). All
manufactured or mobile homes without a permanent perimeter enclosure shall have
an approved foundation siding/skirting and back-up framing which shall be
weather-resistant, noncombustible, or self-extinguishing materials which blend
with the exterior siding of the home. Below grade level, and for a minimum
distance of six inches above finish grade, the materials shall be unaffected by
decay or oxidation. The siding shall be installed in accordance with
manufacturer’s recommendations or approved equal standards. The siding shall be
ventilated by openings which shall have a net area of not less than one and
one-half square feet for each 25 linear feet of exterior perimeter. The
openings shall be covered with corrosion-resistant wire mesh not less than one-
half inch in any dimension. The underfloor area shall be provided with an 18-
inch-by-24-inch minimum access crawl hole which shall not be blocked by pipes,
ducts, or other construction interfering with the accessibility of the
underfloor space or other approved access mechanism.
   (C)   Support system. All HUD Code type I and type II manufactured home,
load-bearing foundations shall be installed in conformance with the regulations
in the foundation code and with the manufacturer’s installations
specifications. All HUD Code type III manufactured homes and all mobile homes
not placed on a permanent foundation shall be installed on a support system in
conformance with the manufacturer’
(Prior Code, § 12-16)
§ 153.26 MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Manufactured home subdivisions shall comply with the adopted
subdivision regulations and Zoning Ordinance of the town except as otherwise
provided herein.
   (B)   The minimum size of a manufactured home subdivision shall be ten
acres.
   (C)   Type III manufactured homes and mobile homes are not permitted in
manufactured home subdivisions.
(Prior Code, § 12-20)
MOBILE HOMES
§ 153.40 MOBILE HOMES.
   For the purpose of determining appropriateness for placement, mobile homes
shall:
   (A)   Have more than 320 square feet of occupied space;
   (B)   Be placed onto support systems in accordance with approved
installation standards, as specified in §
153.25;
   (C)   Be enclosed with foundation siding/skirting in accordance with
manufacturer’s specifications for local codes;
   (D)   Be anchored to the ground in accordance with manufacturer’s
specifications and local codes; and
   (E)   Have utilities connected in accordance with manufacturer’s
specifications and local codes.
(Prior Code, § 12-14)
§ 153.41 MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Mobile home subdivisions shall comply with the adopted subdivision
regulations and Zoning Ordinance of the town except as otherwise provided
herein.
   (B)   The minimum size of a mobile home subdivision shall be ten acres.
   (C)   No residences, except mobile homes, shall be permitted in a mobile
home subdivision.
   (D)   Minimum effective lot widths in a mobile home subdivision shall be 40
feet, measured at the front building line, and minimum lot areas shall be 4,000
square feet; provided, at least a five-foot side yard shall be provided on each
lot beyond any mobile home and additions thereto, and further provided, in
areas not serviced by a public sewer, the minimum additional lot area shall be
determined by the Health Officer on the basis of safe and sanitary sewer
service. The effective lot width of a mobile home lot shall be determined, for
interior lots, by measuring at right angles across the lot from one diagonal
side line to the other, and for corner lots, the measurement shall be made at
right angles from the diagonal having the greatest divergence from
perpendicular to the street, through the midpoint of the rear line of the
required front yard, and to the opposite lot line or an extension thereof.
   (E)   Side lines of lots in mobile subdivisions need not be at right angles
to straight street lines or radial to curved street lines.
   (F)   Regardless of the effective lot width, mobile home subdivision lots
must abut a public street for at least 25 feet.
   (G)   All mobile home subdivisions, except those developed under Residential
Estate Zoning District Standards, shall have a green belt planting strip of not
less than 20 feet in width along all subdivision boundaries. Such greenbelt
shall be composed of:
      (1)   One row of deciduous and/or evergreen trees spaced not more than 40
feet apart;
      (2)   Not less than three rows of shrubs spaced not more than 40 feet
apart; and
      (3)   Not less than three rows of shrubs, spaced not more than eight feet
apart, which grow to a height of five feet or more after one full growing
season and which shrubs will eventually grow to a height of not less than 12
feet.
(Prior Code, § 12-50)
MOBILE HOME AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS
§ 153.55 LICENSES AND TEMPORARY PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, maintain, or operate
any mobile home park or recreational vehicle park within the limits of the town
unless he or she holds a valid license issued annually and jointly by the
Inspection Officer and Health Officer of the town in the name of such person
for the specific mobile home park except that the maintenance or operation of a
mobile park or recreational vehicle park in existence on the effective date of
this chapter may be continued under a temporary permit for such period of time
and under such conditions as are hereinafter described.
   (B)   Application shall be made to the Inspection Officer who, acting
jointly with the Health Officer, shall issue a license upon compliance by the
applicant with all pertinent provisions of this and other ordinances and
regulations of the town. Every person holding such a license shall notify the
Health Officer in writing within 24 hours after having sold, transferred, given
away, or otherwise disposed of interest in or control of any mobile home park.
Such notice shall include the name and address of the person succeeding to the
ownership or control of such mobile home park or recreational vehicle park.
   (C)   Application for original licenses shall be in writing, signed by the
applicant, and accompanied by an affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of
the application and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The interest of the applicant in, and the location and legal
description of, the park;
      (3)   A complete plan of the park showing compliance with all applicable
provisions of this chapter and regulations promulgated thereunder; and
      (4)   Such further information as may be requested by the Health and/or
Inspection Officer.
   (D)   Applications for renewals of licenses shall be made in writing by the
holder of the license and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Any change in the information submitted since the time the original
license was issued or the latest renewal granted; and
      (2)   Other information requested by the Health and/or Inspection
Officer.
   (E)   A complete plan, for the purpose of obtaining a license to be issued,
shall show:
      (1)   The area and dimensions of the tract of land;
      (2)   The number, locations, and size of all mobile home or recreational
vehicle spaces;
      (3)   The location and width of roadways, walkways, buffer strips, and
recreational areas;
      (4)   The location of service buildings and other proposed structures;
      (5)   The location and size of utility lines and treatment facilities;
and
      (6)   Plans and specifications of all buildings and other improvements
constructed or to be constructed within the park.
   (F)   Whenever the Health and/or Inspection Officer finds conditions
existing in violation of this chapter or of any regulation adopted pursuant
thereto, he or she shall give notice, in writing, to the person to whom the
license was issued that, unless such conditions or practices be corrected
within a reasonable period of time (specified in the notice), the license will
be suspended. At the end of such period, not to exceed 90 days, the Health and/
or Inspection Officer shall re-inspect such park, and if such conditions or
practices have not been corrected, he or she shall suspend the license and give
notice, in writing, of such suspension to the person to whom the license was
issued. Upon receipt of notice of suspension, such person shall cease operation
of such park except as may be provided hereinafter.
   (G)   Any person whose permit has been denied or suspended or who has
received notice from the Health and Inspection Officers that his or her permit
will be suspended unless certain conditions or practices at the park are
corrected may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the
Town Board of Trustees; provided, when no petition for such hearing shall have
been filed within ten days following the day on which notice of suspension was
served, such license shall be deemed to have been automatically revoked at the
expiration of such ten-day period.
   (H)   Mobile home and recreational vehicle parks in existence, upon the
effective date of this chapter, which have concrete pads indicating the
location of mobile home or recreational vehicle spaces need not comply with
those provisions herein which would require the moving of concrete pads. They
must, however, comply with all other requirements, and any park expansion shall
be in full compliance with provisions of this chapter.
   (I)   The Town Clerk shall charge and collect for each mobile home and/or
recreational vehicle park an initial license or temporary permit of not to
exceed $2.50 per space. The initial license or temporary permit shall expire
one year from the date of issue unless renewed upon such conditions as the Town
Board of Trustees may, by ordinance or resolution, direct.
(Prior Code, § 12-30) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.56 LICENSE OR PERMIT TO BE POSTED.
   The license certificate or temporary permit shall be conspicuously posted in
the office or on the premises of the mobile home park or the travel trailer
park at all times.
(Prior Code, § 12-34)
§ 153.57 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Health and/or Inspection Officers are hereby authorized and
directed to make inspections to determine the condition of mobile home and
recreational vehicle parks located within the town in order to perform his,
her, or their duty of safeguarding the health and safety of occupants of mobile
home parks and of the general public.
   (B)   The Health Officer shall have the power to inspect the outside
premises of the private or public property for the purposes of inspecting and
investigating conditions relating to the enforcement of this chapter or of
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   (C)   The Health and/or Inspection Officer shall have the power to inspect
the register containing a record of all mobile homes and occupants using the
park.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of every occupant of a park to give the owner
thereof, or his or her agent or employee, access to any part of such mobile
home or recreational vehicle park or his, her, or their premises at reasonable
times for the purpose of making such repairs or alterations adopted thereunder
or with any lawful order issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-31)
§ 153.58 NOTICES, HEARINGS, AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Whenever the Health and/or Inspection Officer determines violations of
pertinent regulations exist, he or she shall notify the licensee or permittee
of such alleged violation. Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      (3)   Contain an outline of remedial action, which, if taken, will affect
compliance with provisions of this chapter and other pertinent regulations;
      (4)   Allow a reasonable time, not to exceed 90 days, for the performance
of any act it requires; and
      (5)   Be served upon the owner or his or her agent as the case may
require; provided, such notice or order shall be deemed as properly served upon
owner or agent when a copy thereof has been sent by certified mail to his or
her last known address.
   (B)   Any person affected by any notice issued under this chapter or
resulting regulations may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter
before the Housing Appeals Board provided that such person shall file with the
Inspection Officer a written request for such hearing setting forth, briefly,
the grounds for such request within ten days after the day notice was served.
The filing of such request shall stay the notice of suspension of permits and
licenses except in cases of orders issued under division (E) below. The hearing
shall be held at the next Housing Appeals Board meeting for which the agenda
has not been completed or at a later meeting if so requested by the petitioner,
should the inspection officer determine sufficient cause for such delay exists.
   (C)   After such hearing, the Health and/or Inspection Officer shall compile
the findings of the Housing Appeals Board as to compliance with this chapter
and pursuant regulations and shall issue an order (in writing) sustaining,
modifying, or withdrawing the prior notice which shall be served as provided in
division (D) below. Upon failure to comply with such order, the permit of the
mobile home park or travel trailer park shall be revoked.
   (D)   Appeals from decisions of the Housing Appeals Board shall be to the
Town Board of Trustees. Any person aggrieved by the decision of said Town Board
may seek relief in District Court.
   (E)   Whenever the Health and/or Inspection Officer finds that an emergency
exists which requires immediate action to protect the public health, he or she
may, without notice or hearing, issue an order reciting the existence of such
an emergency and requiring that such action be taken as he or she may deem
necessary to meet the emergency including the suspension of the permit.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, such order shall be
effective immediately. Any person to whom such an order is directed shall
comply therewith immediately but, upon petition to the Town Board of Trustees,
shall be afforded a hearing at the next regular meeting even if the agenda has
been completed. The provisions of divisions (C) and (D) above shall be
applicable to such hearing and the order issued thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 12-32)
§ 153.59 SUPERVISION.
   The licensee, permittee, or a duly authorized attendant or caretaker shall
be charged, at all times, with keeping the mobile home park, its facilities,
and equipment in a clean, orderly, and sanitary condition. The attendant or
caretaker shall be answerable, along with the licensee or permittee, for the
violation of any provision of this chapter to which the licensee or permittee
is subject.
(Prior Code, § 12-33)
§ 153.60 LOCATION AND DESIGN.
   (A)   Parks shall be of three types:
      (1)   Mobile home parks;
      (2)   Recreational vehicle parks; and
      (3)   Mixed mobile home and recreational vehicle parks.
   (B)   No recreational vehicle shall be located in a mobile home park. No
mobile home shall be located in a recreational vehicle park. In a mixed park,
separate areas shall be reserved for mobile homes and for travel trailers; no
mobile home shall be permitted in the travel trailer sector; no travel trailer
shall be permitted in the mobile home sector.
   (C)   All mobile home parks shall be located on a well-drained site that is
properly graded to ensure rapid drainage and freedom from stagnant pools of
water; drainage shall not endanger any water supply.
   (D)   The minimum area of any park shall be five acres. Parks in existence
on the effective date of this chapter can continue to operate with less than
five acres in area; however, if the park is to be expanded, it must, at that
time, have a minimum area of five acres.
   (E)   Intensity of development shall be limited to no more than ten mobile
homes per gross acre for a mobile home park and no more than 15 recreational
vehicles per gross acre for a recreational vehicle park.
      (1)   Area used for sewerage treatment facilities shall not be included
in density computations.
      (2)   Mobile home spaces shall be at least 30 feet wide where pads are
closest to driveways. Recreational vehicle spaces shall be at least five feet
wide where recreational vehicles are located closest to the driveway.
   (F)   Every mobile home and recreational vehicle space shall be clearly
defined. Mobile homes and recreational vehicle shall be parked in such spaces
so that, at the nearest point, they shall be ten feet from the service road,
five feet from the rear lot line, and at least 20 feet from any other mobile
home or recreational vehicle.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful to locate a mobile home or recreational vehicle
less than 25 feet from any public street or highway right-of-way or so that any
part of such mobile home or recreational vehicle will obstruct any roadway or
walkway of such park.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful to permit a mobile home to occupy a recreational
vehicle space, a recreational vehicle to occupy a mobile home space, and for
any mobile home or recreational vehicle to be located in a park unless in a
designated mobile home or recreational vehicle space.
   (I)   All mobile home spaces shall sit upon a sealed-surface driveway of not
less than 20 feet in width, if on-street parking is prohibited, and 26 feet in
width if on-street parking is permitted on one side of the street only.
Driveways must have unobstructed access to a public street or highway.
   (J)   In mobile home or recreational vehicle parks existing at the effective
date of this chapter, parking on or adjacent to the street within the park is
permissible as long as it does not obstruct free movement of traffic. Whether
or not a safety hazard exists is a question to be determined by the Planning
Commission with final appeal to the Town Board of Trustees. If, upon final
appeal before said Town Board, it is determined that a safety hazard does in
fact exist, the mobile home or recreational vehicle park concerned will be
required to comply with the following provisions.
      (1)   In new mobile home parks, at least two clearly defined parking
spaces will be provided for each space either on or adjacent to the space.
      (2)   In new recreational vehicle parks, at least one parking space shall
be provided for each space either on or adjacent to the space.
   (K)   Outside drying spaces or other clothes-drying facilities shall be
provided in every mobile home park or recreational vehicle park. Mobile home
parks shall have at least 100 linear feet of clothes- drying line or one
mechanical clothes-drying unit in good condition; mechanical units shall be
located in a service building. Recreational vehicle parks and mixed parks shall
have at least 25 linear feet of outdoor clothes-drying line for each
recreational vehicle space or one mechanical clothes-drying unit for the first
ten recreational vehicle spaces or any fraction thereof and an additional unit
for each ten additional recreational vehicle spaces or any fraction thereof.
   (L)   All driveways and walkways within a park shall be at least asphalt-
oil-rock sealed and surfaced.
   (M)   In the urban area, new mobile home parks should abut and have their
major means of ingress and egress on at least a secondary thoroughfare.
Recreational vehicle parks and mixed parks in the urban area shall abut and
have their major means of ingress and egress on at least a primary
thoroughfare.
   (N)   All mobile home parks shall have and maintain a solid-screened fence
of not less than six feet in height along all park boundaries not bordering a
street. Material shall be of any standard fencing material provided that such
screening fence shall provide a visibility barrier and shall be of sufficient
strength to withstand normal winds and other weather occurrences common to the
area.
(Prior Code, § 12-35) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.61 SERVICE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Each recreational vehicle park shall be provided with at least one
service building adequately equipped with flush-type toilet fixtures and other
sanitary facilities, as required in this subchapter. No service building shall
contain less than one toilet for females, one toilet for males, one lavatory
and shower for each sex, and one laundry tray. All sanitary facilities required
by this subchapter shall be located in a service building.
   (B)   Each park accommodating recreational vehicles shall provide the
following.
      (1)   Toilet facilities for males shall consist of not less than two
flush toilets and one urinal for the first ten recreational vehicles or
fraction thereof and, for recreational vehicles in excess of ten, not less than
one additional flush toilet and one additional urinal for every ten additional
recreational vehicles or fractional number thereof.
      (2)   Toilet facilities for females shall consist of not less than two
flush toilets for the first six recreational vehicle spaces or any less number
thereof and, for recreational vehicle spaces in excess of six, not less than
one additional flush toilet for every ten additional recreational vehicle
spaces in excess of six or fractional number thereof.
      (3)   Each sex shall be provided with not less than two lavatories and
two showers or bathtubs with individual dressing accommodations for the first
ten recreational vehicle spaces or any less number thereof and, for
recreational vehicle spaces in excess of ten, not less than one additional
lavatory and one additional shower or bathtub with individual dressing
accommodations for every ten additional recreational vehicle spaces or
fractional number thereof.
      (4)   Each toilet for females and each shower or bathtub with individual
dressing accommodations for females shall be in a private compartment or stall.
      (5)   The toilet and other sanitation facilities for males and females
shall either be separate buildings or shall be separated, if in the same
building, by a soundproof wall.
      (6)   There shall be provided in a separate compartment or stall not less
than one flush toilet bowl, receptacle for emptying bed pans and other
containers of human excreta, or a slop sink with at least a three-inch trap and
an adequate supply of hot running water for cleansing such bed pans or
containers.
   (C)   Recreational vehicle spaces shall not be less than 200 feet from a
private building.
   (D)   Service buildings shall:
      (1)   Be located 25 feet or more from any recreational vehicle space;
      (2)   Be of permanent construction and be adequately lighted;
      (3)   Be of moisture-resistant material to permit frequent washing and
cleansing;
      (4)   Have adequate heating facilities to maintain a temperature of 70°F
during cold weather and to supply adequate hot water during time of peak
demands; and
      (5)   Have all rooms well ventilated with all openings effectively
screened.
   (E)   Laundry facilities shall be provided in the ratio of one laundry unit
to every 30 recreational vehicle spaces and shall be in a separate, soundproof
room of a service building or in a separate building. A laundry shall consist
of not less than one clothes-drying machine and one clothes- washing machine.
   (F)   All service buildings and the grounds of the park shall be maintained
in a clean condition and kept free of any condition that will menace the health
of any occupant or the public or constitute a menace.
(Prior Code, § 12-36)
§ 153.62 UTILITIES.
   (A)   Sewage disposal for mobile home parks.
      (1)   Waste from showers, bathtubs, flush toilets, urinals, lavatories,
slop sinks, and laundries in service and other buildings within the park shall
be discharged into a public sewer and disposal plant, septic tank system, or
private sewer and lagoon system of such construction and in such manner as
approved by the State Health Department and in accordance with all applicable
ordinances of the town.
      (2)   Each mobile home space shall be provided with at least a three-inch
sewer connection at least four-inches above the surface of the ground. The
sewer connection should be protected by a concrete collar at least four-inches
thick and have a minimum outside diameter of 24 inches. The sewer connection
shall be fitted with a standard ferrule and close nipple and provided with a
screw cap. Connection between the mobile home drain and the sewer must be
watertight and self-draining. Mobile homes with fixtures from which back-
siphonage may occur shall not be connected to the park’s water system until the
defect has been corrected.
      (3)   In the event that a public water system is or becomes available
within 300 feet of a mobile home or recreational vehicle park, connection must
be made to the public system within 180 days.
      (4)   The design of private sewage treatment facilities shall be based on
the maximum capacity of the park. Effluents from sewage treatment facilities
shall not be discharged into the watershed of the municipal lake or any other
waters of the state. The disposal facilities shall be located where they will
not create a nuisance or health hazard to the mobile home park or to the owner
or occupants of any adjacent property. The State Department of Health must
approve the type of treatment proposed and the design of any disposal
facilities and sewer systems prior to construction.
      (5)   Every mobile home occupying a mobile home park space shall tie onto
the park sewerage system and shall dump any accumulated wastes into the system.
Every recreational vehicle shall dump all accumulated waste into a receptacle
provided in the travel trailer park upon entering and upon leaving the park.
Such receptacles must be approved by the State Department of Health. Any other
dumping of accumulated waste within the town is prohibited.
      (6)   The monthly sewerage charge shall be based on the maximum mobile
home or travel trailer capacity of the park. The park operator shall, by the
tenth of each month, notify the Town Clerk of the maximum number of mobile home
spaces in use at any one time during the previous month. The Town Clerk shall
then adjust the sewerage fee to the actual use of the park. Should the park
operator fail to notify the Town Clerk of the prior month’s actual usage of
trailer or mobile home spaces, the sewerage fee shall be levied on the maximum
capacity of the park.
      (7)   Sewer connections shall be watertight. Park licensees shall
maintain trailer and mobile home connections to sewer and water systems in good
condition and be responsible that there is no sewerage or water leakage on park
premises.
      (8)   Sewer connections shall be made to travel trailer spaces.
(Prior Code, § 12-37)
   (B)   Water supply for mobile home parks.
      (1)   An accessible, adequate, safe, and potable supply of water shall be
provided in each park, capable of furnishing a minimum of 250 gallons per day
per mobile home peace. Where a public supply of water of such quality is
available within 300 feet or becomes available within 300 feet, connection
shall be made thereto, and its supply shall be used exclusively. Where private
water supplies must be developed, the Health Officer must approve the location,
construction, and development of the water well, pipe system, and connections.
No private source other than water well shall be used.
      (2)   The water system of the mobile home park shall be connected by
pipes to all buildings and all mobile home spaces. Each mobile home shall be
provided with a cold water tap at least four inches above the ground. An
adequate supply of hot water shall be provided at all times in the service
buildings for all bathing, washing, cleansing, and laundry facilities.
      (3)   All water piping shall be constructed and maintained in accordance
with state and local law. The water piping system shall not be connected with
non-potable or questionable water supplies and shall be protected against the
hazards of backflow or back-siphonage. All water connections shall be weather-
tight.
      (4)   Where drinking fountains are provided for public use, they shall be
of a type and in locations approved by the Health Officer.
      (5)   Individual water service connections which are provided for direct
use by mobile homes shall be of such construction so that they will not be
damaged by the parking of such mobile homes or travel trailers. The park system
shall be adequate to provide 20 pounds per square inch of pressure at all
mobile home or connections.
      (6)   Provisions shall be made within 150 feet of each travel trailer
space to supply water for travel trailer reservoirs.
      (7)   No well-casing, pumps, pumping machinery, or suction pipes shall be
located in any pit, room, or space extending below ground level nor in any room
or space above ground which is walled in or otherwise enclosed unless such
rooms, whether above or below ground, have free drainage by gravity to the
surface. All floors shall be watertight and sloped from the pump pedestal to
the drain, and floors shall extend at least two feet from the well in all
directions. The pedestal shall not be less than 12 inches above the floor. This
shall not be construed as prohibiting submersible pumps.
      (8)   All water storage reservoirs shall be watertight and constructed of
impervious material; all overflows and vents of such reservoirs shall be
effectively screened. Open reservoirs are prohibited. Manholes shall be
constructed with overlapping covers so as to prevent the entrance of
contaminated material. Overflow pipes from a reservoir shall not connect to any
pipe in which sewage or polluted water may back up.
      (9)   Underground stop and waste cocks shall not be installed on any
connection.
      (10)   No water well shall draw water from any sands reserved to the town
for its use, except as may be otherwise permitted by ordinances of the town.
      (11)   Water connection shall be made to travel trailer spaces.
(Prior Code, § 12-38)
   (C)   Refuse disposal for mobile home parks.
      (1)   The storage, collection, and disposal of refuse in the park shall
be so managed as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage, insect-breeding
areas, accident or fire hazards, or air pollution.
      (2)   All refuse shall be stored in fly-tight, watertight, and rodent-
proof containers which shall be located within 150 feet of any mobile home or
recreational vehicle space. Containers shall be provided in sufficient numbers
and capacity to properly store all refuse.
      (3)   Racks or holder shall be provided for all refuse containers. Such
container racks or holders shall be so designed as to prevent containers from
being tipped to minimize spillage and container deterioration and to facilitate
cleaning around them. Lids for containers shall be permanently connected to
racks or holders with chains or other flexible materials.
      (4)   All refuse shall be collected at least once weekly or as otherwise
required by the Health Officer. Where municipal garbage collection is not
available, the mobile home park operator shall either employ a private agency
or provide this service. All refuse shall be collected and transported in
covered vehicles or covered containers.
      (5)   Where municipal or other private disposal service is not available,
the mobile home park operator shall dispose of the refuse by burial or
transporting to an approved disposal site, as directed by the Health officer.
Refuse shall be buried only at locations and by methods approved by the Health
officer, and in accordance with the town code.
      (6)   When municipal refuse disposal service is available, it must be
used.
(Prior Code, § 12-39)
   (D)   Electricity; exterior lighting.
      (1)   An electrical outlet supplying at least 60 amperes shall be
provided for each mobile home space. The installation shall comply with all
applicable state and local electrical codes and ordinances. Such electrical
outlets and extension lines shall be grounded and weather-proofed. No power
supply line shall be permitted to lie on the ground, and no main power line
shall be suspended less than 18 feet above the ground unless otherwise approved
by the Inspection Officer.
      (2)   Streets and driveways within mobile home and recreational vehicle
parks shall be lighted with street lights meeting the current standards of the
Illuminating Engineering Society or one- half candlepower, whichever be higher.
(Prior Code, § 12-41)
§ 153.63 INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL.
   (A)   Insect- and rodent-control measures to safeguard public health, as
required by the Health Officer, shall be applied in the park.
   (B)   Effective larvicide solutions may be required by the Health Officer
for fly- or mosquito-breeding areas which cannot be controlled by other, more
permanent, measures.
   (C)   The Health Officer may require the park operator to take suitable
measures to control other insects and obnoxious weeds.
   (D)   Accumulations of debris which may provide harborage for rodents shall
not be permitted in the mobile home park.
   (E)   When rats or other objectionable rodents are known to be in the park,
the park operator shall take definite action, as directed by the Health
Officer, to exterminate them.
(Prior Code, § 12-40)
§ 153.64 FUEL.
   All piping from outside fuel storage tanks or cylinders to mobile homes
shall be of acceptable material, as determined by the Inspection Officer, and
shall be permanently installed and securely fastened in place. All fuel storage
tanks or cylinders shall be securely fastened and in place and shall not be
located inside or beneath mobile home or less than five feet from any mobile
home exit.
(Prior Code, § 12-42)
§ 153.65 FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Park areas shall be kept free of litter, rubbish, and other flammable
materials.
   (B)   Where the water supply system does not provide at least six-inch water
mains, there shall be provided a two-inch, frost-protected water riser within
300 feet of each mobile home or building.
   (C)   Fires shall be made only in stoves and other cooking and/or heating
equipment intended for such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 12-43)
§ 153.66 ALTERATIONS AND ADDITIONS.
   (A)   All plumbing and electrical alterations or repairs in the park shall
be made in accordance with applicable local regulations.
   (B)   Skirting of mobile homes is permissible but areas enclosed by such
skirting shall be maintained so as not to provide a harborage for rodents or
create a fire hazard.
   (C)   A permit issued by the Inspecting Officer shall be required before any
construction on a mobile home space or any structural addition or alteration to
the exterior of a mobile home takes place.
      (1)   No construction, addition, or alteration to the exterior of a
mobile home located in a mobile home park shall be permitted unless of the same
type of construction or materials as the mobile home affected. All such
construction, additions, or alterations shall be in compliance with applicable
local and state laws.
      (2)   No permit shall be required for the addition of steps, canopies,
awnings, or antennas.
   (D)   No structure, other than a mobile home, shall be permitted on a mobile
home space except one structure, not to exceed 175 cubic feet, to be used for
storage may be allowed on each such space.
(Prior Code, § 12-44)
§ 153.67 REGISTRATION OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Each licensee or permittee shall keep a register containing a record
of all mobile home and recreational vehicle owners and occupants located within
the park. The register shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner of occupant of each mobile home
and motor vehicle by which it is owned;
      (2)   The make, model, year, and license of each mobile home and motor
vehicle;
      (3)   The state, territory, or country issuing such license;
      (4)   The date of arrival an of departure of each mobile home; and
      (5)   Whether or not each mobile home is a dependent or independent
mobile home.
   (B)   The park shall keep the register available for inspection, at all
times, by law enforcement officers, public health officials, and other
officials whose duties necessitate acquisition of the information contained in
the register. The register record of each occupant registered shall not be
destroyed for a period of one year following the date of departure of the
registrant from the park.
(Prior Code, § 12-45)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
by fine and cost as provided for in §
10.99. Each day upon which such violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 12-70)
CHAPTER 154: PLANNING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Section
Planning Commission
   
154.001   Established
   
154.002   Membership; appointment
   
154.003   Quorum
   
154.004   Organization; bylaws
   
154.005   Powers and duties
   
154.006   Zoning
Board of Adjustment
   
154.020   Establishment; membership; meetings
   
154.021   Powers
   
154.022   Appeals to Board
   
154.023   Appeals from Board
Zoning
   
154.035   Title
   
154.036   Purpose
   
154.037   Nature and application
   
154.038   Definitions
   
154.039   Official Zoning Map
   
154.040   Classification
   
154.041   Establishment of districts
   
154.042   Specific District regulations
   
154.043   R-1, Residential District
   
154.044   C-1, General Commercial District
   
154.045   I-1, General Industrial District
   
154.046   F, Flood Hazard District
   
154.047   PUD, Planned Unit Development District
   
154.048   General provisions for districts
   
154.049   Parking and loading
   
154.050   Nonconformance
   
154.051   Authority
Subdivisions
   
154.065   Purpose
   
154.066   Authority and jurisdiction
   
154.067   Application
   
154.068   Definitions
   
154.069   Plat approval
   
154.070   Planning Commission agenda; exemption
   
154.071   Design
   
154.072   Improvements
   
154.073   Plat preparation and approval
   
154.074   Administration
Soil Erosion Control
   
154.085   Obligation
   
154.086   Washing and sifting onto streets
   
154.087   Inspection
   
154.088   Compliance
Storm Drainage and Flood Hazard Area General Provisions
   
154.100   Findings of fact
   
154.101   Purpose, scope, and administration
   
154.102   Classification of drainage channels; responsibility
   
154.103   Methods for determination
   
154.104   Flood hazard areas on tributaries and rivers
   
154.105   Minor tributaries and drainage improvements
   
154.106   Drainage channels and storm sewers outside addition boundaries
 
   
154.999   Penalty
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 154.001 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created a Planning Commission, also to be known and to act
as a Zoning Commission, for the town which said Commission shall consist of
five citizens of said town as hereinafter provided. The members thereof shall
be nominated and appointed solely with reference to their fitness and without
reference to party affiliations and shall serve without compensation except as
hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 18-1)
§ 154.002 MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   Membership. The members of said Commission shall hold office for a
term of three years; except, in the first instance, two shall be appointed to
serve a term of one year, two for a term of two years, and one for a term of
three years. The appointments thereafter shall be made for a term of three
years except that when a vacancy occurs, the appointment to fill said vacancy
shall be made to fill the unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 18-2)
   (B)   Mayor and Engineer to be ex officio. The Mayor and the Town Engineer
shall be ex officio members of said Commission but shall receive no
compensation other than their fixed salaries as said officials.
(Prior Code, § 18-3)
   (C)   Appointment of members. The Mayor of the town shall appoint the
members of the Town Planning Commission or Zoning Commission, subject to
approval and confirmation by the Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 18-5)
§ 154.003 QUORUM.
   Four members of the Town Planning Commission or Zoning Commission shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. Provided, however, no
action shall be taken and be binding upon said Commission unless concurred in
by not less than a majority of all members comprising said Commission.
(Prior Code, § 18-4)
§ 154.004 ORGANIZATION; BYLAWS.
   The members of the Town Planning Commission or Zoning Commission shall meet
within two weeks after their appointment and conformation and shall organize,
by electing from their members, a Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson, and Secretary,
each of whom shall serve for a period of one year or until their respective
successors are elected, and said Commission shall adopt, from time to time,
such bylaws, rules, regulations, and amendments thereto as may be necessary to
effectuate the purposes of §§
154.001 through
154.006.
(Prior Code, § 18-6)
§ 154.005 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   General powers and duties; personnel; expenses. The members of the
Planning Commission shall serve without pay, and it shall be the duty of such
Commission to prepare, from time to time, plans for the systematic development
and betterment of the town as a place of residence and for business. It shall
have the power and authority to employ engineers, attorneys, clerks, and a
secretary or other help deemed necessary, subject to the approval of the Town
Board of Trustees. The salaries and compensation of such employees shall be
fixed by the Town Board of Trustees and shall be paid out of the Town Treasury
as other officers and employees, and the necessary expenses incurred by paid
Planning or Zoning Commission shall be paid out of the Town Treasury as other
legal expenses of the town government.
(Prior Code, § 18-7)
   (B)   Specific powers and duties. The Town Planning Commission or Zoning
Commission may consider and investigate any subject matter tending to the
development and betterment of such municipality and make such recommendations
as it may deem advisable concerning the adoption thereof to the Town Board of
Trustees and said Commission may, for any purpose, make or cause to be made
surveys, maps, or plans before the final action shall be taken by the Town
Board of Trustees in the location and design of any public building, statue,
memorial, park, boulevard, street, alley, playground, or the grade thereof;
such question shall be submitted to said Town Planning Commission for
investigation and report.
      (1)   All plans, plats, or re-plats of land laid out in lots or plats and
streets, alleys, or other portion of the same intended to be dedicated to
public or private use within the corporate limits of said town shall first be
submitted to said Town Planning Commission for its approval or rejection.
      (2)   The disapproval of any such plan, plat, or re-plat by the
legislative body of said town shall be deemed a refusal of the purported
dedication shown thereon.
(Prior Code, § 18-8)
§ 154.006 ZONING.
   (A)   Said Town Planning Commission, acting as a Zoning Commission, shall
recommend to the Town Board of Trustees appropriate regulations to be adopted
and enforced within said town and with reference to the zoning thereof.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall make a preliminary report and hold
public hearings thereon before submitting its final report to the aforesaid
legislative body.
      (2)   Such legislative body shall not hold its hearings or take action
thereon until it has received the final report of such Zoning Commission.
   (B)   Applications for changing zoning classifications from one district to
another shall pay fee, to be determined by motion or resolution of the
legislative body of the town, to defray the publication and other
administrative charges as maybe incurred, but in no event will the charge be
less than $75.
(Prior Code, § 18-9)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 154.020 ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERSHIP; MEETINGS.
   A Board of Adjustment is hereby created, consisting of five members, each to
be appointed for a term of three years, and said members are to be nominated by
the Mayor and approved by the Town Board of Trustees. Vacancies shall be filled
for the unexpired term of any member whose term becomes vacant in the same
year. The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules in accordance with the
provisions of §§
154.035 through
154.038 or any amendment thereto. Meetings of said Board shall be held at the
call of the Chairperson and at such times as the Board may determine. The
Chairperson or, in his or her absence, the Acting Chairperson may administer
the oaths and compel the attendance with witnesses. All meetings of said Board
shall be open to the public. Said Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings,
show the vote of each member upon each question or, if absent or failing to
vote, indicate such facts, and shall keep a record of its examinations and
other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office
of the Board and shall become a public record.
(Prior Code, § 18-10)
§ 154.021 POWERS.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals when it is alleged that there is an
error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the
Planning or Zoning Commission or the Building Officials; and
      (2)   To hear, upon appeal in specific cases, such variances from the
terms of the zoning ordinances as will not be contrary to public interest
where, owing to a special condition or conditions, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of such ordinances will result in unnecessary hardships and so that
the spirit of said zoning ordinances shall be observed and substantial justice
done.
   (B)   In exercising the above mentioned powers, such Board may, in
uniformity with the provisions of this act, reverse or affirm (wholly or
partly) or modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination as ought
to be made. The concurring vote of four members of said Board of Adjustment
shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or
determination of any such administrative official or of said Planning or Zoning
Commission or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it
is required to vote under any such ordinance or to effect any variation in such
ordinance.
   (C)   Where there are particular difficulties or unnecessary hardships in
the way of carrying out the strict letter of the provisions of the zoning
ordinances, said Board of Adjustment shall have the power, in a specific case,
to vary any such provision in harmony with the general purpose and intent so
that the public health, safety, best interest, orderly growth, and general
welfare of said town may be secured and substantial justice done.
(Prior Code, § 18-11)
§ 154.022 APPEALS TO BOARD.
   (A)   In the case of an appeal from the action of the Building Official or
the Planning or Zoning Commission, the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any
person aggrieved or by any officer, department, or board of the municipality
affected by any such action or decision. Such appeal shall be taken within
three days from the date of the decision of such Building Official or Planning
or Zoning Commission by filing with said Building Official or Planning Board,
as the case may be, and with the Board of Adjustment a notice of appeal
specifying the grounds thereof and paying a filing fee, as established by
motion or resolution of the legislative body of the town. However, in no event
will the fee be less than $50, payable at the office of the Town Clerk at the
time the notice is filed. The Building Official or Planning Commission shall
forthwith transmit to the Board of Adjustment certified copies of all the
papers constituting the record of said matter involved in said appeal together
with a copy of the ruling or order from which said appeal is taken.
   (B)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings and furtherance of the action or
decision appealed from (unless the Building Official or Planning Board
certifies to the Board of Adjustment after the notice of appeal shall have been
filed) that, by reason of the facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in
the opinion of such Building Inspector of Planning Commission, cause imminent
peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed
otherwise than be a restraining order which may be granted by the Board of
Adjustment or by a court of record in application or notice to the officer or
Planning Commission from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear said appeal within ten days from
the filing thereof, giving public notice of said hearing, as well as due notice
to the parties in interest and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon
the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agency or by attorney.
(Prior Code, § 18-12)
§ 154.023 APPEALS FROM BOARD.
   (A)   Appeals from any action, decision, ruling, judgment, or order of the
Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person or persons, jointly or
severally, aggrieved or any taxpayer or an officer, department, board, or
bureau of the town to the County District Court by filing with the Town Clerk
and with the Clerk of the Board of Adjustment, if there be one, within ten days
a notice of appeal which notice shall specify the grounds of such appeal. No
bond or deposit for costs shall be required for such appeal. Upon filing of the
notice of appeal as herein provided, the said Board of Adjustment shall
forthwith transmit to the Court papers constituting the records in the case
together with the order de novo in the District Court. An appeal shall lie from
the action of the District Court as in all other civil actions.
   (B)   An appeal to the District Court from the Board of Adjustment stays all
proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from (unless the Chairperson
of the Board of Adjustment, from which the appeal is taken, certifies to the
Court Clerk after the notice of appeal shall have been filed) that, by reason
of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause
imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be
stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the
District Court upon application or notice to the Building Officials or Planning
Commission, as the case may be, and upon notice to the Chairperson of the Board
of Adjustment from which the appeal is taken; upon due cause being shown, the
Court may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or modify the decision brought
up for review.
(Prior Code, § 18-13)
ZONING
§ 154.035 TITLE.
   This subchapter, in pursuance of the authority granted by the State
Legislature in 11 O.S. §§ 43-101, 43-109, 44-101, 44-110, and 45-101 through
45-105 (as amended), shall be know as the “Zoning Ordinance of the Town of
Arapaho,” and may be cited as such.
(Prior Code, § 18-15)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 43-101, 43-109, 44-101, 44-110, and 45-
101 through 45-105
§ 154.036 PURPOSE.
   The regulations contained herein are necessary to encourage the most
appropriate uses of land, to maintain and stabilize the value of property, to
reduce fire hazards and improve public safety and safeguard the public health,
to decrease traffic congestion and its accompanying hazards, to prevent undue
concentration of population, and to create a stable pattern of land uses upon
which to plan for transportation, water supply, sewerage, schools, parks,
public utilities, and other facilities. In interpreting and applying the
provisions of this subchapter, regulations shall be held to be necessary for
the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience, and general
welfare.
(Prior Code, § 18-16)
§ 154.037 NATURE AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   This subchapter classifies and regulates the use of land, buildings,
and structures within the corporate town limits, as hereinafter set forth. The
regulations contained herein are necessary to promote the health, safety,
convenience, and welfare of the inhabitants of the land and the use and size of
buildings as to height and number of stories, the coverage of the land by
buildings, the size of yards and open spaces, the location of buildings, and
the density of population.
   (B)   Except as herein otherwise provided, no land shall be used and no
building, structure, or improvement shall be made, erected, constructed, moved,
altered, enlarged, or rebuilt which is designed, arranged, or intended to be
used or maintained for any purpose or in any manner except in conformity with
the regulations contained herein.
(Prior Code, § 18-17)
§ 154.038 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building or a portion of the main building
located on the same lot as the main building, the use of which is incidental to
that of the dominant use of the building or premises.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use customarily incidental, appropriate, and subordinate to
the principal use of land or buildings and located on the same lot therewith.
   ADVERTISING SIGN OR STRUCTURE. Any cloth, card, paper, metal, glass, wooden,
plastic, stone, sign or other sign, device, or structure of any character
whatsoever including a statuary placed for outdoor advertising purposes on the
ground or any tree, wall, bush, rock, post, fence, building, or structure. The
term PLACE shall include erecting, constructing, posting, painting, tacking,
nailing, gluing, sticking, carving, or otherwise fastening, affixing, or making
visible in any manner whatsoever. The area of an ADVERTISING STRUCTURE shall be
determined as the area of the largest cross-section of such structure. Neither
directional, warning, or other signs posted by public officials in the course
of their duties nor merchandise or materials being offered for sale shall be
construed as ADVERTISING SIGNS for the purpose of this subchapter.
   ALLEY. A minor right-of-way dedicated to public use which affords a
secondary means of vehicular access to back or sides of properties otherwise
abutting a street and which may be used for public utility purposes.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. See DWELLING, MULTIPLE.
   AUTOMOBILE. A self-propelled mechanical vehicle designed for use on streets
and highways for the conveyance of goods and people including, but not limited
to, the following: passenger cars, buses, trucks, motor scooters, and
motorcycles.
   BASEMENT. A story partly or wholly underground. For purposes of height
measurement, a BASEMENT shall be counted as a story when more than one way of
its height is above the average level of the adjoining ground or when
subdivided and used for commercial or dwelling purposes other than a janitor
employed on the premises.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A dwelling, other than a hotel, where (for compensation and
by prearrangement for definite periods) meals or lodging are provided for three
or more, but not exceeding, 20 persons on a weekly or monthly basis.
   BUILDING. Any structure intended for shelter, housing, or enclosure for
persons or animals for chattel. When separated by dividing walls without
openings, each portion or such structure so separated shall be deemed a
separate BUILDING.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the average line of the highest
and lowest points of that portion of the lot covered by the building to the
highest point of coping of a flat roof or the deck line of a mansard roof or to
the average height of the highest gable of a pitch or hip roof.
   BUILDING, MAIN. A building in which is conducted the principal use of the
lot on which it is situated. In any residential district, any dwelling shall be
deemed to be a MAIN BUILDING on the lot on which it is situated.
   BUILDING SITE. A single parcel of land under one ownership occupied or
intended to be occupied by a building or structure.
   CARPORT. A roofed shed with three or four open sides used primarily as a
shelter for cars.
   CHILD CARE CENTER. Any place, home, or institution which receives three or
more children under the age of 16 years and not of common parentage for care
apart from their natural parents, legal guardians, or custodians when received
for regular periods of time for compensation; provided, however, this
definition shall not include public and private schools organized, operated, or
approved under the laws of this state; custody of children fixed by a court of
competent jurisdiction; children related by blood or marriage within the third
degree to the custodial person; or to churches or other religious or public
institutions caring for children within the institutional building while their
parents or legal guardians are attending services or meetings or classes or
other church activities.
   COVERAGE. The lot area covered by all buildings located thereon including
the area covered by all over hanging roofs.
   DISTRICT. Any section or sections of the town for which the regulations
governing the use of land and the use, density, and other laws or ordinances
apply and having its principle frontage on a street.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof which is designed or used as
living quarters for one or more families, but not including trailer homes. (See
TRAILER OR MOBILE HOME.)
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A detached dwelling designed to be occupied by three or
more families living independently of each other, exclusive of hotels or
motels.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached dwelling designed to be occupied by one
family living together.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A detached dwelling designed to be occupied by two
families living independently of each other.
   FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, marriage, or adoption or a
group of not to exceed five persons not all related by blood or marriage
occupying a boarding or lodging house, hotel, club, or similar dwelling for
group use.
   GARAGE APARTMENT. A dwelling unit for one family erected above a private
garage.
   GARAGE PARKING. Any building or portion thereof used for the storage of four
or more automobiles in which any servicing which may be provided is incidental
to the primary use for storage purposes and where repair facilities are not
provided.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building or a part of a main building used for
storage purposes only for automobiles used solely by the occupants and their
guests of the building to which it is accessory.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any garage, other than a private garage, available to the
public where vehicles are parked or stored for remuneration, hire, or sale.
   GARAGE, REPAIR. A building in which facilities are provided for the care,
servicing, repair, or equipping of automobiles.
   GASOLINE SERVICE or FILLING STATION. Any area of land, including structures
thereon, that is used for the retail sale of gasoline or oil fuels or other
automobile accessories and incidental services including facilities for
lubricating, hand washing and cleaning, or otherwise servicing automobiles but
not including painting, major repair, or automatic automobile washing or the
sale of butane or propane fuels.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation carried on solely by the inhabitants of a
dwelling which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling
for dwelling purposes which does not change the character thereof and which is
conducted entirely within the main or accessory buildings; provided, no trading
in merchandise is carried on and in connection with which there is no display
of merchandise or advertising sign other than one non-illuminated nameplate not
more than two square feet in area attached to the main or accessory building.
      (1)   No mechanical equipment is used except as is customary for purely
domestic or household purposes.
      (2)   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in greater
volumes than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, and any
need for parking generated by the conduct of such HOME OCCUPATION shall be met
off the street and other than in a required front yard.
      (3)   No equipment or process shall be used in such HOME OCCUPATION which
creates noise, vibration, glares, fumes, odors, or electrical interferences
detectable to the normal senses off the lot, if the occupation is conducted in
a single-family residence.
      (4)   In the case of electrical interference, no equipment or process
shall be used which creates visual or audible interference in any radio or
television receivers off the premises or causes fluctuations in line voltage
off the premises.
      (5)   A tea room or restaurant; rest home; or clinic, doctor, or dental
office; tourist home; cabinet, metal, or auto repair shop; or barber shop or
beauty salon shall not be deemed a HOME OCCUPATION.
   HOTEL. A building or group of buildings under one ownership containing six
or more sleeping rooms occupied as the more or less temporary abiding place of
persons who are lodged with or without meals for compensation but not including
trailer court or camp, sanatorium, hospital, asylum, orphanage, or building
where persons are housed under restraint.
   KENNEL. Any lot or premises on which are kept three or more dogs more than
six months of age.
   LOT. Any plot of land occupied or intended to be occupied by one main
building or group of main buildings and accessory buildings and uses including
such open spaces as are required by this subchapter.
   LOT, AREA. The total area measured on a horizontal plane included with lot
lines.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot which has at least two adjacent sides abutting for their
full lengths on a street provided that the interior angle at the intersection
of such two sides is less than 135 degrees.
   LOT, DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having a frontage on two non-intersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
   LOT, FRONTAGE. That dimension of a lot or portion of a lot abutting on a
street, excluding the side dimension of a corner lot.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINES. The lines bounding a lot.
   MEDICAL FACILITIES. Any of the following:
      CONVALESCENT, REST, OR NURSING HOME. A health facility where persons are
housed and furnished with meals and continued nursing care for compensation.
      DENTAL CLINIC or MEDICAL CLINIC. A facility for the examination and
treatment of ill and afflicted human outpatients provided that patients are not
kept overnight except under emergency conditions.
      DENTAL OFFICE or DOCTOR’S OFFICE. Same as DENTAL CLINIC or MEDICAL
CLINIC.
      HOSPITALS. An institution providing health services primarily for human
inpatients and medical or surgical care for the sick or injured and including
related facilities such as laboratories, outpatient departments, training
facilities, central service facilities, and staff offices which are an integral
part of the facilities.
      PUBLIC HEALTH CENTER. A facility primarily utilized by a health unit for
providing public health services including related facilities such as
laboratories, clinics, and administrative offices operated in connection
therewith.
      SANATORIUM. An institution providing health facilities for inpatient
medical treatment or treatment and recuperation making use of natural
therapeutic agents.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A structure or land lawfully occupied by a use that does
not conform to the regulations of the district in which it is situated.
   OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE. A parking space not on or extending over any
public easement or right-of-way.
   PARKING SPACE. A permanently surfaced area, enclosed or unenclosed,
sufficient in size to store one automobile together with a permanently surfaced
driveway connecting the parking space with a street or alley and permitting
ingress or egress of an automobile.
   ROOMING HOUSE. A building where lodging only is provided for compensation to
three or more, but only exceeding 20 persons. A building which has
accommodations for more than 20 persons shall be defined as a HOTEL under the
terms of this subchapter.
   SELF-SERVICING LAUNDRY OR DRY CLEANING ESTABLISHMENT. Any attended or
unattended place, building, or portion thereof available to the general public
for the purpose of washing, drying, extracting moisture from, or dry-cleaning
wearing apparel, cloth, fabrics, and textiles of any kind of means of a
mechanical appliance which is operated primarily by the customer.
   STABLE, PUBLIC. A stable, other than a private stable, with a capacity for
more than two horses or mules.
   STORY. That portion of a building, other than a basement, included between
the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it or, if
there be not floor above it, the space between the floor and the ceiling next
above it.
   STORY, HALF. A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection
of roof decking and wall face not more than three feet above the top floor
level and in which space not more than two-thirds of the floor area is finished
off for use. A HALF STORY containing independent apartment or living quarters
shall be counted as a full STORY.
   STREET. Any public or private thoroughfare which affords the principal means
of access to abutting property.
   STREET, INTERSECTING. Any street which joins another street at an angle
whether or not it crosses the other.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building
(such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams, or girders) or any
substantial change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or which is attached to something having a location on
the ground.
   TOURIST COURT. An area containing one or more buildings designed or intended
to be used as temporary sleeping facilities of one or more transient families
and intended primarily for automobile transients.
   TOURIST HOME. A dwelling occupied as a permanent residence by an owner or
renter in which sleeping accommodations in not more than four rooms are
provided or offered for transient guests for compensation.
   TRAILER COURT OR MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel of land under single ownership
which has been designed or improved or is intended to be used or rented for
occupancy by one or more trailer houses or mobile homes.
   TRAILER COURT OR MOBILE HOME SPACE. A plot of ground within a trailer court
designed for the accommodation of one mobile home.
   TRAILER, HAULING. A vehicle to be pulled behind an automobile or truck which
is designed for hauling animals, produce, goods, or commodities including
boats.
   TRAILER OR MOBILE HOME. A portable or mobile living unit designed or used
for human occupancy on a permanent basis.
   TRAILER, TRAVEL, OR CAMPING. A portable or mobile living unit used for
temporary human occupancy away from the place of residence of the occupants and
not containing less than 175 square feet of floor area.
   YARD. An open space at grade between a building and the adjoining lot lines,
unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground
upward, except where otherwise specifically provided in this subchapter that an
accessory building or structure may be located in a portion of a yard required
for a main building. In measuring a YARD (for the purpose of determining the
width of the side yard, the depth of a front yard, or the depth of a rear
yard), the shortest horizontal distance between the lot line and the main
building shall be used.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard located in front of the front elevation of a building
and extending across the lot between the side yard lines and being the minimum
horizontal distance between the front property line and the outside wall of the
main building.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the rear of a lot measured between the
lot lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot lines
and the rear of the outside wall of the main building. On both corner lots and
interior lots, the REAR YARD shall, in all cases, be at the opposite end of the
lot from the front yard.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the building and the side line of the lot and
extending from the front lot line to the rear lot line and being the minimum
horizontal distance between a side lot line and the outside wall of the side of
the main building.
(Prior Code, § 18-18)
§ 154.039 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The town is hereby divided into zones or districts, as shown on the
Official Zoning Map which, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the
Mayor, attested by the Town Clerk, and bearing the seal of the town under the
following words: “We hereby certify that this map was adopted as a part of the
Ordinance No. ___, Zoning Ordinance of the Town of Arapaho, introduced on the
___ day of ___, 20__, and passed and adopted on the ___ day of ___, 20___.”
   (C)   If, in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter and 11 O.S.§§
43-101 through 43-109, changes are made in district boundaries or other matter
portrayed on the Official Zoning Map, such changes shall be made on the
Official Zoning Map promptly after the amendment has been approved by the Town
Board of Trustees together with an entry on the Official Zoning Map as follows:
“On (date), by official of the Town Board of Trustees, the following (change)
changes were made in the Official Zoning Map: (brief description of nature of
change), which entry shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by the Town
Clerk.” The amending ordinance shall provide that such changes or amendments
shall not become effective until they have been duly entered upon the Official
Zoning Map, No. ___ amendment to this subchapter (which involves matters
portrayed on the Official Zoning Map), and shall become effective until after
such change and entry has been made on said map.
   (D)   Regardless of the existence of the purported copies of the Official
Zoning Map, which may from time to time be made or published, the Official
Zoning Map, which shall be located in the office of the Town Clerk (or
specified other place easily accessible to the public), shall be the final
authority as the current zoning status of land and water areas, buildings, and
other structures in the town.
   (E)   In the event that the Official Zoning Map becomes damaged, destroyed,
lost, or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and
additions, the Town Board of Trustees may, by resolution, adopt a new Official
Zoning Map which shall supercede the prior Official Zoning Map. The new
Official Zoning Map may correct drafting or other errors of omissions in the
prior Official Zoning Map, but no such correction shall have the effect of
amending the original Zoning Ordinance or any subsequent amendment thereof. The
new Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor,
attested by the Town Clerk, and bear the seal of the town under the following
words: “This is to certify that this Official Zoning Map supercedes and
replaces the Official Zoning Map adopted (date of adoption of map being
replaced) as part of Ordinance No. ___ of the Town of Arapaho, Oklahoma.”
(Prior Code, § 18-96)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S.§§ 43-101 through 43-109
§ 154.040 CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   Classification of annexed areas.
      (1)   All new additions and annexations of land to the town shall be in
an agricultural district unless otherwise classified by the Town Board of
Trustees for a period of time not to exceed one year from the effective date of
the ordinance annexing said addition.
      (2)   Within this one-year period of time, the Planning Commission shall
study and make recommendations concerning the use of land within said
annexation required to promote the general welfare and in accordance with the
Comprehensive Plan; upon receipt of such recommendations, the Town Board shall,
after public hearings as required by law, establish the district classification
of said annexation; provided, however, this shall not be construed as
annexation and establishing the district classification at the time of said
annexation.
(Prior Code, § 18-93)
   (B)   Vacation of public easements. Whenever any street, alley, or other
public easement is vacated, the portion vacated shall have the same district
classification as the land to which the vacated portion accrues.
(Prior Code, § 18-94)
§ 154.041 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Number of districts.
      (1)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following districts are
hereby established for the town:
         (a)   A-1, General Agricultural District;
         (b)   R-1, Residential District;
         (c)   C-1, General Commercial District;
         (d)   I-1, Industrial District;
         (e)   F, Flood Hazard District; and
         (f)   PUD, Planned Unit Development District.
      (2)   The town is hereby divided into districts, as shown on the Zoning
Map, filed with the Town Clerk. The Zoning Map of the town and all of the
notation, references, and ordinances are adopted as if the notations,
references, or other matters set forth by said map were all fully described
herein, which District Map is on file in the office of the Town Clerk at the
Town Hall.
(Prior Code, § 18-19)
   (B)   Zoning District Map. The boundaries of the zoning districts set out
herein are delineated upon the Zoning District Map of the town, said map being
part of this subchapter as fully as if the same were set forth herein in
detail.
(Prior Code, § 18-20)
   (C)   Zoning district boundaries.
      (1)   The district boundary lines shown on the Zoning Map are usually
along streets, alleys, property lines, or extensions thereof; where uncertainty
exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the official Zoning Map,
the following rules apply.
         (a)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines
of streets, highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow such center lines.
         (b)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot
lines shall be construed as following such lot lines.
         (c)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following town limits
shall be construed as following town limits.
         (d)   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be
construed to be the centerline of the right-of-way, or if no center line is
established, the boundary shall be interpreted to be midway between the right-
of-way lines of such railroad.
         (e)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in divisions (C)(1)(a) and (C)(1)(b) above shall be so construed.
Distances not specifically indicated on the original Zoning Map shall be
determined by the scale of the map.
         (f)   Whenever any street, alley, or other public way is vacated by
official action of the Town Board or whichever such area is franchised for
building purposes, the zoning district adjoining each side of such street,
alley, or other public way shall be automatically extended to the centerline of
such vacated street, alley, or way, and all area so involved shall then and
henceforth be subject to all regulations of the extended districts.
      (2)   Where physical features on the ground are at variance with
information shown on the official Zoning District Map or when there arises a
question as to how or whether a parcel of property is zoned and such questions
cannot be resolved by the application of divisions (C)(1)(a) through (C)(1)(f)
above, the property shall be considered as classified A-1, General Agricultural
District, temporarily, in the same manner as provided for newly annexed
territory, and the issuance of a building permit and the determination of
permanent zoning shall be in accordance with the provisions providing for
amendments to the Zoning Ordinance and Map.
(Prior Code, § 18-21)
   (D)   Annexed territory. All territory hereafter annexed to the town shall
be classified as A-1, Agricultural District, unless otherwise designated. The
procedure for amending zoning on annexed territory shall conform to the
procedure herein established providing for amendments to the Zoning Ordinance
and Map.
(Prior Code, § 18-22)
   (E)   Compliance required. All land, building, structures, or appurtenances
thereon located within the town which are hereafter occupied, used, erected,
altered, removed, demolished, or converted shall be used, removed, placed, or
erected in conformance with the zoning regulations prescribed for the zoning
district in which such land or building is located as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 18-23)
   (F)   Vacation of public easements. Whenever any street, alley, or other
public easement is vacated, the district classification of the property to
which the vacated portions of land accrue shall become the classification of
the vacated land.
(Prior Code, § 18-24)
§ 154.042 SPECIFIC DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General description. This district is intended to provide a location
for the land situated on the fringe of the urban area that is used for
agricultural purposes but which will be undergoing urbanization in the near
future. Many tracts in this district will be in close proximity to residential
and commercial uses. Therefore, the agricultural activities conducted in this
district should not be detrimental to urban land uses. It is not intended that
this district provide a location for a lower standard of residential,
commercial, or industrial development than is authorized in other districts.
The types of uses, required area, and the intensity of use of land permitted in
this district are designed to encourage and protect agricultural uses so long
as the land therein is devoted primarily to agriculture.
(Prior Code, § 18-25)
   (B)   Uses permitted. Property and buildings in A-1, General Agricultural
District, shall be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Detached, one-family dwellings;
      (2)   Churches;
      (3)   Public schools or schools offering general educational courses the
same as ordinarily given in the public schools and having no rooms regularly
used for housing or sleeping;
      (4)   Agriculture crops;
      (5)   The raising of farm animals in accordance with the ordinance of the
town but not the operation of commercial feed pens for livestock. On all tracts
of land containing less than ten acres, the raising of hogs shall be
prohibited, and on all other tracts, the number of hogs weighing more than 25
pounds shall not exceed 20 grain-fed or three garbage-fed hogs. Hogs shall not
be located closer than 200 feet to the property line of the tract on which they
are located;
      (6)   Oil wells or gas wells including the drilling thereof; and
      (7)   All of the following uses:
         (a)   County clubs and golf courses;
         (b)   Home occupations;
         (c)   Libraries;
         (d)   Parks or playgrounds or public recreation areas;
         (e)   Plan nurseries;
         (f)   Transportation, pipeline and utility easements, and rights-of-
way;
         (g)   Bulletin boards or signs not exceeding 40 square feet in area
appertaining to the lease, hire, or sale of a building or premises, which
boards or signs shall be removed as soon as the premises are leased, hired, or
sold; and
         (h)   Accessory buildings which are not a part of the main building
(including barns, sheds, and other farm buildings and private garages) and
accessory buildings which are a part of the main buildings.
(Prior Code, § 18-26)
   (C)   Conditional uses permitted on review. The following uses may be
permitted on review by the Planning Commission in accordance with the
provisions contained in §
154.051(D):
      (1)   Airport or landing fields;
      (2)   Cemeteries;
      (3)   Home beauty shops located in a dwelling provided such shop is
conducted within the main dwelling and is operated only by the inhabitants
thereof and does not exceed one operator. The use shall be conducted in such a
way that it is clearly incidental to the dwelling use and shall not change the
character thereof. No sign shall be permitted except one non-illuminated
nameplate, not exceeding two square feet in area, attached to the main
building;
      (4)   Kennels;
      (5)   Private marinas, boat docks, golf courses or driving ranges, or
other private outdoor recreation activities;
      (6)   Public stables or riding academies;
      (7)   Radio and television stations and transmission towers;
      (8)   Sewage lagoons;
      (9)   Mobile home parks; and
      (10)   Any use not otherwise authorized by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 18-27)
   (D)   Area regulations. The area regulations are as follows.
      (1)   Front yard. All buildings shall be set back from street right-of-
way lines to comply with the following front yard requirements.
         (a)   All buildings shall be set back from a state or federal highway,
county highway, or section line road a minimum of 25 feet from the right-of-way
line or 75 feet from the center line of the right-of-way easement, whichever is
greater.
         (b)   On all public roads or streets other than federal, state, or
county highways and section line roads, all buildings shall be set back a
minimum of 25 feet from the right-of-way line or 55 feet from the center line
of the right-of-way easement, whichever is greater.
         (c)   If 25% or more of the lots on one side of the street between two
intersecting streets are improved with buildings (all of which have observed an
average setback line of greater than 25 feet and no building varies more than
six feet from this average setback line), no building shall be erected closer
to the street line than the minimum setback so established by existing
buildings; this regulation shall not require a front yard of greater depth than
40 feet.
         (d)   When a lot has double frontage, the front yard requirements
shall be compiled with both streets.
      (2)   Side yard.
         (a)   For dwellings located on interior lots, there shall be a side
yard on each side of the main building of not less than eight feet for
dwellings of one story, except provided in §
154.047(D).
         (b)   For unattached buildings of accessory use, there shall be a side
yard of not less than eight feet; provided however, unattached one-story
buildings of accessory use shall not be required to set back more than three
feet from an interior side lot line when all parts of the accessory building
are located more than 90 feet behind the front lot line.
         (c)   For dwellings and accessory buildings located on corner lots,
there shall be a side yard set back from the intersecting street of not less
than 15 feet in case such lot is back to back with another corner lot and 25
feet in every other case. The interior side yard of a corner lot shall be the
same as for dwellings and shall be set back from all exterior and interior side
lot lines a distance of not less than 25 feet.
      (3)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yards for a main building of not
less than 20 feet or 20% of the depth of the lot, whichever amount is smaller.
Unattached buildings of accessory use may be located in the rear yard of a main
building.
      (4)   Lot width. For dwellings, there shall be a minimum lot width of 50
feet at the front building line and such lot shall abut on a street for a
distance of not less than 35 feet.
      (5)   Intensity of use.
         (a)   For each dwelling and buildings accessory thereto, there shall
be a lot area of not less than one acre.
         (b)   For churches and main and accessory buildings other than
dwellings and buildings accessory to dwellings, the lot area shall be adequate
to provide the yard areas required by this section and the off-street parking
areas required in §§
154.048(E) through (H) and
154.049.
      (6)   Coverage. Main and accessory buildings shall not cover more than
25% of the lot area on interior lots and 30% of the lot area on corner lots;
accessory buildings shall not cover more than 20% of the rear yard.
(Prior Code, § 18-28)
   (E)   Height regulations. No building shall exceed two and one-half stories
or 35 feet in height except as provided in §
154.047(E).
(Prior Code, § 18-29)
§ 154.043 R-1, RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General description. In the residential district, the principal use of
land is for dwellings and related recreational, religious, and educational
facilities normally required to provide an orderly and attractive residential
area. These residential areas are intended to be defined and protected from the
encroachment of uses which are not appropriate to residential environment.
Stability of property values, attractiveness, order, and efficiency are
encouraged by providing for adequate light, air, and open space for dwellings
and related facilities and through consideration of the proper functional
relationship of the different uses.
(Prior Code, § 18-30)
   (B)   Uses permitted. Property and buildings in an R-1, Residential District
shall be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Detached, one-family dwellings;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings;
      (3)   Multi-family dwellings;
      (4)   Churches but not including missions or revival tents or arbors;
      (5)   Public schools or schools offering general educational courses the
same as ordinarily given in public schools and having no rooms regularly used
for housing and sleeping;
      (6)   Public parks or playgrounds;
      (7)   Libraries;
      (8)   Transportation and utility easements, alleys, and rights-of-way;
      (9)   Accessory buildings which are not a part of a main building
including one private garage;
      (10)   Temporary bulletin boards or signs not exceeding 12 square feet in
area appertaining to the lease, hire, or sale of a building or premises, which
boards or signs shall be removed as soon as the premises are leased, hired, or
sold;
      (11)   Church bulletin boards or signs, not exceeding 25 square feet in
area, attached to the main building or located behind the front building line
on the same lot with the church building;
      (12)   Temporary buildings of the construction industry which is
incidental to the erection of buildings permitted in this district and which
shall be removed when construction work is completed;
      (13)   Parking lots required to serve the uses permitted in this
district; and
      (14)   General purpose gardens, but not the raising of livestock.
(Prior Code, § 18-31)
   (C)   Conditional uses permitted on review. The following uses may be
permitted on review by the Planning Commission in accordance with provisions
contained in §
154.051(D):
      (1)   Municipal uses, public buildings, and public utilities;
      (2)   Golf courses or country clubs;
      (3)   Child care centers;
      (4)   Home beauty shops located in a dwelling provided such shop is
conducted within the main dwelling and is operated only by the inhabitants
thereof and does not exceed two operators. The use shall be conducted in such a
way that it is clearly incidental to the dwelling use and shall not change the
character thereof. No sign shall be permitted except one non-illuminated
nameplate, not exceeding two square feet in area, attached to the main
building;
      (5)   Institutions of a religious, educational, or philanthropic nature;
      (6)   Private clubs and lodges, excepting those the chief activity of
which is a service customarily carried on at a business;
      (7)   Medical facilities;
      (8)   Trailer home or mobile home parks regulated by Chapter 153;
      (9)   An off-street parking lot associated with a commercial use as
required under the provisions of §§
154.048(E) through (H) and
154.049.
(Prior Code, § 18-32)
   (D)   Area regulations. All buildings shall be set back from street rights-
of-way and lot lines to comply with the following yard requirements.
      (1)   Front yard.
         (a)   The minimum depth of the front yard shall be 25 feet.
         (b)   If 25% or more of the lots on one side of the street between two
intersecting streets are improved with building (all of which have observed an
average setback line of greater than 25 feet and no building varies more than
six feet from this average setback line) then no building shall be erected
closer to the street line than the minimum setback so established by the
existing buildings, but this regulation shall not require a front yard of
greater depth than 40 feet.
         (c)   When a yard has double frontage, the front yard requirements
shall be complied with on both streets.
      (2)   Side yard.
         (a)   For dwellings located on interior lots, there shall be a side
yard on each side of the main building of not less than five feet for dwellings
of one story and of not less than ten feet for dwellings of more than one story
except as hereinafter provided in §
154.048(E).
         (b)   For unattached buildings of accessory use, there shall be a side
yard of not less than five feet.
         (c)   For dwellings and accessory buildings located on corner lots,
there shall be a side yard setback from the intersecting street of not less
than 15 feet in case such lot is back-to-back with another corner lot and 25
feet in every other case. The interior side yard of a corner lot shall be the
same as for dwellings and accessory buildings on an interior lot.
         (d)   Churches and main and accessory buildings, other than dwellings
and buildings accessory to dwellings, shall set back from all exterior and
interior side lot lines a distance of not less than 25 feet.
      (3)   Rear yard.
         (a)   There shall be a lot area of not less than 5,000 square feet for
a single-family dwelling, not less than 6,000 square feet for a two-family
dwelling, and an additional area of not less than 500 square feet for each
family, more than two, occupying a dwelling.
         (b)   There shall be a lot area of not less than 6,000 square feet
where a garage apartment is located on the same lot with a single-family
dwelling. When a garage apartment is located in the rear yard of a two-family
or multiple-family dwelling, the lot area shall be not less than 500 square
feet more than is required for the two-family or multiple-family dwelling.
         (c)   For churches and main and accessory buildings (other than
dwellings and buildings accessory to dwellings), the lot area shall be adequate
to provide the yard areas required by this section and the off-street parking
area required in §§
154.048(E) through
154.049(D); provided, however, the lot for a church shall not be less than
21,000 square feet.
         (d)   For condominium and town houses, there shall be a lot area of
not less than 3,000 square feet for each unit within the condominium or town
house complex and no less than two parking spaces per unit shall be provided.
Ingress and egress shall be made by a thoroughfare of not less than 32 feet
back to back of curb. All area regulations shall apply to §§
154.047(C) through
154.049(D).
      (4)   Carport.
         (a)   For the erection of a carport, there shall be not less than one
and one half feet from front right-of-way or boundary line and not less than
two and one half feet from side right-of-way or boundary line. Provided,
however, no carport shall be erected that impairs or obstructs sight lines as
set forth in §
154.048(B)(6).
         (b)   To maintain conformity of surrounding property, all materials
shall conform to §
154.048(F).
         (c)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner and/or
contractor to provide a diagram and/or drawings showing compliance with
boundary lines, sight line, and material requirements.
      (5)   Coverage. Main and accessory buildings shall not cover more than
35% of the lot area. Accessory buildings shall not cover more than 30% of the
rear yard.
(Prior Code, § 18-33)
   (E)   Height regulations. No building shall exceed two and one-half stories
or 35 feet in height except as provided in §
154.047(E).
(Prior Code, § 18-34)
§ 154.044 C-1, GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General description. This commercial district is intended for the
conduct of personal and business services and the general retail business of
the community. Persons living in the community and in the surrounding trade
territory require direct and frequent access. Traffic generated by the uses
will be primarily passenger vehicles and those trucks and commercial vehicles
required for the stocking and delivery of retail goods.
(Prior Code, § 18-40)
   (B)   Uses permitted. Property and buildings in a C-1, General Commercial
District shall be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Advertising signs and structures;
      (2)   Any use permitted in a R-1, Residential District;
      (3)   New and used automobile sales and services and public garages
(provided no gasoline is stored above ground) and services conducted wholly
within a completely enclosed building but not establishments as junk yards;
      (4)   Retail stores and shops which supply the regular and customary
needs of the residents of the neighborhood and which are primarily for their
convenience as follows:
         (a)   Ambulance services, offices, or garages;
         (b)   Arts schools (gallery or museum) and artist materials (supply
studio);
         (c)   Automobile parking lots and commercial parking facilities;
         (d)   Baby shops and toy stores;
         (e)   Barber shops and beauty shops;
         (f)   Camera shops and photographer studios;
         (g)   Catering establishments;
         (h)   Clothing or apparel shops, dress shops, jewelry or notion
stores, tailor shops, sewing machine sales (instruction), shoe repair shops;
         (i)   Dairy products or ice cream stores and candy stores;
         (j)   Delicatessens, meat markets, dry-goods stores, baked goods
stores, and grocery stores;
         (k)   Department stores and variety stores;
         (l)   Furniture stores and interior decorating shops;
         (m)   Funeral parlors or mortuaries;
         (n)   Hardware stores, key shops, and appliance stores;
         (o)   Ice storage locker plants or storage houses for food;
         (p)   Laundry and cleaning establishments; self-service laundry or dry
cleaning; and cleaning, pressing, and laundry collection agencies;
         (q)   Leather goods shops;
         (r)   Messenger or telegraph services;
         (s)   Music, radio, or television shops; radio and television sales
and services; and musical instrument sales;
         (t)   Newspaper or magazine sales, book or stationery stores, and
printing plants;
         (u)   Novelty shops, antique shops, and curio or gift shops;
         (v)   Nurseries or garden supply stores and florist shops;
         (w)   Office businesses;
         (x)   Optometrist sales and services and medical facilities;
         (y)   Pawn shops;
         (z)   Pet shops;
         (aa)   Pharmacies and drug stores or fountains;
         (bb)   Research laboratories;
         (cc)   Restaurants, not to include drive-ins;
         (dd)   Stock and bond brokers; and
         (ee)   Theaters and museums.
      (5)   Buildings, structures, and uses accessory and customarily
incidental to any of the above uses provided that there shall be no
manufacture, processing, or compounding of products other than such as are
customarily incidental and essential to retail establishments; and
      (6)   Any other store or shop for retail trade or for rendering personal,
professional, or business service which does not produce more noise, odor,
dust, vibration, blast, or traffic than those enumerated above.
(Prior Code, § 18-41)
   (C)   Conditional uses permitted on review. The following uses may be
permitted on review by the Planning Commission in accordance with the
provisions contained in §
154.051(D):
      (1)   Bars;
      (2)   Private clubs;
      (3)   Liquor stores;
      (4)   Amusement and recreation enterprises; and
      (5)   Any use not otherwise authorized by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 18-42)
   (D)   Area regulations. The area regulations for dwellings shall be the same
as the requirements of the R-1, Residential District. The following
requirements shall apply to all other uses permitted in this district:
      (1)   Front and side yard. There are no specific front or side yard
requirements for uses other than dwelling.
      (2)   Rear yard. There shall be provided an alley, service court, rear
yard, or combination thereof of not less than ten feet in width.
      (3)   Area for off-street parking. Buildings shall be provided with a
yard area adequate to meet the off-street parking requirement set forth in §§
154.048(E) through (H) and
154.049.
(Prior Code, § 18-43)
   (E)   Height regulations. No building shall exceed two and one-half stories
or 35 feet in height except as hereinafter provided in §
154.047(E).
(Prior Code, § 18-44)
   (F)   Screening regulations. Ornamental screening shall be provided by all
uses permitted by providing a solid wall of not less than seven feet in height
when abutting a residential district. For the purposes of this subchapter,
abutting shall include a residential district separated by an alley.
(Prior Code, § 18-45)
§ 154.045 I-1, GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General description. This industrial district is intended primarily
for the conduct of manufacturing, assembling, and fabrication. These uses do
not depend primarily on frequent visits of customers or clients but usually
require good accessibility to major rail, air, or street transportation
facilities.
(Prior Code, § 18-46)
   (B)   Uses permitted. Property and buildings in an I-1 District shall be
used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Any use, except a residential use, permitted in an R-1 or C-
1 District. No dwelling uses (except sleeping facilities for caretakers and
night watchpersons employed on the premises) shall be permitted;
      (2)   Any of the following uses:
         (a)   Bottling works;
         (b)   Book bindery;
         (c)   Candy manufacturing;
         (d)   Engraving plan including memorial stones;
         (e)   Electrical equipment assembly;
         (f)   Electronic equipment assembly and manufacture;
         (g)   Food products processing and packing;
         (h)   Furniture manufacturing;
         (i)   Jewelry and watch manufacturing;
         (j)   Leather goods fabrication;
         (k)   Optical goods manufacturing;
         (l)   Paper products manufacturing;
         (m)   Shoe manufacturing;
         (n)   Sporting good manufacturing; and
         (o)   Wholesale or warehousing enterprise.
      (3)   Building material sales yard and lumber yard, including the sale of
rock, sand, gravel, and the like as an incidental part of the main business but
not including a concrete batch plant or transit mix plant;
      (4)   Contractor’s equipment storage yard or plant or rental of equipment
commonly used by contractors;
      (5)   Farm produce, grain, and feed storage including grain elevators;
      (6)   Freighting or trucking yard or terminal;
      (7)   Oil field equipment storage yard;
      (8)   Public utility service yard or electrical receiving or transforming
station;
      (9)   Town and county equipment service yard; and
      (10)   The following uses when conducted within a completely enclosed
building:
         (a)   The manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging, or
treatment of such products as bakery goods, candy, cosmetics, dairy products,
drugs, perfumes, pharmaceuticals, perfumed toilet soap, toiletries, and food
products;
         (b)   The manufacturing, compounding, assembling, or treatment of
articles or merchandise from the following previously prepared materials: bone,
cellulose, canvas, cloth, cork, feathers, felt, fiber, fur, glass, hair, horn,
leather, paper, plastics, precious or semi-precious metals or stone, shell,
textiles, tobacco, wood, yarn, and paint not employing a boiling process;
         (c)   The manufacture of pottery and figurines or other similar
ceramic products using only previously pulverized clay and kilns fired only by
electricity or gas;
         (d)   The manufacture and maintenance of electric and neon signs,
commercial advertising structures, light sheet metal products (including
heating and ventilating ducts and equipment), cornices, eaves, and the like;
         (e)   Manufacture of musical instruments, toys, novelties, and rubber
and metal stamps;
         (f)   Automobile assembling, painting, upholstering, rebuilding,
reconditioning, body and fender works, truck repairing and overhauling, tire
retreading or recapping, and battery manufacturing;
         (g)   Machine shops;
         (h)   Foundry casing lightweight nonferrous metal, not causing noxious
fumes or odors;
         (i)   Assembly of electrical appliances, electronic instruments and
devices, radios, and phonographs including the manufacture of small parts only
such as coils, condensers, transformers, crystal holders, and the like; and
         (j)   Buildings, structures, and uses accessory and customarily
incidental to any of the above uses. The uses permitted under this section
shall be conducted in such a manner that no noxious odor, fumes, or dust will
be emitted beyond the property line of the lot on which the use is located.
(Prior Code, § 18-47)
   (C)   Conditional uses permitted on review. The following uses may be
permitted on review by the Planning Commission in accordance with the
provisions contained in §
154.051(D):
      (1)   Cement, lime, or gypsum manufacture;
      (2)   Commercial feed pens for livestock;
      (3)   Disposal plants of all types including trash, garbage, and sewage
treatment (including lagoons and compost plants);
      (4)   Natural gas production and distribution;
      (5)   Packing house;
      (6)   Petroleum production and refining;
      (7)   Sale barn;
      (8)   Salvage yards for automobiles, building materials, scrap metals,
junk, or for any other kind of salvage; provided, however, all salvage
operations shall be so screened by ornamental walls, fences, of evergreen
planting that it cannot be seen by a person standing at ground level at any
place immediately adjacent to the lot on which the salvage operation is
located;
      (9)   Wholesale or bulk storage of gasoline, propane or butane, or other
petroleum products; and
      (10)   Any use not otherwise authorized by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 18-48)
   (D)   Area regulations.
      (1)   Front yard. All buildings shall set back from the street right-of-
way line to provide a front yard having not less than 15 feet in depth.
      (2)   Side yard. No building shall be located closer than ten feet to a
side lot line except when abutting a residential district. Then, it shall have
a 35 feet side yard.
      (3)   Rear yard. Where a building is to be serviced from the rear, there
shall be provided an alley, service court, rear yard, or combination thereof of
not less than 30 feet in width or of adequate area and width to provide for
maneuver of service vehicles, whichever is greater. In all other cases, no rear
yard is required; provided, however, a building shall be set back a distance of
not less than 25 feet from the rear lot line that adjoins a dwelling district.
      (4)   Yard area. Buildings shall be provided with a yard area adequate to
meet the off-street parking requirements set forth in §§
154.048(E) through (H) and
154.049(A) through (D).
(Prior Code, § 18-49)
   (E)   Height regulations. No building shall exceed 90 feet in height except
as hereinafter provided in §
154.047(E).
(Prior Code, § 18-50)
   (F)   Screening regulations. No article or material permitted in this
district shall be kept, stored, or displayed outside the confines of a building
unless it is screened by fences, walls, or plantings that it cannot be seen
from adjoining public streets or adjacent lots when viewed by a person standing
at ground level.
(Prior Code, § 18-51)
§ 154.046 F, FLOOD HAZARD DISTRICT.
   (A)   General description. This district is intended to comprise those areas
which are subject to periodic or occasional flooding during a 100-year
frequency flood which results in special hazards to life and property, in the
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and poses a direct threat to
the public health, safety, and general welfare. These regulations are designed
to regulate and control uses within the Flood Hazard District, to protect human
life and health, to minimize damage to public and private property, to minimize
surface and ground water pollution, to prevent the encroachment of buildings
and improvements in floodway and flood-fringe areas which will impede runoff
and contribute to flooding in other area, and to protect natural scenic areas
and provide for the conservation of natural resources.
(Prior Code, § 18-52)
   (B)   Application as combining (overlay) regulations. The boundaries of the
Flood Hazard District, which is composed of floodway and flood-fringe areas,
may cut across and overlay the boundaries of other zoning districts. The
regulations applicable to the Flood Hazard District shall be interpreted as
being in addition to the requirement results; the regulations of the Flood
Hazard District shall supercede all other regulations.
(Prior Code, § 18-53)
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FLOOD. A temporary rise in stream flow or stage that results in water
overtopping its banks and inundating areas adjacent to the channel.
      FLOOD-FRINGE. That portion of the Flood Hazard District located outside.
      FLOOD-FRINGE DISPLACEMENT-ALTERNATIVE IMPROVEMENTS. The channel
improvements in the floodway which are required to prevent increased flooding
resulting from the reduced floodwater storage capacity in the flood-fringe area
due to filling or other flood-proofing or development of the flood-fringe area.
      FLOOD HAZARD DISTRICT OR AREA. All of the land within the jurisdiction
which is subject to inundation by the flood having an average frequency of
occurrence in the order of once in 100 years; although, the flood may occur in
any year. The FLOOD HAZARD DISTRICT includes both the floodway and the flood-
fringe.
      FLOOD WAY. The stream channel and adjacent area which provides for the
downstream movement of the 100-year maximum flood at a rate of one-tenth foot
per second or greater.
      100-YEAR FLOOD OR RAIN. A flood or rainfall having an average statistical
frequency of occurrence in the order of once in 100 years; although, the flood
or rainfall may actually occur in any year.
(Prior Code, § 18-54)
   (D)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Floodway areas. Property located in all floodways shall be used
only for the following purposes; provided, however, no building or permanent
structure is involved, and the use in no way obstructs or otherwise adversely
affects the capacity of the floodway:
         (a)   Agricultural uses including the growing of crops and the use of
land for pasture and grazing where farm animals are otherwise permitted by the
district provisions of the Zoning Ordinance or by the general ordinances of the
town;
         (b)   Private and public recreational uses not otherwise prohibited
such as natural scenic area, golf courses, swimming and picnic areas, game
farms, hiking and horseback riding trails, and similar uses; and
         (c)   Lawns, gardens, and recreation areas which are accessory to
residential uses.
      (2)   Flood-fringe areas. Property and buildings in flood-fringe areas
shall be used only for the following purposes; provided, however, no building
or structure or use of land is involved that causes displacement of floodwater
or otherwise increases flooding in the floodway, unless the capacity of the
floodway is increased to compensate for the reduced capacity of the flood-
fringe:
         (a)   Any use permitted in the floodway that is not otherwise
prohibited by other district provisions of the Zoning Ordinance or other
municipal regulations;
         (b)   Storage of materials or equipment not adversely affected by
flooding;
         (c)   Fill, storm water detention and retardation structures, and
other flood- proofing measures; and
         (d)   All other uses permitted in the district with which the Flood
Hazard District has been combined when flood-proofing and alternative
improvements for flood-fringe displacement of floodwater have been provided.
(Prior Code, § 18-55)
      (3)   Flood-proofing and flood-fringe displacement alternative
improvements. All uses permitted under division (D)(2) above shall comply with
the following requirements:
      (4)   Flood-proofing. All residential, commercial, industrial, and other
uses designed for human occupancy shall have the lowest floor elevation
(including basement) not less than one foot above the highest elevation of the
100-year frequency flood. The following additional flood-proofing measures may
be required to provide flood protection for any permitted use including, but
not necessarily limited to, the following:
         (a)   Installation of storm water detention and retardation
structures;
         (b)   Installation of watertight doors, bulkheads, and shutters or
similar methods of construction;
         (c)   Reinforcement of walls to resist water pressures;
         (d)   Use of paints, membranes, or mortars to reduce seepage of water
through walls;
         (e)   Addition of mass or weight to structures to resist floatation or
other anchorage;
         (f)   Installation of pumps to lower water levels in structures;
         (g)   Construction of water supply and waste treatment systems so as
to prevent the entrance of flood pressures;
         (h)   Installation of pumping facilities or comparable practices for
subsurface drainage systems for buildings to relieve external foundation wall
and basement flood pressures;
         (i)   Construction to resist rupture or collapse caused by water
pressure or floating debris;
         (j)   Installation of valves or controls on sanitary and storm drains
which will permit the drains to be closed to prevent back-up sewage and storm
waters into the buildings or structures. Gravity draining of basements may be
eliminated by mechanical devices;
         (k)   Location of all electrical equipment, circuits, and installed
electrical appliances in a manner which will assure they are not subject to
flooding to provide protection from inundation by the 100-year maximum flood;
and
         (l)   Location of any structural storage facilities for chemicals,
explosives, or buoyant materials which could be hazardous to public health,
safety, and welfare in a manner which will assure that the facilities are
situated at elevations above the height associated with the regulatory
protection elevation or are adequately flood-proofed to prevent flotation of
storage containers which could result in the escape of toxic materials into
floodwaters.
      (5)   Flood-fringe displacement-alternative improvements. Before any
buildings, improvements, or flood-proofing is permitted in the flood-fringe,
the amount of floodwater displaced by the proposed change shall be ascertained
by an engineer, registered in the state, and in consultation with the Town
Engineer; alternative improvements shall be made in the floodway to accommodate
the flood storage to be eliminated in the flood-fringe for a 100-year frequency
flood. The cost of the alternative improvements shall be the responsibility of
the individual or entity responsible for the flood-fringe displacement.
(Prior Code, § 18-56)
      (6)   Administrative requirements. In order to carry out the intent of
the requirements set forth in the Flood Hazard District, in addition to other
administrative provisions required by this subchapter, the following additional
provisions shall apply:
         (a)   Building or occupancy permit required. No use or improvement of
any floodway or flood-fringe area of any form shall be permitted without first
obtaining a building and/or occupancy permit from the Building Inspector.
         (b)   Additional information required. The Building Inspector may
require the applicant to furnish any or all of the following information in
determining the suitability of a particular site for a proposed use:
            1.   Plans in triplicate drawn to scale showing the nature,
location, dimensions, and elevation of the lot; existing or proposed
structures; fill; storage of materials; flood-proofing measures; and the
relationship of the above to the location of the channel, floodway, and the
flood-protection elevation;
            2.   A typical valley cross-section showing the channel of the
stream, elevation of land areas adjoining each side of the channel, cross-
sectional areas to be occupied by the proposed development, and high water
information;
            3.   Plans (surface view) showing elevation or contours of the
ground; pertinent structure, fill, or storage elevations; size, location, and
spatial arrangement of all proposed and existing structures on the site;
location and elevations of streets, water supply, sanitary facilities;
photographs showing existing land uses and vegetation upstream and downstream,
soil types, and other pertinent information;
            4.   A profile showing the slope of the bottom of the channel or
flow line of the stream; and
            5.   Specification for building construction and materials, flood-
proofing, filling, dredging, grading, channel improvement, storage of
materials, water supply, and sanitary facilities.
(Prior Code, § 18-57)
§ 154.047 PUD, PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purposes. The purposes of planned unit development are:
      (1)   To permit flexibility that will encourage a more creative approach
in the development of land and will result in a more efficient use of open area
while maintaining density and area coverage permitted in the general zoning
district or districts in which the project is located; and
      (2)   To permit flexibility in design, placement of buildings, and use of
open spaces, circulation facilities, and off-street parking areas and to best
utilize the potential of sites characterized by special features of geography,
topography, size, or shape.
(Prior Code, § 18-58)
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   Planned unit development is permitted on tracts of not less than
ten acres in size.
      (2)   In every instance, the PUD is to be reviewed as to the proposed
location and character of the uses and the unified treatment of the development
of the tract. The regulations of the general zoning district or districts
remain applicable except as specifically modified pursuant to the provisions of
this subchapter. No modification of use or bulk and area requirements of the
applicable general use district or districts shall be permitted unless a
subdivision plat incorporating the provisions and requirements of this
subchapter is submitted to and approved by the Planning Commission and Town
Board of Trustees and filed on record in the office of the County Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 18-59)
   (C)   Uses permitted in planned unit development,
      (1)   Principal uses. A planned unit development shall primarily be
residential when located within a residential district. The development may
consist of one or more of the following dwelling types: single-family detached
dwelling, duplex dwelling, multi-family dwelling, townhouse, and similar uses.
The uses, other than dwellings, which are permitted by right or exception in
the residential districts may be included within a PUD if such nonresidential
uses do not occupy more than 10% of the gross area of the PUD which are in the
R-1 zone and are designed and located to be compatible with the residential
uses of the PUD and with the residential use of adjacent properties. Land set
aside for public facilities such as schools, libraries, firehouses, and the
like shall be excluded for the purposes of calculating the gross area of the
PUD. The uses permitted in areas zoned as commercial or industrial districts
shall be limited to those uses permitted in the district to which the property
is zoned.
      (2)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses customarily incident to the
residential uses included within the PUD are permitted. Accessory signs shall
comply with the provisions of the residential districts except as hereafter
provided for accessory commercial facilities may be included within the PUD in
accordance with the following standards.
         (a)   The commercial uses shall be limited to convenience goods and
services and eating places other than drive-ins.
         (b)   The aggregate floor area of the commercial facilities shall not
exceed 50 square feet per dwelling unit nor a total of 30,000 square feet.
         (c)   Each commercial establishment shall be limited to a maximum of
3,500 square feet of floor area.
         (d)   Commercial signs shall be limited to one nameplate of not more
than 16 square feet for each establishment. Nameplates shall be attached flat
against a building wall and shall not be animated, flashing, or have other than
indirect illumination. Window signs shall not be permitted.
         (e)   The commercial area shall be designed primarily for the service,
convenience, and benefit of the residents of the PUD and shall be designed and
located in such manner as to be compatible with the residential use of the PUD
and of adjacent properties.
(Prior Code, § 18-60)
   (D)   Bulk and area requirements.
      (1)   Lot width and lot area minimums. Within a PUD, a minimum lot size
requirement of 1,000 square feet shall apply to lots utilized for dwelling
purposes. A minimum lot width requirement of 40 feet shall apply to lots
utilized for dwelling purposes.
      (2)   Number of permitted dwelling units. It is the intent of this
subchapter that the aggregate density and intensity of use within the PUD
remain the same as that which would be permitted if the area were developed
conventionally, and within the PUD, the permitted number of dwelling units may
be reallocated irrespective of use district lines or lot lines.
         (a)   The maximum number of permitted dwelling units (DU) within a PUD
shall be computed as follows: permitted DUs equal residential area of the PUD
divided by the minimum land area per DUs permitted in the applicable use
district.
         (b)   The residential area for the purposes of the above-described
computation shall be the gross area of the PUD less the lot area or areas
designated for and use other than dwellings, quasi-dwellings, residential open
space, and recreation areas. Each 600 square feet of a quasi-dwelling, such as
a care home, shall constitute a dwelling unit. If the PUD is within two or more
use districts, the permitted density shall be the sum of the permitted dwelling
units computed separately for the residential area within each district.
      (3)   Livability space. Livability space may be provided on a lot
containing the dwelling unit or units on which computed or in common areas.
Common livability space shall be designed and located so as to be accessible to
the dwelling units it is intended to serve. Provisions for the ownership and
maintenance of common livability space, as will ensure its continuity and
conservation, shall be incorporated in the subdivision plat in compliance with
the provisions of division (G)(5) below.
      (4)   Building height. Within a PUD, the maximum building height shall be
established in the outline division (E) below.
(Prior Code, § 18-61)
   (E)   Perimeter requirements. The building setback from the exterior
boundaries of the PUD shall not be less than the minimum yards customarily
required for the district or districts in which located provided that, within
200 feet of any abutting property in an R-1 classification, structures
containing more than two dwelling units and exceeding 15 feet in height
(measured from the ground floor to the top of the top plate) shall be setback
25 feet plus two feet of setback for each one foot of building height exceeding
15 feet measured from the ground floor level to the top of the top plate.
Unenclosed off-street parking areas containing six or more spaces shall be
screened from adjoining R-1 Districts by the erection of a screening wall or
fence along the lot line or lines in common with the R-1 District provided that
if the parking area is located more than 50 feet from the R-1 District, the
screening requirement shall not apply.
(Prior Code, § 18-62)
   (F)   Off-street parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading spaces
shall be provided as specified in the applicable use units and in conformance
with the requirement of §
154.049(E). Required spaces may be provided on the lot containing the dwelling
units for which it is intended to serve or in common areas. Common parking area
shall be designed and located so as to be accessible to the dwelling units it
is intended to serve. Provisions for the ownership and maintenance of common
parking space, as will ensure its continuity and conservation, shall be
incorporated in the subdivision plat in compliance with the provisions of
division (G) below.
(Prior Code, § 18-63)
   (G)   Administration of planned unit development.
      (1)   General. Any person, corporation, partnership, association, or
combination thereof owning or possessing a property right or interest in or to
a tract of not less than ten acres in size may make application for the
approval of a PUD by filing an application for an Outline Development Plan and
a supplemental zoning district designation PUD. An application for the approval
of an Outline Development Plan and the supplemental district designation PUD
may be processed simultaneously with and contingent upon an application for an
amendment to the Zoning Map.
      (2)   Application and Outline Development Plans. An application for a
planned development shall be filed with the Planning Commission. The
application shall be accompanied by the payment of a required fee. Such fee
shall not include advertising and sign costs, which shall be billed to the
applicant. The application shall be in such form and content as the Planning
Commission may, by resolution, establish provided that four copies of the
Outline Development Plan shall accompany the filing of the application. The
Outline Development Plan shall consist of maps and/or text which contain:
         (a)   Existing topographic character of the land;
         (b)   Proposed land uses including public uses and open space and the
approximate location of buildings and other structures;
         (c)   The character and approximate density of dwellings. Density
shall be expressed in number of dwelling units and quantitative area of each
identifiable segment of the PUD;
         (d)   The approximate location of thoroughfares;
         (e)   Sufficient surrounding area to demonstrate the relationship of
the PUD to adjoining uses both existing and proposed;
         (f)   An explanation of the character of the planned development; and
         (g)   The expected schedule of development.
      (3)   Public hearing and Planning Commission action. The Planning
Commission, upon the filing of an application for the supplemental district
designation, PUD shall set the matter for public hearing and give a 20-day
notice (as required by the state statute thereof) by publication in a newspaper
of general circulation. Where deemed necessary by the Planning Commission,
additional notice shall be given by the posting of a sign or signs on the
property as set forth in §§
154.040,
154.041, and
154.051. Within 60 days after the filing of an application, the Planning
Commission shall conduct the public hearing and shall determine:
         (a)   Whether the PUD is consistent with the Comprehensive Plan;
         (b)   Whether the PUD harmonizes with the existing and expected
development of surrounding areas;
         (c)   Whether the PUD is a unified treatment of the development
possibilities of the project site; and
         (d)   Whether the PUD is consistent with the stated purposes and
standards of this subchapter. When a supplemental district designation PUD is
approved, the Planning Commission shall forward its recommendation, the
application, and the Outline Development Plan to the Town Board for further
hearing as provided in division (G)(4) below.
      (4)   Town Board action. Upon receipt of the application, Outline
Development Plan, and Planning Commission recommendation, the Town Board shall
hold a hearing, review the Outline Development Plan, and approve, disapprove,
modify, or return the Outline Development Plan to the Planning Commission for
further consideration. Upon approval, the Zoning Map shall be amended to
reflect the supplemental designation PUD, and the applicant shall be authorized
to process a subdivision plat incorporating the provisions of the Outline
Development Plan.
      (5)   Planned unit development subdivision plat. A planned unit
development subdivision plat shall be filed with the Planning Commission and
shall be processed in accordance with the subdivision regulations and, in
addition to the requirements of the subdivision regulations, shall include:
         (a)   Details as to the location of uses and street arrangement;
         (b)   Provisions for the ownership and maintenance of the common open
space as will reasonably ensure its continuity and conservation. Open space may
be dedicated to a private association or to the public provided that a
dedication to the public shall not be accepted without the approval of the Town
Board; and
         (c)   Such covenants as will reasonably ensure the continued
compliance with the approved Outline Development Plan. In order that the public
interest may be protected, the town shall be made beneficiary of the covenants
pertaining to such matters as location of uses, height of structures, setbacks,
screening, and access. Such covenants shall provide that the town may enforce
compliance therewith.
      (6)   Issuance of building permits. No building permits shall be issued
on lands within the PUD except in accordance with the approved subdivision plat
filed on record with the County Clerk. A building permit for a free-standing or
separate commercial structure shall not be issued until building permits have
been issued for at least one half of the number of dwelling units on which the
authorization of the commercial use is based; provided, however, a PUD
providing for more than 600 dwelling units the town must permit a portion of
the proposed commercial development to be constructed prior to the construction
of one half of the dwelling units where such improvements bear a reasonable
relationship between the number of living units and the staging of commercial
development and said relationship is so stated and contained in the approved
Outline Development Plan.
      (7)   Amendments. Minor changes in the platted PUD may be authorized by
the Planning Commission upon a review of a proposed amended subdivision plat
incorporating such changes, so long as substantial compliance is maintained
with the Outline Development Plan and the purposes and standards of the PUD
provisions hereof. Changes which would represent a significant departure from
the Outline Development Plan shall require formal abandonment and the
subsequent filing of a new application for planned unit development.
      (8)   Abandonment of approved plat. All plats may be considered void if
development is not begun within two years from the official recording date of
the said plat with the County Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 18-64)
§ 154.048 GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Application of regulation to the uses or a more restricted district.
      (1)   Whenever the specific district regulations pertaining to one
district permits the uses of a more restricted district, such uses shall be
subject to the conditions as set forth in the regulations of the more
restricted district unless otherwise specified.
      (2)   It is intended that these regulations be interpreted as not
permitting a dwelling unit to be located on the same lot with or within a
structure used or intended to be used primarily for nonresidential purposes.
(Prior Code, § 18-65)
   (B)   Open space. The following requirements are intended to provide
exceptions or qualify and supplement, as the case may be, the specific district
regulation set forth in §§
154.042 through
154.047(B).
      (1)   An open space or lot area required for an existing building or
structure shall not be counted as open space for any other building or
structure.
      (2)   Open eaves, cornices, windowsills, and belt courses may project
into any required yard a distance not to exceed two feet. Open, uncovered
porches or open fire escapes may project into a front or rear yard a distance
not to exceed five feet. Fences, walls, or hedges in residential districts may
be erected in any required yard or along the edge of any yard provided that no
fence, wall, or hedge located in front of the front building line shall exceed
four feet in height, and no other wall or fence shall exceed seven feet in
height.
      (3)   Where the dedicated street right-of-way is less than 50 feet, the
front yard depth shall be determined by measuring 50 feet back from the center
line of the street easement.
      (4)   No dwelling shall be erected on a lot which does not abut on at
least one street at least 50 feet in width for at least 35 feet. A street shall
form the direct and primary means of ingress and egress for all dwelling units.
Alleys, where they exist, shall form only a secondary means of ingress and
egress. A garage apartment may be built to the rear of a main dwelling if there
is compliance with all other provisions of this subchapter. Accessory buildings
which are not a part of the main building may be built in the rear yard but
shall not cover more than 30% of the rear yard.
      (5)   No minimum lot sizes and open spaces are prescribed for commercial
and industrial uses. It is the intent of this subchapter that lots of
sufficient size be used by any business or industry to provide adequate parking
and loading space required of operation of the enterprise.
      (6)   On any corner lot on which a front and side yard is required, no
wall, fence, sign, structure, or any plant growth which obstructs sight lines
at elevations between two feet, six inches and six feet above any portion of
the crown of the adjacent roadway shall be maintained in a triangle, formed by
measuring from the point of intersection of the front and exterior side lot
lines a distance of 25 feet along the front and side lot lines and connecting
the points so established to form a right triangle on the area of the lot
adjacent to the street intersection.
      (7)   An attached or detached private garage which faces on a street
shall not be located closer than 25 feet to the street easement line.
      (8)   No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot until the
construction of the main building has been actually commenced, and no accessory
building shall be used unless the main building on the lot is also being used.
      (9)   Whenever one or more residential, institutional, commercial, or
industrial buildings are proposed to be located in a cluster or grouping which
has a different arrangement, orientation, or other site planning variation from
that of other buildings, structures, or uses in the area or on adjacent
properties, the architectural design, location, orientation, service, and
parking areas of such buildings shall be planned so as not to adversely affect
the use of adjacent or other properties in the area as determined by the
Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 18-66)
   (C)   Height. The following requirements are intended to provide exceptions
or qualify and supplement, as the case may be, the specific district
regulations set forth herein.
      (1)   In measuring heights, a habitable basement or attic shall be
counted as a story. A story in a sloping roof, the area of which story (at a
height of four feet above the floor) does not exceed two thirds of the floor
area of the story immediately below it and which does not contain an
independent apartment, shall be conducted as a half story.
      (2)   Chimneys, elevators, poles, spires, tanks, towers, and other
projections not used for human occupancy may extend above the height limit.
      (3)   Churches, schools, hospitals, sanitariums, and other public and
semi-public buildings may exceed the height limitation of the district of the
minimum depth of rear yards and the minimum width of the side yards by which
the height of such public or semi-public structure exceeds the prescribed
height limit.
(Prior Code, § 18-67)
   (D)   Group housing projects. In the case of a housing project consisting of
a group of two or more buildings to be constructed on a plot of ground of at
least two acres not subdivided into the customary streets and lots and which
will not be so subdivided where the existing or contemplated street and lot
layout make it impracticable to apply the requirements of this subchapter to
the individual buildings in such housing project, the application of such
requirements to such housing project may be changed by the Planning Commission
in a manner that will be in harmony with character of the neighborhood and will
ensure a density of land use on higher and standard of open space at least as
high as required by this subchapter in the district in which the proposed
project is to be located. In no case shall a use or building height or density
or population be permitted which is less than the requirement of the district
in which the housing project is to be located.
(Prior Code, § 18-68)
   (E)   Storage and parking of trailers and commercial vehicles. Commercial
vehicles and trailers of all types (including travel, camping, and hauling and
mobile homes) shall not be parked or stored on any lot occupied by a dwelling
or on any lot in the residential district except in accordance with the
following provisions.
      (1)   No more than one commercial vehicle, which does not exceed one and
one-half tons rated capacity, per family living on the premises shall be
permitted; in no case shall a commercial vehicle used for hauling explosives,
gasoline, or liquefied petroleum products be permitted.
      (2)   Not more than one camping or travel trailer or hauling trailer per
family living on the premises shall be permitted, and said trailer shall not
exceed 24 feet in length or eight feet in width and provided that said trailer
shall not be parked or stored for more than 48 hours unless it is located
behind the front yard building line. A camping or travel trailer shall not be
occupied either temporarily or permanently while it is parked or stored in any
area within the incorporated limits except in a trailer court authorized under
the ordinances of the town.
      (3)   A mobile home shall be parked or stored only in a trailer court
which is in conformity with the ordinances of the town.
(Prior Code, § 18-69)
   (F)   Architectural design or accessory buildings and fences. The
architectural design and materials used for the construction of accessory
buildings and fences shall harmonize with the main building to which said
building or fence is accessory.
(Prior Code, § 18-70)
   (G)   Animals. Animals in any district shall be kept only in accordance with
the ordinances of the town.
(Prior Code, § 18-71)
   (H)   Storage of liquified petroleum gases. The use of land or buildings for
the commercial wholesale or retail storage of liquefied petroleum gases shall
be in accordance with the ordinances of the town and the regulations of the
liquefied petroleum gas administration of the state.
(Prior Code, § 18-72)
§ 154.049 PARKING AND LOADING.
   (A)   Trailer park regulations. Travel trailer parks and mobile home parks
shall be constructed in accordance with the requirements of §§
153.20 through
153.25 and
153.40.
(Prior Code, § 18-73)
   (B)   General intent and application. It is the intent of these requirements
that adequate parking and loading facilities be provided off the street
easement for each use of land within the town. Requirements are intended to be
based on the demand created by each use. These requirements shall apply to all
uses in all districts.
(Prior Code, § 18-74)
   (C)   Required open space.
      (1)   Off-street parking or loading space shall be part of the required
open space associated with the permitted use and shall not be reduced or
encroached upon in any manner.
      (2)   The area required for off-street parking shall be in addition to
the yard areas herein required, and the front yard required in a residential
district may be used for the uncovered parking area for six or fewer vehicles
associated with a residential use when the area is surfaced with a sealed
surface pavement adequate to prevent the occurrence of mud and dust with
continued use and may be used for uncovered parking area for more than six
vehicles in accordance with the provisions of §
154.048(E) through (H) and this section
(Prior Code, § 18-75)
   (D)   Location. The off-street parking lot shall be located within 200 feet
(exclusive of street and alley widths) of the principal use and shall have
direct access to a street or alley.
(Prior Code, § 18-76)
   (E)   Joint parking facilities. Whenever two or more uses are located
together in a common building, shopping center, or other integrated building
complex, the parking requirements may be complied with by providing a permanent
common parking facility, cooperatively established and operated, which contains
the requisite number of spaces for each use. The total number of spaces
provided shall not be less than the sum of the individual requirements.
(Prior Code, § 18-77)
   (F)   Size of off-street parking space. The size of a parking space for one
vehicle shall consist of a rectangular area having dimensions of not less than
nine-by-20 feet plus adequate area for ingress and egress.
(Prior Code, § 18-78)
   (G)   Amount of off-street parking and loading required.
      (1)   Off-street parking and loading facilities shall be provided in all
districts in accordance with the following schedule:
Facility Parking Space Quantity
Facility                                Parking Space Quantity
Boarding or rooming house or hotel      One parking space for each two guests;
                                        providing overnight accommodations
                                        One parking space for each 150 square
Commercial establishments not otherwise feet of floor space used for retail
classified                              trade in the building and including all
                                        area used by the public
Community center, theater, auditorium,  One parking space for each four seats,
and church sanctuary                    based on maximum seating capacity
Convention hall, lodge, club, library,  One parking space for each 50 square
museum, place of amusement, or          feet of floor area used for assembly or
recreation                              recreation in the building
                                        The number of spaces provided shall not
Dwelling, multiple-family               be less than two times the number of
                                        units in the dwelling
Dwelling, single-family or duplex       One parking space for each separate
                                        dwelling unit within the structure
                                        One space for each four patients beds,
                                        exclusive of bassinets, plus one space
Hospitals                               for each three employees including
                                        nurses, plus adequate area for the
                                        parking of emergency vehicles
                                        Adequate area to park all employees and
                                        customer vehicles at all times and
Industrial establishments               adequate space for loading, unloading,
                                        and storing all vehicles used
                                        incidental to or as a part of the
                                        primary operation of the establishment
Medical or dental clinics or offices    Six spaces per doctor plus one space
                                        for each two employees
                                        One parking space for each 300 square
                                        feet of gross floor area in the
Office building                         building, exclusive of the area used
                                        for storage, utilities, and building
                                        service
                                        One space for each six patient beds
Sanitariums, convalescent, or nursing   plus one space for each staff or
homes                                   visiting doctor plus one space for each
                                        two employees including nurses
 
      (2)   For all uses not covered in the chart above, the Planning
Commission shall make a determination of the parking demand to be created by
the proposed use, and the amount of parking thus determined shall be the off-
street parking requirement for the permitted use.
(Prior Code, § 18-79)
   (H)   Paved surface required. All parking spaces shall be paved with a
sealed surface pavement and maintained in a manner that no dust will result
from the continued use.
(Prior Code, § 18-80)
   (I)   Off-street parking lots in residential districts. Whenever off-street
parking lots for more than six vehicles are to be located within or adjacent to
the residential district, the following provisions shall apply.
      (1)   All sides of the lot within or abutting the residential district
shall be enclosed with an opaque ornamental fence, wall, or dense evergreen
hedge having a height of not less than five nor more than six feet. Such fence,
wall, or hedge shall be maintained in good condition.
      (2)   No parking shall be permitted within a front yard setback line
established 15 feet back from the property line of interior and corner lots
wherever the parking lot is located in a residential district or immediately
abuts the front yard of a residential unit. In all other cases, no setback
shall be required.
      (3)   All yards shall be landscaped with grass and shrubs and maintained
in good condition the year-round.
      (4)   Driveways used for ingress and egress shall be confined to and
shall not exceed 25 feet in width, exclusive of curb returns.
      (5)   All of the lot used for parking and driveway purposes shall be
paved with a sealed surface pavement and maintained in such a manner that no
dust will be produced by continued use.
      (6)   Whenever lighting is provided, the intensity of light and
arrangement of reflectors shall be such as not to interfere with residential
district uses.
      (7)   No sign of any kind shall be erected except information signs used
to guide traffic and to state the condition and terms of the use of the lots.
Only non-intermittent white lighting of signs shall be permitted.
(Prior Code, § 18-81)
§ 154.050 NONCONFORMANCE.
   (A)   Nonconforming buildings and structures. A nonconforming building or
structure existing at the time of adoption of this subchapter may be continued,
maintained, and repaired except as otherwise provided in this section.
(Prior Code, § 18-82)
   (B)   Alteration or enlargement of buildings and structures. A nonconforming
building or structure shall not be added to or enlarged in any manner unless
said building or structure, including additions and enlargements, is made to
conform to all of the regulations of the district in which it is located;
provided, however, if a building or structure is conforming as to use but
nonconforming as to yards or height or off-street parking space, said building
or structure may be enlarged or added to provided that the enlargement or
addition complies with the yard and height and off-street parking requirements
of the district in which said building or structure is located. No
nonconforming building or structure shall be moved in whole or in part to
another location on the lot unless every portion of said building or structure
is made to conform to all of the regulations of the district in which it is
located.
(Prior Code, § 18-83)
   (C)   Outdoor advertising signs and structures. Any advertising sign,
billboard, commercial advertising structure, or statuary which is lawfully
existing and maintained at the time this subchapter became effective which does
not conform with the provisions hereof shall not be structurally altered, and
all such nonconforming advertising signs, billboards, commercial advertising
structures and statuary, and their supporting members shall be completely
removed from the premises not later than three years from the effective date of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 18-84)
   (D)   Building vacancy. A building or structure or portion thereof which is
nonconforming as to use, which is or hereafter becomes vacant and remains
unoccupied for a continuous period of thirty days, shall not thereafter be
occupied except by a use which conforms to the use regulations of the district
in which it is located.
(Prior Code, § 18-85)
   (E)   Change in use.
      (1)   A nonconforming use of a conforming building or structure shall not
be expanded or extended into any other portion of such conforming building or
structure or changed except to a conforming use. If such a nonconforming use or
a portion thereof is discontinued or changed to a conforming use, any future
use of such building, structure, or portion thereof shall be in conformity with
the regulations of the district in which such building or structure is located.
A vacant or partially vacant nonconforming building or structure may be
occupied by a use for one year after the effective date of this subchapter, but
otherwise, it shall be used in conformity with the regulations of the district
in which it is located.
      (2)   The use of a nonconforming building or structure may be changed to
a use of the same or a more restricted district classification, but where the
use of nonconforming building or structure is changed to a use of more-
restrictive district classification, it thereafter shall not be changed to a
use of a less-restrictive district classification; provided, however, a
building or structure that is nonconforming as to use at the time of adoption
of this subchapter or at any time thereafter shall not be changed to a
wholesale or retail liquor store unless such change in use conforms to the
provisions of the district in which it is located.
(Prior Code, § 18-86)
   (F)   Nonconforming uses of land. A nonconforming use of land, where the
aggregate value of all permanent buildings or structures is less than $1,000,
existing at the time of adoption of this subchapter may be continued for a
period of not more than three years therefrom provided that:
      (1)   Said nonconforming use may not be extended or expanded nor shall it
occupy more area than was in use on the effective date of this subchapter; and
      (2)   If said nonconforming use or any portion thereof is discontinued
for a period of three months or changed, any future use of such land or change
in use shall be in conformity with the provisions of the district in which said
land is located.
(Prior Code, § 18-87)
§ 154.051 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Building permit or certificate of occupancy required. This subchapter
shall be enforced by a Building Inspector, acting at the direction of the Town
Administrator. It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any person to
change or permit the change in the use of land or buildings or structure or to
erect, alter, move, or improve any building or structure until a building
permit has been obtained under the following conditions:
      (1)   A plot plan, drawn to scale, showing the exact size, shape, and
dimensions of the lot to be built upon; the exact size and location on the lot
of all existing buildings and structures; and the exact size and location on
the lot of the structure or building proposed to be repaired, altered, erected,
or moved together with a statement of the materials to be used and the size,
arrangement, number of parking stalls, movement of vehicles, and ingress and
egress drives for all off-street parking and loading facilities;
      (2)   A declaration of the existing and intended use of each existing and
proposed building or structure on the lot and the number of families and
housekeeping units which each existing building accommodates and which each
existing and proposed building is designed to accommodate;
      (3)   Additional information relating to the proposed improvement needed
to determine compliance with these regulations; and
      (4)   A survey prepared by an engineer registered in the state of the
boundaries of the lot on which the improvements is proposed to be located.
(Prior Code, § 18-88)
   (B)   Certificate of occupancy. No change shall be made in the use of any
land or building or structure after the passage of this subchapter until a
certificate of occupancy is obtained from the Town Clerk that all of the
provisions of this subchapter are complied with. Whenever a building permit is
issued for the erection of a new building or structure, an occupancy permit
shall not be required except where the use of the building or structure is
changed from that for which the permit is issued or where the intended use is
not clearly stated on the building permit.
(Prior Code, § 18-89)
   (C)   Procedure for authorizing conditional uses permitted on review. The
uses listed under the various districts herein as uses permitted on review are
so classified because they more intensely dominate the area in which they are
located than do other uses permitted in the district; however, the nature of
such uses makes it desirable that they be permitted to locate therein. The
following procedure is established to integrate properly the uses permitted on
review with the other viewed and authorized or rejected under the following
procedures.
      (1)   An application together with a file fee of no less than $50 shall
be filed with the Planning Commission for review. Said application shall show
the location and intended use of the site, the names of all the property
owners, and existing land uses within 300 feet and any other material pertinent
to the request which the Planning Commission may require.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall hold one or more public hearings
thereon.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall, within 45 days of the date of
application, transmit to the Town Board its report as to the effect of such
proposed building or use upon character of the neighborhood, traffic
conditions, public utilities, and other matters pertaining to the general
welfare and the recommendation of the Planning Commission concerning use
thereon. Thereupon, the Town Board may authorize or deny the issuance of a
building permit for the use of land or buildings as requested.
(Prior Code, § 18-90)
   (D)   Amendments. The Town Board may (from time to time, on its own motion
or on petition from a property owner or on recommendation of the Planning
Commission) amend the regulations and districts herein established. No change
in regulations, restrictions, or district boundaries shall become effective
until after a public hearing held in relation thereto, at which parties in
interest and citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard. A minimum notice
of 15 days of the time and place of such hearing shall be published in an
official paper of general circulation in the town.
(Prior Code, § 18-91)
   (E)   Passage by the Town Board.
      (1)   Every such proposed amendment shall be referred by the Planning
Commission for report. If a protest against such amendment be presented, duly
signed, and acknowledged by the owners of 20% or more of the land within such
area proposed to be altered or by the owner of 20% or more of the area of the
lots immediately abutting either side of the territory included in such
proposes change or separated therefrom only by an alley or posed change or
street, such amendment shall not be passed except by the favorable vote of
three-fourths of the Town Board of Trustees. Whenever the owners of 51% of the
land in any area shall present a petition duly signed and acknowledged to the
Town Board requesting an amendment of the regulations prescribed for such area,
it shall be the duty of the Town Board to vote upon such amendment within 90
days of the filing of same by the petitioners with the Town Clerk.
      (2)   For each petition for amendment to the Zoning Ordinance, a fee plus
the cost of legal publication shall be paid to the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 18-92)
SUBDIVISIONS
§ 154.065 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The subdivision of land is the first step in the process of urban
development. The arrangement of land parcels in the community for residential,
commercial, and industrial uses and for streets, alleys, schools, parks, and
other public purposes will determine, to a large degree, the conditions of
health, safety, economy, and amenity that prevail in the urban area. The
quality of these conditions is of public interest. These regulations and
standards for subdivision and improvement of land for urban use are to make
provision for adequate light, air, open spaces, drainage, transportation,
public utilities, and other needs and to ensure the development and maintenance
of a healthy, attractive, and efficient community that provides for the
conservation and protection of its human and natural resources.
   (B)   These regulations are designed, intended, and should be administered
in a manner to:
      (1)   Implement the General Plan;
      (2)   Provide neighborhood conservation and prevent the development of
slums and blight;
      (3)   Harmoniously relate the development of the various tracts of land
to the existing community and facilities the future development of adjoining
tracts;
      (4)   Ensure the cost of improvements which primarily benefit the tract
of land being developed is be borne by the owners or developers of the tract
and the cost of improvements which primarily benefit the whole community is be
borne by the whole community;
      (5)   Provide the best possible design for the tract;
      (6)   Reconcile any differences of interest; and
      (7)   Establish adequate and accurate records of land subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 18-101)
§ 154.066 AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Authority. These subdivision regulations and minimum standards of land
development are pursuant to the authority granted in 11 O.S. §§ 45-101 through
45-105, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 18-102)
   (B)   Jurisdiction. These regulations shall apply to the incorporated area
of the town insofar as they have been adopted by the Planning Commission and
approved by the Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 18-103)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. §§ 45-101 through 45-105
§ 154.067 APPLICATION.
   These regulations and development standards shall apply to the following
forms of land subdivision:
   (A)   The division of land into two or more tracts, lots, sites, or parcels
any part of which, when subdivided, shall contain less than ten acres in area;
   (B)   The division of land previously subdivided or platted into tracts,
lots, sites, or parcels of less than ten acres in area;
   (C)   The dedication, vacation, or reservation of any public or private
easement through any tract of land regardless of the area involved including
those for use by public and private utility companies; or
   (D)   The dedication or vacation of any street or alley through any tract of
land regardless of the area involved.
(Prior Code, § 18-104)
§ 154.068 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A minor right-of-way dedicated to public use which gives a secondary
means of vehicular access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting
a street and which may be used for public utility purposes.
   BLOCK. A parcel of land intended to be used for urban purposes which is
entirely surrounded by public streets, highways, railroad rights-of-way, public
walks, parks or greenstrips, rural land, drainage channels, or a combination
thereof.
   BUILDING LINE or SETBACK LINE. A line or lines designating the area outside
of which buildings may not be erected.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner to the public, a corporation, or
persons of the use of a strip of land for specific purposes.
   GENERAL PLAN. The Comprehensive Development Plan for the Arapaho area which
has been officially adopted to provide long-range development policies for the
area subject to urbanization in the foreseeable future and which includes,
among other things, the plan for land use, land subdivision, circulation, and
community facilities.
   LOT. A subdivision of a block or other parcel intended as a unit for the
transfer of ownership or for development.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot located at the intersection of and abutting on two or
more streets.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot which runs through a block from street to street
and which has two non-intersecting sides abutting on two or more streets.
   LOT, REVERSE FRONTAGE. A double frontage lot which is to be developed with
the rear yard abutting a major street and with the primary means of ingress and
egress provided on a minor street.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Town of Arapaho Planning Commission.
   PLAT, FINAL. A map of land subdivision prepared in a form suitable for
filing of record with necessary affidavits, dedications, and acceptances and
with complete bearings and dimensions of all lines defining lots and blocks,
streets and alleys, public areas, and other dimensions of land.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. A map of a proposed land subdivision showing the
character and proposed layout of the tract in sufficient detail to indicate the
suitability of the proposed subdivision of land.
   STREET. Any public or private right-of-way which affords the primary means
of access to abutting property.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A minor street which collects traffic from other minor
streets and serves as the most direct route to a major street or a community
facility.
   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A minor street having one end open to vehicular traffic
and having one close-end terminated by a turnaround.
   STREET, FRONTAGE OR SERVICE. A minor street auxiliary to and located on the
side of a major street for service to abutting properties and adjacent areas
and for control of access.
   STREET, MAJOR. An arterial street which is designated on the Major Street
Plan or Expressway Plan.
   STREET, MINOR. A street whose primary purpose is to provide access to
adjacent properties and which is designed so that its use by arterial traffic
will be discouraged.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or other entity
acting as a unit subdividing or proposing to subdivide land as herein defined.
   SUBDIVISIONS. The division or re-division of land into two or more lots,
tracts, sites, or parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership or for
development or the dedication or vacation of a public or private right-of-way
or easement.
   TOWN. The Town of Arapaho, Oklahoma.
   TOWN BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the Town of Arapaho.
(Prior Code, § 18-105)
§ 154.069 PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   General procedure; plat approval. For all cases of subdividing within
the scope of these regulations, a plat of the land in question shall be drawn
and submitted to the Planning Commission for approval or disapproval. All
subdivisions located within the corporate limits of the town shall then be
submitted to the Town Board for acceptance of public streets, alleys, and areas
dedicated to public use.
(Prior Code, § 18-106)
   (B)   Official recording. No plat or other land subdivision instrument shall
be filed in the office of the County Clerk until it shall have been approved by
the Planning Commission and by the Town Board as hereinafter set forth. All
final plats shall be filed within two years of the date of approval by the
Planning Commission, and no lots shall be sold from any plat until approved by
the Planning Commission and the Town Board approval, whichever is the later,
and shall void all approval thereto.
(Prior Code, § 18-107)
§ 154.070 PLANNING COMMISSION AGENDA; EXEMPTION.
   (A)   Agenda. Each plat submitted for preliminary or final approval shall be
placed on the agenda of the Planning Commission only after fulfilling the
appropriate requirements of these regulations. However, a plat not meeting all
of the requirements may be submitted providing the subdivider presents with the
plat a written request for specific exceptions and enumerates, in detail, the
reasons therefor.
(Prior Code, § 18-108)
   (B)   Exemption. Plats containing four lots or fewer may be exempted from
the provisions of all or part of procedural provisions contained in §
154.069(A) upon written approval of the Planning Commission, but such exemption
shall not change or diminish the requirements relating to design or to
improvements or to other provisions of these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 18-109)
§ 154.071 DESIGN.
   (A)   Urban design principles. The quality of design of the urban area is
dependent on the quality of design of the individual subdivisions that compose
it. Good community design requires the coordination of the efforts of each
subdivider and developer of land within the urban area. Therefore, the design
of each subdivision shall be prepared in accordance with the principles
established by the General Plan for land use, circulation, community
facilities, and public utility services and in accordance with the following
general principles.
      (1)   It is intended that the urban area should be designed as a group of
integrated residential neighborhoods and appropriate commercial and industrial
and public facilities.
      (2)   The size of lots and blocks and other areas for residential,
commercial, industrial, and public uses should be designed to provide adequate
light, air, open space, landscaping, and off-street parking and loading
facilities.
      (3)   The arrangement of lots and blocks and the street system should be
designed to make the most advantageous use of topography and natural physical
features. Tree masses and large individual trees should be preserved. The
system of sidewalks and roadways and the lot layout should be designed to take
advantage of the visual qualities of the area.
      (4)   Circulation within the urban area shall be provided in accordance
with the following design criteria.
         (a)   Each subdivision shall provide for the continuation of all
arterial streets and highways as shown on the Major Street Plan. Arterial
streets should be located on the perimeter of the residential neighborhood.
         (b)   Minor streets should be designed to provide access to each
parcel of land within the residential neighborhood and within industrial areas
and in a manner that will discourage use by through traffic. They should be
planned so that future urban expansion will not require the conversion of minor
streets to arterial routes.
         (c)   Collector streets should be designed to provide a direct route
from other minor streets to the major street system.
         (d)   Ingress and egress to residential properties should be provided
only on minor streets.
         (e)   Pedestrian ways should be separated from roadways used by
vehicular traffic. Sidewalks should be designed to provide all residential
building sites with direct access to all neighborhood facilities including the
elementary school, parks, playgrounds, churches, and shopping centers.
      (5)   Minimum standards for development are contained in the zoning
regulations, the building code, and these regulations. However, the General
Plan expresses policies which are intended to achieve optimum quality of urban
development. If only the minimum standards are followed, as expressed by the
various regulations affecting land development, a standardization of
development will occur. This will produce a monotonous urban setting.
Subdivision design should be of a quality to carry out the purpose and spirit
of the policies expressed in the General Plan and in these regulations rather
than be limited to the minimum standards required herein.
(Prior Code, § 18-110)
   (B)   Subdivision design standards.
      (1)   Streets. The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade, and
location of all streets shall conform to all of the elements of the General
Plan and shall be designed in accordance with the following provisions.
         (a)   Effective September 1, 2005, street construction shall include
cement curbing.
         (b)   Major streets shall be planned to conform with the Major Street
Plan.
         (c)   Whenever a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed
major street, the Planning Commission may require service streets, reverse
frontage with screen planting contained in a non-access reservation along the
rear property line, deep lots, or such other treatment as may be necessary for
adequate protection of residential properties and to afford separation of
arterial and local traffic.
         (d)   Minor streets shall be laid out so that their use by arterial
traffic will be discouraged.
         (e)   Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railroad right-of-
way or limited access highway right-of-way, the Planning Commission may require
a street approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-of-way at a
distance suitable for the appropriate use of the intervening land. Such
distances also shall be determined, with due regard, for the requirements of
approach grades and future grade separation structures.
         (f)   Reserve strips controlling access to streets shall be prohibited
except where their control is placed in the town under conditions approved by
the Planning Commission.
         (g)   Where the plat to be submitted includes only part of the tract
owned or intended for development by the subdivider, a Tentative Plan of a
proposed future street system for the unsubdivided portion may be required by
the Planning Commission.
         (h)   When a tract is subdivided into larger than normal buildings,
lots, or parcels, such lots or parcels shall be arranged to permit the logical
location and opening of future streets and appropriate re-subdivision with
provision for adequate utility easements.
         (i)   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 125 feet should
be avoided.
         (j)   Street right-of-way widths shall be in accordance with the Major
Street Plan and, where not designated therein, shall be not less than the
following:
 
Major Streets
Primary with median              120 feet
Primary without median           100 feet
Secondary with or without median 80 feet
 
 
Minor Streets
Collector  60 feet
Cul-de-sac 50 feet
Minor      50 feet
 
         (k)   The grades of all streets shall not exceed the following except
where unusual topographic conditions justify, in the opinion of the Planning
Commission, a modification of these standards:
 
Major Streets
Primary   5%
Secondary 7%
 
 
Minor Streets
No street shall be less than 0.3%
 
         (l)   The paved width of all streets shall be adequate to serve the
existing and future terminated traffic load for the facility. Lane widths for
all streets shall be as follows:
            1.   All major streets shall have lanes for traffic movement of 12
feet in width and lanes for parallel parking or emergency stopping of not less
than ten feet in width.
            2.   All minor streets shall have lanes for traffic movement of 12
feet in width and lanes for parallel parking of not less than six feet in
width.
         (m)   A cul-de-sac should not exceed 500 feet in length, measured from
the entrance to the center of the turnaround. If a cul-de-sac is more than 150
feet in length, it shall be provided with a turnaround having a radius of not
less than 50 feet at the property line and not less than 40 feet at the curb
line. There shall be provided in the center of the turnaround an unpaved island
which has a radius of not less than 12 feet or more than 16 feet. Any unpaved
island shall be improved with grass and landscaping in such a manner that it
will not interfere with sight distance.
         (n)   Half streets shall be prohibited except where they are essential
to the reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of these regulations and provided that the Planning Commission
finds it will be practical to obtain the dedication of the other half of the
street easement when the adjoining property is subdivided. Whenever a half
street is adjacent to a tract to be subdivided, the other half of the street
shall be platted within such tract.
         (o)   The arrangement of streets shall be such as to cause no hardship
in the subdividing of adjacent properties. The Planning Commission may require
the dedication of street rights-of-way to facilitate the development of
adjoining properties.
         (p)   No street names shall be used which will duplicate or be
confused with the names of existing streets. Street names shall be subject to
the approval of the Planning Commission.
         (q)   Streets serving commercial areas shall have rights-of-way not
less than 60 feet with a paved width not less than 40 feet.
         (r)   Streets serving industrial areas shall have rights-of-way not
less than 80 feet with a paved width not less than 50 feet.
      (2)   Alleys.
         (a)   Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial districts;
except the Planning Commission may waive this requirement where other definite
and assured provision is made for service access (such as off-street loading,
unloading, and parking) consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed.
         (b)   Alleys serving commercial and industrial areas shall not be less
than 30 feet in width.
         (c)   Alleys shall be required for residential areas, and they shall
be not less than 20 feet in width.
         (d)   Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment should be
avoided, but where necessary, they shall be provided with adequate turnaround
facilities at the dead-end, as determined by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   Easements.
         (a)   Where alleys are not provided, easements not less than ten feet
wide shall be provided, where possible, along rear lot lines and along side lot
lines, where necessary, for use by public and private utilities. The Planning
Commission may require aerial easements and easements of greater width for the
extension of main storm and sanitary sewers and other utilities where it is
deemed necessary.
         (b)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a water course, drainage
channel, or stream which drains 160 acres or more of land, there shall be
provided a right-of-way for drainage and public parks and utility purposes
adequate to contain all of the runoff from a 50-year maximum flood. The right-
of-way shall include all of the land within the subdivision that has an
elevation which shall be calculated to provide for the drainage requirements of
the ordinances and regulations relating thereto.
      (4)   Public areas and open spaces. Public parks, playgrounds, school
sites, and other public areas and open spaces shall be provided in accordance
with the requirements and standards set forth in the Comprehensive Plan and in
the ordinances and regulations relating thereto.
      (5)   Blocks.
         (a)   The lengths, widths, and shapes of blocks shall be determined
with due regard for the following:
            1.   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special
needs of the type of use contemplated;
            2.   Zoning requirements as to lot sizes and dimensions;
            3.   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control, and safety
of street traffic; and
            4.   Limitations and opportunities of topography.
         (b)   Blocks for residential use should not be longer than 1,800 feet,
measured along the center line of the block. When a block exceeds 600 feet in
length, the Planning Commission may require a dedicated easement not less than
15 feet in width and a paved crosswalk not less than four feet in width to
provide pedestrian access across the block.
         (c)   Blocks used for residential purposes should be of sufficient
width to allow for two tiers of lots of appropriate depth. Blocks intended for
business and industrial use should be of a width suitable for the intended use
with due allowance of off-street parking and loading facilities.
      (6)   Lots.
         (a)   Residential lots shall be not less than 50 feet in width at the
front building line and shall abut a street a distance of not less than 30
feet; except, a corner lot shall be not less than 60 feet in width at the front
building line.
         (b)   Side lot lines should be approximately at right angles or radial
to street lines.
         (c)   The depth of residential lots should not be less than 90 feet.
         (d)   The area of residential lots shall be not less than 5,000 square
feet.
         (e)   In residential subdivisions where septic tanks or individual
sewage disposal devices are to be installed, the area of the lot shall be not
less than 22,500 square feet or as required by the State Health Department
where water wells are involved, and the width of the lot at the front building
line shall be not less than 100 feet.
         (f)   Lots are not required for subdivision for commercial and
industrial use, but when provided, they should be of appropriate size and
arrangement to provide for adequate off-street parking and loading facilities
based on the intended use.
         (g)   Double frontage and reverse frontage lots should be avoided
except where they are needed to provide for the separation of development from
traffic arteries or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and
orientation. A planting screen easement of at least 20 feet in width shall be
provided along the portion of the lots abutting such a traffic artery or other
use where screening is required. There shall be no right of access across a
planting screen easement.
      (7)   Building lines. Building lines shall be provided for all
residential subdivisions as follows:
         (a)   A front building line shall be located at least 25 feet back of
the street right-of-way line.
         (b)   A side yard building line on the side of a corner lot abutting
the street shall be located not less than 15 feet back of the street right-of-
way when such lot is back-to-back with another lot and not less than 20 feet
back of the street right-of-way line in every other case.
         (c)   A side yard building lines shall be provided not less than ten
feet back of a crosswalk right-of-way line on the side of a lot abutting a mid-
block crosswalk.
         (d)   Restrictions requiring buildings to be located within the
building lines shown on the plat shall be set forth on the plat or on a
separate recorded instrument.
      (8)   Neighborhood unit development. Whenever a subdivision is developed
as a neighborhood unit wherein adequate park or playground area is provided,
through traffic is cared for adequately, and the majority of the minor streets
are of the cul-de-sac or loop type, the Planning Commission may vary the
requirements of this subchapter in order to allow the subdivider more freedom
in the arrangement of streets and lots but at the same time protect the
convenience, health, safety, and welfare of the probable future residents of
the subdivision as well as the character of the surrounding property and the
general welfare of the entire community. However, in no case shall the lot area
be less than 6,000 square feet for detached single-family dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 18-111)
§ 154.072 IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   General provisions. All improvements shall be designed and installed
in accordance with all of the elements of the General Plan and shall meet the
minimum standards established by the ordinances and regulations relating
thereto.
(Prior Code, § 18-112)
   (B)   Plan preparation. Plans for the improvements herein required shall be
prepared by the Town Engineering Department or by a qualified engineer
registered in the state. Two sets of prints of the proposed plans and
specifications for all improvements shall be filed with the Planning Commission
at the time of submission of the final plat. One set of as built plans and
specifications certified and signed by an engineer registered in the state
shall be filed with the Town Clerk prior to the acceptance by the Town Board of
any improvements installed by the subdivider.
(Prior Code, § 18-113)
   (C)   Surety bond. In lieu of completion of the improvements herein
required, the Town Board may require the subdivider to file a surety bond to
ensure the actual construction of such improvements according to the plans and
specifications filed with the Planning Commission within a period of time not
to exceed two years from the date of approval of the final plat. Such bond
shall be in the amount of 100% of the estimated cost of the improvement (as
determined by the Planning Commission) and with surety and conditions
satisfactory to the Town Board. In any case where the Town Board does not
require a bond for the improvements required herein, no building shall be
permitted on any lot or in any area in a subdivision where the proposed
construction will produce runoff or require utility services that affect other
areas or lots located within or outside of the estimated cost is posted for the
portion of the drainage or utility improvements that will protect the affected
area.
(Prior Code, § 18-114)
   (D)   Permanent markers. Each lot and block corner shall be marked with iron
pipes or pins not less than one-half inch in diameter and not less than 18
inches long, set not less than one inch below the finished grade. Each
subdivision corner shall be marked with a permanent concrete marker capped with
a non-corrosive metal plate set not less than one inch below the finished
grade.
(Prior Code, § 18-115)
   (E)   Street improvements. The subdivider of any subdivision to be used for
residential, commercial, industrial, or other purposes shall lay out, grade,
and otherwise improve all streets that are designated on the approved plat or
that directly serve the subdivision in accordance with the specifications of
the town or the county except where the governing bodies have policies of
additional assistance to the owners or developers and in accordance with the
following provisions.
      (1)   The new design of an improvement of an intersection of any new
street with an existing state or federal highway shall be in accordance with
the specifications of the State Highway Department, but in no case shall the
standard be less than the applicable municipal specifications.
      (2)   Whenever a subdivision contains a major street that requires a
street facility that is more costly than is required to serve the future
occupants of the subdivision, the subdivider shall be required to pay only the
portion of the cost of the major street that would equal the cost of an
improvement required to serve only the subdivision as determined by the
Planning Commission.
      (3)   All driveways which connect with public streets shall be
constructed in accordance with Standard Design of Driveway Entrances for
Oklahoma Highways, revised edition, and subsequent amendments thereto, as
prepared by the State Department of Transportation.
(Prior Code, § 18-116)
   (F)   Sidewalks. A plan for a system of sidewalks and walkways shall be
prepared that will provide adequate pedestrian walkways within a residential or
commercial subdivision or portion thereof with consideration given to sidewalk
connections with all of the community facilities and commercial enterprises
located within or adjacent to the subdivision and in a manner that will provide
convenient pedestrian circulation throughout the neighborhood or area in which
the subdivision is located. The Planning Commission may require the
construction of sidewalks to connect with existing or future proposed sidewalks
in areas adjacent to the subdivision where such sidewalks are needed for
pedestrian circulation. Sidewalks and walkways, where constructed in the
subdivision, shall be in accordance with the Sidewalk System Plan, approved by
the Planning Commission, and in accordance with the specifications governing
sidewalk and walkway construction.
(Prior Code, § 18-117)
   (G)   Water lines. The subdivider shall install water lines and fire
hydrants in accordance with the policies and specifications governing water
line construction except where the governing bodies have policies of additional
assistance to owners or developers.
(Prior Code, § 18-118)
   (H)   Sanitary sewers and septic tanks.
      (1)   The subdivider shall install sanitary sewers whenever a sanitary
sewer is reasonably accessible, as determined by the Planning Commission.
Sanitary sewers shall be installed in accordance with the specifications
governing sanitary sewer construction.
      (2)   When subdivisions contain five acres or more, the Planning
Commission may require the subdivider to install sanitary sewers and a disposal
system that is adequate to serve all of the lots within the subdivision.
      (3)   Whenever the installation of sanitary sewer is not required, septic
tanks or other unit disposal systems may be used in accordance with the
following provisions.
         (a)   A lot for residential use on which a unit disposal system is
located shall be not less than 22,500 square feet in area or as required by the
State Health Department.
         (b)   No portion of any unit disposal system shall be located closer
than 20 feet to the lot line of the lot on which the system is located.
         (c)   All unit disposal systems shall comply with the requirements of
the State and County Health Departments.
         (d)   Septic tanks and laterals must be at least 200 feet from any
municipally- owned water well.
(Prior Code, § 18-119)
   (I)   Storm sewers and drainage. Drainage shall be provided in accordance
with the specifications contained in the ordinances and regulations relating
thereto.
(Prior Code, § 18-120)
   (J)   Maintenance and supervision. Where the subdivision contains sewers,
sewage treatment plants, water supply systems, or other physical facilities
that are necessary or desirable for the welfare of the area or that are of
common use or benefit and which are not or cannot be satisfactorily maintained
by an existing public agency, provisions shall be made which are acceptable to
the agency having jurisdiction over the location and maintenance of such
facilities for the property and continuous operation, maintenance, and
supervision of such facilities.
(Prior Code, § 18-121)
§ 154.073 PLAT PREPARATION AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   The preliminary plat.
      (1)   General. The subdivider shall prepare a preliminary plat for
submission to the Planning Commission along with a filing fee established by
the Town Board. Four copies of the preliminary plat shall be submitted to the
office of the Planning Commission not less than seven days prior to the meeting
at which it is to be considered.
      (2)   Certification of design. The preliminary plat shall be accompanied
by a statement signed by the registered engineer preparing the plat certifying
that he or she has, to the best of his or her ability, designed the subdivision
in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan, with which he or she is completely
familiar, and in accordance with the ordinances and regulations governing the
subdivision of land except where an exception is requested in writing and the
reasons for which are clearly stated.
      (3)   Contents of preliminary plat. The preliminary plat shall be drawn
at a scale of 100 feet to one inch and shall contain or be accompanied by the
following information:
         (a)   The proposed name of the subdivision;
         (b)   The name and address of the owner of record, of the subdivider,
and of the registered engineer preparing the plat;
         (c)   A key map showing the location of the proposed subdivision
referenced to existing or proposed major streets and to government section
lines and including the boundaries and number of acres of the drainage area of
which the proposed subdivision is a part;
         (d)   The scale, north point, and date;
         (e)   The names with location of intersecting boundary lines of
adjoining subdivisions and the location of town limits, if falling within or
immediately adjoining the tract;
         (f)   The land contours with vertical intervals not greater than two
feet referenced to a United States geological survey or coast and geodetic
survey benchmark or monument;
         (g)   The location of existing buildings, water, water courses, and
the location of dedicated streets at the point where they adjoin and/or are
immediately adjacent to the subdivision; provided, however, actual measured
distances shall not be required;
         (h)   The length of the boundaries of the tract, measured to the
nearest foot, the proposed location and width of streets, alleys, easements,
and setback lines and the approximate lot dimensions;
         (i)   The location, approximate size, and type of sanitary and storm
sewers, water mains, culverts, power and natural gas lines, and other surface
and subsurface structures and pipe lines existing within or immediately
adjacent to the proposed subdivision and the location, layout, type, and
proposed size of the following structures and utilities:
            1.   Water mains;
            2.   Sanitary sewer mains, sub-mains, and laterals;
            3.   Storm sewers, culverts, and drainage structures; and
            4.   Street improvements.
         (j)   The location of all drainage channels subsurface drainage
structures, the proposed methods of disposing of all runoff from the proposed
subdivision, and the location and size of all drainage easements relating
thereto whether they are located within or outside of the proposed plat; and
         (k)   The classification of every street within or adjacent to the
subdivision in accordance with the intended use of the street based on the
proposed design. This shall be done by placing the appropriate term
(expressway, primary thoroughfare, secondary thoroughfare, and collector or
minor street) in parentheses directly on each street.
      (4)   Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall approve
conditionally or disapprove the plat within 60 days of the date of its
submission by the applicant. If no action be taken by the Planning Commission
at the end of 60 days after submission, the plat shall be deemed to have been
approved unless stipulation for additional time is agreed to by subdivider. If
the preliminary plat is disapproved or approved conditionally, the reasons for
such action shall be stated in writing, a copy of which shall be signed by the
Planning Commission Chairperson and shall be attached to one copy of the plat
and transmitted to the subdivider. The reasons for disapproval or conditional
approval shall refer specifically to those parts of the General Plan or
specific regulation with which the plat does not conform. On conditionally
approving a plat, the Planning Commission may require submission of a revised
preliminary plat. If the plat conforms to all of the standards or after the
applicant and Planning Commission agree upon any revision (which shall be filed
with the Planning Commission on a revised copy), the subdivider may proceed
with the laying out of streets and roads, the preparation of utility plans, and
with the preparation of a final plat.
(Prior Code, § 18-122)
   (B)   The final plat.
      (1)   Plat preparation. A final plat neatly drawn in ink on tracing cloth
or permanent plastic film and three dark lines print thereof shall be submitted
to the office of the Planning Commission not less than five days before the
Planning Commission meeting at which it is to be considered for final approval.
At the same time, there shall be submitted two sets of the proposed plans and
specifications for all improvements and the proposed reconstructions in final
form; provided, however, the final plat may be approved, subject to later
submission of final improvement plans and specifications.
      (2)   Time of submission. The final plat of the proposed subdivision
shall be submitted to the Planning Commission and Town Board for final approval
within one year of the date on which the preliminary plat was approved. If not
submitted for final approval within such time, the preliminary plat shall be
considered as having been disapproved unless the Planning Commission agrees to
an extension of time. The final plat shall be filed in the office of the County
Clerk within 30 days after approval by the Planning Commission and the Town
Board or, if not filed within such time, said approval shall be considered as
having been voided.
      (3)   Drafting. The final plat shall be drawn at a scale of at least 100
feet to the inch from an accurate survey and on sheets whose dimensions are 21
inches by 33 inches between border lines. On the first sheet of every plat,
there shall be a key map showing the location of the subdivision referenced to
government survey section lines and major streets. If more than two sheets are
required for the plat, the key map shall show the number of the sheet for each
area. A border on one-half inch surrounding the sheet shall be left blank at
the top, bottom, and right side, and there shall be a margin of two inches at
the left side for binding purposes.
      (4)   Contents of the final plat. The final plat shall show:
         (a)   The location and description of all section corners and
permanent survey monuments in or near the tract to at least one of which the
subdivision shall be referenced;
         (b)   The length of all required lines dimensioned in feet and
decimals thereof and the value of all required true bearings and angles
dimensioned in degrees and minutes as hereafter specified;
         (c)   The boundary lines of the land being subdivided fully
dimensioned by length and bearings, the location of boundary lines of adjoining
lands, and adjacent subdivisions identified by official names. Material which
is not a part of the subdivision shall be shown in dashed or dotted lines;
         (d)   The lines of all proposed streets fully dimensioned by lengths
and bearings or angles;
         (e)   The lines of all proposed alleys. Where the angle and/or
directions of an alley is not readily discernible from data given for lot and
block lines, the length and/or bearing shall be given;
         (f)   The width and names, where appropriate, of all proposed streets
and alleys and of all adjacent streets, alleys, and easements which shall be
properly located;
         (g)   The lines of all proposed lots fully dimensioned by length and
bearings or angles; except, where a lot line meets a street line at right
angles, the angle or bearing value may be omitted;
         (h)   The outline of any property which is offered for dedication to
public use fully dimensioned by length and bearings with the area marked
“public;”
         (i)   The blocks numbered consecutively throughout the entire
subdivision, the lots numbered consecutively throughout each block, and with
areas to be excluded from platting marked “reserved” or “not a part;”
         (j)   The location of all building lines, setback lines, and easements
for public services or utilities with dimensions showing their location;
         (k)   The radii, arcs, points of tangency, points of intersection, and
central angles for curvilinear streets and radii for all property returns;
         (l)   The proper acknowledgments of owners and the consent of the
mortgagee to plat restrictions;
         (m)   The following, which shall be made and shown on the cloth
tracing:
            1.   Owner’s certificate and dedication, signed;
            2.   Engineer’s certificate of survey, signed and with his or her
seal;
            3.   Certificate for release of mortgage for any portion dedicated
to the public;
            4.   Reference to any separate instruments, including restrictive
covenants, filed in the office of the County Recorder of deeds which directly
affect the land being subdivided;
            5.   Certificate of Planning Commission approval;
            6.   Certificate of Town Board acceptance of ways, easements, and
public land dedications; and
            7.   Treasurer’s certificate.
         (n)   A title which shall include:
            1.   Name of the subdivision;
            2.   Name of town, county, and state; and
            3.   Location and description of the subdivision referenced to
section, range, and township.
      (5)   Planning Commission action.
         (a)   The Planning Commission shall act upon the final plat within 45
days after it has been submitted for final approval. This approval and the day
thereof shall be shown on the plat over the signature of the Planning
Commission Chairperson or Secretary member. Unless stipulation for additional
time is agreed to by the subdivider, and if no action is taken by the Planning
Commission at the end of 45 days after submission, the plat shall be deemed to
have been approved.
         (b)   If the final plat is disapproved, grounds for this refusal shall
be stated in writing, a copy of which shall be transmitted with the tracing and
prints to the applicant. The reasons for disapproval shall refer specifically
to those parts of the General Plan or ordinance or regulation with which the
plat does not comply.
      (6)   Town Board action. Before recording the final plat, it shall be
submitted to the Town Board for approval and for acceptance of public streets,
alleys, and utility easements and land dedicated to public use. This approval
of the plat shall be shown over the signature of the Mayor and properly
attested. The disapproval of any plat or plan by the Town Board shall be deemed
a refusal of the proposed dedications shown thereon.
      (7)   Recording of plat. After final approval of the plat and the
affixing of all required signatures on the original tracing, the subdivider
shall provide the Planning Commission with two dark line prints thereof and one
contact reproducible cloth tracing. The applicant shall file the original
tracing, one dark line on cloth, and one contact reproducible tracing on cloth
or film with the County Clerk.
      (8)   Abandonment of approved plat. All plats may be considered as void
if development is not begun within two years from the official recording date
of the said plat with the County Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 18-123)
§ 154.074 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Variations and exceptions. Whenever the tract to be subdivided is of
such unusual size or shape or is surrounded by such development or unusual
conditions that the strict application of the requirements contained in these
regulations would result in substantial hardship or inequity, the Planning
Commission my vary or modify, except as otherwise indicated, requirements of
design but not of procedure or improvements, so that the subdivider may develop
his or her property in a reasonable manner and so that, at the same time, the
public welfare is protected and the general intent and spirit of these
regulations is preserved. Such modification may be granted upon written request
of the subdivider stating the reason(s) for each modification and may be waived
by an affirmative vote of three-fourth of the membership of the Planning
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 18-124)
   (B)   Violation and penalty.
      (1)   No building permit shall be issued for any new structure or change,
improvement, or alteration of any existing structure on any tract of land which
does not comply with all of the provisions of these regulations.
      (2)   Whoever, being the owner or agent of the owner, of any land within
the area, transfers or sells or agrees to sell or negotiates to sell any land
by reference to or exhibition thereof or by other use of a plat of a
subdivision or a contract for deed or other instrument before such plat or deed
or instrument has been approved by the Planning Commission and the Town Board
or whoever, being the owner or agent of the owner of any parcel of ground,
transfers or sells or agrees to sell or negotiates to sell any tract of land of
less than then ten acres where such tract was not shown of record in the office
of the County Clerk as separately owned at the effective date of the
regulations here provided and not located within a subdivision approved
according to law and filed of record in the office of the County Clerk or is so
located, not comprising at least one entire lot as recorded, without first
obtaining the written approval of the Town Board by its endorsement on the
instrument of transfer or contract of sale or other agreement to transfer shall
be subject to the penalties provided herein; such transaction shall be unlawful
and shall not be recorded by the County Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 18-127)
   (E)   Forms for subdivision compliance. The following tables list the
suggested form for compliance with subdivision regulation:
      (1)   Subdivision bond.
 
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT:
That we, as PRINCIPAL and the undersigned Surety, are held and firmly bound
unto the Town of Arapaho, Oklahoma, hereinafter called TOWN, in the full sum of
DOLLARS ($), for the payment of which, well and truly made, we, and each of us,
bind ourselves jointly and severally, by these present.
Dated this ______ day of ________ 20______.
The conditions of this obligation are such that:
WHEREAS, PRINCIPAL has submitted to the town a preliminary plat for subdivision
or a tract of land described as follows:
AND, WHEREAS, PRINCIPAL has, pursuant to the regulations or ordinances of the
Town of Arapaho, elected to file this bond in lieu of actual completion of
improvements and utilities in the above subdivision.
NOW THEREFORE, if the PRINCIPAL shall within two (2) years from date of
approval of the final plat of the subdivision, faithfully install and complete
improvements and utilities in the subdivision according to the regulations of
ordinances, approved plans, specifications and subdivision rules and
regulations of the TOWN and pay all bills for contractors, subcontractors,
labor and materials incurred in completion thereof; and shall hold harmless and
indemnify the TOWN and all interested property owners against liability, loss
or damage by reason of failure of the PRINCIPAL to faithfully perform the
conditions hereof, then this obligation shall be null and void, otherwise to
remain in full force and effect; PROVIDED, however, that actions upon this bond
by contractors, subcontractors, laborers or material men shall be limited to
six (6) months from and after completion of the improvements and utilities
above referred to.
Signed, sealed and delivered the day and year first above written,
___________________________
Principal
ATTEST:         BY:
___________      __________
Secretary
ATTEST:         BY:
___________      __________
Secretary
Approved as to form and legality this ________day of ________, 20______.
____________________
Town Attorney
Approved by the Town Board of Trustees this ___________ day of ___________,
20______.
ATTEST:
____________      _______________
Town Clerk      Mayor
 
      (2)   Owner’s certificate and dedication.
 
We, __________________, the undersigned, do hereby certify that we are the
owners of and the only persons having any right, title, or interest in the land
shown on the annexed map of ____________________, and that the plat represents
a correct survey of the above described property made with our consent, and
that we hereby dedicate to the public use all the streets as shown on said
annexed map; that the easements as shown on the annexed map are created for the
installation and maintenance of public utilities; that we hereby guarantee a
clear title to all lands so dedicated from ourselves, our heirs or assigns
forever and have caused the same to be released from all encumbrances so that
the title is clear, except as shown in the abstractor’s certificate.
RESTRICTIONS: (if any follow here)
Witness ____________ hand _____________ this ______ day of ________, 20____.
(ACKNOWLEDGMENT)
 
      (3)   Surveyor’s certificate.
 
I, ________________, the undersigned, do hereby certify that I am by profession
a land surveyor of civil engineer and that the annexed map of ______________
consisting of _____________ sheets, correctly represents a survey made under my
supervision of the ________ day of _______, 20_____ and that all of the
monuments shown hereon actually exist and their positions are correctly shown.
Signature
Name: __________________________________
Address: ________________________________
License #: _______________________________
(ACKNOWLEDGMENT)
 
      (4)   Planning Commission approval.
 
Chairman/Secretary of the Planning Commission of the Town of Arapaho, Oklahoma,
hereby certify that the said Commission duly approved the annexed map of on the
________ day of ________, 20_____.
_____________
Chairman
ATTEST:
______________
Secretary
 
      (5)   Acceptance of dedication by Town Board.
 
BE IT RESOLVED by the Town Board of Trustees of the Town of Arapaho, Oklahoma
that the dedications shown on the attached plat of ______________ are hereby
accepted.
Adopted by the Town Board this ____________ day of __________, 20_____.
_____________
Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________
Town Clerk
 
      (6)   Certificate of percolation test. These are applicable where septic
tanks are to be used.
 
I, ____________, registered engineer in the State of Oklahoma, certify that a
soil survey has been completed by (name of testing laboratory) on (date) and
that this test shows that soil to be sufficiently porous to permit septic tanks
for each lot shown on the plat.
_____________
Signature
_____________
Name and Title
 
      (7)   Release of mortgage.
 
In consideration of the platting of the property shown on the annexed map of
_______________________ Addition, and other good and valuable considerations,
receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, _________________ do hereby release,
relinquish, and forever discharge a certain mortgage made by _____________ and
dated the_________day of _________, 20_____, to ___________ which is recorded
in the Book ______________ of Mortgages at Page of the records of
______________ County, State of Oklahoma, insofar as the same covers all
property dedicated for streets, alleys, parks, boulevards, easements of public
use, as shown on said map.
Witness ____________ hand _________ this _______ day of ___________, 20_____.
__________________
Signature
__________________
Name and Title
(ACKNOWLEDGMENT)
 
      (8)   County Treasurer’s certificate.
 
I, ________________, do hereby certify that I am the duly elected, qualified
and acting county treasurer of _________ County, State of Oklahoma. That the
tax records of said county show all taxes are paid for the year __________ and
prior years on the land shown on the annexed plat of _______________ Addition
in _____________ County, Oklahoma; that the required statutory security has
been deposited in the office of the County Treasurer, guaranteeing payment of
the current year’s taxes.
In witness whereof, said county treasurer has caused the instrument to be
executed at __________________________, Oklahoma on this _________ day of
_________, 20_______.
____________________
County Treasurer
 
(Prior Code, § 18-128)
SOIL EROSION CONTROL
§ 154.085 OBLIGATION.
   It shall be the duty and obligation of all owners or developers of additions
or tracts of land within the town limits to take reasonable and necessary
action to prevent the unreasonable erosion within said additions or tracts.
(Prior Code, § 18-129)
§ 154.086 WASHING AND SIFTING ONTO STREETS.
   Extraordinary washing and sifting of soil onto the streets or alleys or
adjacent properties shall be deemed to be unreasonable erosion, as defined
herein.
(Prior Code, § 18-130)
§ 154.087 INSPECTION.
   The Town Building Officials shall be empowered to make inspections of such
situations and conditions and direct the owner or developer as to necessary
corrective action, and such order of the Building Official shall be subject to
review by the Board of the town upon a five-day notice and demand by such owner
or developer.
(Prior Code, § 18-131)
§ 154.088 COMPLIANCE.
   Before such tract or addition shall be accepted by the town as a dedicated
plat, and before a building permit is issued for any part thereof, the owner or
developer shall furnish to the Building Official proof of compliance with these
provisions or proof of adequate planning for such compliance.
(Prior Code, § 18-132)
STORM DRAINAGE AND FLOOD HAZARD AREA GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.100 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The periodic flooding of areas within the town results in hazards to life
and property, in the disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of
the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and
general welfare. Flood and associated losses are caused by the location (in
flood hazard areas) of buildings, structures, and uses of land which are
inadequately protected from flooding and erosion and which contribute to
flooding by impeding the flow of drainage and by increasing flood heights
through displacement of stormwater in floodways and flood-fringe areas.
(Prior Code, § 18-135)
§ 154.101 PURPOSE, SCOPE, AND ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Purpose and scope. These regulations and standards are to protect the
various portions of the urban area from flooding; to provide clean and sanitary
channels for runoff; to prevent pollution of watersheds, streams, and natural
drainage channels; to prevent the encroachment of buildings and improvements on
natural drainage channels; to equitably apportion the cost of improvements; to
protect natural scenic areas; and to provide for the conservation of the
natural resources of the area.
(Prior Code, § 18-136)
   (B)   Application. All subdivisions of land shall comply with the design and
improvement requirements herein established for the protection of flood hazard
areas and the prevention of erosion.
(Prior Code, § 18-137)
§ 154.102 CLASSIFICATION OF DRAINAGE CHANNELS; RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   For the purposes of these regulations, drainage shall be classified as
follows:
      (1)   Surface drainage is runoff of such a limited quantity and/or slow
rate that it does not cause erosion of defined channel;
      (2)   A minor tributary is any drainage channel having a drainage basin
of 640 acres (one square mile) or less in area;
      (3)   A major tributary is any channel having a drainage basin of not
less than one square mile or greater than 25 square miles; and
      (4)   A river is any channel having a drainage basin of greater than 25
square miles.
   (B)   It is intended that responsibility for drainage be allocated as
follows, unless otherwise specifically designated:
      (1)   The developer of a subdivision is responsible for the following:
         (a)   All surface drainage on the subdivision;
         (b)   All increase in surface drainage outside the subdivision which
results from the development of the subdivision;
         (c)   The improvement of all minor tributaries lying within the
subdivision;
         (d)   Any significant increase in rate or quantity of runoff in any
minor or major tributary or river which results from the development of the
subdivision; and
         (e)   Provisions for the maintenance of all floodway and flood-fringe
areas of major tributaries and rivers which have not been dedicated to the
public.
      (2)   The town and other levels of government will be responsible for the
following:
         (a)   The improvement of floodways of major tributaries;
         (b)   The improvement of river floodways; and
         (c)   The maintenance of floodway and flood-fringe areas dedicated to
the public.
(Prior Code, § 18-138)
§ 154.103 METHODS FOR DETERMINATION.
   (A)   Flood hazard areas. The designation of flood hazard areas is set forth
on the Flood Hazard Map. The boundaries of all floodway and flood-fringe areas
shall be designated on the preliminary and the final plat and shall be clearly
marked.
   (B)   Alternative methods for determining stream flow and runoff
characteristics. For all areas not otherwise designated in a floodway or a
flood-fringe area, the developer shall be responsible for having an engineer,
registered in the state, prepare a drainage assessment of all of the area of
the proposed subdivision and all area affected by runoff resulting from
development of proposed subdivision in accordance with the following
provisions.
      (1)   The 100-year maximum flood shall be used as the basis for the
sizing of all drainage channels, bridges, and other structures unless otherwise
specified herein.
      (2)   The calculation of all runoff shall be based on saturated
urbanization of the drainage basin for minor tributaries and surface drainage,
as reflected in the Comprehensive Plan for the town and shall be based on the
maximum degree of urbanization, as reflected in the Comprehensive Plan, for the
drainage basin of a major tributary or river.
      (3)   The calculation of stream flow and runoff characteristics of the
subdivision shall be carried out in consultation with the Town Engineer, and
the methodology and formulas used shall result in quantities which would be not
less than those derived from the application of the following formulas and
values.
         (a)   Runoff from all drainage areas shall be not less than that
determined by Rational Formula:
            1.   Q equals air;
            2.   Q : cubic feet per second;
            3.   A: area to be drained in acres, determined by field surveys
for areas less than 640 acres and by latest government quadrangle maps for
larger areas;
            4.   I: percent of imperviousness of the area. This may vary
between 40% and 95%, but no value of less than 50% may be used for saturated
urban development;
            5.   R: rate of rainfall over entire drainage area in inches per
hour, based on time of concentration and latest government records for area.
         (b)   The size of closed storm sewers, open channels, culverts, and
bridges shall be not less than that determined by using Manning Formula: Q =
(1,486(r2/3)(r)( s1/2)(A))/n
            1.   Q: discharge in cubic feet per second;
            2.   A: cross-sectional area of water in conduit in square feet;
            3.   r: hydraulic radius of water in conduit;
            4.   s: slope of hydraulic gradient, in feet of vertical rise per
foot of horizontal distance; and
            5.   n: roughness coefficient, based on condition and type of
material of conduit lining but not less than 0.013.
(Prior Code, § 18-139)
§ 154.104 FLOOD HAZARD AREAS ON TRIBUTARIES AND RIVERS.
   All floodway and flood-fringe areas located within the subdivision shall be
protected and improved by the developer as follows.
   (A)   All floodways shall be designated as flowage easements and shall be
maintained as permanent open space for use for private recreation or
agriculture for which no buildings or structures are required or dedicated to
the public for drainage, recreation, and utility use.
   (B)   All flood-fringe areas shall be planned for uses which are permitted
in the flood-fringe area of the Zoning Ordinance, and in no case shall the
proposed use or construction cause a displacement of floodwater in the flood-
fringe that will increase flooding in other areas of the floodway or flood-
fringe.
   (C)   When it is determined by the Town Engineer that the development of the
subdivision will significantly increase runoff in the flood hazard area or will
otherwise adversely affect stormwater runoff, the Planning Commission may
require any or all of the following to the extent needed to reduce the adverse
affects of the development.
      (1)   The design and installation of stormwater detention basins and flow
retardation structures to control the rate of runoff may be required within or
outside the subdivision.
      (2)   The existing floodway lying within or immediately adjacent to the
subdivision shall be cleaned to provide for the free flow of water, and the
channel shall be straightened, widened, and improved to the extent required to
prevent overflow beyond the limits of the floodway.
      (3)   Site improvement shall provide for the grading of all building
sites and streets to an elevation where all lots, building areas, and streets
will not be subject to overflow and in a manner that will provide for the rapid
runoff of all rainfall; however, such improvements shall be carried out in a
manner that will preserve and protect large trees and attractive physical
features of the area.
      (4)   Whenever channel improvement are carried out, sodding, back-
sloping, cribbing, and other bank protection shall be designed and constructed
to control erosion for all the anticipated conditions of flow for the segment
of channel involved.
      (5)   A drainage channel shall not be located in a street easement unless
it is placed in an enclosed storm sewer or unless a paved street surface is
provided on both sides of a paved channel to give access to abutting
properties.
      (6)   Culverts, bridges, and other drainage structures shall be
constructed in accordance with the specifications of the town at all locations
where drainage channels intersect with continuous streets or alleys.
(Prior Code, § 18-140)
§ 154.105 MINOR TRIBUTARIES AND DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENTS.
   All minor tributaries and surface drainage located within or immediately
adjacent to serving the subdivision shall be improved by the developer as
follows.
   (A)   All minor tributary channels shall be improved in accordance with the
standards set forth on Figures B, C, D, or E in this section or other
equivalent standards as determined by the Town Engineer. Sections on Figure E
shall be used only for channels of minor tributaries which drain less than 80
acres and which are designed as an integral part of the landscape of the area
so that maintenance of sodded slopes will be the responsibility of the property
owners abutting the channel. All channels shall be designed for self-cleaning
and ease of maintenance, shall have sufficient hard surface along the flow line
to prevent ponding of water, and shall have design characteristics of
alignment, materials of construction, and cross-sectioned elements that will be
hydraulically efficient and visually harmonious with the adjacent landscape.
   (B)   The design and installation of stormwater detention basins and flow
retardation structures to control the rate of runoff may be required within or
outside the subdivision.
   (C)   Enclosed storm sewers may be required by the Town Engineer where
special or unusual conditions make open channels hazardous or otherwise
unfeasible.
   (D)   A drainage channel shall not be located in a street easement unless it
is placed in a closed storm sewer or unless a paved street surface is located
on both sides of a paved drainage channel to give access to abutting
properties.
   (E)   Site grading shall be carried out in such a manner that surface water
from each lot shall flow directly to a storm sewer, improved channel, or paved
street without crossing more than two adjacent lots.
   (F)   Surface water collected on streets shall be diverted to storm drains
at satisfactory intervals to prevent overflow of six-inch high curbs during a
50-year frequency rain for the area and grades involved; provided, however, in
no case shall the drainage area served by one street exceed 20 acres regardless
of the amount of flow.
   (G)   Drainage easements of satisfactory width to provide working room for
construction and maintenance shall be provided for all storm sewers. In no case
shall the total easement be less than 20 feet.
   (H)   Bridges and culverts:
      (1)   Shall be provided where watercourses cross continuous streets or
alleys;
      (2)   Shall be sized to accommodate a 100-year frequency rain, based on
the drainage area involved; and
      (3)   Be designed to conform to town construction specifications.
   (I)   Closed storm sewers shall be constructed of precast or prefabricated
pipe or built in place of closed box design to conform with town construction
specifications to serve a 100-year frequency rain for the drainage area
involved.
   (J)   Open, paved storm drainage shall meet the following standards.
      (1)   Open, paved storm drainage shall be constructed in accordance with
town specifications.
      (2)   Side slopes above the paved section shall be shaped and sodded on a
slope of four horizontal to one vertical or flatter.
      (3)   Fences shall be outside of the 100-year frequency flooding line,
shall not be erected below the shoulder of the sodded section, and in no case
shall fences be closer than six feet (measured horizontally) to the edge of the
paved section except on Figure C sections.
      (4)    Hand-laid rip-rap may be substituted for sodded shoulders where
desired for landscape purposes.
(Prior Code, § 18-141)
§ 154.106 DRAINAGE CHANNELS AND STORM SEWERS OUTSIDE ADDITION BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The town reserves the right to require improvements, provisions of
drainage easements, and for provision of agreements beyond the boundaries of
the subdivision to facilitate flow of water through the addition, to avoid
probability of law suits based on damage from changed runoff in the
subdivision, and to provide continuous improvement of overall storm drainage
system.
   (B)   Requirements outside the addition may include the following.
      (1)   Improvements may be required in channels or storm sewers flowing to
or from the addition or in channels or storm sewers located in adjacent areas
that are affected by flow of water from the addition.
      (2)   The following kinds of improvements may be required:
         (a)   Enlargement or replacement of undersized drainage structures to
provide free flow;
         (b)   Removal of obstructions;
         (c)   Straightening of channel;
         (d)   Widening or deepening of the channel;
         (e)   Construction of erosion-control structures;
         (f)   Back sloping, sodding, and/or rip-rapping of bank; and
         (g)   Construction of closed or open, paved storm sewer system.
      (3)   Property owner agreements, where required, shall be designed to
protect the town from probable lawsuits for damage caused by changed runoff
condition.
      (4)   When subdivision development will result in increased runoff beyond
the boundaries of the subdivision which cannot be accommodated through channel
improvements without causing downstream flooding, the Town Planning Commission
may require the construction of one or more retention reservoirs on the
subdivision which will temporarily impound and discharge water from the
subdivision site at the rate and volume equivalent to the discharge from the
undeveloped subdivision site. The design shall be for a 100-year frequency
flood. Plans shall be approved by the Town Engineer. The construction and
maintenance of retention reservoirs shall be the responsibility of the
developer.
(Prior Code, § 18-142)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of §§
154.001 through
154.006,
154.020 through
154.023,
154.035 through
154.051,
154.065 through
154.088, and 154.100 through 154.106 shall be guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine and costs as provided for in §
10.99. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, 18-143)
   (C)   No changes of any nature shall be made in the Official Zoning Map or
matter shown thereon except in conformity with the procedures set forth in this
§
154.039. Any unauthorized change of whatever kind by any person or person shall
be considered a violation of this subchapter and is punishable under §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 18-96)
   (D)   A violation of §
154.074 shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by fine. Any
person, firm, or corporation who violates or refuses to comply with any of the
provisions of these regulations shall be fined for each offense. Each day a
violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 18-127)
   (E)   Each violation of §§
154.085 through
154.088 shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as provided
herein.
(Prior Code, § 18-133)
CHAPTER 155: OIL AND GAS DRILLING
Section
General Provisions
   
155.01   Definitions
   
155.02   Pooling of lots or blocks
   
155.03   Compliance with Zoning Ordinance
   
155.04   Drilling operation regulations
Permits and Fees
   
155.15   Permits
   
155.16   Permit regulations and bond
   
155.17   Applications for permits
   
155.18   Refusal to grant permits
   
155.19   Annual fee
 
   
155.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. A tract of land within the corporate limits of the town having (for
its exterior boundaries) public streets, roads, and/or highways and having for
its corporate limits any railway rights-of-way, roads or streets, and highways
shown on the recorded plat of the town and additions thereto but which are not
owned for public use or bounded at its exterior limits by a combination of
such. Provided, however, if the laws and regulations of the United States or
the State of Oklahoma prevent or make it impracticable to drill an oil well in
an area as small as a town block, then it is the intention of this chapter that
the word BLOCK, as herein used, shall mean and include and be construed to mean
and include such area of the town in addition to an ordinary block or blocks as
will make the total area great enough to comply with such laws and regulations.
   OIL WELL. The ordinary and accepted meaning of such expression or name, and
in addition thereto, the term shall also include a natural gas well, casing
head gas well, and salt water well.
   PERSON. In both the singular and plural, the term shall have the ordinary
and accepted meaning of the word person and, in addition thereto, shall include
any individual, partnership, association, corporation, or any other entity
operating as a person, partnership, association, or a corporation.
(Prior Code, § 16-1)
§ 155.02 POOLING OF LOTS OR BLOCKS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent or be construed to prevent the pooling
of lots or blocks of the town with land adjacent to and outside the corporate
limits of the town for gas or oil wells drilled, maintained, or operated on any
of such lots or blocks so pooled without compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 16-5)
§ 155.03 COMPLIANCE WITH ZONING ORDINANCE.
   Oil, gas, or disposal wells shall be located only in those zoning districts
which permit such uses, as outlined in the municipality’s adopted Zoning
Ordinance, as may be amended form time to time.
(Prior Code, § 16-7)
§ 155.04 DRILLING OPERATION REGULATIONS.
   In the drilling, operation, and maintenance of any oil or gas wells in the
town, all of such operations shall be subject to the following regulations, and
violations thereof are hereby declared unlawful and an offense.
   (A)   No oil, liquid with oil content, gasoline, other oil product, surface
mud, rotary mud, sand, or salt water shall be disposed of by draining or
diverting the same into or upon any public highway, street, alley, drainage
ditch, storm sewer, sanitary sewer, gutter, or paving nor shall any such
substances be permitted to escape from the property owned, leased, or
controlled by the person carrying on such operations by seepage or overflow.
   (B)   No steam, gasoline, natural gas, diesel, or other internal combustion
engine shall be operated within corporate limits of the town without being
muffled so as not to create a nuisance.
   (C)   All slush pits and other excavations shall be filled and leveled off
upon the completion of any oil or gas well or upon the abandonment of any of
the operations covered in this chapter.
   (D)   All storage tanks or other tanks intended to contain inflammable
substances shall be protected by earthen embankments constructed about the same
in such manner as to adequately contain all the contents and not installed
nearer than 30 feet to any dwelling house, established business structure,
church, or school building.
   (E)   No oil or gas well shall be drilled, operated, or maintained nor shall
any of the operation in connection therewith be carried on nearer than 100 feet
by the shortest distance to any previously established church or school
building.
   (F)   Approved equipment, devices, and methods for the safety of life and
property, such as are commonly known in the oil drilling and producing
business, must be used in the municipality in the carrying on of all the
operations covered by this chapter, and the failure to use any of such
equipment, devices, or methods in any substantially important operation shall
be grounds for immediately stopping further work until such failure has been
corrected.
   (G)   The premises upon which any oil or gas well is drilled, operated, or
maintained shall be kept free from accumulations of rubbish, litter, unused
materials or equipment, excessive rotary mud and slush pits, waste oil or oil
substances, or other waste oil product so far as such premises may be
reasonably kept free of the same in carrying on the operations covered by this
chapter.
   (H)   Where (in the installation, erection, or construction of work being
done by virtue of permits issued under this chapter) sidewalks or the surface
of streets, alleys, other rights-of-way, or any other public property is
disturbed, damaged, or destroyed, the same must be replaced or restored to its
original condition or better in as short a period of time thereafter as may be
reasonably done.
   (I)   All derricks must be erected and operated in compliance with the
rules, regulations, and specifications promulgated by the Corporation
Commission of the state and the various departments of said Commission. Failure
to abide by such rules and regulations and specifications in the case of any
substantially important operation shall, in addition to the other penalties
provided in this chapter, automatically operate as a forfeiture and
cancellation of all permits obtained in the case of the particular well where
such violations occur and automatically terminate the right to continue such
work or any part thereof, excepting such as may be necessary for safety or to
prevent serious loss; such operation shall not be continued until a new permit
has been obtained and paid for on the same basis as a new and original permit.
   (J)   Full and accurate drilling floor information and any and all other
full and accurate information operations under permits procured under this
chapter shall be furnished the Chief of Police, the Town Board of Trustees, or
any of his, her, or its duly authorized agents at any time. Such information
shall be supplied upon demand and without unnecessary delay.
   (K)   Full police authority, for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of
this chapter, are hereby given to the Chief of Police or to any other duly
authorized agent of the Town Board of Trustees.
   (L)   No pipelines of any kind, no power transmissions systems of any kind,
no communication systems of any kind, and no other transmission systems of any
kind shall be erected or installed in, along, across, under, or over any
street, alley, highway, or railroad right-of-way in the town except by special
consent, by motion, of the Town Board of Trustees.
   (M)   At the conclusion of drilling operations, a fence (minimum eight feet
in height with three stranded top mount angles) shall be erected around both
the well and the machinery used in connection with the operation of the well.
(Prior Code, § 16-15)
PERMITS AND FEES
§ 155.15 PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to drill, maintain, or operate an oil or gas well
within the corporate limits of the town except by a permit to do so obtained as
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Each such permit shall cover and provide for the drilling,
maintaining, and operating of one oil or gas well only and more than one oil or
gas well shall be drilled in any one block; provided, however, at the
discretion of the Town Board of Trustees, a permit, as herein provided for, may
be issued for the drilling of a second well in any one or more blocks if the
first well is producing in substantially paying quantities; such second well
may then be drilled to a new horizon and/or source of supply where such new
horizon, sand, or source of supply is substantially different from that to
which the first well was drilled and in which the first well is operating.
(Prior Code, § 16-2) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.16 PERMIT REGULATIONS AND BOND.
   Permits for drilling, maintaining, and operating oil and gas wells in the
town shall be granted only to responsible persons who have met, to the
satisfaction of the Town Board of Trustees, all of the following requirements:
   (A)   Payment of $500 to the Town Clerk for:
      (1)   The issuance of such permit; and
      (2)   The annual fee for the first year of police, safety, and sanitary
inspection.
   (B)   Depositing with the Town Clerk, to become and remain a part of the
permanent records of the municipality, a valid and legal consent, in writing,
fully executed and acknowledged by the owner of the lot where the oil or gas
well is to be drilled, agreeing that all rents and royalties accruing from oil,
gas, or casing head gas produced from said well shall be prorated among all the
owners of the oil, gas, and other mineral rights in and under said block in the
proportion that each owners interest in the block bears to the whole of the
block;
   (C)   Depositing with the Town Clerk, to become and remain a part of the
permanent records of the municipality, a valid and legal consent, in writing,
fully executed and acknowledged by the owner or owners of not less than 51% of
the oil, gas, and other mineral rights of the block in well upon the lot or
lots as indicated in such application; and
   (D)   Depositing with the Town Clerk, to become and remain a part of the
permanent records of the municipality, good and sufficient bonds covering each
separate oil well for which permits are requested executed by one or more
responsible bonding, insurance, or indemnity companies authorized to do
business within the state (such bond to run in the name of the town) and be
conditioned that the applicant will pay for injury to the person or damages to
re-allot personal property (including death drilling, operation, or machinery,
tanks pipe line, or appurtenances thereto) and that such applicant will also
abide by and comply with all the provisions of this and other ordinances of the
municipality.
      (1)   Such bond or bonds shall further provide that insolvency or
bankruptcy of the insured shall not release the insurance company from any
payment due under such bond or bonds. If, by reason of such insolvency or
bankruptcy, an execution on the judgment against the insured is returned and
unsatisfied, the judgment creditor shall have a right of action against the
insurance company to recover the amount of said judgment to the same extent
that the insured would have had to recover against the company the insured paid
judgment.
      (2)   Such bond or bonds shall further provide against the cancellation
until 30 days’ notice in writing of such intended cancellation shall have been
given the Town Board of Trustees by the delivery of written notice to the Town
Clerk. Upon such notice being given, the person to whom such permit has been
issued shall immediately be notified thereof, and if such person shall fail
within 30 days after having received notice of such intended cancellation to
provide other sufficient bond or bonds in compliance with the terms and
provisions of this chapter, then the permit issued to such person shall be
automatically suspended for all purposes, and all operations being carried on
under such permit shall cease until such other sufficient bond or bonds have
been posted with the Town Clerk and approved, by motion of the Town Board of
Trustees, at a regular or special meeting.
      (3)   Such bond or bonds, among other things, shall cover and indemnify
such town and the inhabitation thereof against loss of or damage to private or
public water supply.
      (4)   The total liability under such bond or bonds in the case of each
oil or gas well shall not be less than $50,000 and shall be made for a period
of not less than one year, and no oil or gas well shall be drilled, maintained,
or operated at any time or for any period of time without currently valid and
legal bond or bonds in such amount being on deposit with said Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 16-3)
§ 155.17 APPLICATIONS FOR PERMITS.
   (A)   Application for permits to drill, operate, and maintain oil or gas
wells in the town shall be filed with the Town Clerk and said Town Clerk, upon
authorization of the Town Board of Trustees, shall issue permits by motion.
   (B)   Such permits shall, without so stating, also permit the use of such
explosives and amounts thereof as are used in such operations but shall not
permit the storage of any amount of explosive, at any time, within the town.
   (C)   Applications shall be in writing (signed by the applicant or some
person on his, her, or its behalf duly authorized) and shall state the block
and exact lot and location thereof where the proposed oil well will be drilled.
There shall be attached thereto a list of the persons owning or having an
interest in any of the lots in the block together with the last known post
office address of each of them.
(Prior Code, § 16-4)
§ 155.18 REFUSAL TO GRANT PERMITS.
   Not withstanding any provision of this chapter, the Town Board of Trustees
may, at its discretion, refuse to grant to any person a permit to drill,
maintain, or operate an oil or gas well within the corporate limits of the town
and may refuse to grant a renewal of any prior permit granted; provided,
however, the applicant for such permit or renewal thereof has not obtained a
vested property right in reliance upon his or her right to obtain such permit
or renewal prior to the effective date of the original ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 16-6)
§ 155.19 ANNUAL FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby levied an annual police, safety and sanitary
inspection fee of $500 for the first year, and $100 for each succeeding year
thereafter for each oil or gas well drilled, operated, or maintained in the
town.
   (B)   The initial fee paid with and accompanying the application in the
first instance shall also include the granting of the permit.
   (C)   Each successive annual fee paid after the first shall also cover and
include permission to continue such drilling, operation, and maintenance
operations.
(Prior Code, § 16-8)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by fine and costs as provided for in §
10.99. Each day such violation is committed or continues to exist shall
constitute a separate offense and be punishable as such. In addition, violation
of any of the provisions hereof declared to be a public nuisance shall be a
basis for injunction at the suit of the town or at the suit of any person,
firm, or corporation adversely affected thereby.
(Prior Code, § 16-20)
CHAPTER 156: RAILROADS
Section
   
156.01   To improve streets and alleys
   
156.02   Prohibited actions
 
   
156.99   Penalty
§ 156.01 TO IMPROVE STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   When a railway occupies or crosses any portion of a street with its
tracks either on or adjacent thereto, the railroad company shall improve as
much of the street as is occupied by its tracks and two feet on either side
thereof in a manner satisfactory to the Town Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Whenever a railroad company crosses or occupies an alley with its
tracks, such company shall improve, drain, grade, and/or pave such alley in
order to eliminate problems created by the presence of its tracks.
   (C)   When more than one track crosses a street within a distance of 100
feet (measuring from inside rail to inside rail), the railroad company shall
grade, drain, and curb the street area between its tracks and surface in a
manner satisfactory to the Town Board of Trustees.
   (D)   Railroad companies shall keep all such improvements made by them in
good state of repair at all times.
(Prior Code, § 23-1)
§ 156.02 PROHIBITED ACTIONS.
   (A)   Climbing on trains.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to climb upon, hold to, or in
any manner attach himself or herself to any train or railroad car while such is
in motion within the town unless such person is acting in the line of duty.
      (2)   It shall also be unlawful to board any train or railroad car
(passenger, freight, or other) without a proper ticket or the permission of the
person in charge of the train or railroad car or not in the line of duty.
(Prior Code, § 23-2)
   (B)   Speed of trains. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or
drive a train or railroad car at a speed greater than 25 mph within the
corporate boundaries of the town.
(Prior Code, § 23-3)
   (C)   Loitering on railroad premises. It shall be unlawful for any person
not acting within the line of duty, not having any proper business, or not
being on any proper mission requiring his or her presence there to loiter
anywhere within a railroad yard or upon other railroad premises.
(Prior Code, § 23-4)
   (D)   Blocking of streets by trains. It shall be unlawful for the operator
of any train to block any street intersection within the corporate boundaries
of the town at any time for more than five minutes; provided, this shall not
apply to cars in motion other than those engaged in switching.
(Prior Code, § 23-5) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
by fine and costs as provided in §
10.99. Each day’s continuation of any such violation shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 23-30)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   [Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oklahoma Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OKLAHOMA STATUTES
 
Oklahoma Statutes Section Code Section
Oklahoma Statutes Section         Code Section
2 O.S. 7-401 et seq.              93.46
2 O.S. 14-38                      113.02
4 O.S. 42.1                       90.01
4 O.S. 85.6                       90.43
4 O.S. 154                        90.03
4 O.S. 391 et seq.                90.41
11 O.S. 1-102                     92.22;
                                  92.24
11 O.S. 2-101 et seq.             30.01
11 O.S. 8-102                     30.20
11 O.S. 8-105                     31.02
11 O.S. 8-106                     30.25;
                                  31.05
11 O.S. 8-107 through 8-109       30.24
11 O.S. 8-113                     30.04
11 O.S. 12-101 et seq.            30.02
11 O.S. 12-102                    30.20
11 O.S. 12-103.1                  30.20
11 O.S. 12-104                    30.40
11 O.S. 12-105                    30.40
                                  30.21;
11 O.S. 12-106                    31.26;
                                  31.29
11 O.S. 12-109.1                  31.20
11 O.S. 12-109.3                  31.20
11 O.S. 12-109.5                  31.20
11 O.S. 12-110.1 through 12-110.3 31.21
11 O.S. 12-111                    31.45
11 O.S. 14-111(c)                 10.99
                                  31.01;
11 O.S. 12-112                    31.26;
                                  31.29
11 O.S. 12-113                    31.03
11 O.S. 12-114                    31.22;
                                  31.45
11 O.S. 14-102 through 14-104     30.26
11 O.S. 14-106                    30.26
11 O.S. 14-107.A                  150.01
11 O.S. 14-109                    30.05
11 O.S. 14-110                    30.05
11 O.S. 14-111                    31.22
11 O.S. 16-101 et seq.            30.20
11 O.S. 17-102                    33.01
11 O.S. 17-206                    31.24
11 O.S. 17-207                    31.24
11 O.S. 17-211                    33.01
11 O.S. 17-212                    31.24
11 O.S. 22-11                     92.24
11 O.S. 22-101 et seq.            30.03
11 O.S. 22-104                    30.04
                                  110.01;
11 O.S. 22-106                    110.03;
                                  110.16
                                  90.27;
11 O.S. 22-107                    110.01—
                                  110.03
11 O.S. 22-111                    92.20
11 O.S. 22-112                    92.22;
                                  92.23
11 O.S. 22-112.1                  92.23
                                  90.06;
11 O.S. 22-115                    90.26;
                                  90.40
11 O.S. 22-120                    93.15
11 O.S. 22-209                    32.38
11 O.S. 23-101                    33.03
11 O.S. 23-102                    33.03
11 O.S. 27-102                    32.01
11 O.S. 27-103                    32.02
11 O.S. 27-104                    32.99
11 O.S. 27-104.A                  31.22
11 O.S. 27-104.B                  31.22
11 O.S. 27-105                    32.21
11 O.S. 27-106                    31.22
11 O.S. 27-107                    31.22
11 O.S. 27-108                    31.23;
                                  32.23
11 O.S. 27-109                    31.02;
                                  32.24
11 O.S. 27-110                    32.22
11 O.S. 27-112                    32.03;
                                  32.24
11 O.S. 27-113                    31.22
11 O.S. 27-114                    31.22
11 O.S. 27-115                    32.41
11 O.S. 27-117                    32.36;
                                  32.42
11 O.S. 27-117.1                  32.35
11 O.S. 27-118                    32.39
11 O.S. 27-119                    32.05
11 O.S. 27-120                    32.05
11 O.S. 27-121                    32.60
11 O.S. 27-122.1                  32.62
11 O.S. 27-123                    32.62
11 O.S. 27-125                    32.44
11 O.S. 27-126                    32.61
11 O.S. 27-127                    32.04
11 O.S. 27-129                    32.45
11 O.S. 27-130                    32.45
11 O.S. 28-105                    32.21
11 O.S. 29-101                    31.50
11 O.S. 29-106                    31.24
11 O.S. 29-201 et seq.            31.50
11 O.S. 29-201                    31.50
11 O.S. 29-203                    31.50
11 O.S. 29-204                    31.25;
                                  31.50
11 O.S. 34-101 et seq.            31.45
11 O.S. 34-103                    31.45
11 O.S. 34-104                    31.45
11 O.S. 43-101                    154.035
11 O.S. 43-109                    154.035
11 O.S. 44-101                    154.035
11 O.S. 44-110                    154.035
11 O.S. 45-101 through 45-105     154.035;
                                  154.066
11 O.S. 49-122.1 et seq.          33.04
21 O.S. 1-3                       130.01
21 O.S. 42 et seq.                130.02
21 O.S. 153 et seq.               130.04
21 O.S. 171 et seq.               130.03
21 O.S. 645 et seq.               132.06
21 O.S. 941 et seq.               131.01
21 O.S. 1021 et seq.              131.05
21 O.S. 1025 et seq.              131.06
21 O.S. 1541.1                    131.03
21 O.S. 1701 et seq.              133.01
21 O.S. 1753.3                    133.08
21 O.S. 105                       32.37
21 O.S. 344                       30.04;
                                  33.01
21 O.S. 345                       30.04
21 O.S. 1195                      93.17
21 O.S. 1199                      93.15
21 O.S. 1682                      90.07
21 O.S. 1683                      90.07
21 O.S. 1685                      90.07
21 O.S. 1691                      90.04
21 O.S. 1761.1                    133.08
22 O.S. 91 et seq.                31.45
22 O.S. 4                         32.37
22 O.S. 22-1181                   31.22
22 O.S. 181 et seq.               30.24
22 O.S. 1181                      31.04
22 O.S. 1181 et seq.              30.24
22 O.S. 172 through 174           32.40
25 O.S. 1 et seq.                 10.02
25 O.S. 101 through 104           31.20
25 O.S. 301 et seq.               30.23
25 O.S. 304.1 et seq.             30.23
25 O.S. 305                       30.23
25 O.S. 306                       30.23
25 O.S. 311.1                     30.23
25 O.S. 311.8                     30.23
25 O.S. 311.12                    30.23
25 O.S. 1302                      30.04
27A O.S. 2-6-303                  53.20;
                                  53.21
27A O.S. 2-10-101 et seq.         51.01
37 O.S.                           131.22
37 O.S. 501 et seq.               31.20
37A O.S.                          112.18
37A O.S. 1-101-6-129              112.01
37A O.S. 2-110                    31.20
37A O.S. 2-135                    31.20
37A O.S. 3-108                    31.20
47 O.S.                           70.01
47 O.S. 1-130 through 1-147       70.01
47 O.S. 6-107.1                   31.22
47 O.S. 6-209                     31.22
47 O.S. 7-204                     70.03
47 O.S. 7-503                     70.03
47 O.S. Chapter 7, Article 6      70.03
47 O.S. 562                       76.15
47 O.S. 1102                      72.04
50 O.S. 1                         92.03
50 O.S. 2                         90.05;
                                  92.04
50 O.S. 5                         92.05
50 O.S. 7                         92.04
50 O.S. 14                        92.04
                                  90.05;
50 O.S. 16                        92.02;
                                  92.20
51 O.S. 151 et seq.               33.03
51 O.S. 153                       33.03
51 O.S. 155                       33.03
59 O.S. 1016                      31.28;
                                  150.05
59 O.S. 1020                      150.05
59 O.S. 1680 et seq.              150.06
59 O.S. 1693                      150.06
59 O.S. 1696                      150.06
61 O.S. 101 et seq.               33.02
62 O.S. 310.1                     33.01
62 O.S. 355                       33.01
62 O.S. 357                       33.01
63 O.S. 1-209                     31.49
63 O.S. 1-503                     93.16
63 O.S. 1-504                     93.17
63 O.S. 1-507                     93.15
63 O.S. 1-508                     90.11
63 O.S. 1-1011                    92.21
63 O.S. 141.1 et seq.             91.06
63 O.S. 683.11                    31.30
63 O.S. 701-708                   111.01
68 O.S. 205                       34.33;
                                  34.59
68 O.S. 205 et seq.               34.34
68 O.S. 213                       34.27
68 O.S. 217                       34.30;
                                  34.56
68 O.S. 220                       34.31;
                                  34.57
                                  34.32;
68 O.S. 227                       34.57;
                                  34.58
68 O.S. 230                       34.27
                                  34.21—
68 O.S. 1350 et seq.              34.23;
                                  34.29;
                                  34.52
68 O.S. 1350                      34.22
68 O.S. 1351 et seq.              34.21
68 O.S. 1352                      34.20
68 O.S. 1354                      34.23
68 O.S. 1355                      34.24
68 O.S. 1355 through 1360         34.24
68 O.S. 1356                      34.24
68 O.S. 1357                      34.24
68 O.S. 1358                      34.24
68 O.S. 1359                      34.24
68 O.S. 1360                      34.24
68 O.S. 1361                      34.28
68 O.S. 1362                      34.26
68 O.S. 1365                      34.25
68 O.S. 1366                      34.29
68 O.S. 1408                      34.54
68 O.S. 1622                      91.05
68 O.S. 1627                      91.05
68 O.S. 1631                      91.05
68 O.S. 2601-2605                 34.01
68 O.S. 2701                      34.20
68 O.S. 2705                      34.20
68 O.S. 2706                      34.36
74 O.S. 85.2                      33.01
75 O.S.                           31.04
77 O.S. 37-115                    53.18
82 O.S. 1084.2                    151.04
82 O.S. 1601 et seq.              152.01
                                  
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
 
Prior Code Section Code Section
Prior Code Section Code Section
1-1                30.01
1-2                30.02
1-3                30.03
1-10               30.20
1-11               30.21
1-12               30.22
1-13               30.04
1-14               30.23
1-15               30.24
1-16               30.25
1-25               30.40
1-26               31.20
1-27               31.21
1-28               31.01
1-29               31.45
1-30               31.22
1-31               31.23
1-32               31.24
1-33               31.25
1-34               31.26
1-35               31.27
1-36               31.28
1-37               31.29
1-38               31.30
1-39               31.46
1-41               31.47
1-42               31.48
1-44               31.49
1-50               33.01
1-51               33.02
1-52               33.03
1-60               34.20
1-61               34.21
1-62               34.21
1-63               34.22
1-64               34.20
1-65               34.20
1-66               34.23
1-67               34.24
1-68               34.25
1-69               34.26
1-70               34.27
1-71               34.28
1-72               34.29
1-73               34.30
1-74               34.31
1-75               34.32
1-77               34.33
1-78               34.34
1-79               34.35
1-80               34.36
1-85               34.50
1-86               34.51
1-87               34.52
1-88               34.52
1-89               34.53
1-90               34.53
1-91               34.54
1-92               34.55
1-93               34.56
1-94               34.57
1-95               34.58
1-97               34.59
1-98               34.60
1-114              33.04
1-159              34.01
1-160              34.02
1-161              34.03
1-162              34.04
1-163              34.05
1-164              50.07
1-175              95.01
1-176              95.02
1-177              95.03
1-178              95.04
1-179              95.05
1-180              95.06
1-181              95.07
1-182              95.08
1-183              95.09
1-184              95.10
1-185              95.11
1-186              95.12
1-187              95.13
1-188              95.13
1-199              31.02
1-200              31.03
1-201              30.06
1-202              31.05
1-203              31.04
1-204              30.26
1-205              30.26
1-206              30.05
1-207              30.27
3-1                90.01
3-2                90.06
3-3                90.06
3-4                90.05
3-5                90.03
3-6                90.04
3-7                90.07
3-8                90.06
3-9                90.08
3-10               90.11
3-11               90.09
3-12               90.06
3-13               90.25
3-14               90.10
3-15               90.02
3-16               90.12
3-25               90.26
3-26               90.27
3-35               90.40
3-36               90.41
3-37               90.42
3-38               90.43
3-45               90.99
4-1                150.01
4-2                150.01
4-3                150.01
4-6                150.02
4-7                150.03
4-15               152.01
4-16               152.05
4-17               152.02
4-18               152.06
4-19               152.04
4-20               152.01
4-21               152.07
4-22               152.09
4-23               152.03
4-25               152.03
4-26               152.08
4-27               152.10
4-28               152.10
4-29               152.09
4-30               152.11
4-31               152.12
4-32               152.13
4-33               152.14
4-51               150.04
4-52               150.05
4-53               150.05
4-54               150.06
4-55               150.06
4-56               150.07;
                   152.03
4-57               150.08
4-70               150.99
5-1                110.01
5-2                110.02
5-3                110.03
5-4                110.03
5-5                110.03
5-10               110.15
5-11               110.16
5-12               110.17
5-15               110.04
5-16               113.01
5-17               111.01
5-18               113.02
5-30               110.99
8-1                31.50
8-2                31.50
8-3                91.01
8-10               91.02
8-11               91.03
8-12               91.03
8-13               91.04
8-20               91.05
8-21               91.05
8-22               91.05
8-23               91.06
8-30               91.99
9-1                10.02;
                   10.04
9-10               10.11
9-11               10.14
9-12               10.09
9-13               10.03
9-14               10.01
9-15               10.15
9-16               10.13
9-17               10.12
9-20               10.99
9-21               10.99
10-1               93.15
10-2               93.16
10-3               93.17
10-10              93.30
10-11              93.31
10-12              93.32
10-13              93.33
10-20              93.01
10-21              93.02
10-22              93.02
10-23              93.02
10-24              93.02
10-25              93.02
10-26              93.02
10-27              93.02
10-28              93.02
10-29              93.02
10-30              93.02
10-31              93.02
10-35              93.45
10-36              93.46
11-1               53.15
11-2               53.16
11-3               53.17
11-10              53.18
11-11              53.19
11-12              53.20
11-13              53.21
11-14              53.22
11-15              53.23
11-25              53.99
12-1               153.01
12-2               153.02
12-3               153.03
12-4               153.04
12-5               153.05
12-6               153.06
12-10              153.20
12-11              153.21
12-12              153.22
12-13              153.23
12-14              153.40
12-15              153.24
12-16              153.25
12-20              153.26
12-30              153.55
12-31              153.57
12-32              153.58
12-33              153.59
12-34              153.56
12-35              153.60
12-36              153.61
12-37              153.62
12-38              153.62
12-39              153.62
12-40              153.63
12-41              153.62
12-42              153.64
12-43              153.65
12-44              153.66
12-45              153.67
12-50              153.41
12-70              153.99
13-1               32.01
13-2               32.02
13-11              32.20
13-12              32.21
13-13              32.22
13-14              32.23
13-15              32.24
13-16              32.03
13-17              32.42
13-18              32.35
13-19              32.41
13-20              32.38
13-21              32.37
13-22              32.40
13-23              32.36
13-24              32.39
13-25              32.43
13-26              32.05
13-27              32.05
13-28              32.60
13-29              32.61
13-30              32.62
13-31              32.44
13-32              32.04
13-33              32.45
13-34              32.45
13-40              32.99
14-1               92.01
14-2               92.02
14-3               92.03
14-4               92.04
14-5               92.04
14-6               92.05
14-7               92.06
14-10              92.20
14-11              92.21
14-12              92.22
14-13              92.24
14-14              92.23
14-25              92.99
15-1               130.01
15-2               130.02
15-3               130.04
15-4               130.03
15-10              131.01
15-12              131.02
15-13              131.03
15-14              131.07
15-15              131.07
15-16              131.04
15-17              131.05
15-18              131.06
15-21              131.03
15-30              132.01
15-31              132.02
15-32              132.03
15-33              132.04
15-34              132.05
15-40              132.06
15-50              133.01
15-51              133.02
15-52              133.03
15-53              133.04
15-54              133.05
15-55              133.05
15-56              133.05
15-57              133.05
15-58              133.06
15-59              133.07
15-60              132.07
15-61              133.08
15-71              94.01
15-72              94.02
15-73              94.03
15-74              94.04
15-75              94.04
15-76              94.05
15-77              94.06
15-78              94.09
15-79              94.10
15-80              94.10
15-81              94.11
15-82              94.07
15-83              94.08
15-84              134.01
15-85              134.02
15-86              134.03
15-87              134.04
15-88              134.05
15-89              134.06
15-90              134.07
15-91              134.08
15-92              133.09
15-93              132.08
15-94              134.09
15-95              134.09
15-96              134.09
15-97              134.10
15-100             94.99;
                   130.99
16-1               155.01
16-2               155.15
16-3               155.16
16-4               155.17
16-5               155.02
16-6               155.18
16-7               155.03
16-8               155.19
16-15              155.04
16-20              155.99
17-10              96.01
17-11              96.03
17-12              96.03
17-13              96.03
17-14              96.03
17-15              96.03
17-16              96.03
17-17              96.03
17-18              96.03
17-19              96.03
17-20              96.03
17-21              96.03
17-22              96.03
17-23              96.02
17-24              96.03
17-25              96.03
17-26              96.03
17-27              96.99
18-1               154.001
18-2               154.001
18-3               154.001
18-4               154.003
18-5               154.001
18-6               154.004
18-7               154.005
18-8               154.005
18-9               154.006
18-10              154.020
18-11              154.021
18-12              154.022
18-13              154.023
18-15              154.035
18-16              154.036
18-17              154.037
18-18              154.038
18-19              154.041
18-20              154.041
18-21              154.041
18-22              154.041
18-23              154.041
18-24              154.041
18-25              154.042
18-26              154.042
18-27              154.042
18-28              154.042
18-29              154.042
18-30              154.043
18-31              154.043
18-32              154.043
18-33              154.043
18-34              154.043
18-40              154.044
18-41              154.044
18-42              154.044
18-43              154.044
18-44              154.044
18-45              154.044
18-46              154.045
18-47              154.045
18-48              154.045
18-49              154.045
18-50              154.045
18-51              154.045
18-52              154.046
18-53              154.046
18-54              154.046
18-55              154.046
18-56              154.046
18-57              154.046
18-58              154.047
18-59              154.047
18-60              154.047
18-61              154.047
18-62              154.047
18-63              154.047
18-64              154.047
18-65              154.048
18-66              154.048
18-67              154.048
18-68              154.048
18-69              154.048
18-70              154.048
18-71              154.048
18-72              154.048
18-73              154.049
18-74              154.049
18-75              154.049
18-76              154.049
18-77              154.049
18-78              154.049
18-79              154.049
18-80              154.049
18-81              154.049
18-82              154.050
18-83              154.050
18-84              154.050
18-85              154.050
18-86              154.050
18-87              154.050
18-88              154.051
18-89              154.051
18-90              154.051
18-91              154.051
18-92              154.051
18-93              154.040
18-94              154.040
18-96              154.039;
                   154.999
18-101             154.065
18-102             154.066
18-103             154.066
18-104             154.067
18-105             154.068
18-106             154.069
18-107             154.069
18-108             154.070
18-109             154.070
18-110             154.071
18-111             154.071
18-112             154.072
18-113             154.072
18-114             154.072
18-115             154.072
18-116             154.072
18-117             154.072
18-118             154.072
18-119             154.072
18-120             154.072
18-121             154.072
18-122             154.073
18-123             154.073
18-124             154.074
18-127             154.074
18-127             154.999
18-128             154.074
18-129             154.085
18-130             154.086
18-131             154.087
18-132             154.088
18-133             154.999
18-135             154.100
18-136             154.101
18-137             154.101
18-138             154.102
18-139             154.103
18-140             154.104
18-141             154.105
18-142             154.106
18-143             154.999
20-1               50.01
20-2               50.02
20-3               50.03
20-4               50.03
20-5               50.20
20-6               50.21
20-7               50.35
20-8               50.22
20-9               50.22
20-10              50.04
20-11              50.36
20-12              50.06
20-13              50.05
20-14              50.04
20-15              50.23
20-20              52.01
20-21              52.02
20-22              52.02
20-23              52.03
20-24              52.04
20-25              52.05
20-26              52.20
20-27              52.21
20-28              52.20
20-29              52.22
20-30              52.06
20-31              52.07
20-32              52.23
20-40              53.01
20-41              53.02
20-42              53.03
20-48              51.03
20-49              51.01
20-50              51.02
20-51              51.04
20-52              51.21
20-53              51.20
20-54              51.22
20-55              51.23
20-56              51.05
20-63              50.37
20-73              50.99
21-1               151.01;
                   151.99
21-2               151.02
21-3               151.03
21-4               151.04
21-21              151.99
22-1               70.01
22-5               71.01
22-6               74.20
22-7               71.02
22-8               74.04
22-9               71.03
22-10              75.01
22-11              71.04
22-12              74.01
22-13              74.21
22-14              74.22
22-15              74.23
22-16              74.24
22-17              74.27
22-18              72.05
22-25              71.20
22-26              71.21
22-27              71.22
22-28              71.23
22-29              71.24
22-30              71.25
22-35              72.02
22-36              72.03
22-37              72.04
22-45              71.40
22-46              71.41
22-47              71.42
22-48              71.43
22-49              71.43
22-50              71.43
22-51              71.44
22-52              71.45
22-65              75.04
22-66              75.05
22-67              75.06
22-68              75.07
22-69              75.08
22-70              75.02
22-71              75.03
22-80              76.01
22-81              76.02
22-82              76.03
22-83              76.04
22-90              73.01
22-91              73.02
22-92              73.03
22-100             70.03
22-101             70.03
22-102             70.03
22-103             70.03
22-110             70.02
22-111             70.05
22-112             71.46
22-113             72.01
22-114             71.05
22-115             74.05
22-116             70.04
22-117             70.05
22-118             74.03
22-119             70.06
22-120             74.06
22-121             71.06
22-122             74.25
22-123             74.26
22-124             74.02
23-1               156.01
23-2               156.02
23-3               156.02
23-4               156.02
23-5               156.02
23-30              156.99
24-1               11.01
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2023-3   2-16-2023   51.05
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed  Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed  Code Section
-        - -            112.21
                        112.01;
                        112.02;
2019-1   - -            112.15—
                        112.20;
                        112.99
2017-1   12-21-2017     76.15;
                        76.16
-        8-1-2019       74.20
2022-1   3-3-2022       31.06
2025-01  4-17-2025      31.04
                       
 
