BEAVER, OK
TOWN CODE
Code current through:
Ord. 2022-06, passed 10-13-2022
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the Town of Beaver, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to and
including ordinance 2022-06, passed October 13, 2022. Ordinances of the Town
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the Town
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 98-1
An ordinance adopting and enacting a code of ordinances of the town of Beaver,
Oklahoma; providing for the repeal of certain ordinances not included therein,
except as hereafter provided; providing for new or revised and continuing
provisions and regulations on
1.   General Provisions
2.   Administration And Government
3.   Alcoholic Beverages
4.   Animals
5.   Buildings Regulations And Codes
6.   Court
7.   Finance And Taxation
8.   Health And Nuisances
9.   Licensing And Business Regulations
10.   Offenses And Crimes
11.   Parks, Recreation And Cemetery
12.   Planning, Zoning And Development
13.   Public Safety
14.   Streets And Sidewalks
15.   Traffic And Vehicles
16.   Transportation
17.   Utilities
Providing when this ordinance shall become effective; providing for sale and
copies in the clerk's office; providing for supplements or changes to code; and
providing for an effective date.
Be it ordained by the town board of trustees of the town of Beaver, Oklahoma,
that:
SECTION 1      TITLE.
   A code and revision of the ordinances of the town of Beaver, Oklahoma, is
hereby adopted as the "town code of Beaver, Oklahoma," or by any other properly
identifying designation.
SECTION 2      CODE SUPERSEDES OTHER ORDINANCES.
   This code shall be treated and considered as a new and comprehensive
ordinance of the town which shall supersede all other general and permanent
ordinances enacted by the board of trustees prior to January 1, 1998, except
such as by reference thereto are expressly saved from repeal or continued in
force and effect for any purpose.
SECTION 3      EFFECTIVE DATE OF CODE, REPEAL.
   All provisions of this code shall be in full force and effect from the date
this ordinance becomes law. All ordinances of a general and permanent nature of
the town in effect on or before January 1, 1998, and not in the code or
recognized and continued in force by reference herein and which are in conflict
herewith, are hereby repealed from and after the effective date of this
ordinance, except as hereinafter provided.
SECTION 4      ORDINANCES NOT REPEALED.
   The repeal provided for in section 3 hereof shall not affect any ordinance
adopted after January 1, 1998, and before the effective date of this code; nor
shall the repeal affect any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or
forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the
effective date of this ordinance; nor shall the repeal affect any ordinance or
resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the town or
authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town or any evidence of the town's
indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the town; nor shall the
repeal affect the administrative regulations or resolutions of the town board
of trustees not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of the code;
nor shall the repeal affect any right or franchise granted by any ordinance or
resolution of the town board of trustees to any person, firm or corporation;
nor shall the repeal affect any zoning ordinances, or amendments to the land
use plan; nor shall the repeal affect any ordinance dedicating, naming,
establishing, locating, relocating, opening, vacating, etc., any street or
public way in the town; nor shall the repeal affect any annual budget or salary
ordinance; nor shall the repeal affect any ordinance levying or imposing taxes;
nor shall the repeal affect any ordinance establishing and prescribing the
street grades of any street in the town; nor shall the repeal affect any
ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing charges therefor; nor
shall the repeal affect any ordinance extending the limits of the town; nor
shall the repeal be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has
been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this ordinance;
nor shall the repeal affect any ordinance or resolution establishing rates,
fees or charges, except those specifically re-established in this code, until
the board of trustees re-establishes such rates, fees or charges by ordinance
or resolution. The continuance in effect of temporary and/or special ordinances
and parts of ordinances, although omitted from the code, shall not be affected
by such omission therefrom; and the adoption of the code shall not repeal or
amend any such ordinance or part of any such ordinance.
SECTION 5      CODE NOT NEW ENACTMENT.
   The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are the same as those
ordinances existing as of January 1, 1998, shall be considered as continuations
thereof and not as new enactments.
SECTION 6      INCLUDES NEW OR REVISED PROVISIONS.
   The provisions in this code, in addition to those identified in section 5
hereof, include, but are not limited to, revised and new provisions or
regulations on:
1.   General Provisions
2.   Administration And Government
3.   Alcoholic Beverages
4.   Animals
5.   Buildings Regulations And Codes
6.   Court
7.   Finance And Taxation
8.   Health And Nuisances
9.   Licensing And Business Regulations
10.   Offenses And Crimes
11.   Parks, Recreation And Cemetery
12.   Planning, Zoning And Development
13.   Public Safety
14.   Streets And Sidewalks
15.   Traffic And Vehicles
16.   Transportation
17.   Utilities
SECTION 7      ORDINANCES ADOPTED AFTER EFFECTIVE DATE OF CODE.
   Ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature passed
or adopted on and after the effective date of this code may be passed or
adopted either:
1.   In the form of amendments to the code of ordinances adopted by this
ordinance; or
2.   Without specific reference to the code.
In either case, all such ordinances and parts of ordinances shall be deemed
amendments to the code. All of the substantive permanent and general parts of
such ordinances and changes made thereby in the code, shall be inserted and
made in the code whenever authorized or directed by resolution or ordinance of
the board of trustees, as provided hereinafter.
SECTION 8      SUPPLEMENTS TO CODE.
   By contract or by town personnel, a change, or supplement, to the code of
ordinances adopted by this ordinance shall be prepared and printed whenever
authorized or directed by the town board of trustees. A change to the code
shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances passed
by the board of trustees or adopted by initiative and referendum during the
period covered by the change and all changes made thereby in the code. The
pages of a change shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the
code and, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or
partially obsolete, and new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have
been inserted, the code will be up to date to the date to which the code is
being brought up to date. The words "as amended" and the date, may be added to
the title after the year. After every change has been prepared and printed, a
number of copies of the change equal at least to the number of copies of the
code still in existence, shall be deposited in the office of the town clerk.
The town clerk, if possible, shall notify each holder of a copy of the original
code about the availability of the change or supplement.
SECTION 9      SALE OF COPIES OF THE CODE.
   The town clerk is hereby authorized and directed to sell copies of the code
to the public at a price determined from time to time by resolution of the town
board of trustees.
SECTION 10      COPY OF CODE IN CLERK'S OFFICE.
   A copy of the current code as amended or supplemented from time to time
shall be kept on file in the office of the town clerk. This copy of the code
shall be available for all persons desiring to examine it; it shall be
certified by the town clerk as may be required.
SECTION 11      PREPARATION OF CODE.
   The code of ordinances hereby adopted consists of seventeen (17) parts, all
of which have been examined, considered and approved by the board of trustees
of the town of Beaver and adopted in compliance with sections
14-109 et seq. of title 11 of the Oklahoma Statutes.
ADOPTED and APPROVED by the mayor and town board of trustees of the town of
Beaver, Oklahoma, this 4th day of March, 1998.
/s/  Mike McDonald, Mayor
ATTEST
/s/  Barbara Chockley, Town Clerk
APPROVED as to form this      day of           , 1998.
                     
Town Attorney
PART 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
DEFINITIONS, INTERPRETATION, APPLICABILITY, FINES
SECTION:
1-101: Designation And Citation Of Code
1-102: Rules Of Code Construction; Definitions
1-103: Authority Of Code
1-104: Conflicting Provisions
1-105: References Include Amendments; Construction
1-106: Catchlines And Headings; Construction
1-107: Code Provisions As Continuance Of Existing Ordinances
1-108: General And Specific Penalties; Suspension Or Revocation Of License Or
Permit
1-109: Each Day Of Violation Of Code A Separate Offense
1-110: Prohibited Acts Include Causing, Permitting, Concealing
1-111: Civil Relief From Violations Of Code Or Ordinances
1-112: Territorial Applicability
1-113: Ordinances In Effect In Outlying Territory Of Town
1-114: Code Severability
1-101: DESIGNATION AND CITATION OF CODE 1 :
The ordinances embraced in this and the following chapters and sections shall
constitute and be designated as the TOWN CODE OF BEAVER, OKLAHOMA, and may be
so cited. This code may also be cited as the town code or in the provisions
which follow, as this "code". (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS §§ 14-108, 14-109.
1-102: RULES OF CODE CONSTRUCTION; DEFINITIONS:
   A.   In the construction of this code and all ordinances, the following
rules of construction and definitions shall be observed unless inconsistent
with the manifest intent of the town board of trustees or the context clearly
requires otherwise:
    ADMINISTRATOR OR TOWN ADMINISTRATOR: The person appointed by the board of
trustees as town administrator.
   AND, OR: "And" means "or", and "or" may be read "and" if the sense requires
it.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES: The governing body of the town, the town board of
trustees.
   BOND: An obligation in writing, binding the signatory to pay a sum certain
upon the happening or failure of an event.
   BUILDING: Any structure intended to have walls and a roof.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL: The person appointed by the town and designated as the
town's building official.
   BUSINESS: Any profession, trade, occupation and any other commercial
enterprise conducted for monetary reward.
   CLERK: The town clerk.
   COUNTY: Beaver County, Oklahoma.
   DEFINITIONS: Given within a chapter or article apply only to words or
phrases used in such chapter or article unless otherwise provided.
   DESIGNEE: Following an official of the town, means the authorized agent,
employee or representative of such official.
   GENDER: Words importing the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter
as well as the masculine.
   HEALTH OFFICER: Administrator of the cooperative department of the county
and the town.
   KEEPER: One in possession of or who has the care, custody or superintendence
of a thing, place or business whether or not the owner or proprietor, and
includes any person, firm, association, corporation, club and copartnership
whether acting by themselves or by a servant, agent or employee.
   LAW: Applicable federal law and court decisions, court decisions and
provisions of the constitution and statutes of the state and ordinances of the
town, and, when appropriate, any and all rules and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   MAY: Is permissive and discretionary.
   MAYOR: The mayor of the town.
   MONTH: A calendar month.
   NUMBER: Words used in the singular include the plural and the plural
includes the singular.
   OATH: Any form of attestation by which a person signifies that he is bound
in conscience to perform an act or to speak faithfully and truthfully, and
includes an affirmation or declaration in cases where by law an affirmation may
be substituted for an oath.
   OCCUPANT: Tenant or person in actual possession.
   OPERATE: Carry on, keep, conduct, maintain, manage, direct or superintend.
   ORDINANCES: The ordinances of the town and all amendments and supplements
thereto.
   OWNER: One who has complete dominion over particular property and who is the
one in whom legal or equitable title rests; when applied to a building or land,
"owner" means any part owner, joint owner, owner of a community or partnership
interest, life tenant, tenant in common, or joint tenant, of the whole or part
of such building or land.
   PERSON: Any individual, natural person, joint stock company, partnership,
voluntary association, club, firm, company, corporation, business trust,
organization, or any other bodies corporate or politic or group acting as a
unit, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, partner, member, director,
officer or employee of any of them including an executor, clerk, trustee,
receiver, or other representative appointed according to law.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: Any money, goods, movable chattels, things in action,
evidence of debt, all objects and rights which are capable of ownership, and
every other species of property except real property.
   PRECEDING AND FOLLOWING: Next before and next after, respectively.
   PROPRIETOR: An owner of the property or premises, including any person,
firm, association, corporation, club, partnership or other group acting as a
unit, whether acting by themselves or by a servant, agent or employee.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Means and includes any public street, road or highway, alley,
lane, sidewalk, crosswalk, or other public way, or any public resort, place of
amusement, stadium, athletic field, park, playground, public building or
grounds appurtenant thereto, school building or school grounds, public parking
lot or any vacant lot, the elevator, lobby, halls, corridors and areas open to
the public of any store, office, or apartment building, or any other place
commonly open to the public.
   REAL PROPERTY: Land together with all things attached to the land so as to
become a part thereof.
   SHALL: Is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property along the margin of a street or other highway, designed, constructed
and intended for the use of pedestrians to the exclusion of vehicles.
   SIGNATURE AND SUBSCRIPTION: The name of a person, mark or symbol appended by
him to a writing with intent to authenticate the instrument as one made or put
into effect by him.
   STATE: The state of Oklahoma.
   STATUTES: The Oklahoma Statutes as they are now or as they may be amended to
be.
   STREET: All streets, highways, avenues, boulevards, parkways, roads, lanes,
viaducts, bridges and the approaches thereto, docks built on the public street,
alleys, courts, places, squares, curbs, sidewalks, recreation and park lands
used for vehicular traffic, or other public ways or thoroughfares in this town,
over which it has jurisdiction, which have been or may hereafter be dedicated
and open to public use, or such other public property so designated in any law
of this state.
   TENANT: Any person occupying the premises, building or land of another in
subordination to such other person's title and with his express or implied
assent, whether he occupies the whole or a part of those premises, building or
land, whether alone or with others.
   TENSE: Words used in the past or present tense include the future, past and
present where applicable unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
   TIME: The hour of the day according to the official time of the day.
   TIME OF PERFORMANCE: The time within which an act is to be done as provided
in any section or any order issued pursuant to any section, when expressed in
days, and is computed by excluding the first and including the last day. If the
last day is a Sunday or legal holiday, that day shall not be counted in the
computation. When the time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday or a
legal holiday from twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight to twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight is excluded.
   TOWN: The town of Beaver, in the county of Beaver and state of Oklahoma.
   TOWN LIMITS: Within the town and includes not only the corporate limits of
the town but also any property which it owns or which is under its
jurisdiction.
   TREASURER: The town treasurer.
   WATERCOURSE: Any drain, ditch and stream, flowing in a definite direction or
course in a bed with banks.
   WEEK: Seven (7) days.
   WRITING AND WRITTEN: Any representation of words, letters or figures,
whether by printing or otherwise, capable of comprehension by ordinary visual
means.
   YEAR: A calendar year.
   B.   Words and phrases are construed according to the common and approved
usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and others that have
acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law are construed and
understood according to such meaning. (1998 Code)
1-103: AUTHORITY OF CODE:
This code is a revision and codification of the general ordinances of the town
which have been enacted and published in accordance with the authority granted
in 11 Oklahoma Statutes sections
14-108 and
14-109. (1998 Code)
1-104: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
   A.   If the provisions of different parts, chapters, articles or sections of
this code conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions of each part,
chapter, article or section shall prevail as to all matters and questions
growing out of the subject matter of that part, chapter, article or section.
   B.   If clearly conflicting provisions are found in different sections of
the same chapter, the provisions of the section last enacted shall prevail
unless the construction is inconsistent with the meaning of that section. (1998
Code)
1-105: REFERENCES INCLUDE AMENDMENTS; CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Any reference in this code to an ordinance or provision of this code
means such ordinance or provision as may now exist or is hereafter amended.
   B.   Any references in this code to parts, chapters, articles or sections
shall be to the parts, chapters, articles or sections of this code unless
otherwise specified. (1998 Code)
1-106: CATCHLINES AND HEADINGS; CONSTRUCTION:
All designations and headings of parts, chapters, articles and sections are
intended only for convenience in arrangement and as mere catchwords to indicate
the contents of such parts, chapters, articles or sections, whether printed in
capital letters or boldface type. They shall not be deemed or taken to be any
part or title of such parts, chapters, articles or sections; nor, unless
expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed upon amendment or reenactment;
nor shall they be construed to govern, limit, modify, alter or in any other
manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of any of the provisions of this
code. (1998 Code)
1-107: CODE PROVISIONS AS CONTINUANCE OF EXISTING ORDINANCES:
The provisions appearing in this code, insofar as they relate to the same
subject matter and are substantially the same as those ordinance provisions
previously adopted by the town and existing at the effective date of this code,
shall be considered as restatements and continuations thereof and not as new
enactments. (1998 Code)
1-108: GENERAL AND SPECIFIC PENALTIES; SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR
PERMIT 1 :
   A.   Whenever in this code, in any ordinance of the town, or in any rule or
regulation promulgated pursuant to this code, any act or failure to do a
required act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense
or a misdemeanor, where no specific penalty is provided herein or therefor, the
violation of any such provision of this code or any ordinance or rule shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00) except where
another specific penalty is established in this code. If a penalty is limited
by state law, such violations shall be punishable by not to exceed the maximum
permitted by state law or the amount declared by the town, whichever is
greater.
   B.   The suspension or revocation of any license, certificate or other
privilege conferred by the town shall not be regarded as a penalty for the
purposes of this code but shall be in addition thereto. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS §§ 14-111, 27-119.
1-109: EACH DAY OF VIOLATION OF CODE A SEPARATE OFFENSE:
Each day any person is in violation of any provision of this code, and each day
any such violation occurs or continues to exist, shall be a separate offense.
(1998 Code)
1-110: PROHIBITED ACTS INCLUDE CAUSING, PERMITTING, CONCEALING:
Whenever in this code any act or omission is made unlawful or prohibited, it
shall include causing, allowing, permitting, aiding, abetting or concealing the
fact of such act or omission. (1998 Code)
1-111: CIVIL RELIEF FROM VIOLATIONS OF CODE OR ORDINANCES:
No penalty imposed by or pursuant to section
1-108 of this chapter or any other section of this code or other ordinance of
the town shall interfere with the right of the town to apply to the proper
courts of the state for a writ of mandamus, an injunction or other appropriate
relief in the case of violations of this code or other ordinances. (1998 Code)
1-112: TERRITORIAL APPLICABILITY:
Except as provided otherwise, this code refers only to the commission or
omission of acts within the territorial limits of the town and to that
territory outside this town over which the town has jurisdiction, ownership or
control by virtue of any constitutional or statutory provision, or any law.
(1998 Code)
1-113: ORDINANCES IN EFFECT IN OUTLYING TERRITORY OF TOWN:
All ordinances of the town now in effect within the town are hereby extended to
all real property belonging to, or under the control of, the town outside the
corporate limits of the town, and is in full effect therein, insofar as they
are applicable. All ordinances of the town which shall go into effect in the
future shall also apply to, and be in full effect within, the boundaries of all
outlying real property, insofar as they may be applicable. Any words in any
ordinance indicating that the effect of an ordinance provision is limited to
the corporate limits of the town shall be deemed to mean and include also the
outlying real property belonging to, or under the control of, the town, unless
the context clearly indicates otherwise. (1998 Code)
1-114: CODE SEVERABILITY:
It is declared to be the intention of the board of trustees that the sections,
subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and words of this code are
severable. If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or word is
declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the judgment or decree of any
court of competent jurisdiction, its unconstitutionality or invalidity shall
not affect the validity of any of the remaining sections, subsections,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses and words of this code, since the sections or
parts of sections would have been enacted by the board of trustees without and
irrespective of any unconstitutional or otherwise invalid section, subsection,
paragraph, sentence, clause or word being incorporated into this code. (1998
Code)
CHAPTER 2
CORPORATE AND WARD LIMITS
SECTION:
1-201: Map Of The Town
1-202: Ward Boundaries
1-201: MAP OF THE TOWN:
The map of the town showing its territorial limits, as maintained in the office
of the town clerk, is hereby designated as the official map of the town, and
the corporate limits as shown thereon, and as amended, are declared to be the
true and correct corporate limits of the town, including all annexations made
to the town through and including the date of January 1, 1997. (1998 Code)
1-202: WARD BOUNDARIES 1 :
The town is not divided into wards. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS §§ 20-101, 20-102 – 20-105.
PART 2
ADMINISTRATION AND GOVERNMENT
CHAPTER 1
GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION
SECTION:
2-101: Form Of Government
2-102: Meetings Of The Board Of Trustees
2-103: Mayor's Powers And Duties
2-104: Town Elections
2-105: Town Clerk Appointment, Duties
2-106: Town Treasurer Appointment, Duties
2-107: Town Attorney
2-108: Town Administrator
2-109: Administrative Departments, Officers And Agencies
2-110: Bonds For Town Officers And Employees
2-111: Compensation
2-112: Books Delivered To Successor
2-113: Code Enforcement Officer Appointment, Duties
2-101: FORM OF GOVERNMENT:
The town is governed under the board of trustees form of government. The board
of trustees shall consist of five (5) trustees. All powers of the town shall be
exercised in the manner prescribed by this code, by state statute and in such
manner prescribed by ordinances adopted by the town board of trustees. (1998
Code)
2-102: MEETINGS OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
   A.   Regular meetings of the board of trustees shall be held on the second
Thursday of every month at six o'clock (6:00) P.M. at a place designated by the
board and as posted on the agenda unless, in the case of an emergency, or if
special circumstances require a different location, the board of trustees
designates another place. If such a Thursday falls on a town holiday, the
regular meeting shall be held at that time on the next day which is not a
holiday. Any adjourned meeting may be held at any other place in the town
designated by the board of trustees. (Ord. 2009-2, 8-13-2009)
   B.   The board of trustees may from time to time adopt rules to govern the
proceedings of the board of trustees. (1998 Code)
2-103: MAYOR'S POWERS AND DUTIES:
The mayor and acting mayor shall have all the powers and duties prescribed by
state law, and as may be prescribed by ordinance. (1998 Code)
2-104: TOWN ELECTIONS:
   A.   Pursuant to 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 16-302, the town hereby
declares that it shall not be governed by the Oklahoma town meeting act for
electing its officers and deciding initiative and referendum questions. (1998
Code)
   B.   All elected officers of the town of Beaver, Oklahoma, a municipal
corporation, shall be elected and initiative and referendum questions shall be
decided only through elections conducted by the Beaver County, Oklahoma,
election board pursuant to 11 Oklahoma Statutes section
16-101 et seq. (Ord. 2014-01, 1-9-2014)
2-105: TOWN CLERK APPOINTMENT, DUTIES:
   A.   The town clerk is an officer of the town.
   B.   As clerk, the town clerk shall:
      1.   Keep the journal of proceedings of the board of trustees;
      2.   Enroll all ordinances and resolutions passed by the board of
trustees in a book or set of books kept for that purpose;
      3.   Have custody of documents, records, and archives as may be provided
for by law or by ordinance, and have custody of the town seal;
      4.   Attest and affix the seal of the town to documents as required by
law or ordinance;
      5.   Have such other powers, duties and functions related to the
statutory duties of the clerk as may be prescribed by law or ordinance.
   C.   The pay period for the clerk shall be biweekly in such sum as set in
section
2-111  of this chapter contingent upon the clerk's performance of the clerk's
statutory duties.
   D.   The person serving as town clerk may be employed by the town to perform
duties not related to the statutory duties of clerk as an employee of the town,
including but not limited to the duties and position of town administrator, as
set out in Section
2-108  of this municipal code. The additional duties shall be performed by the
person serving as clerk or as otherwise provided by motion or other action of
the town board. The person performing additional duties shall serve at the
pleasure of the board or as may be otherwise provided for in this municipal
code and shall perform such duties as may be prescribed by the board. The pay
period for performing additional duties shall be the same as for other town
employees and in accordance with any personnel policy or other policy of the
town. The salary for performing additional duties shall not be subject to
constitutional restrictions. The salary, if any, for said duties not related to
the statutory duties of clerk shall be provided for separately by ordinance.
(1998 Code; amd. Ord. 2022-06, 10-13-2022)
2-106: TOWN TREASURER APPOINTMENT, DUTIES:
   A.   The town treasurer is an officer of the town. The treasurer shall:
      1.   Maintain accounts and books to show where and from what source all
monies paid to the town have been derived and to whom and when any monies have
been paid;
      2.   Deposit daily funds received for the town in depositories as the
board of trustees may designate; and
      3.   Have such other powers, duties and functions related to the
statutory duties of the treasurer as may be prescribed by law or ordinance.
   B.   The person serving as town treasurer may be employed by the town to
perform duties not related to the statutory duties of treasurer as an employee
of the town. The additional duties shall be performed by the person serving as
treasurer or as otherwise provided by motion or other action of the town board.
The person performing additional duties shall serve at the pleasure of the
board and shall perform such duties as may be prescribed by the board. The pay
period for performing additional duties shall be the same as for other town
employees and in accordance with any personnel policy or other policy of the
town. The salary for performing additional duties shall not be subject to
constitutional restrictions. (1998 Code)
2-107: TOWN ATTORNEY:
The town attorney is an officer of the town, appointed by the mayor with the
confirmation of the board of trustees. The town attorney shall have such duties
as are prescribed by the town board. (1998 Code)
2-108: TOWN ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   The position of town administrator is created. The town administrator
shall be appointed by a majority vote of the board of trustees for an
indefinite term. He shall be chosen by the board solely on the basis of his
executive and administrative qualifications with special reference to his
actual experience in or his knowledge of accepted practice in respect to the
duties of his office. At the time of his appointment he need not be a resident
of the town or the state, but during his tenure of office he shall reside
within the town. No trustee shall receive appointment as administrator during
the term for which he shall have been elected nor within one year after the
expiration of his term. The board may remove the town administrator at any time
by a majority vote of at least three (3) trustees. If requested, the board
shall grant him a public hearing within thirty (30) days following notice of
removal. During the interim, the board may suspend the administrator from duty,
but shall continue his salary and, if the removal becomes final, shall pay his
salary for one calendar month following the final removal date.
   B.   The town administrator shall receive such compensation as the board
shall fix from time to time by ordinance or resolution.
   C.   Any vacancy in the office of town administrator shall be filled within
sixty (60) days after the effective date of such vacancy.
   D.   The town administrator is chief administrative officer of the town. He
may head one or more departments and shall be responsible to the board for the
proper administration of all affairs of the town. To that end, he shall have
the power and duty to:
      1.   Recommend appointments, suspension and removal of all officers and
employees of the town except as otherwise provided by law;
      2.   Prepare the budget annually and submit it to the board together with
a message describing the important features, and be responsible for its
administration after adoption;
      3.   Prepare and submit to the board after the end of the fiscal year a
complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the town for
the preceding year;
      4.   Keep the board advised of the financial condition and future needs
of the town, and make such recommendations as he may deem desirable;
      5.   Recommend to the board a standard schedule of pay for each
appointive office and position in the town service, including minimum,
intermediate, and maximum rates;
      6.   Recommend to the board from time-to-time adoption of such measures
as he may deem necessary or expedient for the health, safety or welfare of the
community or for the improvement of administrative services;
      7.   Attend all meetings of the board unless excused therefrom and take
part in the discussion of all matters coming before the board. He shall be
entitled to notice of all regular and special meetings of the board;
      8.   Supervise the purchase of all materials, supplies, and equipment for
which funds are provided in the budget. The administrator may issue such rules
governing purchasing procedures within the administrative organization as the
board shall approve;
      9.   See that all laws and ordinances are duly enforced;
      10.   Investigate the affairs of the town or any department or division
thereof. Investigate all complaints in relation to matters concerning the
administration of the government of the town, and in regard to service
maintained by the public utilities in the town, and see that all franchises,
permits and privileges granted by the town are faithfully observed; and
      11.   Perform such other duties as may be required by the board not
inconsistent with town. (1998 Code; amd. Ord. 2022-06, 10-13-2022)
2-109: ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS, OFFICERS AND AGENCIES:
There shall be such other administrative departments, agencies and officers as
the board of trustees may establish. (1998 Code)
2-110: BONDS FOR TOWN OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES 1 :
The town clerk, town treasurer and such officers and employees as are
designated by the town board of trustees shall, before entering upon the
discharge of their duties, execute and file with the town clerk surety bonds
issued by a surety company authorized to operate in the state conditioned upon
the faithful performance of their duties. The town shall pay the premium on
such bonds. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
  1. As of 1994, bond for treasurer was $25,000.00 and for all other officers
1 $5,000.00 blanket bond. See ordinance table or bond insurance policy for
  amendments to bond coverages.
2-111: COMPENSATION:
Compensation of elected officers of the town shall be as provided by the
ordinances of the town. The compensation of other officers and employees shall
be set by motion or resolution.
Town ordinances provide that the mayor and trustees shall receive twenty five
dollars ($25.00) for each regularly scheduled meeting of the board of trustees,
but not more than one meeting per month. Absence from a regularly scheduled
meeting is subject to review by the board and paid at the discretion of the
board. The town clerk and town treasurer shall receive three hundred dollars
($300.00) per month ($150.00 per pay period) for performing statutory duties of
office, and an amount set by the town board by motion or resolution for
performance of nonstatutory duties. See ordinance table for amendments to these
ordinances. (1998 Code)
2-112: BOOKS DELIVERED TO SUCCESSOR:
All books, vouchers, monies or other property belonging to the corporation in
charge or possession of any officer of the same shall be delivered to his
successor when qualified. (1998 Code)
2-113: CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER APPOINTMENT, DUTIES:
   A.   An Employee and or Police Officer employed by the Town of Beaver may be
assigned and authorized as a Code Enforcement Officer to enforce all current
codes and ordinances and all future, and or amendments to codes and ordinances
which have the purpose in protecting the health, safety, and welfare of the
citizens and the general public of the Town of Beaver, Oklahoma.
   B.   The Code Enforcement Officers shall enforce all codes, ordinances as
set forth in each code, ordinance and or as set forth by Oklahoma State Law.
   C.   The Code Enforcement Officer shall have the authority to cite violators
and or by Abatement of violations and to appear in court if necessary to
testify. The Code Enforcement Officer shall not have the authority to arrest
and or detain any person or persons suspected of code or ordinance violation
unless the officer is an employed Police Officer acting in the line of his
sworn duty as a Police Officer.
   D.   The appointed Code Enforcement Officer shall complete certification,
training as a Code Enforcement Officer within 1-year of appointment as per
Oklahoma State Statutes, administered by the Oklahoma Code Enforcement
Association.
   E.   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the Town of Beaver from pursuing
the corrections of violations either by abatements, fines, and or by civil
remedies in court any current, future or any newly adopted codes. (Ord. 2021-
01, 8-6-2021)
CHAPTER 2
RETIREMENT AND PENSIONS
SECTION:
Article A.    Social Security
2-201: Town Officers And Employees Under Federal Social Security
Article B.    Firefighters' Pension And Retirement System
2-211: System Created
2-212: System To Be Operated In Accordance With Law
ARTICLE A. SOCIAL SECURITY
2-201: TOWN OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES UNDER FEDERAL SOCIAL SECURITY:
   A.   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the town to extend, at the
earliest date, to the employees and officials thereof, not excluded by law or
this section, and whether employed in connection with a governmental or
proprietary function, the benefits of the system of federal old age and
survivors insurance as authorized by the federal social security act, and
amendments thereto. In pursuance of this policy, the town shall take such
action as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
   B.   The mayor is hereby authorized and directed to execute all necessary
agreements and amendments thereto with the state department of human services
as agent or agency, to secure coverage of employees and officials as provided
in subsection A of this section.
   C.   Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and officials for the
purpose provided in subsection A of this section are hereby authorized to be
made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by applicable state or
federal laws or regulations, and shall be paid over to the state or federal
agency designated by the laws or regulations.
   D.   There shall be appropriated from available funds such amounts at such
times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations for
employer's contributions, which shall be paid over to the state or federal
agency designated by said laws or regulations.
   E.   The town shall keep such records and make such reports as may be
required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
   F.   There is hereby excluded from this section any authority to make any
agreement with respect to any position or any employee or official now covered
or authorized to be covered by any other ordinance creating any retirement
system for any employee or official of the town.
   G.   There is hereby excluded from this section any authority to make an
agreement with respect to any position or any employee or official,
compensation for which is on a fee basis, or any position or any employee or
official not authorized to be covered by applicable state or federal laws or
regulations. (1998 Code)
ARTICLE B. FIREFIGHTERS' PENSION AND RETIREMENT SYSTEM
2-211: SYSTEM CREATED 1 :
There is hereby created, for the purpose of providing pension retirement
allowance and other benefits for firefighters of the town, a firefighters'
pension and retirement system. It is declared to be the official policy of the
town to participate in the pension system as provided by state law. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 49-101 et seq.
2-212: SYSTEM TO BE OPERATED IN ACCORDANCE WITH LAW:
   A.   The firefighters' pension and retirement system as established by 11
Oklahoma Statutes section 49-100.1 et seq., is hereby adopted by reference.
   B.   The local board of trustees of the firefighters' pension and retirement
system, servicing the firefighters of the town, shall be constituted as
provided by state law and shall have the powers and duties prescribed thereby.
(1998 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TOWN RECORDS
SECTION:
2-301: Appointment Of Official Custodians
2-302: Designation Of Additional Record Custodians
2-303: Duties Of Custodians
2-304: Requests To Be Directed To Custodians
2-305: Procedures Regarding Both Inspection And Copying Of Open Public Records
2-306: Procedures Regarding Inspection Of Open Public Records
2-307: Procedures Regarding Copies Of Open Public Records
2-308: Fees
2-301: APPOINTMENT OF OFFICIAL CUSTODIANS 1 :
The following town official is hereby appointed as official custodian for
purposes of the Oklahoma open records act and is charged with responsibility
for compliance with that act with respect to the following listed public
records:
Town clerk: All public records kept and maintained in the town clerk's office
and all other public records not provided for elsewhere in this chapter. (1998
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 51 OS §§ 24.A.1 – 24.A.18.
2-302: DESIGNATION OF ADDITIONAL RECORD CUSTODIANS:
   A.   Each of the official custodians appointed in section
2-301 of this chapter is hereby authorized to designate any subordinate
officers or employees to serve as record custodian. The record custodians shall
have such duties and powers as are set out in the Oklahoma open records act.
   B.   Whenever an official custodian shall appoint another person as a record
custodian, he shall notify the town clerk of such designation and the town
clerk shall maintain a register of all such designations. (1998 Code)
2-303: DUTIES OF CUSTODIANS:
All town officials and employees appointed or designated under this chapter
shall protect public records from damage and disorganization; prevent excessive
disruption of the essential functions of the town; provide assistance and
information upon request; ensure efficient and timely action and response to
all applications for inspection of public records; and shall carry out the
procedures adopted by this town for inspecting and copying open public records.
(1998 Code)
2-304: REQUESTS TO BE DIRECTED TO CUSTODIANS:
   A.   All members of the public, in seeking access to, or copies of, a public
record in accordance with the provisions of the Oklahoma open records act,
shall address their requests to the custodian charged with responsibility for
the maintenance of the record sought to be inspected or copied.
   B.   Whenever any town official or employee appointed or designated as a
custodian under this chapter is presented with a request for access to, or copy
of, a public record which record the custodian does not have in his possession
and which he has not been given responsibility to keep and maintain, the
custodian shall so advise the person requesting the record. The person making
the request shall be informed as to which custodian the request should be
addressed if such is known by the custodian receiving the request. (1998 Code)
2-305: PROCEDURES REGARDING BOTH INSPECTION AND COPYING OF OPEN PUBLIC RECORDS:
   A.   The following procedures are hereby adopted and shall be applied by
each official custodian and record custodian:
      1.   Consistent with the policy, duties and procedures established by the
Oklahoma open records act, record custodians shall provide full access and
assistance in a timely and efficient manner to persons who request access to
open public records.
      2.   Record custodians shall protect the integrity and organization of
public records with respect to the manner in which such records are inspected
and copied.
      3.   Record custodians may prevent excessive disruptions of essential
functions and provide the record at the earliest possible time.
      4.   All inspections and copying of open public records shall be
performed by, or under the supervision of, the record custodian responsible for
such records.
      5.   All persons requesting the inspection of or a copy of open public
records shall make such request in writing prior to the request being honored,
except that no form shall be required for requests made for records which have
been reproduced for free public distribution.
      6.   All record inspection and copying forms are to be completed by the
person requesting the record. The record custodian may demand reasonable
identification of any person requesting a record.
      7.   Any fees for record inspection or for copies are due at the time the
records, or copies thereof, are provided to the requester, unless the record
custodian has demanded that prepayment of all or part of such fees be made.
Fees are to be paid to the record custodian or town clerk.
      8.   The record custodian or town clerk shall demand full or partial
prepayment of fees whenever the estimate for such fees exceeds the amount set
out in section
2-308 of this chapter.
      9.   No record search or copying fee shall be assessed against officers
or employees of the town who make requests which are reasonably necessary to
the performance of their official duties.
      10.   Hours for making requests for inspection or copying shall be all
regular working hours for each day the office maintains regular office hours.
      11.   Removal of open public records from the office where kept and
maintained, for purposes of inspection or the making of copies, shall not be
permitted.
   B.   The above procedures, as well as any other inspection and copying
procedures, shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the office of the record
custodian. (1998 Code)
2-306: PROCEDURES REGARDING INSPECTION OF OPEN PUBLIC RECORDS:
   A.   The following procedures are hereby adopted and shall be applied by
every official custodian and record custodian:
      1.   Record custodians shall handle all inspection requests in accordance
with their duties to protect and preserve public records and to assist persons
requesting inspection of open public records.
      2.   All request forms must be completed by the party requesting the
record. In all cases the party so requesting must sign his or her individual
name to the form. Written requests shall be made on the form provided by the
record custodian and presented to the record custodian.
      3.   A written request is sufficient if it reasonably describes the
record sought. In instances where the requester cannot provide sufficient
information to identify a record, the custodian shall assist in making such
identification.
      4.   The record custodian shall, upon making a denial of an inspection
request, forward a copy of the denial to the town clerk. (1998 Code)
2-307: PROCEDURES REGARDING COPIES OF OPEN PUBLIC RECORDS:
   A.   The following procedures apply regarding copies of records:
      1.   Record custodians shall handle all copy requests in accordance with
their duties to protect and preserve public records and to assist persons
requesting copies of open public records.
      2.   All request forms must be completed by the party requesting the
copies. In all cases the party so requesting must sign his or her individual
name to the form. Written requests shall be made on the form provided by the
record custodian.
      3.   Mechanical reproduction of a record shall not be undertaken when it
is the judgment of the record custodian that any available means of
mechanically reproducing the subject record is likely to cause damage to such
records.
      4.   No copy fee shall be assessed when multiple copies of the record
requested have been prepared for free public distribution, or when the record
custodian determines that the cost of charging and handling the fee exceeds the
cost of providing a copy without charge. (1998 Code)
2-308: FEES:
   A.   Where a request has been made for the inspection of an open public
record, no fee shall be charged.
   B.   A fee per page as set by the board of trustees by motion or resolution
shall be charged for photocopying an open public record, such fee to cover the
cost of labor, materials and equipment.
   C.   For copying any open public record which cannot be reproduced by
photocopying, such as a computer printout or a blueprint, the requester shall
be charged the actual cost to the town, including the cost of labor, materials
and equipment.
   D.   A search fee shall be charged a requester who is using the record
solely for a commercial purpose. Such fee shall be the actual cost to the town
of producing the record, including the cost of labor, materials and equipment.
   E.   A record custodian may demand prepayment of a fee whenever the
estimated amount exceeds twenty dollars ($20.00). The prepayment amount shall
be an estimate of the cost of copying, mechanical reproduction or searching for
the record. Any overage or underage in the prepayment amount shall be settled
prior to producing the requested record or delivering the copy or mechanical
reproduction of the record. (1998 Code)
PART 3
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 1
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-101: Definitions; Adoption By Reference And Penalties
3-102: Occupation Tax Levied
3-103: Payment Required; Penalty
3-104: Annual Report
3-105: Application For Certificates; Investigation
3-106: Issuance Of Certificates
3-107: Display License
3-108: Drinking In Public
3-109: Public Intoxication And Drinking Prohibited
3-110: Minors And Alcoholic Beverages
3-111: Possession Or Consumption Of Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited In Other
Locations Without Permission
3-112: Permitting Or Allowing Gatherings Where Minors Are Consuming Alcoholic
Beverages
3-113: Location Of Retail Package Store, Mixed Beverage Establishments, Beer Or
Wine Establishments Or Bottle Clubs
3-114: Transporting Open Containers Of Alcoholic Beverages
3-115: Municipality May Initiate License Suspension
3-116: Prohibited Acts
3-117: Fines For Chapter
3-101: DEFINITIONS; ADOPTION BY REFERENCE AND PENALTIES:
All of the terms and phrases used in this chapter shall be given the same use
and meaning as defined by the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, 37A
Oklahoma Statutes section
1-101 et seq. Titles 37 and 37A of the Oklahoma Statutes, as amended, are
hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference, but only to the extent
such sections provide for criminal misdemeanor offenses, and are enforceable by
the Town within the Town limits as if set out at length herein. Unless
otherwise specifically provided otherwise in this Code, all violations of such
sections shall be punishable by a maximum fine of one hundred seventy dollars
($170.00), plus court costs, fees and State assessments; provided however, if
the penalty including costs for the State offense is less than the amount as
provided hereinabove, then the fine and costs shall not exceed the amount
charged by statute for the same offense. (Ord. 2018-2, 9-13-2018, eff. 10-1-
2018)
3-102: OCCUPATION TAX LEVIED:
There is hereby levied and assessed an annual Occupation Tax on every business
or occupation that has its principal place of business in Beaver, Oklahoma and
is required to have a license from the Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement
Commission as specifically enumerated in appendix 1 of this Code, and in the
amount therein stated.
Such tax rate shall only be effective upon initiation or renewal of the
license, as applicable, and no refund shall be made for any prior Occupation
Tax paid which was higher than as established by this section. (Ord. 2018-2, 9-
13-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
3-103: PAYMENT REQUIRED; PENALTY:
   A.   Payment; Provide Copy Of State License: Any State licensee or interim
licensee listed in appendix 1 of this Code that has a principal place of
business in Beaver, Oklahoma, shall pay the tax therefor at the Office of the
Town Clerk on or before the date upon which he enters upon such occupation.
Said licensee or interim licensee shall provide a copy of his current State
license or interim license before payment of an Occupation Tax will be
accepted.
   B.   Term: The tax levied under this chapter shall be for one year from July
1 through the next June 30, and upon which later date the licensee's State
license expires. There shall be no proration of the tax if for less than one
year. The fee may also be established by resolution.
   C.   Violation: Any person who engages in any of the occupations taxed by
this chapter without paying said Occupation Tax imposed therefor, or without
paying said Occupation Tax imposed therefor in advance of such operation, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be punished by a maximum
fine of one hundred seventy dollars ($170.00) plus costs, fees and State
assessments. (Ord. 2018-2, 9-13-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
3-104: ANNUAL REPORT:
The Town Clerk shall make an annual report to the ABLE Commission, covering the
fiscal year, showing the number and class of license subject to the Occupation
Tax and the amount of money collected from said tax. (Ord. 2018-2, 9-13-2018,
eff. 10-1-2018)
3-105: APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATES; INVESTIGATION:
   A.   Filing Of Application; Fee: Every applicant for a certificate of
compliance with the Zoning, Fire, Health and Safety Codes of the Town, required
by the ABLE Commission shall apply at the Office of the Town Clerk by:
      1.   Filing a written application on forms prescribed by that office; and
      2.   Paying a verification and certification fee in an amount as provided
by section
3-106 of this chapter at the time of filing.
   B.   Investigation Of Premises: Upon receipt of an application for a
certificate of compliance, the Town Clerk shall cause an investigation to be
made to determine whether the premises proposed for licensed operations comply
with the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance and any Health, Fire, Building and
other Safety Codes applicable to it.
   C.   Time Limit For Acting On Application: The Town Clerk shall act on all
such applications within twenty (20) days of receipt thereof. (Ord. 2018-2, 9-
13-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
3-106: ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATES:
   A.   Certificate Of Zoning: Upon finding that the premises of an applicant
for a certificate is in compliance with all applicable zoning ordinances, a
certificate of zoning shall be issued to the ABLE Commission.
   B.   Certificate Of Compliance: Upon finding that the premises of an
applicant for a certificate is in compliance with all applicable Fire, Safety
and Health Codes, a certificate of compliance shall be issued to the ABLE
Commission.
   C.   Fee: Every applicant for a certificate of compliance with the Zoning,
Fire, Health and Safety Codes of the Town, required by ABLE Commission, shall
pay a verification and certification fee in the amount of one hundred dollars
($100.00) at the time of filing. (Ord. 2018-2, 9-13-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
3-107: DISPLAY LICENSE:
Any person required to possess a State license/permit for sale or distribution
of beer, wine, mixed beverages, and any other classification of alcoholic
beverage now in existence or which may be created by the Legislature in the
future, is required to have, possess and display, in the same location as their
State license/permit, a Town Occupation Tax permit for distribution or sale of
the same product classification with the Town of Beaver. (Ord. 2018-2, 9-13-
2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
3-108: DRINKING IN PUBLIC:
It is unlawful for any person to drink any alcoholic beverage, to include beer
and wine (hereinafter "alcoholic beverage"), while such person is upon any
public street, alley, or other public highway, or in any public building or
other public place within the Town. This section shall not prohibit a person
who is of age from drinking such beverage in a place licensed to sell it for
consumption on the premises or any person who is of age who is consuming any
alcoholic beverage at any special event from an authorized seller, which
special event is authorized in writing by the Town Board of Trustees. The
specific site at any such authorized special event wherein alcoholic beverages
shall be permitted to be consumed shall be plainly and clearly marked with
signage warning the public that no consumption is permitted outside the area
completely encircled with appropriate barriers and any person who shall consume
alcoholic beverages outside the designated barrier or who shall consume
alcoholic beverages from any source other than an authorized seller and not in
an otherwise authorized location shall be guilty of an offense of this section.
(Ord. 2018-2, 9-13-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
3-109: PUBLIC INTOXICATION AND DRINKING PROHIBITED:
Any person who shall, in any public place, or in or upon any passenger coach,
streetcar, or in or upon any other vehicle commonly used for the transportation
of passengers, or in or about any depot, platform, waiting station or room,
drink or otherwise consume any intoxicating liquor unless authorized by the
Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act or any provision of this Code,
intoxicating substance, or intoxicating compound of any kind, or inhale glue,
paint or other intoxicating substance, or if any person shall be drunk or
intoxicated in any public or private road, or in any passenger coach,
streetcar, or any public place or building, or at a public gathering, from
drinking or consuming such intoxicating liquor, intoxicating substance or
intoxicating compound or from inhalation of glue, paint or other intoxicating
substance, except if otherwise permitted by this Code, or if any person shall
be drunk or intoxicated from any cause and shall disturb the peace of any
person, he shall be guilty of an offense. (Ord. 2018-2, 9-13-2018, eff. 10-1-
2018)
3-110: MINORS AND ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to be in
possession of any alcoholic beverage while such person is upon any public
street, road or highway or in any public place within the Town limits or to
consume or possess with the intent to consume any alcoholic beverage. (Ord.
2018-2, 9-13-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
3-111: POSSESSION OR CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED IN OTHER
LOCATIONS WITHOUT PERMISSION:
It shall be unlawful for any person within the Town limits, to consume or to
have in his or her possession an open container of any alcoholic beverage upon
private property belonging to any person other than the individual in
possession or consuming such alcoholic beverage, without said person first
obtaining the permission of the owner or person in lawful possession of said
property. (Ord. 2018-2, 9-13-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
3-112: PERMITTING OR ALLOWING GATHERINGS WHERE MINORS ARE CONSUMING ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
    ALCOHOL: Means ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine,
from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Means and includes alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer,
and every liquid or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer, and which
contains one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) or more of alcohol by volume and
which is fit for beverage purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed, or
combined with other substances.
   CONTROL OR CONTROLLING: Means any form of dominion including ownership,
tenancy or other possessory right however temporary.
   GATHERING: Is a party, gathering, or event, where a group of three (3) or
more persons have assembled or are assembling for a social occasion or social
activity.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN: Means: 1) a person who, by court order, is the guardian of
the person of a minor; or 2) a public or private agency with whom a minor has
been placed by the court.
   MINOR: Means any person under twenty one (21) years of age.
   PARENT: Means a person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, foster
parent, or stepparent of another person.
   PREMISES: Means any hotel or motel room, home, yard, apartment, condominium,
or other dwelling unit, or a hall or meeting room, park or public place whether
occupied on a temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling or
for a party or other social function, and whether owned, leased, rented, or
used with or without compensation.
   RESPONSE COSTS: Are the costs associated with responses by law enforcement,
fire, and other emergency response providers to a gathering, including but not
limited to: 1) salaries and benefits of law enforcement, Code enforcement,
fire, or other emergency response personnel for the amount of time spent
responding to, remaining at, or otherwise dealing with a gathering, and the
administrative costs attributable to such responses; 2) the cost of any medical
treatment for any law enforcement, Code enforcement, fire, or other emergency
response personnel injured responding to, remaining at, or leaving the scene of
a gathering; 3) the cost of repairing any Town equipment or property damaged,
and the cost of the use of any such equipment, in responding to, remaining at,
or leaving the scene of a gathering; and 4) any other allowable costs related
to the enforcement of this section.
   B.   Consumption Of Alcoholic Beverages By Minor In Public Place, Place Open
To Public, Or Place Not Open To Public: Except as permitted by State law, it is
unlawful for any minor to:
      1.   Consume at any public place, or any place open to the public, an
alcoholic beverage; or
      2.   Consume at any place not open to the public any alcoholic beverages,
unless in connection with the consumption of the alcoholic beverage, that minor
is being supervised by his or her parent or legal guardian.
   C.   Hosting, Permitting, Or Allowing A Party, Gathering, Or Event Where
Minors Consuming Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited:
      1.   In General:
         a.   It is the duty of any person having control of any premises, who
knowingly hosts, permits, or allows a gathering at said premises to take all
reasonable steps to prevent the consumption of alcoholic beverages by any minor
at the gathering. Reasonable steps are controlling access to alcoholic
beverages at the gathering; controlling the quantity of alcoholic beverages
present at the gathering; verifying the age of persons attending the gathering
by inspecting drivers' licenses or other government-issued identification cards
to ensure that minors do not consume alcoholic beverages while at the
gathering; and supervising the activities of minors at the gathering.
         b.   It is unlawful for any person having control of any premises to
knowingly host, permit, or allow a gathering to take place at said premises
where at least one minor consumes an alcoholic beverage, whenever the person
having control of the premises either knows that the minor has consumed an
alcoholic beverage or reasonably should have known that a minor consumed an
alcoholic beverage or failed to take all reasonable steps to prevent the
consumption of an alcoholic beverage by a minor as set forth in subsection C1a
of this section.
      2.   Use Between Minor And Parent: This section shall not apply to
conduct involving the use of alcoholic beverages that occurs exclusively
between a minor and his or her parent or legal guardian.
      3.   Family Activity In Family Home: Nothing in this section should be
interpreted to prohibit any family activity held in the confines of the family
home from providing the use of alcohol to immediate family members within the
supervision of parents and guardians. However, if a minor leaves such a family
gathering intoxicated and is found in public then said providers of alcoholic
beverages will be held responsible in the same manner as a non-family
gathering.
      4.   Religious Activity: Nothing in this section should be interpreted to
prohibit any religious practice which includes the use of alcoholic beverages.
However, if a minor leaves such a religious gathering intoxicated and is found
to be in public then said providers of alcoholic beverages will be held
responsible in the same manner as a nonreligious gathering.
      5.   State License: This section shall not apply to any premises licensed
by the State of Oklahoma to dispense alcoholic beverages.
      6.   Reservation Of Legal Options: Violation of this section may be
prosecuted by the Town criminally, civilly, and/or administratively as provided
by this Code. The Town may seek administrative fees and response costs
associated with enforcement of this section through all remedies or procedures
provided by statute, ordinance, or law. This section shall not limit the
authority of peace officers or private citizens to make arrests for any
criminal offense arising out of conduct regulated by this section, nor shall
they limit the Town's ability to initiate, and prosecute any criminal offense
arising out of the same circumstances necessitating the application of this
section.
      7.   Local Authority: This section shall not apply where prohibited or
preempted by State or Federal law. (Ord. 2018-2, 9-13-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
3-113: LOCATION OF RETAIL PACKAGE STORE, MIXED BEVERAGE ESTABLISHMENTS, BEER OR
WINE ESTABLISHMENTS OR BOTTLE CLUBS:
   A.   Location Near School Or Church: It shall be unlawful for any mixed
beverage establishment, beer and wine establishment, or bottle club, which has
been licensed by the Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement (ABLE) Commission and
which has as its main purpose the selling or serving of alcoholic beverages for
consumption on the premises, or retail package store, to be located within
three hundred feet (300') of any public or private school or church property
primarily and regularly used for worship services and religious activities.
   B.   Measuring Distance: The distance indicated in this section shall be
measured from the nearest property line of such public or private school or
church to the nearest perimeter wall of the premises of any such mixed beverage
establishment, beer and wine establishment, bottle club, retail package store.
   C.   Exceptions:
      1.   Continuous Operation: The provisions of this section shall not apply
to mixed beverage establishments, beer and wine establishments, bottle clubs,
which have been licensed to sell alcoholic beverages for on premises
consumption, or retail package stores prior to November 1, 2000; provided, if
at the time of application for license renewal, the licensed location has not
been in actual operation for a continuous period of more than sixty (60) days,
the license shall not be renewed.
      2.   Lapse Of No More Than Sixty Days: If any school or church shall be
established within three hundred feet (300') of any retail package store, mixed
beverage establishment, beer and wine establishment, or bottle club, subject to
the provisions of this section after such retail package store, mixed beverage
establishment, beer and wine establishment, or bottle club has been licensed,
the provisions of this section shall not be a deterrent to the renewal of such
license if there has not been a lapse of more than sixty (60) days.
      3.   Change In Ownership: When any mixed beverage establishment, beer and
wine establishment, or bottle club, subject to the provisions of this section
which has a license to sell alcoholic beverages for on premises consumption, or
retail package store changes ownership or the operator thereof is changed and
such change of ownership results in the same type of business being conducted
on the premises, the provisions of this section shall not be a deterrent to the
issuance of a license to the new owner or operator if he or she is otherwise
qualified. (Ord. 2018-2, 9-13-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
3-114: TRANSPORTING OPEN CONTAINERS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section, it shall be
unlawful for any operator to knowingly transport or for any passenger to
possess in any moving vehicle upon a public highway, street or alley any
alcoholic beverage, except in the original container which shall not have been
opened and from which the original cap or seal shall not have been removed,
unless the opened container be in the rear trunk or rear compartment, which
shall include the spare tire compartment in a station wagon or panel truck, or
any outside compartment which is not accessible to the driver or any other
person in the vehicle while it is in motion. Any person violating the
provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of an offense and shall pay
the fine as provided in the schedule of fines and bonds.
   B.   The provisions of subsection A of this section shall not apply to the
passenger area of buses and limousines; however, it shall be unlawful for the
driver of the bus or limousine to consume or have in the driver's immediate
possession any intoxicating beverage.
   C.   As used in this section:
    BUS: Means a vehicle as defined in section
1-105 of title 47 of the Oklahoma Statutes chartered for transportation of
persons for hire. It shall not mean a school bus, as defined by section 1-160
of title 47 of the Oklahoma Statutes, transporting children or a vehicle
operated pursuant to a franchise with a city or town operating over a regularly
scheduled route.
   LIMOUSINE: Means a chauffeur-driven motor vehicle, other than a bus or
taxicab, as defined by section 1-174 of title 47 of the Oklahoma Statutes,
designed and used for transportation of persons for compensation. (Ord. 2018-2,
9-13-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
3-115: MUNICIPALITY MAY INITIATE LICENSE SUSPENSION:
The Town, as to any mixed beverage, beer and wine, caterer, public event or
bottle club licensee having its principal place of business in the Town, may
initiate a license suspension or revocation proceeding as to such licensee by
filing a written complaint with the ABLE Commission. The complaint shall set
forth the grounds for the proposed suspension or revocation. Such complaint may
be based on any ground that the ABLE Commission might have asserted. Upon
receipt of such complaint, the ABLE Commission shall forward a copy of the
complaint to the licensee together with written notice of the time and place of
hearing thereon. The hearing shall be held within the time limits and in the
manner prescribed for suspension or revocation proceedings initiated by the
ABLE Commission. In any proceeding initiated pursuant to this section, the Town
shall be deemed an interested party, shall have the right to be heard and to
present evidence at the hearing on the complaint and shall be entitled to
appeal from any final order entered by the ABLE Commission in the manner
otherwise provided in the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act. The Town
shall not be required to give bond on appeal. (Ord. 2018-2, 9-13-2018, eff. 10-
1-2018)
3-116: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   No person shall:
      1.   Knowingly sell, deliver or furnish alcoholic beverages to any person
under twenty one (21) years of age;
      2.   Sell, deliver or knowingly furnish alcoholic beverages to an
intoxicated person or to any person who has been adjudged insane or mentally
deficient;
      3.   Open a retail container or consume alcoholic beverages on the
premises of a package store, grocery store, convenience store or drug store,
unless otherwise permitted by law;
      4.   Import into this State, except as provided for in the Oklahoma
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, any alcoholic beverages; provided, that nothing
herein shall prohibit the importation or possession for personal use of not
more than one liter (1 L) of alcoholic beverages upon which the Oklahoma Excise
Tax is delinquent;
      5.   Receive, possess or use any alcoholic beverage in violation of the
provisions of the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act;
      6.   Knowingly transport into, within or through this State more than one
liter (1 L) of alcoholic beverages upon which the Oklahoma Excise Tax has not
been paid unless the person accompanying or in charge of the vehicle
transporting same shall possess a true copy of a bill of lading, invoice,
manifest or other document particularly identifying that alcoholic beverages
are being transported and showing the name and address of the consignor and
consignee; provided, this prohibition shall not apply to the first one hundred
eighty liters (180 L) of alcoholic beverages classified as household goods by
military personnel, age twenty one (21) or older, when entering Oklahoma from
temporary active assignment outside the contiguous United States;
      7.   Consume spirits in public except on the premises of a licensee of
the ABLE Commission who is authorized to sell or serve spirits by the
individual drink, or be intoxicated in a public place, except as otherwise
permitted by this Code;
      8.   Forcibly resist lawful arrest, or by physical contact interfere with
an investigation of any infringement of the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control
Act or with any lawful search or seizure being made by a law enforcement
officer or an employee of the ABLE Commission, when such person knows or should
know that such acts are being performed by a State, county or municipal officer
or employee of the ABLE Commission;
      9.   Knowingly and willfully permit any individual under twenty one (21)
years of age who is an invitee to the person's residence, any building,
structure or room owned, occupied, leased or otherwise procured by the person
or on any land owned, occupied, leased or otherwise procured by the person, to
possess or consume any alcoholic beverage;
      10.   Any person selling or keeping a mixed beverage establishment,
package store, bottle club or other ABLE licensed establishment open to sell
any alcoholic beverage during any day or hours not authorized by the Oklahoma
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, and any person selling or permitting the sale
of alcoholic beverages at a grocery store, convenience store or drug store
during any day or hours not authorized by the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage
Control Act shall be guilty of an offense;
      11.   No minor shall be employed in the selling, manufacture,
distribution or other handling of alcoholic beverages at any place within the
Town. No person shall employ or assist or aid in causing the employment of any
minor at any place within the Town in the selling, manufacture, distribution or
other handling of alcoholic beverages. No minor shall be permitted to remain
within or to loiter about the premises of a retail alcoholic beverage store.
Violation of this provision shall subject the owner or proprietor, as well as
the underage person, to prosecution;
      12.   No person within this Town shall drink intoxicating liquor or
alcoholic beverage in any public place, nor shall any person be intoxicated in
a public place within this Town, nor shall any owner, operator or manager of
any business or public place to which the public is generally invited allow an
intoxicated person to remain in or upon the premises;
      13.   No person shall knowingly sell, deliver or furnish alcoholic
beverages, at any place within the Town limits of the Town to any person who is
a minor. Neither shall any minor misrepresent his age verbally nor in writing,
or present false documentation of age or otherwise for the purpose of inducing
any other person to sell him alcoholic beverages. (Ord. 2018-2, 9-13-2018, eff.
10-1-2018)
3-117: FINES FOR CHAPTER:
The fine and bond schedule for the offenses provided for in this chapter is as
follows:
Section  Display license                                                $100.00
3-107
Section  Drinking in public                                             170.00
3-108
Section  Public intoxication/drinking prohibited                        170.00
3-109
Section  Minors and alcoholic beverages                                 170.00
3-110
Section  Possession or consumption of alcoholic beverages prohibited in 170.00
3-111    other locations without permission
Section  Permitting or allowing gatherings where minors are consuming   170.00
3-112    alcoholic beverages
Section  Location of retail package store, mixed beverage               170.00
3-113    establishments, beer or wine establishments or bottle clubs
Section  Transporting open containers of alcoholic beverages            170.00
3-114
Section  Prohibited acts                                                170.00
3-116
 
(Ord. 2018-2, 9-13-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
PART 4
ANIMALS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
Article A.    Animal Regulations
4-101: Definitions
4-102: Running At Large; Owners Cited; Enclosures
4-103: Control Of Animals Required; Regulations
4-104: Buildings, Structures For Animals; Location
4-105: Noisy Animals, Nuisance, Vicious Animals
4-106: Pasturing In Public Areas Illegal
4-107: Prohibited Animals
Article B.    Licensing And Vaccination
4-121: Rabies Vaccination Required; Certificate Of Vaccination; Tags
4-122: Licenses Required
Article C.    Impoundment Regulations
4-131: Impoundment; Disposition Of Animals
4-132: Breaking Pound Or Interfering With Officers
4-133: Redemption, Adoption Of Animal
Article D.    Cruelty To Animals
4-141: Cruelty To Animals Unlawful
4-142: Poisoning Animals
4-143: Encouraging Animals To Fight
Article E.    Zoning Ordinance
4-151: Zoning Ordinance To Prevail
Article F.    Rabies And Animal Bites
4-161: Animal Bites; Rabies Examination; Quarantine
4-162: Rabies Diagnoses; Quarantine Of Town; Time Limit
4-163: Killing Or Removing Rabid Animal Prohibited
4-164: Reports Of Bite Cases; Report By Veterinarian
4-165: Investigations For Violation Of Chapter
4-166: Records
Article G.    Penalty
4-171: Penalty
ARTICLE A. ANIMAL REGULATIONS 1
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 22-115.
4-101: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   As used in this chapter:
    ANIMAL: Any horse, mule, donkey, pony, cow, sheep, goat, hog, dog, cat,
rabbit, turkey or other animal or fowl.
   AT LARGE:
      1.   Not securely confined by a fence or other means on premises under
the control of, or occupied by, the owner; or
      2.   Not under the control of the owner, a member of his immediate family
over twelve (12) years of age or an agent of the owner, by leash not more than
six feet (6') in length if off the premises of the owner.
   FOWL: Chickens, guineas, geese, ducks and pigeons.
   KENNEL: Any lot or premises on which are kept three (3) or more dogs more
than six (6) months of age. More than one litter of puppies born from different
mother dogs may be kept only in a kennel.
   LIVESTOCK: Cattle (cows, bulls, steers, heifers, calves), horses (mares,
stallions, geldings, ponies), sheep, goats and similar animals.
   OWNER OR KEEPER: Any person, group of persons or corporation owning,
keeping, maintaining or harboring, or having care or custody of, an animal or
animals or fowl or birds.
   PROVOKE OR PROVOCATION: With respect to an attack by an animal, that the
animal was hit, kicked or struck by a person with an object or part of a
person's body or that any part of the animal's body is pulled, pinched or
squeezed by a person.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL: An animal which has bitten, or attempted to bite, any person
without undue provocation, or which attacks, or barks or growls at and acts as
if it intends to attack or bite, or bites a person or persons when not unduly
provoked, and includes a pit bull.
   WITHOUT PROVOCATION: That an animal was not teased, tormented or abused; and
also means where the animal was not protecting its owner or owner's property
from criminal activity by a perpetrator of a crime.
   B.   All other words or phrases used herein shall be defined and interpreted
according to their common usage. (1998 Code)
4-102: RUNNING AT LARGE; OWNERS CITED; ENCLOSURES:
   A.   No owner shall permit any animal, including fowl, owned, harbored or
kept by him, to be at large within the town. It is unlawful for any animal to
be at large within the town.
   B.   Any animal running at large in the town may be taken up and impounded
at the animal shelter. The animal control officer may, at his discretion, cite
the owner of such animal to appear in municipal court to answer charges of
violation of this chapter. (1998 Code)
4-103: CONTROL OF ANIMALS REQUIRED; REGULATIONS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any owner or person to:
      1.   Fail to prevent any animal from running at large within the town;
      2.   Perform, do or carry out any inhumane treatment against any animal;
      3.   Keep, possess, own, control, maintain, use or otherwise exercise
dominion over any animal or animals which by reason of noise, odor or sanitary
conditions become offensive to a reasonable and prudent person of ordinary
tastes and sensibilities, or which constitute or become a health hazard as
determined by the health officer or animal control officer; or
      4.   Turn any animal at large or release an animal which is restrained or
confined in an enclosure as required by this chapter. (1998 Code)
4-104: BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES FOR ANIMALS; LOCATION:
   A.   No stables shall be allowed in the town limits with the exception of
livestock yards or other areas located in industrial zones.
   B.   Every building or place where any animal or fowl is kept shall be
constructed of such material and in such manner that it can be kept clean and
sanitary at all times.
   C.   No place where an animal is kept shall be kept closer than forty feet
(40') to the premises of an apartment, hotel, restaurant, boarding house, food
store, building used for educational, religious or hospital purposes, or
dwelling other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises upon
which the animal is kept.
   D.   Every building where any animal is kept, if located within two hundred
feet (200') of any apartment, hotel, restaurant, boarding house, food store,
building used for educational, religious or hospital purposes, or any dwelling
other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises upon which
the animal is kept, shall be provided with a watertight and flytight receptacle
for manure, of such size as to hold all accumulation of manure. The receptacle
shall be emptied sufficiently often and in such manner as to prevent it from
being or becoming a nuisance, and shall be kept covered at all times except
when open during the deposit or removal of manure or refuse. No manure shall be
allowed to accumulate on such premises except in the receptacle.
   E.   The animal control officer or health officer shall inspect any
structure or place where an animal is kept on his own initiative or upon
complaint. He may issue any such reasonable order as he may deem necessary to
the owner of such animal to cause the animal to be kept as required in this
chapter or in a manner so as not to constitute a nuisance. He may make a
complaint before the town court against any person for violation of any
provision of this chapter, or of any such reasonable order. (1998 Code)
4-105: NOISY ANIMALS, NUISANCE, VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A.   No person shall keep any animal which causes frequent or long continued
noise or otherwise so as to disturb the comfort or repose of any person in the
vicinity. Any violation of this section is declared to be a nuisance and as
such may be abated.
   B.   No person shall keep any animal which is a nuisance or is vicious as
defined in this code. (1998 Code)
4-106: PASTURING IN PUBLIC AREAS ILLEGAL:
It is unlawful for any person to pasture any animal on any public property or
private property without the consent of the person owning or controlling the
property. (1998 Code)
4-107: PROHIBITED ANIMALS:
   A.   No swine, except Vietnamese potbelly pigs which are kept as pets, and
no cattle, horses, goats, sheep, donkeys or mules shall be kept within the town
limits with the following exceptions:
      1.   Holding over in a stockyard awaiting for sale or transportation;
      2.   For the performance or exhibition a stock show or parade held in the
town. For such an event, none of the above named animals shall be held over
within the town limits for more than a twelve (12) hour period of time; and
      3.   In industrial zoned areas. (1998 Code)
ARTICLE B. LICENSING AND VACCINATION
4-121: RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED; CERTIFICATE OF VACCINATION; TAGS 1 :
   A.   No person shall own, keep or harbor any dog or cat within the town
limits unless such dog or cat six (6) months of age or older is vaccinated for
rabies annually.
   B.   Unless the owner of any dog or cat furnishes written proof that the dog
or cat has been vaccinated for rabies by a licensed veterinarian in the past
twelve (12) months, the owner shall be guilty of an offense.
   C.   When a veterinarian vaccinates a dog or cat against rabies, he shall
issue to the owner of such dog or cat a metal tag or check evidencing such
vaccination and the year of vaccination.
   D.   It shall be the duty of the owner of the dog or cat to attach the tag
or check issued to him pursuant to subsection C of this section to the dog or
cat and it shall be unlawful for any person to remove such tag or check without
the owner's consent. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 22-115.
4-122: LICENSES REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall own, keep, harbor or have custody of any dog over six
(6) months of age without first obtaining a license from the town clerk and
paying the required fee.
   B.   The annual license fee for dogs shall be as set by the town board by
motion or resolution 1 .
   C.   This section shall not apply to the keeping of animals temporarily
brought or kept within the town, nor to "seeing eye" dogs when such dog is
actually used to aid a blind person. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. See fee schedule on file with the town clerk or in appendix 1 of this code
  for applicable fees.
ARTICLE C. IMPOUNDMENT REGULATIONS
4-131: IMPOUNDMENT; DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS:
   A.   The town may operate on its own or contract with an outside agency to
serve as the town's animal shelter or pound to provide for the impoundment of
animals pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   Any animal found running at large shall be picked up and immediately
impounded in the animal shelter and there confined in a humane manner.
   C.   Fees for impoundment shall be as provided by the shelter or the town
board. In computing the fee, a fraction of a day during which an animal has
been fed shall be deemed a full day. (1998 Code)
4-132: BREAKING POUND OR INTERFERING WITH OFFICERS:
   A.   If any person breaks open, or in any manner directly or indirectly aids
in, or counsels or advises the breaking open of any town pound or contract
pound, or hinders, delays or obstructs any person duly authorized in taking up
or taking to the town pound any animal liable to be impounded, he shall be
guilty of an offense.
   B.   No person shall interfere with, or hinder, or molest any agent of the
town in the performance of any duty of such agent, or seek to release any
animal in the custody of the town or its agents, except as provided by law.
(1998 Code)
4-133: REDEMPTION, ADOPTION OF ANIMAL:
   A.   An owner of an impounded animal or his agent may redeem the animal
prior to its sale or destruction as provided for herein by paying the required
fees against the animal and meeting any other requirements which may be
prescribed in this chapter. If the owner or his agent has not redeemed the
animal within the first five (5) days after the impoundment of the animal, the
animal may be otherwise disposed of as provided for herein.
   B.   A person desiring to adopt an animal from impoundment shall pay an
adoption fee, costs of any necessary vaccinations, and a deposit of ten dollars
($10.00) to guarantee the neutering or spaying of the dog or cat, and shall
sign an agreement with the town ensuring that the dog or cat will be spayed or
neutered. (1998 Code)
ARTICLE D. CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
4-141: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any person, wilfully and maliciously, to pour on, or apply
to, any animal any drug or other thing which inflicts pain on the animal; or to
knowingly treat an animal in a cruel or inhumane manner; or to knowingly
neglect an animal belonging to him or in his custody in a cruel or inhumane
manner. (1998 Code)
4-142: POISONING ANIMALS:
It is unlawful for a person wilfully to poison any dog or other animal except a
noxious, nondomesticated animal, or to knowingly expose poison so that the same
may be taken by an animal. (1998 Code)
4-143: ENCOURAGING ANIMALS TO FIGHT:
It is unlawful for any person to instigate or encourage a fight between animals
or to encourage one animal to attack, pursue or annoy another animal except a
noxious, nondomesticated animal, or to keep a house, pit or other place used
for fights between animals. (1998 Code)
ARTICLE E. ZONING ORDINANCE
4-151: ZONING ORDINANCE TO PREVAIL:
   A.   In case of any conflict between the provisions of this chapter and the
zoning ordinance, the zoning ordinance shall prevail.
   B.   Kennels are only permitted in commercial districts in accordance with
the town's zoning ordinance. (1998 Code)
ARTICLE F. RABIES AND ANIMAL BITES
4-161: ANIMAL BITES; RABIES EXAMINATION; QUARANTINE:
   A.   Every animal that bites or scratches a person shall be reported within
four (4) hours to the animal control officer and shall thereupon be securely
quarantined at a veterinarian hospital for a period of ten (10) days from the
date the person was bitten, and shall not be released from such quarantine
except by permission of the animal control officer of the town and the
veterinarian in charge of the quarantined animal. Such quarantine may be at any
veterinarian hospital chosen by the owner. Failure of the owner or keeper to
quarantine his animal within the four (4) hour period herein will make him
guilty of an offense.
   B.   The owner, upon demand by any town officer or animal control officer,
shall surrender any animal that has bitten or scratched a human, or which is
suspected as having been exposed to rabies, for supervised quarantine testing
or euthanasia, the expense for which shall be borne by the owner; and the
animal may be reclaimed by the owner if adjudged free of rabies. (1998 Code)
4-162: RABIES DIAGNOSES; QUARANTINE OF TOWN; TIME LIMIT 1 :
   A.   When an animal under quarantine has been diagnosed as being rabid, or
suspected by a licensed veterinarian as being rabid, and dies while under such
observation, the animal control officer or veterinarian shall immediately send
the head of such animal to the state health department for pathological
examination, and shall notify the proper public health officer of reports of
human contacts and diagnosis made of the suspected animal.
   B.   When one or both reports give a positive diagnosis of rabies, the
health or animal control officer of the town may recommend a townwide
quarantine for a period of six (6) months; and upon the invoking of such
quarantine, no animal shall be taken into the streets or permitted to be in the
streets during such period of quarantine. During such quarantine, no animal
shall be taken or shipped from the town without written permission of the
animal control officer of the town.
   C.   During such period of rabies quarantine as herein designated, every
animal bitten by an animal adjudged to be rabid shall be treated for such
rabies infection by a licensed veterinarian, or held under six (6) months'
quarantine by the owner in the same manner as other animals are quarantined.
   D.   In the event there are additional positive cases of rabies occurring
during the period of quarantine, such period of quarantine may be extended for
an additional six (6) months. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 63 OS § 1-508.
4-163: KILLING OR REMOVING RABID ANIMAL PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall kill or cause to be killed any rabid animal, any animal
suspected of having been exposed to rabies, or any animal biting or scratching
a human, except as herein provided, nor to remove the animal from the town
limits without written permission from the health officer of the town, or the
animal control officer.
   B.   The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall upon demand be
surrendered to the animal control officer.
   C.   The animal control officer shall direct the disposition of any animal
found to be infected with rabies.
   D.   No person shall fail or refuse to surrender any animal for quarantine
or destruction as required herein when demand is made therefor by an employee
empowered to enforce this chapter. Such refusal shall be deemed an offense.
(1998 Code)
4-164: REPORTS OF BITE CASES; REPORT BY VETERINARIAN:
   A.   It is the duty of every physician, veterinarian or other practitioner
to report to the animal control officer the names and addresses of persons
treated for bites inflicted by animals, together with such other information as
will be helpful in rabies control.
   B.   It is the duty of every licensed veterinarian to report to the animal
control officer his diagnosis of any animal observed by him to be a rabies
suspect. (1998 Code)
4-165: INVESTIGATIONS FOR VIOLATION OF CHAPTER:
   A.   For the purpose of discharging the duties imposed by this chapter and
to enforce its provisions, the animal control or health officers are empowered
to call upon the residents of any premises upon which a dog or cat or small
animal is kept or harbored, and to demand the exhibition by the owner of such
dog or cat or small animal.
   B.   The animal control or health officer, in the manner authorized by law,
may enter the premises where any animal is kept in a reportedly cruel or
inhumane manner and demand to examine such animal, and to take possession of
such animal when, in his opinion, it requires humane treatment. The officer may
demand, at the front door of any residence, exhibition by the owner of current
animal licenses at any time. (1998 Code)
4-166: RECORDS:
The animal control officer shall keep or cause to be kept:
   A.   An accurate and detailed record of the licensing, impounding and
disposition of all animals coming into his custody; and
   B.   An accurate and detailed record of all bite cases reported to the town,
with a complete report of the investigation of each case. (1998 Code)
ARTICLE G. PENALTY
4-171: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (1998 Code)
PART 5
BUILDING REGULATIONS AND CODES
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-101: International Building Code Adopted
5-102: Additions And Changes To International Building Code
5-103: Penalty
5-104: Fire Limits Defined
Article A. International Property Maintenance Code Adopted
5-101A: International Property Maintenance Code Adopted
5-102A: International Existing Building Code Adopted
5-101: INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE ADOPTED:
That a certain document is on file in the Office of the Town Clerk of the Town
of Beaver, Oklahoma, being marked and designated as the International Building
Code, 2018 Edition, its appendices and annual amendments thereof, as published
by the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Building
Code for the Town of Beaver, State of Oklahoma, for regulating and governing
the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and structures; by
providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other
physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe,
sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of buildings and
structures unfit for human occupancy and use and the demolition of such
structures as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and
collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of said International Building Code on file in
the office of the Town Clerk of the Town of Beaver, Oklahoma, are hereby
referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this
section, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in Section
5-102 of this Article. (Ord. 2022-02, 9-12-2022)
   State Law Reference: Building codes, adoption by cities, 11 O.S. § 14-107;
74 O.S. § 324.8.
5-102: ADDITIONS AND CHANGES TO INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE:
The following section of the International Building Code, 2018 Edition are
hereby revised:
   A.   § 100.1. insert the Town of Beaver. State of Oklahoma.
   B.   § 1612.3, insert the Town of Beaver, State of Oklahoma.
   C.   § 1612.3, insert August 1, 2022.
   D.   § 3410.2, insert August 1. 2022. (Ord. 2022-02, 9-12-2022)
5-103: PENALTY:
A person who violates a provision of this code or fails to comply therewith or
with any of the requirements thereof, or who erects, constructs, alters,
repairs or removes, or has erected, constructed, altered, repaired, or removed
a building or structure in violation of a detailed statement or plan submitted
and approved thereunder or of a permit or certificate issued thereunder, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be fined any sum as
provided in section
1-108 of this code, plus costs. Each day upon which a violation continues shall
be deemed a separate offense. (1998 Code)
5-104: FIRE LIMITS DEFINED:
The boundaries of the fire limits of the town shall be as established by the
town board of trustees. (1998 Code)
ARTICLE A. INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED
5-101A: INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED:
That a certain document is on file in the Office of the Town Clerk of the Town
of Beaver, Oklahoma, being marked and designated as the International Property
Maintenance Code, 2018 Edition, its appendices and annual amendments thereof,
as published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the
Code for regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all
property, buildings and structures; by providing the standards for supplied
utilities and facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to
ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and
the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use
and the demolition of such structures as herein provided; providing for the
issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and ail of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Property
Maintenance Code on file in the office of the Town Clerk of the Town of Beaver,
Oklahoma, are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully
set out in this ordinance, with the following additions, insertions, deletions
and changes:
   Section 101.1, insert the Town of Beaver, Oklahoma.
   Section 103.5, insert a schedule of fees on file in the office of the Town
Clerk or contained in the Beaver Municipal Code 2018.
   Section 304.14, insert from April 1 to September 30.
   Section 602.3, insert from November 1 through March 31.
   Section 602.4, insert from November I through March 31. (Ord. 2022-01, 8-11-
2022)
5-102A: INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE ADOPTED:
That a certain document is on file in the Office of the Town Clerk of the Town
of Beaver, Oklahoma, being marked and designated as the International Existing
Building Code, 2018 Edition, its appendices and annual amendments thereof, as
published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the
Building Code for the Town of Beaver, State of Oklahoma, for regulating and
governing the repair, alteration, change of occupancy, addition and relocation
of existing buildings, as herein provided; providing for the issuance of
permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Building Code on file in
the office of the Town Clerk of the Town of Beaver, Oklahoma, are hereby
referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this
section, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes:
   All references to jurisdiction shall be amended to mean the Town of Beaver.
Oklahoma.
   All amendments made by the Oklahoma Uniform Building Code Commission to this
Code are hereby incorporated by reference as herein set out. (Ord. 2022-05, 9-
12-2022)
CHAPTER 2
PLUMBING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-201: International Plumbing Code Adopted
5-202: Additions, Insertions And Changes To The International Plumbing Code
5-203: Plumbers; Registration
5-204: Penalty
5-201: INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED:
That a certain document is on file in the Office of the Town Clerk of the Town
of Beaver, Oklahoma, being marked and designated as the International Plumbing
Code, 2018 Edition, with all variances adopted by the State of Oklahoma,
including all appendix chapters, together with any annual amendments thereof,
as published by the International Code Board of Trustees, be and is hereby
adopted as the Plumbing Code of the Town of Beaver, State of Oklahoma, for
regulating and governing the design, construction, quality of materials,
erection, installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement,
addition to, use or maintenance of plumbing systems as herein provided;
providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each
and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said
Plumbing Code on file in the office of the Town Clerk of the Town of Beaver,
Oklahoma, are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully
set out in this section, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes
as set out in Section 5-202. (Ord. 2022-03, 9-12-2022)
5-202: ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES TO THE INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE:
The following sections contained in the International Plumbing Code are herein
revised:
   All references to jurisdiction shall be amended to mean the Town of Beaver.
Oklahoma.
   All amendments made by the Oklahoma Uniform Building Code Commission to this
Code are hereby incorporated by reference as herein set out. (Ord. 2022-03, 9-
12-2022)
5-203: PLUMBERS; REGISTRATION.
   A.   The phrases and words “journeyman plumber,” “plumber’s apprentice,”
“plumbing contractor,” and “plumbing,” when used in the ordinances, regulations
and other official acts and communications of this Town, shall have the
meanings respectively prescribed for them by Sections 1001 et seq. of Title 59
of the Oklahoma Statutes, the state plumbing license law, and the Town’s
plumbing code, unless the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   B.   No person shall work at the occupation or engage in the business of
installing, altering, replacing, or repairing any plumbing equipment, fixtures,
or apparatus within the Town without registering with the Town clerk and
securing a plumbing contractors’ registration. The Town clerk shall issue such
registration upon presentation of a valid license or registration issued by the
state department of health and upon payment of the required fees.
   C.   Applicants for certificates of registration, after complying with the
laws of the state and with the Town code, and after payment of the fee
hereinafter specified, shall be registered with the Town. The registration
shall expire annually, on June 30, but may be renewed from year to year.
Plumbing contractors desiring to renew their registration shall furnish the
same evidence of compliance with the state licensing laws and the same bond is
required as set forth by Town code.
   D.   An applicant for plumbing contractor’s registration shall also furnish
bond in such sum and such conditions as set by the Town Administrator.
   E.   All plumbing registrations not renewed within ninety (90) days after
the date of expiration thereof shall be canceled, and a new application for
registration must be made and the fee for a new registration paid.
   F.   The fee for registration shall be as set by the Town Board of Trustees.
   G.   The Town Board of Trustees, upon notice and adequate opportunity for a
public hearing, may revoke the Town registration of any plumbing contractor or
journeyman plumber for violating any provision of the ordinances or regulations
of the Town relating to the installation of plumbing or for any other cause
specified in the state plumbing license law. (Ord. 2022-03, 9-12-2022)
5-204: PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-108 of this code. Any person who violates or refuses to comply with any of
the provisions of this chapter shall be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
5-301: National Electrical Code Adopted
5-302: Electricians' License
5-303: Penalty
5-301: NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED:
The national electrical code, the latest edition thereof, as approved by the
American Standards Association, for the installation of electrical wiring,
devices and equipment is hereby adopted as the minimum standard for the
installation of all electrical wiring, devices and equipment in the town,
except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter. The national
electrical code is hereby made a part of this code as fully and to the same
extent as if copied herein in full, provided that the present or current issue
of the national electrical code and any subsequent amendments thereto shall be
considered as the national electrical code as that term is used herein. (1998
Code)
5-302: ELECTRICIANS' LICENSE 1 :
   A.   No person shall practice or engage in the business, trade or occupation
of an electrical contractor, journeyman electrician or electrician's apprentice
unless he holds a current license obtained from the state.
   B.   Bond and insurance requirements of electrical contractors shall meet
the requirements established by state law.
   C.   No person shall practice or engage in the business, trade or occupation
of an electrical contractor, a journeyman electrician or an electrician's
apprentice unless he has first registered as such with the town and paid the
annual fee set by the town board by motion or resolution. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 59 OS §§ 1680 – 1696.
5-303: PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable by fine. Any person, firm or corporation who violates or refuses to
comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punished as provided
in section
1-108 of this code. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GAS PIPING CODE
SECTION:
5-401: Code Adopted
5-402: License
5-403: Penalty
5-401: CODE ADOPTED:
The national fuel gas code, as issued by the National Fire Protection
Association, the latest edition thereof, is hereby adopted, incorporated and
made a part hereof as if fully set out in this code, with the insertions,
deletions and changes if any prescribed in this chapter. State licensed
plumbing and mechanical contractors and persons authorized to install gas
piping under state licensing laws are authorized to do so under this code.
(1998 Code)
5-402: LICENSE:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of installing
gas piping or gas appliances without first obtaining any license required by
the state.
   B.   Bond and insurance shall be provided by the licensee in such amounts as
required by the state. (1998 Code)
5-403: PENALTY:
Any person who shall do any act prohibited by this chapter or fail or refuse to
comply therewith or fail or refuse to obey a lawful order of the inspector
shall be punished by a fine as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 5
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS
SECTION:
5-501: Mandatory Use Of Gas System Required; Propane Prohibited; Purpose
5-502: Storage Of Gases; Cylinder Exchange Program
5-503: Persons Must Comply With Code
5-504: Penalties
5-501: MANDATORY USE OF GAS SYSTEM REQUIRED; PROPANE PROHIBITED; PURPOSE:
The natural gas service and system for the town of Beaver through its franchise
agreement with West Texas Gas will be mandatorily used wherever such system is
available by all residences, including, but not limited to, single- and multi-
family housing units, dwelling houses and buildings or property used for
business or commercial establishment of any type, situated within the town, and
abutting on any street, alley or right of way which has a town gas line
available for connection. This chapter does not apply to outdoor LPG appliances
using twenty (20) pound or smaller tanks.
The use of propane is prohibited where a gas line is available for connection.
The purpose for requiring mandatory use of the natural gas utility is that the
service for the town, provided by franchise agreement with West Texas Gas, is
not economically viable unless all premises within its boundaries help pay for
it, and there is a reasonable concern for the health and safety of its
residents in requiring mandatory use.
Propane tanks on record by the town being used may continue to be used until
there is a change of ownership of that property by sale, transfer, or death of
present owner. (Ord. 2010-1, 1-14-2010)
5-502: STORAGE OF GASES; CYLINDER EXCHANGE PROGRAM:
   A.   Storage Tanks: Outside aboveground and underground storage tanks shall
be prohibited within the boundary limits of the town, except as established by
the zoning ordinance for sale of gas to the public. Retail sales of LPG/CNG
shall be confined to the heavy commercial district when storage is underground
and confined to light or heavy industrial district when storage is aboveground
except under a cylinder exchange program as set forth in subsection B of this
section.
   B.   Cylinder Exchange Program:
      1.   Cylinder exchange cabinets shall be constructed of steel and be
lockable so that cylinders cannot be removed and valves cannot be tampered with
when unattended. The cabinets shall be:
         a.   Vented top and bottom.
         b.   Set on a firm, incombustible base.
         c.   Kept locked when not exchanging cylinders.
         d.   Placed at least ten feet (10') from any building opening.
         e.   Placed at least fifteen feet (15') from any source of ignition
such as: soft drink and ice machines, exhaust fans, air conditioners or
telephones.
      2.   The cabinet shall have the following signs affixed to it:
         a.   "Propane" or "Flammable Gas" and "No Smoking".
         b.   License or permit number.
         c.   Name of class I permit holder who supplies the cylinders.
         d.   Twenty four (24) hour emergency telephone number.
      3.   The cabinet shall be located for distance and number of cylinders as
per NFPA 58.
      4.   Protection against vehicle impact shall be provided in accordance
with good engineering practice where vehicle traffic normally is expected at
the location as per NFPA 58.
      5.   An approved serviceable portable fire extinguisher of not less than
eighteen (18) pounds dry chemical BIC rating shall be readily available within
a fifty foot (50') radius of the exchange cabinet and shall be inspected
annually.
      6.   All empty or full cylinders shall be:
         a.   Stored in a cabinet in an upright position.
         b.   Valve outlet plugged.
      7.   All full cylinders placed in the cabinet shall:
         a.   Have a proper consumer warning label affixed.
         b.   Be requalified as per NFPA 58, appendix C.
         c.   Be painted white or aluminum in color.
      8.   A warning sign shall be posted at or near any entrance doorway
stating the "LP GAS EXCHANGE CYLINDERS EMPTY OR FULL SHALL NOT BE TAKEN INDOORS
FOR ANY REASON".
      9.   All employees who exchange cylinders shall be properly trained and
know how to check for leaks and what emergency procedures to take if a leak is
discovered. Only properly trained employees can remove or install exchange
cylinders from the cylinder exchange cabinets. This training shall be provided
by the class I permit holder who is supplying the exchange cylinders. This
documentation will be kept at the class VII location.
      10.   A class I permit shall be required in order to supply exchange
cylinders for the cylinder exchange permit holder. (Ord. 2010-1, 1-14-2010)
5-503: PERSONS MUST COMPLY WITH CODE 1 :
All other uses and applications of liquefied petroleum gas other than those
addressed in sections
5-501 and
5-502 of this chapter shall be regulated and enforced by the National Fire
Protection Association NFPA 58 entitled liquefied petroleum gas code and NFPA
54 entitled national fuel gas code as adopted by the Oklahoma liquefied
petroleum gas board, and is adopted and incorporated herein by reference and
shall have full force and effect within this town. Any violation of these rules
and regulations shall be deemed a violation of the ordinances of the town and
shall be punished accordingly. (Ord. 2010-1, 1-14-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 52 OS § 420.1 et seq.
5-504: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate this chapter, or any section
or part of section thereof, is guilty of an offense, and upon conviction
thereof shall be punished by a fine as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (Ord. 2010-1, 1-14-2010)
CHAPTER 6
MOVING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
5-601: Permits Required
5-601: PERMITS REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to move any house or building in, along, across
or over, any street or alley in the town limits without first having obtained a
permit from the board of trustees of the town. The board of trustees shall
issue the permit upon approval of the proposed move and proper application of
the person for a fee to be set by motion or resolution. The permits are good
for a five (5) day period from date of issue. Any person moving such house or
building shall plank all street crossings and sidewalks to prevent damage to
the streets and sidewalks or protect them as required by the town. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 7
MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
5-701: International Mechanical Code Adopted
5-702: Definitions
5-703: Registration Required
5-704: Penalty
5-701: INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED:
That a certain document is on file in the Office of the Town Clerk of the Town
of Beaver, Oklahoma, being marked and designated as the International
Mechanical Code, 2018 Edition, with all variances adopted by the State of
Oklahoma, including all appendix chapters, together with any annual amendments
thereof, as published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby
adopted as the Mechanical Code of the Town of Beaver, State of Oklahoma, for
regulating and governing the design, construction, quality of materials,
erection, installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement,
addition to, use or maintenance of mechanical systems as herein provided;
providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each
and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said
Mechanical Code on file in the office of the Town Clerk of the Town of Beaver,
Oklahoma, are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully
set out in this section, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes:
   All references to jurisdiction shall be amended to mean the Town of Beaver,
Oklahoma.
   All amendments made by the Oklahoma Uniform Building Code Commission to this
Code are hereby incorporated by reference as herein set out. (Ord. 2022-04, 9-
12-2022)
5-702: DEFINITIONS:
Words and phrases in this chapter shall be as defined in the State Mechanical
Licensing Act, Section 1850.1 et seq. of Title 59 of the Oklahoma Statutes: and
the Town’s mechanical code. (Ord. 2022-04, 9-12-2022)
5-703: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall work at the occupation or engage in the business of
installing, altering, replacing, or repairing any mechanical equipment,
fixtures or apparatus within the Town without registering with the Town clerk
and securing a mechanical contractor’s registration. The Town Clerk shall issue
such registration upon presentation of a valid license or registration issued
by the state department of health and upon payment of the required fee.
   B.   Applicants for certificates of registration, after complying with the
laws of the state and with the Town Code, and after payment of the fee
hereinafter specified, shall be registered by the Town. The registration shall
expire annually, on June 30, but may be renewed from year to year. Mechanical
contractors desiring to renew their registration shall furnish the same
evidence of compliance with state licensing laws and the same bond is required
as set forth by Town Code.
   C.   An applicant for mechanical contractor’s registration shall also
furnish bond in such sum and such conditions as set by the Town Administrator.
   D.   All mechanical registrations not renewed within ninety (90) days after
the date of expiration thereof shall be canceled, and a new application for
registration must be made and the fee for a new registration must be paid.
   E.   The fee for registration shall be as set forth by the Town Board of
Trustees by motion or resolution.
   F.   The Town Board of Trustees, upon notice and adequate opportunity for a
public hearing, may revoke the Town registration of any mechanical contractor
or journeyman mechanical contractor for violating any provisions of the
ordinances or regulations of the Town relating to the installation of
mechanical or for any other cause specified in the state mechanical license
law.
   G.   All services performed by utility companies operating under a franchise
agreement, and the employees of such utility companies or Town are hereby
exempt from Subsection A for work done under the supervision and direction of
the utility companies or Town. (Ord. 2022-04, 9-12-2022)
5-704: PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-108 of this code. Any person who violates or refuses to comply with any of
the provisions of this chapter shall be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 8
SWIMMING POOLS
SECTION:
5-801: Definition
5-802: Permits; Fee
5-803: Barriers Required
5-804: Safety, Sanitation And Conservation
5-805: Penalty
5-801: DEFINITION:
For the purpose of this chapter, "swimming pool" means any and every pool of
water, any part of which is more than twenty four inches (24") in depth
constructed on either public or private property. (1998 Code)
5-802: PERMITS; FEE:
No person shall erect, construct or install a swimming pool in the town on
public or private property without first obtaining a permit therefor from the
town clerk and paying the applicable permit fee, which is set by the town board
of trustees by motion or resolution. The application for permit shall be made
on forms provided by the town and shall be considered by the town board of
trustees. (1998 Code)
5-803: BARRIERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Before the town authorizes the issuance of a permit, the applicant
shall submit to the clerk plans and specifications for suitable effective
barriers for preventing children and other unauthorized persons from entering
the swimming pool area, including, but not limited to, any fence, wall,
structure not less than forty eight inches (48") in height.
   B.   No person shall construct, install, erect, locate or maintain any
swimming pool in the town unless the swimming pool is in an area completely
enclosed or protected by a suitable effective barrier. (1998 Code)
5-804: SAFETY, SANITATION AND CONSERVATION:
Any person owning and operating a swimming pool shall not violate any ordinary
rules of safety, sanitation or conservation of the state or town concerning the
maintenance and operation of a swimming pool. (1998 Code)
5-805: PENALTY:
Violations of this chapter are punishable as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 9
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
5-901: Policy
5-902: Definitions
5-903: Unlawful Practice
5-904: Discrimination In The Sale Or Rental Of Housing
5-905: Discrimination In The Financing Of Housing
5-906: Discrimination In The Provision Of Brokerage Services
5-907: Exemption
5-908: Administration
5-909: Education And Conciliation
5-910: Enforcement
5-911: Investigation; Subpoenas; Giving Of Evidence
5-912: Enforcement By Private Persons
5-913: Interference, Coercion, Or Intimidation
5-914: Prevention Of Intimidation In Fair Housing Cases
5-901: POLICY:
It is the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional limitations, for
fair housing throughout the town. (1998 Code)
5-902: DEFINITIONS:
As used herein:
DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE: An act that is unlawful under sections
5-904 through
5-906 of this chapter.
DWELLING: Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as, or
designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families, and
any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure, or portion thereof.
FAMILY: Includes a single individual.
PERSON: Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers, and fiduciaries.
TO RENT: Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant. (1998 Code)
5-903: UNLAWFUL PRACTICE:
   A.   Subject to the provisions of subsection A2 of this section and section
5-907 of this chapter, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in this section shall apply to:
      1.   All dwellings except as exempted by subsection A2 of this section;
      2.   Nothing in section
5-904 of this chapter shall apply to:
         a.   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner provided:
That such private individual owner does not own more than three (3) such
single-family houses at any one time;
That in the case of the sale of any such single-family house by a private
individual owner not residing in such house at the time of such sale or who was
not the most recent resident of such house prior to such sale, the exemption
granted by this subsection shall apply only with respect to one such sale
within any twenty four (24) month period;
That such bona fide private individual owner does not own any interest in, nor
is there owned or reserved on his behalf, under any express or voluntary
agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds from the
sale or rental of, more than three (3) such single-family houses at any one
time;
That the sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be excepted from
the application of this title only if such house is sold or rented;
            (1)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent, or
salesman, or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of
selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such
facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or renting
dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker, agent, salesman, or
person; and
            (2)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
any advertisement or written notice in violation of subsection 5-904A3 of this
section, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title, or
         b.   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied
or intended to be occupied by no more than four (4) families living
independently of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one
of such living quarters as his residence;
      3.   For the purposes of subsection A2 of this section, a person shall be
deemed to be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
         a.   He has, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as
principal in three (3) or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
         b.   He has, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as
an agent, other than in the sale of his own personal residence in providing
sales or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two (2) or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest
therein;
         c.   He is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five (5) or more families. (1998 Code)
5-904: DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING:
   A.   As made applicable by section
5-903 of this chapter and except as exempted by subsection 5-903A2 and section
5-907 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
      1.   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, sex, color, religion,
national origin, handicap, or familial status;
      2.   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, sex, color, religion,
national original, handicap, or familial status;
      3.   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, sex, color, religion, or national origin,
handicap, or familial status or an intention to make any such preference,
limitation, or discrimination;
      4.   To represent to any person because of race, sex, color, religion, or
national origin that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale, or
rental when such dwelling is in fact so available; or
      5.   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, sex, color,
religion, or national origin, handicap, or familial status. (1998 Code)
5-905: DISCRIMINATION IN THE FINANCING OF HOUSING:
It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the
purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him in the fixing of the amount, interest
rate, duration, or other terms or conditions of such loan or their financial
assistance, because of the race, sex, color, religion, national origin,
handicap, or familial status of such person or of any person associated with
him in connection with such loan or other financial assistance or the purposes
of such loan or other financial assistance, or of the present or prospective
owners, lessees, tenants, or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation
to which such loan or other financial assistance is to be made or given;
provided, that nothing contained in this section shall impair the scope or
effectiveness of the exception contained in subsection 5-903A2 of this chapter.
(1998 Code)
5-906: DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES:
It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, rental or facility relating to
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in
the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, sex, color, religion, national origin, handicap, or familial
status. (1998 Code)
5-907: EXEMPTION:
Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization, association,
or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised
or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization, association,
or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwelling which it
owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same
religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in such
religion is restricted on account of race, sex, color, national origin,
handicap or familial status. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a
private club not in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its
primary purpose or purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for
other than a commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such
lodgings to its members or from giving preference to its members. (1998 Code)
5-908: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   The authority and responsibility for administering this chapter shall
be in the chief executive officer of the town.
   B.   The town board of trustees shall serve as the fair housing board for
the town. (1998 Code)
5-909: EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION:
Immediately after the enactment of this chapter, the chief executive officer
shall commence such educational and conciliatory activities as will further the
purposes of this chapter. He shall call conferences of persons in the housing
industry and other interested parties to acquaint them with the provisions of
this chapter and his suggested means of implementing it, and shall endeavor
with their advice to work out programs of voluntary compliance and of
enforcement. (1998 Code)
5-910: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice or who believes that he will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter "person
aggrieved") may file a complaint with the chief executive officer. Complaints
shall be in writing and shall contain such information and be in such form as
the chief executive officer requires. Upon receipt of such a complaint, the
chief executive officer shall furnish a copy of the same to the person or
persons who allegedly committed or about to commit the alleged discriminatory
housing practice. Within thirty (30) days after receiving a complaint, or
within thirty (30) days after the expiration of any period of reference under
subsection C of this section, the chief executive officer shall investigate the
complaint and give notice in writing to the person aggrieved whether he intends
to resolve it. If the chief executive officer decides to resolve the
complaints, he shall proceed to try to eliminate or correct the alleged
discriminatory housing practice by informal methods of conference,
conciliation, and persuasion. Nothing said or done in the course of such
informal endeavors may be made public or used as evidence in a subsequent
proceeding under this chapter without the written consent of the persons
concerned. Any employee of the chief executive officer who shall make public
any information in violation of this provision shall be (upon conviction)
punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code.
   B.   A complaint under subsection A shall be filed within one hundred eighty
(180) days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred.
Complaints shall be in writing and shall state the facts upon which the
allegations of a discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may be
reasonably and fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer to
the compliant against him and with the leave of the chief executive officer,
which shall be granted whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may
amend his answer at any time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   C.   If within thirty (30) days after a complaint is filed with the chief
executive officer, the chief executive officer has been unable to obtain
voluntary compliance with this chapter, the person aggrieved may, within thirty
(30) days thereafter, file a complaint with the secretary of the department of
housing and urban development. The chief executive officer will assist in this
filing.
   D.   If the chief executive officer has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance within thirty (30) days of the complaint, the person aggrieved may,
within thirty (30) days thereafter commence a civil action in any appropriate
court, against the respondent named in the complaint to enforce the rights
granted or protected by this chapter, insofar as such rights relate to the
subject of the complaint. If the court finds that a discriminatory housing
practice has occurred or is about to occur, the court may enjoin the respondent
from engaging in such practice or order such affirmative action as may be
appropriate.
   E.   In any proceeding brought pursuant to this section, the burden of proof
shall be on the complainant.
   F.   Whenever an action filed by an individual shall come to trial, the
chief executive officer shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain
voluntary compliance. (1998 Code)
5-911: INVESTIGATION; SUBPOENAS; GIVING OF EVIDENCE:
   A.   In conducting an investigation the chief executive officer shall have
access at all reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals,
and other evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record, and
copy such materials and take and record the testimony or statements of such
persons as are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation;
provided, however, that the chief executive officer first complies with the
provisions of the fourth amendment relating to unreasonable searches and
seizures. The chief executive officer may issue subpoena to compel his access
to or the production of such materials, or the appearance of such persons, and
may issue interrogatories to a respondent, to the same extent and subject to
the same limitations as would apply if the subpoenas or interrogatories were
issued or served in aid of a civil action in the United States district court
for the district in which the investigation is taking place. The chief
executive officer may administer oaths.
   B.   Upon written application to the chief executive officer, a respondent
shall be entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number of subpoenas by and in
the name of the chief executive officer to the same extent and subject to the
same limitations as subpoenas issued at the request of a respondent and shall
show on their face the name and address of such respondent and shall state that
they were issued at his request.
   C.   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the chief executive officer shall be
entitled to the same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings
in United States district courts. Fees payable to a witness summoned by a
subpoena issued at the request of a respondent shall be paid by him.
   D.   Within five (5) days after service of a subpoena upon any person, such
person may petition the chief executive officer to revoke or modify the
subpoena. The chief executive officer shall grant the petition if he finds that
the subpoena requires appearance or attendance at an unreasonable time or
place, that it requires production of evidence which does not relate to any
matter under investigation, that it does not describe with sufficient
particularity the evidence to be produced, that compliance would be unduly
onerous, or for other good reason.
   E.   In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the chief executive
officer or other person at whose request it was issued may petition for its
enforcement in the municipal or state court for the district in which the
person to whom the subpoena was addressed resides, was served, or transacts
business.
   F.   Any person who wilfully fails or neglects to attend and testify or to
answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents, or other evidence,
if in his power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful order of the
chief executive officer shall be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code. Any person who, with intent thereby to mislead the chief
executive officer, shall make or cause to be made any false entry or statement
of fact in any report, account, record, or other document submitted to the
chief executive officer pursuant to his subpoena or other order, or shall
wilfully neglect or fail to make or cause to be made full, true, and correct
entries in such reports, accounts, records, or other documents, or shall
wilfully mutilate, alter, or by any other means falsify any documentary
evidence, shall be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code.
   G.   The town attorney shall conduct all litigation in which the chief
executive officer participates as a party or as amicus pursuant to this
chapter. (1998 Code)
5-912: ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS:
   A.   The rights granted by sections
5-903 through
5-906 of this chapter and may be enforced by civil actions in state or local
courts of general jurisdiction. A civil action shall be commenced within one
hundred eighty (180) days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice
occurred; provided, however, that the court shall continue such civil case
brought pursuant to this section or subsection 5-910D of this chapter from time
to time before bringing it to trial if the court believes that the conciliation
efforts of the chief executive officer are likely to result in satisfactory
settlement of the discriminatory housing practice complained of in the
complaint made to the chief executive officer and which practice forms the
basis for the action in court; and provided, however, that any sale,
encumbrance, or rental consummated prior to the issuance of any court order
issued under the authority of this chapter, and involving a bona fide
purchaser, encumbrances, or tenant without actual notice of the existence of
the filing of a complaint or civil action under the provisions of this chapter
shall not be affected.
   B.   The court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any permanent
or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order, or other order, and may
award to the plaintiff actual damages and punitive damages as provided by law,
together with court costs and reasonable attorney fees in the case of a
prevailing plaintiffs; provided, that the plaintiff in the opinion of the court
is not financially able to assume the attorney fees. (1998 Code)
5-913: INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION:
It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by sections
5-903 through
5-906 of this chapter. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil
action. (1998 Code)
5-914: PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES:
   A.   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat
of force wilfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to
injure, intimidate or interfere with:
      1.   Any person because of his race, color, religion, national origin,
handicap or familial status and because he is or has been selling, purchasing,
renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or negotiating for the sale,
purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling, or applying for or
participating in any service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings;
      2.   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
         a.   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, sex,
color, religion, national origin, handicap, familial status, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in subsection A1 of
this section;
         b.   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
      3.   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage
such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other
persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, sex, color,
religion, national origin, handicap, familial status, in any of the activities,
services, organizations or facilities described in subsection A1 of this
section, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any
denial of the opportunity to so participate shall be punished as provided in
section
1-108 of this code. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 10
PENALTY
SECTION:
5-1001: Penalty
5-1002: Relief In The Courts
5-1001: PENALTY:
Any person who engages in any business, trade or vocation for which a license,
permit, certificate or registration is required by this part, without first
having a valid license, permit, certificate or registration as required, or who
shall fail to do anything required by this part or by any code adopted by this
part, or who shall otherwise violate any provision of this part, or of any code
adopted by this part, or who shall violate any lawful regulation or order made
by any of the officers provided in this part, shall be guilty of an offense,
punishable as provided in section
1-108 of this code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense. (1998 Code)
5-1002: RELIEF IN THE COURTS:
No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this part shall interfere with the right
of the town also to apply to the proper courts of the state for mandamus, an
injunction, or other appropriate action against such person. (1998 Code)
PART 6
COURT
Court Procedure   1
Judge   2
CHAPTER 1
COURT PROCEDURE 1
SECTION:
6-101: Definitions
6-102: Purpose
6-103: Jurisdiction
6-104: Change Of Venue; Disqualification Of Judge
6-105: Chief Of Police As Principal Officer Of Court
6-106: Clerk Of Court; Duties
6-107: Town Attorney; Powers And Duties
6-108: Bond
6-109: Authority Of Judge To Prescribe Rules
6-110: Traffic Violations Bureau Created; Payment Of Fines, Fines In Lieu Of
Appearance
6-111: Schedule Of Fines
6-112: Prosecutions; Filing Of Complaint, Fees, Defects Raised Prior To Trial
6-113: Ordinance Violations; Procedures For Issuing Citation; Custody, Arrest
6-114: Traffic Bail Bond Act
6-115: Issuance Of Summons; Failure To Appear
6-116: Failure To Appear According To Terms Of Bond, Bond Forfeiture, Bench
Warrant
6-117: Complainant, Witnesses, Failure To Appear
6-118: Issuance Of Warrant
6-119: Procedures For Bail Or Bond; Bond Schedule
6-120: Arraignment
6-121: Postponement Of Trial
6-122: Defendant's Presence Required At Trial
6-123: Procedure For Trials Not Within Scope Of Chapter
6-124: Right To Trial By Jury; Waiver
6-125: Judgment
6-126: Judgment Of Imprisonment
6-127: Suspension Or Deferment Of Judgment; Powers
6-128: Payment Of Costs By Defendant
6-129: Enforcement Of Fines And Costs, Imprisonment, Work And Community Service
6-130: Same Offense Punishable By Different Sections Of The Code
6-131: Contempt Of Court
6-132: Penalty Assessments
6-133: Fines Recoverable By Civil Action; Failure To Pay Separate Offense;
Imprisonment
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 27-101 et seq.
6-101: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
CHIEF OF POLICE: The peace officer in charge of the police force of the town.
CLERK: The court clerk as appointed by the town, including any deputy or member
of the office staff of the clerk while performing duties of the clerk's office.
COURT: The municipal criminal court of this town.
JUDGE: The judge of the municipal criminal court, including any acting judge or
alternate judge thereof as provided for by the statutes of this state and this
chapter.
THIS JUDICIAL DISTRICT: The district court judicial district of the state
wherein the government of this town is situated. (1998 Code)
6-102: PURPOSE:
This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the municipal
criminal court of the town, as put into operation by resolution duly passed and
filed in accordance with law, as authorized by state statutes. To the extent of
conflict between any provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any other
ordinance of this town, the provisions of this chapter shall control. (1998
Code)
6-103: JURISDICTION:
The court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine all
prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of this town is charged,
including any such prosecutions transferred to the court in accordance with
applicable law. (1998 Code)
6-104: CHANGE OF VENUE; DISQUALIFICATION OF JUDGE:
In prosecutions before the court, no change of venue shall be allowed. The
judge before whom the case is pending may certify his disqualification or he
may be disqualified from sitting under the terms, conditions and procedure
provided by law for courts of record. If a judge is disqualified, the matter
shall be heard by an acting judge, appointed as provided in this chapter. (1998
Code)
6-105: CHIEF OF POLICE AS PRINCIPAL OFFICER OF COURT:
All writs or processes of the court shall be directed, in his official title,
to the chief of police, who shall be the principal officer of the court. (1998
Code)
6-106: CLERK OF COURT; DUTIES:
   A.   The town clerk or a deputy designated by him shall be the clerk of the
court.
   B.   The clerk shall:
      1.   Assist the judge in recording the proceedings of the court and in
preparing writs, processes and other papers;
      2.   Administer oaths required in proceedings before the court;
      3.   Enter all pleadings, processes and proceedings in the dockets of the
courts;
      4.   Perform such other clerical duties relating to the proceedings of
the court as the judge shall direct; and
      5.   Receive any receipt for forfeitures, fees, deposits and sums of
money payable to the court and as may be established by the court or the town
board of trustees.
   C.   The clerk shall pay to the clerk of the town all money so received by
him, except such special deposits or fees as shall be received to be disbursed
by him for special purposes. All money paid to the clerk shall be placed in the
general fund of the town, or in such other fund as the board of trustees may
direct. (1998 Code)
6-107: TOWN ATTORNEY; POWERS AND DUTIES:
The town attorney or his duly designated assistant may be the prosecuting
officer of the court. He may prosecute, in his discretion, all alleged
violations of the ordinances of the town. He shall be authorized, in his
discretion, to prosecute and resist appeals, proceedings in error and review
from this court to any other courts of the state, and to represent this town in
all proceedings arising out of matters in this court. (1998 Code)
6-108: BOND:
The clerk of the court shall give bond in such sum as set by the board of
trustees, in the form provided by state law. When executed, the bond shall be
submitted to the board of trustees for approval. When approved, it shall be
filed with the clerk and retained in the municipal archives. (1998 Code)
6-109: AUTHORITY OF JUDGE TO PRESCRIBE RULES:
The judge may prescribe rules, consistent with the laws of the state and with
the ordinances of this town, for the proper conduct of the business of the
court. (1998 Code)
6-110: TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU CREATED; PAYMENT OF FINES, FINES IN LIEU OF
APPEARANCE:
   A.   A traffic violations bureau is established as a division of the office
of the clerk of the court, to be administered by the clerk or by subordinates
designated for that purpose. Persons who are cited for violation of one of the
traffic ordinances of this town, other than a driver's license offense, or an
offense punishable by more than one hundred dollars ($100.00), may elect to pay
a fine in the violations bureau according to a schedule of fines prescribed
from time to time by the town board of trustees. The payment shall constitute a
final determination of the cause against the defendant.
   B.   The court may adopt rules to carry into effect this section. If a
defendant who has elected to pay a fine under this section fails so to do,
prosecution shall proceed under the provisions of this chapter. (1998 Code)
6-111: SCHEDULE OF FINES:
The town board of trustees may establish a minimum fine schedule. The minimum
fine schedule when established shall provide for a minimum amount which a
person may pay upon a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to the listed offenses.
The minimum fine schedule shall include fine, court costs and any assessments
set by state law within the specified amount. Upon plea of guilty or nolo
contendere and payment of the required minimum fine prior to the date scheduled
for court appearance, no further court appearance shall be required. The judge
may authorize the court clerk to accept pleas of guilty and nolo contendere
where the amount of the minimum fine is paid at the time of such plea and prior
to the scheduled court appearance date. (1998 Code)
6-112: PROSECUTIONS; FILING OF COMPLAINT, FEES, DEFECTS RAISED PRIOR TO TRIAL:
   A.   All prosecutions for violation of ordinances of this town shall be
styled "The Town of Beaver, Oklahoma vs. (naming defendant or defendants)".
Except as provided hereinafter, prosecutions shall be initiated by the filing
of a written complaint, subscribed and verified by the person making the
complaint, and setting forth concisely the offense charged.
   B.   There is no duty on the part of the town or any of its officers or
employees to formally prosecute actions in the court. In the absence of a
prosecuting officer, the judge shall proceed with the case and hear evidence
and examine witnesses in such manner as he may deem necessary to effect
justice.
   C.   Any person, except a police officer or other employee of the town,
filing a criminal offense complaint in the municipal court shall deposit with
the clerk of the court, unless waived by order of the court, the court cost fee
as provided in this chapter. The court costs so deposited by such a complainant
shall be refunded to the complainant or person depositing same upon conviction
or acquittal of the defendant; the court costs shall not be refunded if the
charges are dismissed at the request of the complainant who made the deposit
because the complainant fails or refuses to appear in court to testify or aid
in the prosecution of the charge filed by such complainant.
   D.   All defects in the form or substance apparent on the face of a
complaint charging a violation of an ordinance of this town, and being grounds
for motion or demur, may only be raised by an accused in writing and prior to
trial.
   E.   A complaint may be amended in matter of substance or form at any time
before the defendant pleads, without leave, and may be amended after plea or
order of the court where the same can be done without material prejudice to the
rights of the defendant. No amendment shall cause any delay of the trial,
unless good cause is shown by affidavit. (1998 Code)
6-113: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS; PROCEDURES FOR ISSUING CITATION; CUSTODY, ARREST:
   A.   If a resident of this town is arrested by a law enforcement officer for
the violation of any traffic ordinance for which other provisions of this
chapter do not apply, or is arrested for the violation of a nontraffic
ordinance, the officer shall immediately release the person if the person
acknowledges receipt of a citation by signing it. However, the arresting
officer need not release the person if it reasonably appears to the officer
that the person may cause injury to himself or others or damage to property if
released, that the person will not appear in response to the citation, or the
person is arrested for an offense against a person or property. If the person
fails to appear in response to the citation, a warrant shall be issued for his
arrest and his appearance shall be compelled.
   B.   If the arrested resident is not released by being permitted to sign a
citation as provided in this subsection, he shall be admitted to bail either
before or after arraignment, or shall be released on personal recognizance.
   C.   If a nonresident of this town is arrested by a law enforcement officer
for a violation of any ordinance for which section
6-114 of this chapter does not apply, the defendant shall be eligible to be
admitted to bail either before or after arraignment.
   D.   If the alleged offense be a violation of an ordinance restricting or
regulating the parking of vehicles, including any regulations issued under such
an ordinance, and the operator be not present, the police officer shall place
on the vehicle, at a place reasonably likely to come to the notice of the
operator, a citation conforming substantially to that prescribed in this
section, with such variation as the circumstances require, the operator of this
vehicle shall be under the same obligation to respond to the citation as if it
had been issued to him personally under subsection A of this section. (1998
Code)
6-114: TRAFFIC BAIL BOND ACT:
   A.   In addition to other provisions of law for posting bail, any person,
whether a resident of this state or a nonresident, who is arrested by a law
enforcement officer solely for a misdemeanor violation of a state traffic law
or municipal traffic ordinance shall be released by the arresting officer upon
personal recognizance if:
      1.   The arrested person has been issued a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle by this state, another state jurisdiction within the United
States which is a party to the nonresident violator compact, or any party
jurisdiction of the nonresident violator compact;
      2.   The arresting officer is satisfied as to the identity of the
arrested person;
      3.   The arrested person signs a written promise to appear as provided
for on the citation; and
      4.   The violation does not constitute:
         a.   A felony;
         b.   Negligent homicide;
         c.   Driving or being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle
while impaired or under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating
substances;
         d.   Eluding or attempting to elude a law enforcement officer;
         e.   Operating a motor vehicle without having been issued a valid
driver's license, or while the license is under suspension, revocation, denial
or cancellation;
         f.   An arrest based upon an outstanding warrant;
         g.   A traffic violation coupled with any offense stated in
subsections A4a through A4f of this section;
         h.   An overweight violation, or the violation of a special permit
exceeding the authorized permit weight; or
         i.   A violation relating to the transportation of hazardous
materials.
   B.   If the arrested person is eligible for release on personal recognizance
as provided for in subsection A of this section, then the arresting officer
shall:
      1.   Designate the traffic charge;
      2.   Record information from the arrested person's driver's license on
the citation form, including the name, address, date of birth, personal
description, type of driver's license, driver's license number, issuing state,
and expiration date;
      3.   Record the motor vehicle make, model and tag information;
      4.   Record the arraignment date and time on the citation; and
      5.   Permit the arrested person to sign a written promise to appear as
provided for in the citation.
The arresting officer shall then release the person upon personal recognizance
based upon the signed promise to appear. The citation shall contain a written
notice to the arrested person that release upon personal recognizance based
upon a signed written promise to appear for arraignment is conditional and that
failure to timely appear for arraignment shall result in the suspension of the
arrested person's drivers license in this state, or in the nonresident's home
state pursuant to the nonresident violator compact.
   C.   Procedures for arraignment, continuances and scheduling, timely
appearances, pleas of guilty or nolo contendere, posting bail, payment of fines
and costs, issuance of arrest warrants, and requests for suspension of driver's
license, shall be as required in state law, 22 Oklahoma Statutes sections
1115.1 through 1115.5.
   D.   A defendant released upon personal recognizance may elect to enter a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere to the violation charged at any time before
he is required to appear for arraignment by indicating such plea on the copy of
the citation furnished to him or on a legible copy thereof, together with the
date of the plea and his signature. The defendant shall be responsible for
assuring full payment of the fine and costs to the court clerk. The defendant
shall not use currency for payment by mail. If the defendant has entered a plea
of guilty or nolo contendere as provided for in this subsection, such plea
shall be accepted by the court and the amount of the fine and costs shall be as
prescribed by ordinance for the violation charged or as prescribed by the
court.
   E.   1. If, pursuant to the provisions of subsection D of this section, the
defendant does not timely elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo contendere
and fails to timely appear for arraignment, the court may issue a warrant for
the arrest of the defendant and the municipal or district court clerk, within
one hundred twenty (120) calendar days from the date the citation was issued by
the arresting officer, shall notify the state department of public safety that:
         a.   The defendant was issued a traffic citation and released upon
personal recognizance after signing a written promise to appear for arraignment
as provided for in the citation;
         b.   The defendant has failed to appear for arraignment without good
cause shown;
         c.   The defendant has not posted bail, paid a fine, or made any other
arrangement with the court to satisfy the citation; and
         d.   The citation has not been satisfied as provided by law.
      2.   The court clerk shall request the state department of public safety
to either suspend the defendant's driver's license to operate a motor vehicle
in this state, or notify the defendant's home state and request suspension of
the defendant's driver's license in accordance with the provisions of the
nonresident violator compact. Such notice and request shall be on a form
approved or furnished by the state department of public safety. The court clerk
shall not process the notification and request provided for in this subsection
if, with respect to such charges:
         a.   The defendant was arraigned, posted bail, paid a fine, was
jailed, or otherwise settled the case;
         b.   The defendant was not released upon personal recognizance upon a
signed written promise to appear as provided for in this section or if
released, was not permitted to remain on such personal recognizance for
arraignment;
         c.   The violation relates to parking or standing, an overweight
violation, an overweight permit, or the transportation of hazardous materials;
or
         d.   A period of one hundred twenty (120) calendar days or more has
elapsed from the date the citation was issued by the arresting officer.
   F.   The court clerk shall maintain a record of each request for driver's
license suspension submitted to the state department of public safety pursuant
to the provisions of this section. When the court or court clerk receives
appropriate bail or payment of the fine and costs, settles the citation, makes
other arrangements with the defendant, or otherwise closes the case, the court
clerk shall furnish proof thereof to such defendant, if the defendant
personally appears, or shall mail such proof by first class mail, postage
prepaid, to the defendant at the address noted on the citation or at such other
address as is furnished by the defendant. Additionally, the court or court
clerk shall notify the home jurisdiction of the defendant as listed on the
citation, if such jurisdiction is a member of the nonresident violator compact,
and shall in all other cases, notify the state department of public safety of
the resolution of the case. The form of proof and the procedures for
notification shall be approved by the state department of public safety.
Provided however, the court or court clerk's failure to furnish such proof or
notice in the manner provided for in this subsection shall in no event create
any civil liability upon the court, the court clerk, the state or any political
subdivision thereof, or any state department or agency or any employee thereof,
but duplicate proof shall be furnished to the person entitled thereto upon
request. (1998 Code)
6-115: ISSUANCE OF SUMMONS; FAILURE TO APPEAR:
   A.   Upon the filing of a complaint charging violation of an ordinance, the
judge, unless he determines to issue a warrant of arrest, or unless the
defendant previously has been issued a citation or has been arrested and has
given bond for appearance, shall issue a summons, naming the person charged,
specifying his address or place of residence, if known, stating the offense
with which he is charged and giving him notice to answer the charge in the
court on a day certain, containing a provision for the official return of the
summons, and including such other pertinent information as may be necessary.
   B.   The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to the defendant
personally or by certified mail. If he fails to appear and to answer the
summons within the prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for his arrest,
as provided by this chapter.
   C.   Any person who has been duly served with a summons or traffic citation
and who has signed a written promise to appear in court as directed in the
summons or the citation or as subsequently directed by the court, and who fails
to appear pursuant to his written promise or as directed by the court shall be
deemed guilty of an offense, which shall be punishable as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (1998 Code)
6-116: FAILURE TO APPEAR ACCORDING TO TERMS OF BOND, BOND FORFEITURE, BENCH
WARRANT 1 :
   A.   If, without sufficient excuse, a defendant fails to appear according to
the terms or conditions of his bond, either for hearing, arraignment, trial or
judgment, or upon any other occasion when his presence in court or before the
judge may be lawfully required or ordered, the judge may direct that fact to be
entered upon the court minutes, thereby declaring the bond to be forfeited. The
judge may also order a bench warrant to be issued for the defendant as provided
in this chapter.
   B.   The judge, without advancing court costs, may also cause the forfeiture
to be certified to the district court of the county, where it shall be entered
upon the judgment docket and shall have the full force and effect of a district
court judgment. At such time as the forfeiture is entered upon the district
court judgment docket, the district court clerk shall proceed in accordance
with the provisions of 5 Oklahoma Statutes sections 1334, 1332, 1333 and 1335,
and a surety shall have all remedies available under the provisions of 22
Oklahoma Statutes section 1108 and 5 Oklahoma Statutes sections 1301 through
1340.
   C.   Court costs shall be collectible from the proceeds of the bond. (1998
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 27-118.
6-117: COMPLAINANT, WITNESSES, FAILURE TO APPEAR:
No person having signed a complaint in the municipal court of the town alleging
the violation of an ordinance, or any other person in response to an order of
the court, shall fail, refuse or neglect to appear for the purpose of
testifying as a witness at the trial of the case, after having been notified of
the time, date and place at which the case is set for trial. (1998 Code)
6-118: ISSUANCE OF WARRANT:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided by town ordinance, upon the filing of a
complaint approved by endorsement by the town attorney or by the judge, there
shall be issued a warrant of arrest, in substantially the following form:
The Town of Beaver, Oklahoma to the police chief of the Town of Beaver,
Oklahoma. Complaint upon oath this day has been made by (naming complainant)
that the offense of (naming the offense in general terms) has been committed
and accusing (name of defendant) thereof, you are commanded therefore forthwith
to arrest the above named (name of defendant) and bring (insert him, her or
them, as appropriate) before me, at (naming the place).
Witness my hand this            day of                , 2        .
   Judge of the Municipal Criminal
   Court of Beaver, Oklahoma
   B.   It is the duty of the police chief personally, or through a duly
constituted member of the town police force or through any other person
lawfully authorized so to act, to execute the warrant as promptly as possible.
(1998 Code)
6-119: PROCEDURES FOR BAIL OR BOND; BOND SCHEDULE 1 :
   A.   Upon arrest, or upon appearance without arrest in response to citation
or summons, or at any time before trial, before or after arraignment, the
defendant may be eligible to be released upon giving bail for his appearance in
an amount and upon conditions fixed by this chapter or the judge, who shall
prescribe appropriate rules of court for the receipt of bail and release of the
defendant. In case of arrests made at night or under other conditions of
emergency or when the judge is not available, the rules shall authorize the
chief of police, or his designated representative, to accept a temporary cash
bond of not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than the maximum monetary
penalty provided by ordinance for the offense charged. The judge or police
chief is authorized, subject to conditions as may be prescribed by the judge,
to release a resident of the municipality on personal recognizance.
   B.   The town's bail bond schedule setting forth specific offenses and bail
bond amounts and procedures therefor, as amended from time to time, is hereby
adopted and incorporated herein by reference. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 27-117.
6-120: ARRAIGNMENT:
Upon making his appearance before the court, the defendant shall be arraigned.
The judge, or the town attorney, shall read the complaint to the defendant,
inform him of his legal rights, including the right of trial by jury, if
available, and of the consequences of conviction, and ask him whether he pleads
guilty or not guilty. If the defendant pleads guilty, the court may proceed to
judgment and sentence or may continue the matter for subsequent disposition. If
the plea is not guilty, and the case is not for jury trial, the court may
proceed to try the case, or may set it for hearing at a later date. (1998 Code)
6-121: POSTPONEMENT OF TRIAL:
Before trial commences, either party, upon good cause shown, may obtain a
reasonable postponement thereof. (1998 Code)
6-122: DEFENDANT'S PRESENCE REQUIRED AT TRIAL:
The defendant must be present in person at the trial of his case in court.
(1998 Code)
6-123: PROCEDURE FOR TRIALS NOT WITHIN SCOPE OF CHAPTER:
In all trials, as to matters not covered in this chapter, by the statutes
relating to municipal criminal courts, or by rules duly promulgated by the
state supreme court, the procedure applicable in trials of misdemeanors in the
district courts shall apply to the extent that they can be made effective.
(1998 Code)
6-124: RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY; WAIVER:
   A.   In all prosecutions for violations of ordinances punishable by fine of
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), or by imprisonment, or by both fine
and imprisonment, trial shall be by jury unless waived by the defendant. If
trial by jury is waived, trial shall be by the court. (Ord. 2012-2, 11-8-2012)
   B.   At arraignment, the defendant shall be asked whether he demands or
waives trial by jury. His election shall be recorded in the minutes of the
arraignment and entered on the docket of the court respecting proceedings in
the case.
   C.   An election waiving jury trial, made at arraignment, may be changed by
the defendant at any time prior to the day for which trial by the court is set.
An election demanding jury trial may be changed at any time prior to the
commencement of proceedings to impanel the jury for the trial; but if that
change occurs after the case has been set for jury trial, it may not thereafter
be changed so as again to demand trial by jury. (1998 Code)
6-125: JUDGMENT:
   A.   At the close of trial, judgment must be rendered without undue delay by
the judge, who shall cause it to be entered in his docket:
      1.   If judgment is of acquittal, and the defendant is not to be detained
for any other legal cause, he must be discharged at once;
      2.   If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted after trial, the
court must render judgment thereon, fixing the penalty within the limits
prescribed by the applicable ordinance and imposing sentence accordingly; and
      3.   A judgment that the defendant pay a fine may direct also that he be
imprisoned until the fine is satisfied, as provided in section
6-129 of this chapter. (1998 Code)
6-126: JUDGMENT OF IMPRISONMENT:
If, after conviction, judgment of imprisonment is entered, a copy thereof,
certified by the clerk, shall be delivered to the chief of police, the sheriff
of the county, or other appropriate officer. Such copy shall be sufficient
warrant for execution of the sentence. (1998 Code)
6-127: SUSPENSION OR DEFERMENT OF JUDGMENT; POWERS 1 :
   A.   The judge of the court in imposing a judgment and sentence, at his
discretion, is empowered to modify, reduce or suspend or defer the imposition
of such sentence or any part thereof and to authorize the person to be released
upon his own recognizance for a period not to exceed six (6) months from the
date of the sentence, under such terms or conditions as the judge may specify.
The judge may, with the consent of the defendant, defer further proceedings,
after a verdict, finding or plea of guilty, but before passing a judgment of
guilt and imposing a fine, and place the defendant on probation for a period
not to exceed six (6) months, under such terms and conditions as prescribed by
the court, which may include, but not be limited to, work on the streets, parks
or other town owned or maintained projects, with proper supervision.
   B.   A defendant is not entitled to a deferred sentence if the defendant has
been previously convicted of a felony.
   C.   Upon a finding of the court that the conditions of release have been
violated, the municipal judge may enter a judgment of guilty and may cause a
warrant to be issued for the defendant.
   D.   Upon the issuance of the warrant or judgment of guilty being entered,
the person shall be delivered forthwith to the place of confinement to which he
is sentenced and shall serve out the full term or pay the full fine for which
he was originally sentenced as may be directed by the judge.
   E.   The judge may continue or delay imposing a judgment and sentence for a
period of time not to exceed six (6) months from the date of the sentence. At
the expiration of such period, the judge may allow the town attorney to amend
the charge to a lesser offense.
   F.   If a deferred sentence is imposed, an administrative fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) may be imposed as costs in the case. The court may make
payment of the fee a condition of granting or continuing the imposition of a
sentence, if the defendant is able to pay.
   G.   The court may also require restitution and in the event there was
damage done to public or private property during the commission of the offense,
the court may require the defendant to repair or replace such damaged property
as a condition to a deferred sentence as may be directed by the court. (1998
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 27-123.
6-128: PAYMENT OF COSTS BY DEFENDANT 1 :
If judgment of conviction is entered, the clerk of the court shall tax the
costs to the defendant in the sum of fifteen dollars ($15.00), or the maximum
sum permitted by state law, whichever is greater, plus the fees and mileage of
jurors and witnesses, all of which the defendant shall pay, in addition to any
fine that may be imposed. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 27-126; 20 OS § 1313.1.
6-129: ENFORCEMENT OF FINES AND COSTS, IMPRISONMENT, WORK AND COMMUNITY SERVICE
1 :
   A.   If a defendant who is financially able refuses or neglects to pay a
fine or costs, or both, payment may be enforced by imprisonment until the same
shall be satisfied at the rate of five dollars ($5.00) per day.
   B.   If the defendant is without means to pay the fine or costs, the
municipal judge may direct the total amount due to be entered upon the court
minutes and to be certified to the district court where it shall be entered
upon the district court docket and shall have the full force and effect of a
district court judgment. Thereupon the same remedies shall be available for the
enforcement as are available to any other judgment creditor.
   C.   All prisoners confined to jail on conviction or on plea of guilty may
be compelled, if their health permits, to work on community projects, the
public streets, avenues or ways, public buildings or other public premises or
property. For each day of such work, the prisoner or defendant shall be
credited for two (2) days of imprisonment toward any fine or costs or witness
or juror fees or mileage until the same are satisfied.
   D.   The town shall direct where the work shall be performed. The
appropriate officer shall oversee the work. If a guard is necessary, the chief
of police shall make provision therefor. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 11 OS § 27-122; 57 OS §§ 227, 228.
6-130: SAME OFFENSE PUNISHABLE BY DIFFERENT SECTIONS OF THE CODE:
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different sections of this code, the town attorney may elect under which to
proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had against the same person
for the same offense. (1998 Code)
6-131: CONTEMPT OF COURT:
Obedience to the orders, rules and judgments made by the court may be enforced
by the judge, who may fine or imprison for contempt committed as to him while
holding court, or committed against process issued by him, in the same manner
and to the same extent as the district courts of this state. (1998 Code)
6-132: PENALTY ASSESSMENTS 1 :
   A.   Any person:
      1.   Convicted of an offense punishable by a fine of ten dollars ($10.00)
or more or by imprisonment, excluding parking and standing violations; or
      2.   Forfeiting bond when charged with such an offense under subsection
A1 of this section,
shall pay a sum as set by state law as a separate penalty assessment for law
enforcement training, and as a separate fingerprinting fee, which shall be in
addition to and not in substitution for any and all fines and penalties and
costs otherwise provided for such offense. The court shall provide for separate
bail for the assessments; however, a defendant admitted to bail on an
undertaking by a surety may include the amount of the assessment in the
undertaking.
   B.   Upon conviction or bond forfeiture, the court shall collect the
assessment and deposit the monies for payment as required by state law.
   C.   At the end of every quarter the town shall deposit with the Oklahoma
state treasury the funds deposited in the law enforcement training funds and
the AFIS (automated fingerprint identification) fund as required by law. The
court clerk shall also furnish to the state treasury reports required on the
funds collected and penalty assessments imposed each quarter.
   D.   For the purpose of this section, "conviction" means any final
adjudication of guilt, whether pursuant to a plea of guilty or nolo contendere
or otherwise, and any deferred or suspended sentence or judgment. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 20 OS §§ 1313.1 – 1313.3.
6-133: FINES RECOVERABLE BY CIVIL ACTION; FAILURE TO PAY SEPARATE OFFENSE;
IMPRISONMENT:
   A.   All fines shall be recoverable by civil action before any court of
competent jurisdiction in addition to any other method provided by law.
   B.   The failure to pay a fine levied pursuant to this code shall constitute
a separate offense against the town, subject to a fine as provided in section
1-108 of this code.
   C.   If a fine is not paid by the defendant, the fine may be collected by
committing the defendant to the town jail, where he shall remain until his fine
and any costs assessed against him are discharged, either by payment or by
confinement in jail, or by working in accordance with other provisions of this
code or state law. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 2
JUDGE
SECTION:
6-201: Judge; Created, Qualifications
6-202: Term Of Office
6-203: Appointment Of Judge, Alternate Judge
6-204: Acting Judge
6-205: Compensation
6-206: Removal From Office
6-207: Vacancy
6-201: JUDGE; CREATED, QUALIFICATIONS:
There shall be one judge of the court with the following qualifications:
   A.   An attorney licensed to practice law in Oklahoma, who resides in the
county in which the municipality is located or in an adjacent county; or
   B.   An attorney licensed to practice law in Oklahoma who maintains a
permanent office in the municipality; or
   C.   Any suitable person who resides in the county in which the municipality
is located or in an adjacent county. (Ord. 2010-5, 11-16-2010)
6-202: TERM OF OFFICE:
The official term of the judge shall be two (2) years, expiring on December 31
in each odd numbered year. (1998 Code)
6-203: APPOINTMENT OF JUDGE, ALTERNATE JUDGE:
   A.   Judges shall be appointed by the mayor with the consent of the town
board of trustees. A proposed appointment shall be submitted in writing to the
town board of trustees at the next to the last regularly scheduled meeting
prior to the day upon which the appointment is to take effect, and shall be
acted upon at the next regularly scheduled meeting. The town board of trustees
may decide upon the proposed appointment by a majority vote of all the members
of the board of trustees. Failure of decision upon a proposed appointment shall
not prevent action thereon at a later regularly scheduled meeting of the board
of trustees unless the mayor, in writing, withdraws the proposed appointment.
   B.   There may be appointed for each judge of the court an alternate judge
possessed of the same qualifications as the judge. His appointment shall be for
the same term and made in the same manner as the judge. He shall sit as judge
of the court in any case if the judge is absent from court, unable to act as
judge, or disqualified from acting as judge in the case. (1998 Code)
6-204: ACTING JUDGE:
If at any time there is no judge duly appointed and qualified available to sit
as judge, a person possessing the qualifications required by this chapter for
the judge shall be appointed as acting judge. The acting judge shall preside as
acting judge over the court in the disposition of pending matters until such
time as a judge or alternate judge shall be available. (1998 Code)
6-205: COMPENSATION:
A judge shall receive such salary as may be established and shall be paid as
established by the town. (1998 Code)
6-206: REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
   A.   Judges shall be subject to removal from office by the board of trustees
for the causes prescribed by the constitution and laws of this state for the
removal of public officers. Proceedings for removal shall be instituted by the
filing of a verified written petition, setting forth facts sufficient to
constitute one or more legal grounds for removal. Petitions may be signed and
filed by the mayor, or twenty five (25) or more qualified electors of this
town. In the latter event, verification may be executed by one or more of the
petitioners.
   B.   The board of trustees shall set a date for hearing the matter and shall
cause notice thereof, together with a copy of the petition, to be served
personally upon the judge at least ten (10) days before the hearing. At the
hearing, the judge shall be entitled to representation by counsel, to present
testimony and to cross examine the witnesses against him, and to have all
evidence against him presented in open hearing.
   C.   So far as can be made applicable, the provisions of the Oklahoma
administrative procedure act governing individual proceedings 1  shall govern
removal proceedings hereunder.
   D.   Judgment of removal shall be entered only upon individual votes, by a
majority of all members of the board of trustees, in favor of such removal.
(1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 75 OS § 30-317 and any amendments or additions thereto in effect at the
  time of the hearing.
6-207: VACANCY:
   A.   A vacancy in the office of judge shall occur if the incumbent:
      1.   Dies;
      2.   Resigns;
      3.   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office; or
      4.   Is removed, and the removal proceeding has been affirmed finally in
judicial proceedings or is no longer subject to judicial review.
   B.   Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of judge, the mayor
shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired term, upon the same
procedure as an original appointment is made. (1998 Code)
PART 7
FINANCE AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
FINANCES GENERALLY
SECTION:
7-101: Investments
7-102: Depositories Designated; Deposit Of Funds
7-103: Funds Secured By Unit Collateral System
7-104: Purchasing And Cash Disbursement Processing Methods And Internal
Controls
7-105: Additional Fiscal Procedures; Competitive Bidding And Purchasing
7-106: Surplus Or Obsolete Property
7-101: INVESTMENTS:
The Town Treasurer or any other person authorized to invest public monies shall
invest the same in those investments authorized by the Town Board of Trustees
or authorized by State law in a manner authorized by either or both such Board
of Trustees and statutes. (1998 Code)
7-102: DEPOSITORIES DESIGNATED; DEPOSIT OF FUNDS:
All banks and financial institutions as are designated by the Town Board of
Trustees shall be designated as depositories for the funds of the Town. The
Town Treasurer shall deposit daily all public funds received by him in these
banks. Funds may be transferred from one depository to another upon direction
of the Treasurer. (1998 Code)
7-103: FUNDS SECURED BY UNIT COLLATERAL SYSTEM:
The deposits of the Town shall be secured by the unit collateral system
provided by State law. The provisions of the State law on the unit collateral
system, 62 Oklahoma Statutes sections 516.1 through 516.10, are hereby adopted
insofar as they are applicable to the Town. (1998 Code)
7-104: PURCHASING AND CASH DISBURSEMENT PROCESSING METHODS AND INTERNAL
CONTROLS:
   A.   Adoption Of Processing Methods And Internal Controls: In order to
establish processes for purchasing and payment, to establish an internal
control structure adequate to provide reasonable assurance against unauthorized
or illegal payment of invoices, and to provide for petty cash accounts, the
following processing methods and internal controls are hereby adopted. (Ord.
2010-4, 11-16-2010)
   B.   Purchases Of Goods And Services (Other Than Payroll And Payroll
Related):
      1.   The following employees or officers have been designated as
Purchasing Officers empowered to purchase or contract against accounts:
         a.   Town Administrator;
         b.   Town Clerk;
         c.   Town Treasurer;
         d.   Fire Chief and Fire Captain;
         e.   Police Chief;
         f.   Town Foreman and Assistant Town Foreman;
         g.   Department of Corrections Chief of Security;
         h.   Park Ranger;
         i.   Other assigned employees with a limit of two hundred dollars
($200.00).
The Purchasing Officer or his/her designee shall accumulate all properly
submitted and due claims and invoices to be processed for payment and present
them to the Town Administrator or his designee for consideration and approval
for payment. Upon such approval for payment, the Town Clerk or her designee
shall issue properly signed checks, or other authorized forms of payment, in
payment of said claims and invoices. A list of claims and invoices paid will be
prepared and presented by the Town Clerk/Treasurer or her designee and
submitted, for informational purposes, to the Town Board of Trustees at the
their next regular or special meeting following the payment date. (Ord. 2016-3-
1, 3-10-2016)
      2.   The officer or employee receiving satisfactory delivery of
merchandise or contract services shall acknowledge such fact by signing the
invoice or delivery ticket. The invoice, along with delivery ticket if
applicable, must then be verified by the authorized Purchasing Officer as to
quantities, services, and prices. If correct, the invoice must then be attached
to a purchase order that is signed by the authorized Purchasing Officer and
coded with the fund(s) and budget line item(s) to be charged.
      3.   The Town Clerk shall review all invoices for proper signature and
appropriation(s) of fund(s) and budget line item(s) to be charged. Upon
approval of the invoices, the Town Clerk shall prepare checks in payment of the
invoices and shall cancel each invoice as its check is prepared. Invoices shall
be canceled by noting on the attached purchase order the date paid, the check
number used to pay the invoice, and the amount paid with the check.
      4.   The invoices and checks shall be presented to at least one other
authorized check signer who shall compare the checks to the invoices and verify
their accuracy. Upon verification, such authorized check signer and the town
clerk shall sign the checks and prepare them for distribution. The town clerk
shall then record the checks in the appropriate cash disbursements journals and
shall prepare a check register. The check register shall list in check number
order the check date, check number, vendor, and check amount.
      5.   The check register shall be provided to the governing body for
informational purposes at their next regular meeting; however governing body
approval is not required prior to payment of invoices if paid charges were
incurred and paid in accordance with the provisions above.
      6.   For all purchases of goods and services over three thousand dollars
($3,000.00), purchase orders or contracts shall be prepared and approved by the
governing body prior to the time the commitment is made, and such approval
shall be recorded in the minutes of the governing body. Additionally, the town
clerk shall immediately determine that there exists available unencumbered
appropriation in the accounts to be charged, and such determination shall also
be recorded in the minutes. Should appropriation not be available for the
proposed purchase or commitment, the purchase or commitment shall not proceed
until necessary budget amendments are authorized.
   C.   Payroll Disbursements:
      1.   For all employees and officers of the town of Beaver, a documented
record shall be maintained in a personal file of the authorized rate of pay or
salary for each employee and officer.
      2.   For each pay period, a record of time worked shall be prepared in
the form of time sheets or logs for each employee and officer to be paid. Such
record of time worked shall be verified as to its accuracy in writing by the
employee or officer and town clerk.
      3.   Upon verification of the work record, a payroll register including
the amount of gross pay, authorized deductions, and net pay shall be prepared
by the town clerk.
      4.   The net payroll checks shall be prepared from the payroll register,
along with checks for payment of related payroll taxes and other payroll
benefits required by law or contract.
      5.   The payroll checks and payroll register shall be presented to at
least one other authorized check signer who shall compare the payroll check to
the payroll register and verify their accuracy. Upon verification, such other
authorized check signer and the town clerk shall sign the checks and distribute
them. The town clerk shall then record the checks in the appropriate cash
disbursements journals.
      6.   The payroll register shall be provided to the governing body for
informational purposes at the next regular meeting; however, governing body
approval is not required prior to payment of payroll related costs if incurred
and paid in accordance with the provisions above.
   D.   Petty Cash:
      1.   As provided for in 11 Oklahoma Statutes section
17-102(D), the town may have petty cash accounts for use in making certain
small payments for costs incurred in operating the town.
      2.   Each petty cash account established shall require governing body
approval, including the impress amount of the petty cash account. However, in
no case should the impress balance exceed two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
      3.   The petty cash accounts shall be reimbursed by utilizing properly
itemized invoices or petty cash voucher slips and processing the reimbursement
in the manner used for payment of purchases of goods and services as set forth
in subsection B of this section and as the same may be from time to time
amended or recodified. However, in no case shall an individual payment from
petty cash exceed fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord. 2010-4, 11-16-2010)
7-105: ADDITIONAL FISCAL PROCEDURES; COMPETITIVE BIDDING AND PURCHASING:
   A.   Interfund Transfers:
      1.   All transfers between funds shall only be made in accordance with
governing body appropriations as reflected in the original or amended town
budget.
      2.   Once lawfully appropriated, interfund transfer payments may be made
by the town clerk without further governing body approval in the manner used
for payment of purchases of goods and services.
   B.   Debt Service:
      1.   All long term indebtedness in the form of bonds, notes, or lease
purchase obligations shall be incurred in the manner provided by law.
      2.   Once lawfully incurred, the town clerk shall make payments of
principal and interest on the debt in accordance with the terms specified by
the lender without further approval of the governing body.
      3.   The manner of payment shall be consistent with the manner used for
payment of goods and services.
      4.   Current balances on outstanding debt shall be maintained by the town
clerk in appropriate journals.
   C.   Financial Reporting:
      1.   The town clerk shall prepare written monthly financial reports which
disclose at least all receipts and expenditures by fund in the same format as
the approved budget and showing the variance from the budget.
      2.   The financial reports shall be placed on the agenda for
acknowledgment by the governing body at each regular meeting.
   D.   Competitive Bidding:
      1.   The town of Beaver shall adhere to the provisions of 61 Oklahoma
Statutes (1991), section 101 et seq., as the same may be from time to time
amended or recodified, when determining when competitive bidding is required
and the manner by which competitive bids will be obtained.
      2.   If other provisions of this code provide for additional competitive
bidding requirements, such additional requirements shall be met.
      3.   In addition to the requirements of subsection D1 of this section,
public trusts created pursuant to 60 Oklahoma Statutes section 176 of which the
town of Beaver is beneficiary shall also follow the competitive bidding
provisions of 60 Oklahoma Statutes section 176(G) and as the same may be from
time to time amended or recodified.
   E.   When Bidding Not Required:
      1.   The following may be purchased without giving an opportunity for
competitive bidding:
         a.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services where the
cost does not exceed seven thousand five hundred dollars ($7,500.00) in a
single transaction;
         b.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services which can
be furnished only by a single dealer or a sole source vendor, or which have a
uniform price wherever bought;
         c.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services purchased
from another unit of government at a price deemed below that obtainable from
private dealers, including war surplus, or purchased at auction at a price
deemed below that obtainable elsewhere;
         d.   Contractual services (gas, electricity, telephone service, and
the like) purchased from a public utility at a price or rate determined by the
state corporation commission or other government authority;
         e.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services when
purchased at a price not exceeding a price set therefor by the state purchasing
agency or any other state agency authorized to regulate prices for things
purchased by the state (whether such price is determined by a contract
negotiated with a vendor or otherwise);
         f.   Contractual services of a professional nature, such as
engineering, architectural, medical and legal services; or
         g.   When an emergency is declared to exist.
      2.   The term "contractual services", for the purpose of this chapter,
means services performed for the town by persons not in the employment of the
town, and may include the use of equipment or the furnishing of commodities in
connection with such services under express or implied contract. Contractual
services includes travel; freight; express; parcel post; postage; telephone;
telegraph; utilities; rents; repairs, alterations, and maintenance of
buildings, equipment, streets, and bridges, and other physical facilities of
the town; and other services performed for the town by persons not in the
employment of the town.
   F.   Applicability To Public Trusts:
      1.   For all public trusts created under 60 Oklahoma Statutes sections
176 through 180, for which the town is beneficiary and for which the trust's
board of trustees is comprised entirely of members of the town's board of
trustees, this section and section
7-104 of this chapter shall apply.
      2.   For the purposes of public trusts as mentioned above, "town clerk"
shall mean trust secretary as defined by the trust indenture. (Ord. 2010-4, 11-
16-2010)
7-106: SURPLUS OR OBSOLETE PROPERTY:
   A.   Subject to the provisions of state law and this section, surplus or
obsolete supplies, materials, property, or equipment belonging to the town may
be sold by the town board of trustees.
   B.   No sale shall be made under this section until the town board of
trustees has declared the supplies, materials, property, or equipment involved
to be surplus or obsolete.
   C.   No surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or equipment of a value of
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) may be sold until the procedures
established in this section have been followed.
   D.   The town purchasing authority may sell the following without giving an
opportunity for competitive bidding:
      1.   Surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or equipment whose total
value does not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) in a single transaction;
or
      2.   Supplies, materials or equipment when sold at a price at least as
great as that paid by the town for the same; or
      3.   Where the board of trustees has authorized the sale of surplus
property at public auction under such terms, conditions and notice as the board
of trustees may prescribe or as the town purchasing authority deems
appropriate.
   E.   Except as may otherwise be provided, any sale under this section shall
be advertised in a newspaper of general circulation in the town or county, or
in such other manner as deemed necessary to adequately reach prospective buyers
to give them an opportunity to bid. All bids shall be sealed and opened in
public at a designated time and place, except when the sale is by auction. The
town board of trustees may repeatedly reject all bids and readvertise. The town
board of trustees shall sell such supplies, materials, property, and equipment
to the highest responsible bidder and, if necessary, shall cast lots in case of
a tie to determine to whom to sell. (Ord. 2010-4, 11-16-2010)
CHAPTER 2
SALES TAX 1
SECTION:
7-201: Citation Of Chapter
7-202: Definitions
7-203: Classification Of Taxpayers
7-204: Subsisting State Permits
7-205: Purpose Of Revenue; Disposition Of Proceeds; Additional One Percent
Sales Tax
7-206: Tax Rate; Sales Subject To Tax
7-207: Exemptions; Sales Subject To Other Tax
7-208: Exemptions; Governmental And Nonprofit Entities
7-209: Exemptions; General
7-210: Exemptions; Agriculture
7-211: Exemptions; Manufacturers
7-212: Exemptions; Corporations And Partnerships
7-213: Tax Due And Payable
7-214: Payment Of Tax; Brackets
7-215: Tax Constitutes Prior Claim
7-216: Vendor's Duty To Collect Tax
7-217: Returns And Remittances; Discounts
7-218: Interest And Penalties; Delinquency; Discount Forfeiture
7-219: Waiver Of Interest And Penalties
7-220: Erroneous Payments; Claim For Refund
7-221: Failure To File; Fraudulent Returns; Penalties
7-222: Tax Records Confidential
7-223: Provisions Cumulative
7-224: Amendments To Chapter
 
Notes
1 1. 68 OS §§ 1350 et seq., 2701 et seq.
7-201: CITATION OF CHAPTER:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the TOWN OF BEAVER SALES TAX
ORDINANCE. (1998 Code)
7-202: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the Oklahoma
Sales Tax Code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1352, and 37 Oklahoma Statutes
sections 596 and 793, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
chapter.
   B.   The term "tax collector", as used herein, shall mean the department of
the Town or the official agency of the State duly designated according to law
or contract authorized by law to administer the collection of the tax herein
levied. (1998 Code)
7-203: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by State law for purposes of the Oklahoma Sales Tax
Code. (1998 Code)
7-204: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma Tax
Commission pursuant to the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code are, for the purpose of this
chapter, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for
an additional Town permit for the same purpose. (1998 Code)
7-205: PURPOSE OF REVENUE; DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS; ADDITIONAL ONE PERCENT
SALES TAX:
   A.   Government Functions: It is hereby declared to be the purpose of the
revenues generated by the first and second cent Sales Taxes levied herein to
provide revenues for the support of the functions of the Municipal government
of the Town.
   B.   Additional One Percent Sales Tax:
      1.   Pursuant to Resolution no. 2013-R01, and due to such resolution's
approval by the voters at the special Municipal election held on April 2, 2013,
this subsection B shall become effective on and after July 1, 2013, as provided
by title 68 section 2701C of the Oklahoma Statutes, and shall continue
thereafter until lawfully repealed. There is hereby declared and shall be
levied and collected, a Town Excise (Sales) Tax of one percent (1%), such Sales
Tax being in addition to the Town, County and State Sales Taxes heretofore
levied or assessed, upon the gross proceeds or receipts derived from all sales
to any person taxable under the Sales Tax Laws for the State of Oklahoma.
      2.   This one percent (1%) Sales (Excise) Tax shall only be used as
follows:
         a.   Sixty percent (60%) of such additional revenues shall be used to
renovate the Municipal swimming pool and other recreational projects; and
         b.   Forty percent (40%) of such additional revenues shall be used to
pay expenses and repairs at Beaver Dunes Park and for the acquisition of
equipment necessary to facilitate maintenance of the park.
      3.   The receipts from such Sales (Excise) Tax shall be deposited into
the Limited Purpose Sales Tax Fund ("fund"), which fund shall be used solely
for the purpose of receiving the revenue derived from the collection of the
additional one percent (1%) Sales Tax imposed hereunder, receiving any income
from the investment of monies contained in the fund, and making authorized
expenditures as authorized in subsection B2 of this section. The monies shall
be divided into two (2) separate accounts within such fund with the sixty
percent (60%) account known as the Swimming Pool and Recreational Projects
Account and the forty percent (40%) account known as the Beaver Dunes Park
Account. (Ord. 2015-12-1, 12-10-2015)
7-206: TAX RATE; SALES SUBJECT TO TAX:
   A.   There is levied an Excise Tax of three percent (3%) upon the gross
proceeds or gross receipts derived from all sales taxable under the Oklahoma
Sales Tax Code including, but not exclusive of, the following: (Ord. 2015-12-1,
12-10-2015)
      1.   Tangible personal property.
      2.   Natural or artificial gas, electricity, ice, steam, or any other
utility or public service except water and those specifically exempt by this
chapter.
      3.   Transportation for hire of persons by common carriers, including
railroads, both steam and electric, motor transportation companies, taxicab
companies, pullman car companies, airlines and all other means of
transportation for hire.
      4.   Service by telephone and telegraph companies to subscribers or
users, including transmission of messages, whether local or long distance. This
shall include all services and rental charges having any connection with
transmission of any message.
      5.   Printing or printed matter of all types, kinds, and characters and
the service of printing or overprinting, including the copying of information
by mimeograph or multigraph or by otherwise duplicating written or printed
matter in any manner, or the production of microfiche containing information on
magnetic tapes furnished by customers.
      6.   Service of furnishing rooms by hotel, apartment hotel, public
rooming house, motel, public lodging house or tourist camps.
      7.   Service of furnishing storage or parking privileges by auto hotels
and parking lots.
      8.   Selling, renting or otherwise furnishing computer hardware or
software or coding sheets, cards or magnetic tapes on which prewritten programs
have been coded, punched or otherwise recorded.
      9.   Food, confections and all drinks sold or dispensed by hotels,
restaurants, or other dispensers, and sold for immediate consumption upon the
premises or delivered or carried away from the premises for consumption
elsewhere.
      10.   Advertising of all kinds, types and character, including any and
all devices used for advertising purposes and the servicing of any advertising
devices, except those specifically exempt by this chapter.
      11.   Dues or fees to clubs including free or complimentary dues or fees
which shall have the value equivalent to the charge that would have otherwise
been made, including any fees paid for the use of facilities or services
rendered at a health spa or club or any similar facility or business.
      12.   Sales of tickets, fees or other charges made for admission to or
voluntary contributions made to places of amusement, sports entertainment,
exhibition, display or other recreational events or activities, including free
or complimentary admissions which shall have the value equivalent to the charge
that would have otherwise been made.
      13.   Charges made for the privilege of entering or engaging in any kind
of activity, when no admission is charged spectators, such as tennis,
racquetball or handball courts.
      14.   Charges made for the privilege of using items for amusement,
sports, entertainment or recreational activity such as trampolines or golf
carts.
      15.   The rental of equipment for amusement, sports, entertainment or
other recreational activities, such as bowling shoes, skates, golf carts, or
other sports and athletic equipment.
      16.   The gross receipts from sales through any vending machine, without
any deduction for rental to locate the vending machine on the premises of a
person who is not the owner or any other deductions therefrom.
      17.   Gross receipts or gross proceeds from the rental or lease of
tangible personal property, including rental or lease of personal property when
the rental or lease agreement requires the vendor to launder, clean, repair or
otherwise service the rented or leased property on a regular basis, without any
deduction for the cost of the service rendered. Provided if the rental or lease
charge is based on the retail value of the property at the time of making the
rental or lease agreement and the expected life of the property, and the rental
or lease charge is separately stated from the service cost in the statement,
bill or invoice delivered to the consumer, the cost of services rendered shall
be deducted from the gross receipts or gross proceeds.
      18.   Any licensing agreement, rental, lease or other device or
instrument whereby rights to possess or exhibit motion pictures or filmed
performances or rights to receive images, pictures or performances for telecast
by any method are transferred. Provided, persons regularly engaged in the
business of exhibiting motion pictures for which the sale of tickets or
admissions is taxed under this chapter shall not be deemed to be consumers or
users in respect to the licensing or exhibiting of copyrighted motion picture
features, shorts, cartoons and scenes from copyrighted features and the sale or
licensing of such films shall not be considered a sale within the purview of
this chapter.
      19.   Flowers, plants, shrubs, trees and other floral items, whether or
not same was produced by the vendor, sold by persons engaged in florist or
nursery business in this state, including all orders taken by an Oklahoma
business for delivery in another state. Provided, all orders taken outside this
state for delivery within this state shall not be subject to the tax levied by
this chapter.
      20.   Tangible personal property sold to persons, peddlers, solicitors or
other salesmen, for resale where there is likelihood that this state will lose
tax revenue due to the difficulty of enforcing this chapter because of:
         a.   The operation of the business;
         b.   The nature of the business;
         c.   The turnover of independent contractors;
         d.   The lack of place of business in which to display a permit or
keep records;
         e.   Lack of adequate records;
         f.   The persons are minors or transients;
         g.   The persons are engaged in service businesses; or
         h.   Any other reasonable reason.
      21.   Any taxable services and tangible personal property including
materials, supplies and equipment sold to contractors for the purpose of
developing and improving real estate even though such real estate is intended
for resale as real property are hereby declared to be sales to consumers or
users and taxable.
      22.   Any taxable services and tangible personal property sold to persons
who are primarily engaged in selling their services, such as repairmen, are
hereby declared to be sales to consumers or users and taxable. (1998 Code)
7-207: EXEMPTIONS; SALES SUBJECT TO OTHER TAX:
   A.   There is hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this
chapter the gross receipts or gross proceeds exempted from the Oklahoma sales
tax code inclusive, but not exclusive of, and derived from the:
      1.   Sale of gasoline or motor fuel on which the motor fuel tax, gasoline
excise tax or special fuels tax levied by state law has been paid;
      2.   Sale of motor vehicles or any optional equipment or accessories
attached to motor vehicles on which the Oklahoma motor vehicle excise tax
levied by state law has been paid;
      3.   Sale of crude petroleum or natural or casinghead gas and other
products subject to gross production tax under state law. This exemption shall
not apply when such products are sold to consumer or user for consumption or
use, except when used for injection into the earth for the purpose of promoting
or facilitating the production of oil or gas. This subsection A3 shall not
operate to increase or repeal the gross production tax levied by the laws of
this state; and
      4.   Sale of aircraft on which the tax levied pursuant to 68 Oklahoma
Statutes sections 6001 through 6004 has been paid. (1998 Code)
7-208: EXEMPTIONS; GOVERNMENTAL AND NONPROFIT ENTITIES:
   A.   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this
chapter:
      1.   Sale of tangible personal property or services to the United States
government or to the state of Oklahoma, any political subdivision of this state
or any agency of a political subdivision of the state; provided, all sales to
contractors in connection with the performance of any contract with the United
States government, state of Oklahoma or any of its political subdivisions shall
not be exempted from the tax levied by this chapter, except as hereinafter
provided.
      2.   Sales of property to agents appointed or contracted with by agencies
or instrumentalities of the United States government if ownership and
possession of such property transfers immediately to the United States
government.
      3.   Sales made directly by county, district or state fair authorities of
this state, upon the premises of the fair authority, for the sole benefit of
the fair authority.
      4.   Sale of food in cafeterias or lunch rooms of elementary schools,
high schools, colleges or universities which are operated primarily for
teachers and pupils and are not operated primarily for the public or for
profit.
      5.   Dues paid to fraternal, religious, civic, charitable or educational
societies or organizations by regular members thereof, provided, such societies
or organizations operate under what is commonly termed the lodge plan or
system, and provided such societies or organizations do not operate for a
profit which inures to the benefit of any individual member or members thereof
to the exclusion of other members.
      6.   Sale of tangible personal property or services to or by churches,
except sales made in the course of business for profit or savings, competing
with other persons engaged in the same or similar business.
      7.   The amount of proceeds received from the sale of admission tickets
which is separately stated on the ticket of admission for the repayment of
money borrowed by any accredited state supported college or university for the
purpose of constructing or enlarging any facility to be used for the staging of
an athletic event, a theatrical production, or any other form of entertainment,
edification or cultural cultivation to which entry is gained with a paid
admission ticket. Such facilities include, but are not limited to, athletic
fields, athletic stadiums, field houses, amphitheaters and theaters. To be
eligible for this sales tax exemption, the amount separately stated on the
admission ticket shall be a surcharge which is imposed, collected and used for
the sole purpose of servicing or aiding in the servicing of debt incurred by
the college or university to effect the capital improvements hereinbefore
described.
      8.   Sales of tangible personal property or services to the board of
trustees organizations or similar state supervisory organizations of the Boy
Scouts of America, Girl Scouts of U.S.A. and the Campfire Girls shall be exempt
from sales tax.
      9.   Sale of tangible personal property or services to any county,
municipality, public school district, the institutions of the Oklahoma system
of higher education and the Grand River Dam authority, or to any person with
whom any of the above named subdivisions or agencies of this state has duly
entered into a public contract pursuant to law, necessary for carrying out such
public contract or to any subcontractor to such a public contract. Any person
making purchases on behalf of such subdivision or agency of this state shall
certify, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to be retained
by the vendor that the purchases are made for and on behalf of such subdivision
or agency of this state and set out the name of such public subdivision or
agency. Any person who wrongfully or erroneously certifies that purchases are
for any of the above named subdivision or agencies of this state or who
otherwise violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined an amount equal to double the amount of the
sales tax involved or incarcerated for not more than sixty (60) days or both.
      10.   Sales of tangible personal property or services to private
institutions of higher education and private elementary and secondary
institutions of education accredited by the state department of education or
registered by the state board of education for purposes of participating in
federal programs or accredited as defined by the Oklahoma state regents for
higher education which are exempt from taxation pursuant to the provisions of
section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code, including materials, supplies,
and equipment used in the construction and improvement of buildings and other
structures owned by the institutions and operated for educational purposes. Any
person, firm, agency or entity making purchases on behalf of any institution,
agency or subdivision in this state, shall certify in writing, on the copy of
the invoice of sales ticket the nature of the purchases, and violation of this
act shall be a misdemeanor as set forth in subsection A9 of this section.
      11.   Tuition and educational fees paid to private institutions of higher
education and private elementary and secondary institutions of education
accredited by the state department of education or registered by the state
board of education for purposes of participating in federal programs or
accredited as defined by the Oklahoma state regents for higher education which
are exempt from taxation pursuant to the provisions of the section 501(c)(3) of
the internal revenue code.
      12.   Sales of tangible personal property made by public or private
school for grade levels kindergarten through twelfth grade, a public school
district, public school board, public school student group or organization or
public school district personnel for purposes of raising funds for the benefit
of such school, school district, school board, student group or organization.
For purposes of this subsection, "public or private school" shall mean any
public or private institution of education accredited by the state department
of education or registered by the state board of education for purposes of
participating in federal programs. Sale of tangible personal property in this
subsection shall not include sale of admission tickets or concessions at
athletic events. (1998 Code)
7-209: EXEMPTIONS; GENERAL:
   A.   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this
chapter:
      1.   Transportation of school pupils to and from elementary schools or
high schools in motor or other vehicles;
      2.   Transportation of persons where the fare of each person does not
exceed one dollar ($1.00), or local transportation of persons within the
corporate limits of a municipality except by taxicab;
      3.   Carrier sales of newspapers and periodicals made directly to
consumers. Other sales of newspapers and periodicals where any individual
transaction does not exceed seventy five cents ($0.75). A carrier is a person
who regularly delivers newspapers or periodicals to subscribers on an assigned
route;
      4.   Sales for resale to persons engaged in the business of reselling the
articles purchased, whether within or without the state, provided that such
sales to residents of this state are made to persons to whom sales tax permits
have been issued as provided in this chapter. This exemption shall not apply to
the sales of articles made to persons holding permits when such persons
purchase items for their use and which they are not regularly engaged in the
business of reselling; neither shall this exemption apply to sales of tangible
personal property to peddlers, solicitors and other salesmen who do not have an
established place of business and a sales tax permit;
      5.   Sales of advertising space in newspapers and periodicals and
billboard advertising service, and any advertising through the electronic
media, including radio, television and cable television;
      6.   Eggs, feed, supplies, machinery and equipment purchased by persons
regularly engaged in the business of raising worms, fish, any insect or any
other form of terrestrial or aquatic animal life and used for the purpose of
raising same for marketing. This exemption shall only be granted and extended
to the purchaser when the items are to be used and in fact are used in the
raising of animal life as set out above. Each purchaser shall certify, in
writing, on the invoice or sales ticket retained by the vendor that he is
regularly engaged in the business of raising such animal life and that the
items purchased will be used only in such business. The vendor shall certify to
the Oklahoma tax commission that the price of the items has been reduced to
grant the full benefit of the exemption. Violation hereof by the purchaser or
vendor shall be a misdemeanor;
      7.   Sales of medicine or drugs prescribed for the treatment of human
beings by a person licensed to prescribe the medicine or drugs. This exemption
shall not apply to proprietary or patent medicines as defined by 59 Oklahoma
Statutes section 353.1;
      8.   Transfers of title or possession of empty, partially filled, or
filled returnable oil drums to any person who is not regularly engaged in the
business of selling, reselling or otherwise transferring empty, partially
filled, or filled returnable oil drums;
      9.   Sales of food or food products for home consumption which are
purchased in whole or in part with coupons issued pursuant to the federal food
stamp program as authorized by sections 2011 through 2029 of title 7 of the
United States Code, as to that portion purchased with such coupons. The
exemption provided for such sales shall be inapplicable to such sales upon the
effective date of any federal law that removes the requirement of the exemption
as a condition for participation by the state of Oklahoma in the federal food
stamp program; and
      10.   Nothing herein shall be construed as limiting or prohibiting the
town from levying and collecting taxes on the sale of natural or artificial gas
and electricity, whether sold for residential or commercial purposes. Any sales
tax levied by the town on natural or artificial gas and electricity shall be in
effect regardless of ordinance or contractual provisions referring to
previously imposed state sales tax on such items. (1998 Code)
7-210: EXEMPTIONS; AGRICULTURE:
   A.   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this
chapter:
      1.   Sales of agricultural products produced in this state by the
producer thereof directly to the consumer or user when such articles are sold
at or from a farm and not from some other place of business, as follows:
         a.   Farm, orchard or garden products;
         b.   Dairy products sold by a dairyman or farmer who owns all the cows
from which the dairy products offered for sale are produced;
         c.   Livestock sold by the producer at a special livestock sale; and
         d.   The provisions of this subsection A1 shall not be construed as
exempting sales by florists, nurserymen or chicken hatcheries, or sales of
dairy products by any other business except as set out herein;
      2.   Livestock, including cattle, horses, mules, or other domestic or
draft animals, sold by the producer by private treaty or at a special livestock
sale;
      3.   Sale of baby chicks, turkey poults and starter pullets used in the
commercial production of chickens, turkeys and eggs, provided that the
purchaser certifies, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to
be retained by the vendor that the pullets will be used primarily for egg
production;
      4.   Sale of salt, grains, tankage, oyster shells, mineral supplements,
limestone and other generally recognized animal feeds for the following
purposes and subject to the following limitations:
         a.   Feed which is fed to poultry and livestock, including breeding
stock and wool bearing stock, for the purpose of producing eggs, poultry, milk
or meat for human consumption;
         b.   Feed purchased in Oklahoma for the purpose of being fed to and
which is fed by the purchaser to horses, mules or other domestic or draft
animals used directly in the producing and marketing of agricultural products;
         c.   Any stock tonics, water purifying products, stock sprays,
disinfectants or other such agricultural supplies;
         d.   Poultry shall not be construed to include any fowl other than
domestic fowl kept and raised for the market or production of eggs;
         e.   Livestock shall not be construed to include any pet animals such
as dogs, cats, birds or such other fur bearing animals; and
         f.   This exemption shall only be granted and extended where the
purchaser of feed that is to be used and in fact is used for a purpose that
would bring about an exemption hereunder executes an invoice or sales ticket in
duplicate on a form to be prescribed by the tax commission. The purchaser may
demand and receive a copy of the invoice or sales ticket and the vendor shall
retain a copy;
      5.   Sales of items to be used and in fact are used in the production of
agricultural products. Sale of the following items shall be subject to the
following limitations:
         a.   Sales of agricultural fertilizer to any person regularly engaged,
for profit, in the business of farming or ranching. Each such purchaser shall
certify, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to be retained
by the vendor, that he is so engaged in farming or ranching and that the
material purchased will be used only in such business;
         b.   Sales of agricultural fertilizer to any person engaged in the
business of applying such materials on a contract or custom basis to land owned
or leased and operated by persons regularly engaged, for profit, in the
business of farming or ranching. Each such purchaser shall certify, in writing,
on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to be retained by the vendor that he
is engaged in the business of applying such materials to lands owned or leased
and operated by persons regularly engaged, for profit, in the business of
farming or ranching, and shall show in the certificate the name or names of
such owner or lessee and operator, the location of the lands on which the
materials are to be applied to each such land, and he shall further certify
that his contract price has been reduced so as to give the farmer or rancher
the full benefit of this exemption;
         c.   Sales of agricultural fertilizer, pharmaceuticals and biologicals
to persons engaged in the business of applying such materials on a contract or
custom basis shall not be considered to be sales to contractors under this
chapter, and the sales shall not be considered to be taxable sales within the
meaning of the Oklahoma sales tax code. As used in this section, "agricultural
fertilizer" "pharmaceuticals" and "biologicals" mean any substance sold and
used for soil enrichment or soil corrective purposes or for promoting the
growth and productivity of plants or animals;
         d.   Sales of agricultural seed or plants to any person regularly
engaged, for profit, in the business of farming or ranching. This section shall
not be construed as exempting from sales tax, seed which is packaged and sold
for use in noncommercial flower and vegetable gardens;
         e.   Sales of agricultural chemical pesticides to any person regularly
engaged, for profit, in the business of farming or ranching. For the purposes
of this act, agricultural chemical pesticides shall include any substance or
mixture of substances intended for preventing, destroying, repelling or
mitigating any insect, snail, slug, rodent, bird, nematode, fungus, weed or any
other form of terrestrial or aquatic plant or animal life or virus, bacteria or
other microorganism, except viruses, bacterial or other microorganisms on or in
living man, or any substance or mixture of substances intended for use as a
plant regulator, defoliant or desiccant; and
         f.   This exemption shall only be granted and extended to the
purchaser where the items are to be used and in fact are used in the production
of agricultural products. Each purchaser shall certify, in writing, on the copy
of the invoice or sales ticket to be retained by the vendor, that the material
purchased will only be used in his farming occupation. The vendor shall certify
to the Oklahoma tax commission that the contract price of the items has been
reduced to grant the full benefit of the exemption. Violation hereof by the
purchaser or vendor shall be a misdemeanor, and, upon violation and conviction
for a second offense the Oklahoma tax commission shall revoke the vendor's
sales tax permit; and
      6.   Sale of farm machinery, repair parts thereto or fuel, oil,
lubricants and other substances used for operation and maintenance of the farm
machinery to be used directly on a farm or ranch in the production,
cultivation, planting, sowing, harvesting, processing, spraying, preservation
or irrigation of any livestock, poultry, agricultural or dairy products
produced from such lands. Each purchaser of farm machinery, repair parts
thereto or fuel must certify, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales
ticket to be retained by the vendor, that he is engaged in farming or ranching
and that the farm machinery, repair parts thereto or fuel will be used only in
farming or ranching. The exemption provided for herein shall not apply to motor
vehicles. Each purchaser shall certify, in writing, on the copy of the invoice
or sales ticket to be retained by the vendor, that the material purchased will
only be used in his farming occupation. The vendor shall certify to the
Oklahoma tax commission that the price of the items has been reduced to grant
the full benefit of the exemption. Violation hereof by the purchaser or vendor
shall be a misdemeanor, and, upon violation and conviction for a second
offense, the Oklahoma tax commission shall revoke the vendor's sales tax
permit. (1998 Code)
7-211: EXEMPTIONS; MANUFACTURERS:
   A.   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this
chapter:
      1.   Goods, wares, merchandise and property purchased for the purpose of
being used or consumed in the process of manufacturing, compounding,
processing, assembling or preparing for sale a finished article and such goods,
wares, merchandise or property become integral parts of the manufactured,
compounded, processed, assembled or prepared products or are consumed in the
process of manufacturing, compounding, processing, assembling or preparing
products for resale. The term "manufacturing plants" shall mean those
establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing or processing operations, and
generally recognized as such;
      2.   Ethyl alcohol when sold and used for the purpose of blending same
with motor fuel on which motor fuel tax is levied by state law;
      3.   Sale of machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons
establishing new manufacturing plants in Oklahoma, and machinery and equipment
purchased and used by persons in the operation of manufacturing plants already
established in Oklahoma. This exemption shall not apply unless such machinery
and equipment is incorporated into, and is directly used in, the process of
manufacturing property subject to taxation under this chapter. The term
"manufacturing plants" shall mean those establishments primarily engaged in
manufacturing or processing operations, and generally recognized as such;
      4.   Sales of containers when sold to a person regularly engaged in the
business of reselling empty or filled containers or when purchased for the
purpose of packaging raw products of farm, garden or orchard for resale to the
consumer or processor. This exemption shall not apply to the sale of any
containers used more than once and which are ordinarily known as returnable
containers, except returnable soft drink bottles. Each and every transfer of
title or possession of such returnable containers in this state to any person
who is not regularly engaged in the business of selling, reselling or otherwise
transferring empty or filled containers shall be taxable under this code. And,
this exemption shall not apply to the sale of labels or other materials
delivered along with items sold but which are not necessary or absolutely
essential to the sale of the sold merchandise;
      5.   Sale of tangible personal property manufactured in Oklahoma when
sold by the manufacturer to a person who transports it to another state for
immediate and exclusive use in some other state; or
      6.   Machinery, equipment, fuels and chemicals incorporated into and
directly used or consumed in the process of treatment to substantially reduce
the volume or harmful properties of controlled industrial waste at treatment
facilities specifically permitted pursuant to the controlled industrial waste
disposal act and operated at the place of waste generation, or facilities
approved by the state department of health for the cleanup of a site of
contamination. The term controlled industrial waste may include low level
radioactive waste for the purpose of this subsection. (1998 Code)
7-212: EXEMPTIONS; CORPORATIONS AND PARTNERSHIPS:
   A.   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied in this
chapter:
      1.   The transfer of tangible personal property, as follows:
         a.   From one corporation to another corporation pursuant to a
reorganization. As used in this subsection A1a the term "reorganization" means
a statutory merger or consolidation or the acquisition by a corporation of
substantially all of the properties of another corporation when the
consideration is solely all or a part of the voting stock of the acquiring
corporation, or of its parent or subsidiary corporation;
         b.   In connection with the winding up, dissolution or liquidation of
a corporation only when there is a distribution in kind to the shareholders of
the property of such corporation;
         c.   To a corporation for the purpose of organization of such
corporation where the former owners of the property transferred are immediately
after the transfer in control of the corporation, and the stock or securities
received by each is substantially in proportion to his interest in the property
prior to the transfer;
         d.   To a partnership in the organization of such partnership if the
former owners of the property transferred are immediately after the transfer,
members of such partnership and the interest in the partnership, received by
each, is substantially in proportion to his interest in the property prior to
the transfer; or
         e.   From a partnership to the members thereof when made in kind in
the dissolution of such partnership; and
      2.   Sale of an interest in tangible personal property to a partner or
other person who after such sale owns a joint interest in such tangible
personal property where the state sales or use tax has previously been paid on
such tangible personal property. (1998 Code)
7-213: TAX DUE AND PAYABLE:
The tax levied under this chapter shall be due and payable at the time and in
the manner and form prescribed for payment of the state sales tax under the
sales tax law of the state. (1998 Code)
7-214: PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKETS:
   A.   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the tax collector at the time in
form and manner provided for payment of state sales tax under the sales tax law
of the state.
   B.   The bracket system for the collection of the town sales tax by the tax
collector shall be as the same is hereafter adopted by the agreement of the
town and the tax collector, in the collection of both the town sales tax and
the state sales tax. (1998 Code)
7-215: TAX CONSTITUTES PRIOR CLAIM:
Taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute a
prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors and may be collected by suit as any other debt. (1998 Code)
7-216: VENDOR'S DUTY TO COLLECT TAX 1 :
   A.   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor; and each and every vendor shall collect from the consumer or user the
full amount of the tax levied, or an amount equal as nearly as possible or
practicable to the average equivalent thereof.
   B.   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge; and, when added, such tax shall
constitute a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or
user to the vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in the same
manner as other debts.
   C.   No vendor shall wilfully or intentionally fail, neglect or refuse to
collect the full amount of the tax levied; or wilfully or intentionally fail,
neglect or refuse to comply with the provisions of this chapter; or remit or
rebate to a consumer or user, either directly or indirectly, and by whatsoever
means, all or any part of the tax herein levied; or make in any form of
advertising, verbally or otherwise, any statement which infers that he is
absorbing the tax, or paying the tax for the consumer or user by an adjustment
of prices or at a price including the tax, or in any manner whatsoever. (1998
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 68 OS § 1310.
7-217: RETURNS AND REMITTANCES; DISCOUNTS:
Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made to
the tax collector at the time and in the manner, form and amount as prescribed
for returns and remittances required by the state sales tax code; and
remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same discount as
may be allowed by the code for collection of state sales taxes. (1998 Code)
7-218: INTEREST AND PENALTIES; DELINQUENCY; DISCOUNT FORFEITURE:
   A.   68 Oklahoma Statutes section 217 is adopted and made a part of this
chapter.
   B.   Interest and penalties at the rates and in amounts specified in the
state statute cited in subsection A of this section are hereby levied and shall
be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and paying the tax levied by
this chapter.
   C.   The failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make and transmit the reports
and remittances of tax in the time and manner required by this chapter shall
cause such tax to be delinquent.
   D.   If such delinquency continues for a period of five (5) days, the
taxpayer shall forfeit his claim to any discount allowed under this chapter.
(1998 Code)
7-219: WAIVER OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by reason of a
taxpayer's failure to pay the town tax herein levied may be waived or remitted
in the same manner as provided for the waiver or remittance as applied in
administration of the state sales tax provided in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section
220.
   B.   To accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions
of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 220 are adopted by reference and made a part of
this chapter. (1998 Code)
7-220: ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND:
   A.   Refund or erroneous payment of the town sales tax herein levied may be
made to any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and
procedure, and under the same limitations of time, as provided for
administration of the state sales tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes
section 227.
   B.   To accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions
of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 227 are adopted by reference and made a part of
this chapter. (1998 Code)
7-221: FAILURE TO FILE; FRAUDULENT RETURNS; PENALTIES:
   A.   No person shall:
      1.   Intentionally fail or refuse to make tax reports and remittances as
required under this chapter; or
      2.   Intentionally make false and fraudulent tax reports for the purpose
of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof due under this
chapter.
   B.   Any person required to collect and remit sales tax pursuant to the
state sales tax code or the town code, and engaging in any of the callings,
trades, avocations, professions, businesses or occupations for which a license
is required by the town, and applying for such license, must submit proof as a
condition precedent to issuing such license of a valid sales tax permit number
issued by the state of Oklahoma.
   C.   Any license issued by the town to any person engaging in any of the
callings, trades, avocations, businesses, professions or occupations for which
a license is required by the town code may be suspended or revoked for failure
to maintain a lawful sales tax license or collect and remit sales tax if and as
required by the state sales tax code or the town code.
   D.   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this chapter, any
violation of this section shall subject the offending taxpayer to the penalty
set forth in section
1-108 of this code. Each day of such violation shall be considered a separate
offense and charged separately. (1998 Code)
7-222: TAX RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the town sales tax is legislatively recognized and declared;
and to protect the same the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 205 of
the state sales tax code, and all subsections thereof, are hereby adopted by
reference and made fully effective and applicable to administration of the town
sales tax as if herein set forth in full. (1998 Code)
7-223: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions of this chapter shall be cumulative and in addition to any and
all other taxing provisions of town ordinances. (1998 Code)
7-224: AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER:
The board of trustees, by ordinance duly enacted, is authorized to make such
administrative and technical changes or additions in the method and manner of
administration and enforcing this chapter as may be necessary or proper for
efficiency and fairness, except that the rate of the tax herein provided shall
not be changed without approval of the qualified electors of the town as
provided by law. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TELEPHONE EXCHANGE FEE
SECTION:
7-301: Inspection Fee And Service Charge
7-302: Charge In Lieu Of Other License Tax
7-301: INSPECTION FEE AND SERVICE CHARGE 1 :
   A.   There is hereby levied an annual inspection fee and service charge upon
each and every person operating a telephone exchange in the town to compensate
the town for the expenses incurred and services rendered incident to the
exercise of its police power, supervision, police regulation and police control
of the construction of lines and equipment of the telephone company in the
town.
   B.   The amount of the inspection fee and service charge shall be an amount
equal to two percent (2%) of the gross revenues for each current year for
exchange telephone transmission service rendered wholly within the limits of
the town.
   C.   The inspection fee and charge shall be due and payable to the town on
or before April 1 of each year and shall be paid into and appropriated and
expended from the general revenue fund of the town. Payment shall be
accompanied by a report showing the gross sales by service classification
(residential, commercial, industrial). (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 68 OS § 2601 et seq.
7-302: CHARGE IN LIEU OF OTHER LICENSE TAX:
During continued substantial compliance with the terms of this chapter by the
owner of any telephone exchange, the charge levied by this chapter shall be and
continue to be in lieu of all concessions, charges, excise, franchise, license,
privilege, and permit fees or taxes or assessments except ad valorem taxes.
This section is not intended to extinguish or abrogate any existing arrangement
whereby the town is permitted to use the underground conduit, duct space or
pole contracts of the company for the fire alarm and police call systems of the
town, or either of them. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 4
UTILITY FEE
SECTION:
7-401: Utility Fee Levied
7-402: Fee To Be In Lieu Of Franchise
7-403: Tax Payable
7-404: Ouster For Failure To Pay
7-405: Tax Constitutes Lien
7-401: UTILITY FEE LEVIED:
There is hereby levied and assessed an annual tax of two percent (2%) upon the
gross receipts from residential and commercial sales of natural gas within the
corporate limits of the town of Beaver, excepting therefrom the gross receipts
for gas sold to the municipality for its own use, all public schools and all
county, state and federal governmental agencies and institutions. Said tax
shall be in lieu of any other franchise, license, occupation or excise tax
levied by the town of Beaver, all as provided for in 68 Oklahoma Statutes
sections 2601 to 2605. (Ord. 97-98-1, 6-10-1998)
7-402: FEE TO BE IN LIEU OF FRANCHISE:
The tax levied under section
7-401 of this chapter shall, when levied, apply to all persons, firms,
associations, or corporations engaged in the business of furnishing natural gas
within the town limits, except it shall not apply to any person, firm,
association or corporation operating under a valid franchise from the town, nor
to the town of Beaver when providing any such services. (Ord. 97-98-1, 6-10-
1998)
7-403: TAX PAYABLE:
The tax levied under section
7-401 of this chapter shall be levied for a term of not less than one year and
shall be payable monthly and placed in the general revenue fund of the town of
Beaver. (Ord. 97-98-1, 6-10-1998)
7-404: OUSTER FOR FAILURE TO PAY:
Any person, firm or corporation failing or refusing to pay such a tax when
levied shall be regarded as a trespasser and may be ousted from the town. In
addition thereto, an action may be maintained against such person, firm or
corporation for the amount of the tax, and all expenses of collecting same,
including reasonable attorney fees. (Ord. 97-98-1, 6-10-1998)
7-405: TAX CONSTITUTES LIEN:
The tax so imposed shall constitute a first and prior lien on all the assets
located within the town of any person, firm or corporation engaged in the
business of selling natural gas within the corporate limits of the town of
Beaver. (Ord. 97-98-1, 6-10-1998)
CHAPTER 5
USE TAX
SECTION:
7-501: Citation And Codification
7-502: Definitions
7-503: Excise Tax On Storage, Use Or Other Consumption Of Tangible, Personal
Property Levied
7-504: Purpose Of Revenues
7-505: Exemptions
7-506: Time When Due; Returns; Payment
7-507: Tax Constitutes Debt
7-508: Collection Of Tax By Retailer Or Vendor
7-509: Collection Of Tax By Retailer Or Vendor Not Maintaining Place Of
Business Within State Or Both Within And Without State; Permits
7-510: Revoking Permits
7-511: Remunerative Deductions Allowed Vendors Or Retailers Of Other States
7-512: Interest And Penalties; Delinquency
7-513: Waiver Of Interest And Penalties
7-514: Erroneous Payments; Claim For Refund
7-515: Fraudulent Returns
7-516: Records Confidential
7-517: Classification Of Taxpayers
7-518: Subsisting State Permits
7-519: Provisions Cumulative
7-501: CITATION AND CODIFICATION:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the TOWN OF BEAVER USE TAX.
(Ord. 97-03-001, 3-5-1997)
7-502: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the Oklahoma Use Tax
Code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes, 1981, section 1401, are hereby adopted by reference
and made a part of this chapter. In addition thereto, the following words and
terms shall be defined as follows:
TAX COLLECTOR: The department of the Town or the official agency of the State,
duly designated according to law or contract authorized by law, to administer
the collection of the Use Tax herein levied.
TOWN: The Town of Beaver, Oklahoma.
TRANSACTION: Sale. (Ord. 97-03-001, 3-5-1997)
7-503: EXCISE TAX ON STORAGE, USE OR OTHER CONSUMPTION OF TANGIBLE, PERSONAL
PROPERTY LEVIED:
There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by every person storing, using,
or otherwise consuming within the Town of Beaver, Oklahoma, tangible personal
property purchased or brought into this Town, an Excise Tax on the storage,
use, or other consumption in this Town of such property at the rate of three
percent (3%) of the purchase price of such property. Such tax shall be paid by
every person storing, using or otherwise consuming, within the Town, tangible,
personal property purchased or brought into the Town. The additional tax levied
hereunder shall be paid at the time of importation or storage of the property
within the Town and shall be assessed to only property purchased outside
Oklahoma; provided, that the tax levied herein shall not be levied against
personal property intended solely for use outside the Town, but which is stored
in the Town pending shipment outside the Town or which is temporarily retained
in the Town for the purpose of fabrication, repair, testing, alteration,
maintenance or other service. Any person liable for payment of the Use Tax
authorized herein, may deduct from such tax any local or Municipal Sales Tax
previously paid on such goods or services; provided, that the amount deducted
shall not exceed the amount that would have been due if the taxes imposed by
the Town had been levied on the sale of such goods or services. (Ord. 2015-12-
1, 12-10-2015)
7-504: PURPOSE OF REVENUES:
It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this chapter to provide revenues for
the support of the General Fund of the Municipal government of the Town of
Beaver, Oklahoma, and any and all revenues derived hereunder may be expended by
the Governing Body of the Town for any purpose for which funds may be lawfully
expended as authorized. (Ord. 97-03-001, 3-5-1997)
7-505: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply:
      1.   In respect to the use of an article of tangible, personal property
brought into the town by a nonresident individual visiting in this town for his
or her personal use or enjoyment while within the town;
      2.   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property purchased for
resale before being used;
      3.   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property
on which a tax, equal to or in excess of that levied by both the Oklahoma use
tax code and the town of Beaver, Oklahoma, use tax, has been paid by the person
using such tangible, personal property in the town, whether such tax was levied
under the laws of Oklahoma or some other state or municipality of the United
States. If any article of tangible, personal property has already been
subjected to a tax by Oklahoma or any other state or municipality in respect to
its sale or use, in an amount less than the tax imposed by both the Oklahoma
use tax code and the town of Beaver, Oklahoma, use tax, the provision of this
chapter shall also apply to it by a rate measured by the difference only
between the rate provided by both the Oklahoma use tax code and the town of
Beaver, Oklahoma, use tax, and the rate by which the previous tax upon the sale
or use was computed. Provided, that no credit shall be given for taxes paid in
another state or municipality, if that state or municipality does not grant
like credit for taxes paid in Oklahoma and the town;
      4.   In respect to the use of machinery and equipment purchased and used
by persons establishing new manufacturing or processing plants in the town, and
machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons in the operation of
manufacturing plants already established in the town. Provided, that this
exemption shall not apply unless such machinery and equipment is incorporated
into, and is directly used in, the process of manufacturing property subject to
taxation under the sales tax code of the town of Beaver, Oklahoma. The term
"manufacturing plants" shall mean those establishments primarily engaged in
manufacturing or processing operations, and generally recognized as such;
      5.   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property now
specifically exempted from taxation under the sales tax code of the town of
Beaver, Oklahoma;
      6.   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property
brought into the town by an individual with intent to become a resident of this
town where such personal property is for such individual's personal use or
enjoyment;
      7.   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property
used, or to be used, by commercial airlines or railroads; or
      8.   In respect to livestock purchased outside Oklahoma and brought into
this town for feeding or breeding purposes, and which is later resold. (Ord.
97-03-001, 3-5-1997)
7-506: TIME WHEN DUE; RETURNS; PAYMENT:
The tax levied by this chapter is due and payable at the time and in the manner
and form prescribed for payment of the state use tax under the use tax code of
the state of Oklahoma. (Ord. 97-03-001, 3-5-1997)
7-507: TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT:
Such taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute a
prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt. (Ord. 97-03-001, 3-
5-1997)
7-508: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER OR VENDOR:
Every retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within and without
the state of Oklahoma, and making sales of tangible, personal property from a
place of business outside this state for use in the town of Beaver, Oklahoma,
shall, at the time of making such sales, collect the use tax levied by this
chapter from the purchaser and give to the purchaser a receipt therefor in the
manner and form prescribed by the Oklahoma tax commission, if the tax
commission shall, by regulation, require such receipt. Each retailer or vendor
shall list with the tax commission the name and address of all his agents
operating in this town and location of any and all distribution or sales houses
or offices or other places of business in this town. (Ord. 97-03-001, 3-5-1997)
7-509: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER OR VENDOR NOT MAINTAINING PLACE OF
BUSINESS WITHIN STATE OR BOTH WITHIN AND WITHOUT STATE; PERMITS:
The Oklahoma tax commission may, in its discretion, upon application, authorize
the collection of the use tax herein levied by any retailer or vendor not
maintaining a place of business within this state but who makes sales of
tangible, personal property for use in this town, and by the out of state place
of business of any retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both
within and without Oklahoma and making sales of tangible, personal property at
such out of state place of business for use in this town. Such retailer or
vendor may be issued, without charge, a permit to collect such taxes by the tax
commission in such manner and subject to such regulations and agreements as it
shall prescribe. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer or
vendor to collect the use tax upon all tangible, personal property sold to his
knowledge for use within this town. Such authority and permit may be canceled
when, at any time, the tax commission considers that such use tax can more
effectively be collected from the person using such property in this town.
Provided, however, that in all instances where such sales are made or completed
by delivery to the purchaser within this town by the retailer or vendor in such
retailer's or vendor's vehicle, whether owned or leased (not by common
carrier), such sales or transactions shall continue to be subject to applicable
town sales tax at the point of delivery and the tax shall be collected and
reported under the taxpayer's sales tax permit number accordingly. (Ord. 97-03-
001, 3-5-1997)
7-510: REVOKING PERMITS:
Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in this
state, or both within and without this state, authorized to collect the use tax
herein levied, fails to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter or
the Oklahoma use tax code or any orders, rules or regulations of the Oklahoma
tax commission, the tax commission may, upon notice and hearing as provided for
in 68 Oklahoma Statutes, 1981, section 1408, by order, revoke the use tax
permit, if any, issued to such retailer or vendor, and if any such retailer or
vendor is a corporation authorized to do business in this state may, after the
notice and hearing above provided, cancel the corporation's license to do
business in this state and shall issue a new license only when such corporation
has complied with the obligations under this chapter, the Oklahoma use tax
code, or any orders, rules or regulations of the Oklahoma tax commission. (Ord.
97-03-001, 3-5-1997)
7-511: REMUNERATIVE DEDUCTIONS ALLOWED VENDORS OR RETAILERS OF OTHER STATES:
Returns and remittances of the use tax herein levied and collected shall be
made to the Oklahoma tax commission at the time and in the manner, form and
amount as prescribed for returns and remittances required by the Oklahoma use
tax code; remittances of use taxes collected hereunder shall be subject to the
same discount as may be allowed by said code for the collection of state use
taxes. (Ord. 97-03-001, 3-5-1997)
7-512: INTEREST AND PENALTIES; DELINQUENCY:
68 Oklahoma Statutes, 1981, section 217, is hereby adopted and made a part of
this chapter, and interest and penalties at the rates and in the amounts as
therein specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of
delinquency in reporting and paying the use tax levied by this chapter.
Provided, that the failure or refusal of any retailer or vendor to make and
transmit the reports and remittances of use tax in the time and manner required
by this chapter shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if such
delinquency continues for a period of five (5) days, the retailer or vendor
shall forfeit his claim to any discount allowed under this chapter. (Ord. 97-
03-001, 3-5-1997)
7-513: WAIVER OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
The interest and penalty, or any portion thereof, accruing by reason of a
retailer's or vendor's failure to pay the use tax herein levied may be waived
or remitted in the same manner as provided for said waiver or remittance as
applied in administration of the state use tax provided in 68 Oklahoma
Statutes, 1981, section 220. To accomplish the purposes of this section, the
applicable provisions of said section 220 are hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this chapter. (Ord. 97-03-001, 3-5-1997)
7-514: ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND:
Refund of erroneous payment of the town use tax herein levied may be made to
any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
state use tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes, 1981, section 227. To
accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of said
section 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 97-03-001, 3-5-1997)
7-515: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
In addition to all civil penalties provided by this chapter, the wilful failure
or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein required, or
the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or
escaping payment of any use tax, or portion thereof, rightfully due under this
chapter shall be an offense, and upon conviction thereof the offending taxpayer
shall be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code. Each day of noncompliance with this chapter shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 97-03-001, 3-5-1997)
7-516: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the town use tax is legislatively recognized and declared,
and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes, 1981, section
205, of the state use tax code, and each subsection thereof, is hereby adopted
by reference and made fully effective and applicable to administration of the
town use tax as is herein set forth in full. (Ord. 97-03-001, 3-5-1997)
7-517: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the Oklahoma use tax code.
(Ord. 97-03-001, 3-5-1997)
7-518: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma tax
commission pursuant to the Oklahoma use tax code are for the purpose of this
chapter hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for
an additional town permit for the same purpose. (Ord. 97-03-001, 3-5-1997)
7-519: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions hereof shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and all other
taxing provisions of town ordinances. (Ord. 97-03-001, 3-5-1997)
PART 8
HEALTH AND NUISANCES
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES AND HEALTH GENERALLY 1
SECTION:
8-101: Definitions
8-102: Certain Public Nuisances Defined
8-103: Nuisance Prohibited
8-104: Person Responsible For Continuing Nuisance
8-105: Time Does Not Legalize Nuisance
8-106: Remedies Against Public Nuisances
8-107: Remedies Against Private Nuisances
8-108: Town Has Power To Define And Summarily Abate Nuisance
8-109: Summary Abatement Of Nuisances
8-110: Health Nuisances; Abatement
8-111: Town Actions Not To Jeopardize Private Action
8-112: Unauthorized Dumping, Depositing Or Disposal Of Trash On Property Of
Another
8-113: Open Burning Prohibited
8-114: Abatement By Suit In District Court
8-115: Procedures Cumulative
8-116: Toilet Facilities Required
8-117: Obstructing Health Or Enforcement Officer
8-118: Littering Prohibited Generally
8-119: Abandoned Refrigerators
8-120: Junkyards Prohibited
8-121: Salvage Yards Prohibited
8-122: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. 50 OS §§ 1 et seq., 16.
8-101: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them herein:
NUISANCE: Unlawfully doing an act, or omitting to perform a duty, or is any
thing or condition which either:
   A.   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others;
   B.   Offends decency;
   C.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or render
dangerous for passage, any lake or navigable river, stream, canal or basin, or
any public park, square, street or other public property; or
   D.   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property;
PRIVATE NUISANCE: Every nuisance not included in the definition of "public
nuisance" of this section.
PUBLIC NUISANCE: A nuisance which affects at the same time an entire community
or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons, or three (3) or more
properties under separate ownership in the vicinity of such nuisance, although
the extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals may be
unequal. (1998 Code)
8-102: CERTAIN PUBLIC NUISANCES DEFINED:
   A.   In addition to other public nuisances declared by other sections of
this code or law, the following are hereby declared to be public nuisances:
      1.   The sale or offering for sale of unwholesome food or drink; or the
keeping of a place where such sales or offerings are made.
      2.   The sale, offering for sale or furnishing of intoxicating liquor in
violation of the state law or ordinances of the town; or the keeping of a place
where intoxicating liquor is sold, offered for sale, or furnished in violation
of the state law or ordinances of the town.
      3.   The exposure, display, sale or distribution of obscene pictures,
books, pamphlets, magazines, papers, documents, or objects; or the keeping of a
place where such are exposed, displayed, sold or distributed.
      4.   The keeping of a place where persons gamble, whether by cards, slot
machines, punchboards or otherwise.
      5.   The keeping of a place where prostitution, illicit sexual
intercourse or other immoral acts are practiced.
      6.   The keeping of a place where activities in violation of state law or
ordinance are practiced or carried on.
      7.   The public exposure of a person having a contagious disease.
      8.   The continued making of loud or unusual noises, music or sounds, or
strong vibrations which annoy persons of ordinary sensibilities; or the keeping
of an animal which makes such noises.
      9.   The operation or use of any electrical apparatus or machine which
materially and unduly interferes with radio or television reception by others.
      10.   Any use of a street or sidewalk or a place adjacent thereto which
causes crowds of people to gather so as to obstruct traffic on such street or
sidewalk, or which otherwise obstructs traffic thereon, except as may be
authorized by law or ordinances.
      11.   Permitting water or other liquid to flow or fall, or ice or snow to
fall, from any building or structure upon any street or sidewalk where
mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, or which are so constructed, formed,
conditioned, or situated as to endanger the public safety.
      12.   All wells, pools, cisterns, bodies or containers of water in which
mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, or which are so constructed, formed,
conditioned or situated as to endanger the public safety.
      13.   Rank weeds or grass, carcasses, accumulations of manure, refuse or
other things which are, or are likely to be, breeding places for flies,
mosquitoes, vermin or disease germs, and the premises on which such exist.
      14.   Any building or structure which is dangerous to the public health
or safety because of damage, decay or other condition.
      15.   Any pit, hole or other thing which is so constructed, formed,
conditioned or situated as to endanger the public safety.
      16.   Any fire or explosion hazard which endangers the public safety.
      17.   Any occupation or activity which endangers the public peace,
health, morals, safety or welfare.
      18.   Permitting bagworms to be upon any trees or other plants within the
town.
      19.   Permitting foul, noxious or offensive odors to escape from
premises; or unusual quantities of dust or other deleterious substances to
escape or emanate across the property line upon which the same originates.
      20.   Any stable or other place where animals are kept that may become
obnoxious or annoying to any resident of this town, by reason of any noise or
noises made by the animal therein, or by reason of lack of sanitation.
      21.   The keeping in violation of part 4, chapter 1 of this code, of any
dog kennels within this town for the breeding and raising of dogs that shall
become offensive or annoying to the public by reason of the barking and noise
made by the animals therein contained.
      22.   Any vault, cesspool or sink used to receive human excrement, slops,
garbage, refuse or other filthy substance.
      23.   Any pond, slop, trash, refuse, cobs, manure, decayed or decaying
vegetable matter, left, kept or maintained in such condition as to endanger the
public health.
      24.   The keeping of any hog pen within the limits of this town in
violation of this code.
      25.   Every privy or water closet which shall be in an overflowing,
leaking or filthy condition, or in a condition dangerous, injurious or annoying
to the comfort, health and welfare of any resident of this town.
      26.   Any green or unsalted hides of any animal kept in any exposed or
open place within the limits of this town.
      27.   Any unclean, foul, leaking or broken or defective ditch, drain,
gutter, slop, garbage or manure barrel, box or other receptacle in this town.
      28.   Every building or other structure that shall become unsafe and
dangerous from fire, decay or other cause, or shall become hazardous from fire,
by reason of age, decay or construction, location or other cause, or shall be
detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of this town or its inhabitants
from any cause.
   B.   The enumeration in subsection A hereof of certain public nuisances
shall be cumulative and not limit other provisions of law or ordinances
defining public or private nuisances either in more general or more specific
terms. (1998 Code)
8-103: NUISANCE PROHIBITED:
No person shall create or maintain a nuisance within the town or permit a
nuisance to remain on premises under his control within the town. (1998 Code)
8-104: PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR CONTINUING NUISANCE:
Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing nuisance
upon or in the use of such property, created by a former owner, is liable
therefor in the same manner as the person who first created it. (1998 Code)
8-105: TIME DOES NOT LEGALIZE NUISANCE:
No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right. (1998 Code)
8-106: REMEDIES AGAINST PUBLIC NUISANCES:
   A.   The remedies against a public nuisance are:
      1.   Prosecution on complaint before the municipal court;
      2.   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
      3.   Civil action; or
      4.   Abatement:
         a.   By the person injured as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section
12; or
         b.   By the town in accordance with law or ordinance. (1998 Code)
8-107: REMEDIES AGAINST PRIVATE NUISANCES:
   A.   The remedies against a private nuisance are:
      1.   Civil action; or
      2.   Abatement:
         a.   By the person injured as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes
sections 14 and 15; or
         b.   By the town in accordance with law or ordinance. (1998 Code)
8-108: TOWN HAS POWER TO DEFINE AND SUMMARILY ABATE NUISANCE:
As provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 16, the town is empowered to
determine what is and what shall constitute a nuisance within its corporate
limits and, for the protection of the public health, the public parks and the
public water supply, outside of its corporate limits. Whenever it is practical
to do so, the town has the power summarily to abate any such nuisance after
notice to the owner and an opportunity for him to be heard, if this can be
done. (1998 Code)
8-109: SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES:
   A.   Some nuisances are of such nature as to constitute a grave and
immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of one or more
persons or of the public generally. It is recognized that circumstances may be
such as to justify, and even to require, the town or other appropriate officer
or agency of the town government to take immediate and proper action summarily
to abate such nuisances or to reduce or suspend the danger until more
deliberate action can be taken toward such abatement.
   B.   A officer of the town may submit a statement as to the existence of a
nuisance as defined by the ordinances of the town or law, and a request or
recommendation that it be abated.
   C.   The town or its designee shall determine if a nuisance exists as
defined by the ordinances of the town or law. If a nuisance does in fact exist,
town personnel shall direct the owner or other persons responsible for or
causing the nuisance by:
      1.   Certified mail; or
      2.   By publication if the owner cannot be so served or found,
to abate the nuisance within a specified time if the peace, health, safety,
morals or welfare of the person or persons or public adversely affected would
not be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay. If such peace, health,
safety, morals or welfare would be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay,
or if the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance do not
abate it within the specified time, or if the persons responsible authorize the
town to abate the nuisance, the town shall direct the appropriate officer to
abate the nuisance or have it abated, if summary abatement is practical, as
authorized by 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 16. The town shall send a statement
of the cost of such summary abatement to the owner or other persons responsible
for or causing the nuisance, as may be just under the circumstances, if their
names and addresses are known. Until paid, such cost shall constitute a debt to
the town collectible as other debts may be collected.
   D.   The determination of the existence of a nuisance and order to abate it,
as made by the town, may be appealed by the occupant or owner or person causing
the nuisance by filing a request for hearing in writing with the town within
the period of time specified in the notice for abatement of the nuisance. The
town clerk shall cause the matter to be placed on the agenda of the town board
of trustees for final determination with appropriate notice of the hearing
provided to the person requesting the appeal. (1998 Code)
8-110: HEALTH NUISANCES; ABATEMENT:
   A.   Pursuant to authority granted by 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-1011,
the town shall have the authority to order the owner or occupant of any private
premises in the town to remove from such premises, at his own expense, any
source of filth, cause of sickness, condition conducive to the breeding of
insects or rodents that might contribute to the transmission of disease, or any
other condition adversely affecting the public health, within twenty four (24)
hours, or within such other time as may be reasonable. Such order shall be in
writing and may be served personally on the owner or occupant of the premises,
or authorized agent thereof, by the town or by a police officer, or a copy
thereof may be left at the last usual place of abode of the owner, occupant or
agent, if known and within the state. If the premises are unoccupied and the
residence of the owner, occupant or agent is unknown or is outside the state,
the order may be served by posting a copy thereof on the premises or by
publication in at least one issue of a newspaper having a general circulation
in the town.
   B.   If the order is not complied with, the town may cause the order to be
executed and complied with, and the cost thereof shall be certified and the
cost of removing or abating such nuisance shall be charged to the owner or
occupant, enforceable as a lien or any other method allowed by law or
ordinance. (1998 Code)
8-111: TOWN ACTIONS NOT TO JEOPARDIZE PRIVATE ACTION:
Nothing herein contained shall be construed to abridge the rights of citizens
of the town to bring and maintain actions in the proper courts for the
abatement of private nuisances or those specially injurious to them. (1998
Code)
8-112: UNAUTHORIZED DUMPING, DEPOSITING OR DISPOSAL OF TRASH ON PROPERTY OF
ANOTHER:
   A.   It is unlawful to place, deposit, or leave any trash, debris, refuse or
garbage on the property of another or on public property, including any public
street, easement, sidewalk or other public property, except where such disposal
is expressly allowed by law.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to place, deposit, leave or dispose of
trash, garbage, refuse or debris in any dumpster or trash receptacle that is
located on the property of another without the express consent of the person on
whose property the dumpster or trash receptacle is located. (1998 Code)
8-113: OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful to burn any fire outside of any enclosed building in the town
for the purpose of burning grass, trash, leaves, weeds, papers, refuse, garbage
or any other substance except in an approved incinerator or by obtaining a
permit and payment of such fee as set by the town, or by approval by the fire
department as may be allowed by the town fire code and any applicable state or
town regulations. (1998 Code)
8-114: ABATEMENT BY SUIT IN DISTRICT COURT:
In cases where it is deemed impractical summarily to abate a nuisance, the town
may bring suit in the district court. (1998 Code)
8-115: PROCEDURES CUMULATIVE:
The procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this chapter and by other
provisions of law and ordinance shall be cumulative one to the other. The town
may elect to follow any such procedure which is applicable in abating any
particular nuisance. (1998 Code)
8-116: TOILET FACILITIES REQUIRED:
   A.   For the purposes of this section, the following terms shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them herein:
    HUMAN EXCREMENT: The bowel and kidney discharge of human beings.
   SANITARY PIT PRIVY: A privy which is built, rebuilt or constructed so as to
conform with the specifications approved by the state health department.
   SANITARY WATER CLOSET: The flush type toilet which is connected with a
sanitary sewer line of such capacity and construction as to carry away the
contents at all times.
   B.   Every owner of a residence or other building in which humans reside,
are employed or congregate within this town shall install, equip and maintain
adequate sanitary facilities for the disposal of human excrement by use of a
sanitary water closet or a sanitary pit privy. The closets and toilets hereby
required shall be of the sanitary water closet type when located within one
hundred fifty feet (150') of a sanitary sewer and accessible thereto and of the
sanitary water closet type (notwithstanding a greater distance from a sanitary
sewer) or the water closet type emptying into a septic tank system or the pit
privy type. A septic tank system or a pit privy may be used in such cases only
if it meets the standards of and is approved by the state health department.
   C.   All human excrement disposed of within this town shall be disposed of
by depositing it in closets and privies of the type provided for in this
section. It is unlawful for any owner of property within the town to permit the
disposal of human excrement thereon in any other manner, or for any person to
dispose of human excrement within the town in any other manner.
   D.   All privies shall be kept clean and sanitary at all times, and the
covers of the seats of privies shall be kept closed at all times when the
privies are not being used. No wash water, kitchen slop or anything other than
human excrement and toilet paper shall be emptied into a privy. No excrement
from any person suffering from typhoid fever, dysentery or other serious bowel
disease shall be deposited in any sanitary pit privy or sanitary water closet
until it is disinfected in such a manner as may be prescribed by the health
officer.
   E.   All facilities for the disposal of human excrement in a manner
different from that required by this section and all privies and closets so
constructed, situated or maintained as to endanger the public health are hereby
declared to be public nuisances, and may be dealt with and abated as such. Any
person maintaining any such nuisance is guilty of an offense and each day upon
which any such nuisance continues is a separate offense.
   F.   No residence, business or commercial building, nor any other premises
in the town, if located within three hundred feet (300') of any public sewer
lateral or main shall be connected to or in any manner served by a septic tank;
no such person shall allow the installation, maintenance, operation or use of
any septic tank in violation of this section. (1998 Code)
8-117: OBSTRUCTING HEALTH OR ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
It is unlawful for any person to wilfully obstruct or interfere with any health
officer or other code enforcement officer charged with the enforcement of the
health or nuisance laws of this town. (1998 Code)
8-118: LITTERING PROHIBITED GENERALLY:
No person shall throw, place, leave, drop, put or otherwise abandon litter upon
any public property, private property or roadway except as otherwise
specifically permitted in this code. "Litter" means trash, refuse, rubbish and
all like material. (1998 Code)
8-119: ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS:
It is unlawful for any person to leave in a place accessible to children any
abandoned or discarded ice box, refrigerator or other container which has an
airtight door with a lock or other fastening device which cannot be easily
released for opening from the inside of the ice box, refrigerator or container,
without first removing the door, lock or fastener. (1998 Code)
8-120: JUNKYARDS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to build or maintain a junkyard or to place on
town lots, within the town, a junkyard or material commonly found in junkyards
such as old car bodies, old vehicles, wrecked vehicles, old secondhand
materials commonly found in junkyards or similar places of business. It is
unlawful to convert any lots which, as of September 1969, were not so used,
into such junkyard or for the purpose of placing thereon material as described
above. (1998 Code)
8-121: SALVAGE YARDS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to build or maintain a salvage yard in the town.
(1998 Code)
8-122: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall upon
conviction thereon be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 2
WEEDS, GRASS AND TRASH
SECTION:
8-201: Definitions
8-202: Accumulation Of Trash Or Weeds Unlawful
8-203: Duty Of Owner Occupant To Maintain Private Property
8-204: Reports Of Accumulation Of Grass, Weeds Or Trash On Property
8-205: Cleaning And Mowing; Notice, Consent, Hearing, Abatement, Lien And
Payment
8-201: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following teams shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: The person so designated by the town board of trustees.
CLEANING: The removal of trash from property.
OWNER: The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the county
treasurer.
TRASH: Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible materials,
rubbish, offal, waste, or matter of any kind or form which is uncared for,
discarded or abandoned.
WEED: Includes, but is not limited to, poison ivy, poison oak or poison sumac
and all vegetation at any stage of maturity which:
   A.   Exceeds twelve inches (12") in height, except healthy trees, shrubs or
produce for human consumption or grown in a tended and cultivated garden unless
such trees and shrubbery by their density or location constitute a detriment to
the health, benefit and welfare of the public and community or a hazard to
traffic or create a fire hazard to the property or otherwise interfere with the
mowing of the weeds;
   B.   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals or invites deposits or
accumulation of refuse or trash;
   C.   Harbors rodents or vermin;
   D.   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
   E.   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
   F.   Is dead or diseased.
The term "weed" does not include tended crops on land zoned for agricultural
use which are planted more than one hundred fifty feet (150') from a parcel
zoned for other than agricultural use. (1998 Code)
8-202: ACCUMULATION OF TRASH OR WEEDS UNLAWFUL 1 :
   A.   It is unlawful for any owner or occupant of any lot, tract or parcel of
land situated wholly or in part within the corporate limits of the town to
allow trash or weeds to grow, stand or accumulate upon such premises. It is the
duty of such owner or occupant to remove or destroy any such trash or weeds.
   B.   No owner or occupant of land or lots shall:
      1.   Knowingly permit the throwing or dumping upon his premises of any
refuse, rubbish or trash, or
      2.   Permit such materials to remain on his premises for more than ten
(10) days after being notified to remove them by the town or the county health
department whether or not the owner or occupant knew of or permitted such
throwing or depositing.
   C.   In addition to a penalty for violation of this section or section
8-203 of this chapter, the town may abate as a public nuisance any condition
prohibited herein pursuant to this chapter, any other law or ordinance, all of
which shall be cumulative. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 22-110.
8-203: DUTY OF OWNER, OCCUPANT TO MAINTAIN PRIVATE PROPERTY:
No person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge of any private property
or premises shall maintain or keep any refuse, rubbish, trash or similar
material except dirt thereon; nor shall such person allow the accumulation of
any such material; nor shall any such person keep or maintain such premises in
a manner causing substantial diminution in the value of other property in the
neighborhood in which the premises are located. No prosecution may be
undertaken under this section until such person shall have been given ten (10)
days' notice by the town of the condition and an order to fully abate the
alleged deficiency. (1998 Code)
8-204: REPORTS OF ACCUMULATION OF GRASS, WEEDS OR TRASH ON PROPERTY 1 :
   A.   Any officer or employee of the town who discovers an accumulation of
trash or the growth of grass and weeds, or both these conditions, upon any
premises within the limits of the town, shall report the condition to the
administrative officer if, as a result of the accumulation or growth, the
premises appear to be:
      1.   Detrimental to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and the
community;
      2.   A hazard to traffic;
      3.   A fire hazard to property; or
      4.   Any two (2) or more of these conditions. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 22-111.
8-205: CLEANING AND MOWING; NOTICE, CONSENT, HEARING, ABATEMENT, LIEN AND
PAYMENT:
   A.   The town administrative officer is authorized to cause property within
the town to be cleaned of trash and weeds, or grass to be cut or mowed, and the
nuisance to be abated in accordance with the following procedure:
      1.   The town administrative officer or his designee may determine
whether the accumulation of trash, growth of weeds or grass, or other nuisances
has caused the property to become detrimental to the health, benefit or welfare
of the public and the community or a hazard to traffic, or creates a fire
hazard to the danger of the property.
      2.   At least ten (10) days' notice shall be given to the owner of the
property by mail at the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in the
county treasurer's office before the hearing provided for herein or before
action may be taken. The notice shall order the property owner to clean the
property of trash, or to cut or mow the weeds or grass on the property, as
appropriate, and the notice shall state that unless the work is performed
within ten (10) days of the date of the notice, the work shall be done by the
town and a notice of lien shall be filed with the county clerk against the
property for the costs due and owing the town.
      3.   At the time of mailing of notice to the property owner, the town
shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall
indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of the mailee. However,
if the property owner can not be located within ten (10) days from the date of
mailing the same, notice may be given by posting a copy of the notice on the
property or by publication, as provided by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 102.8,
one time not less than ten (10) days prior to any hearing or action.
      4.   If the town anticipates summary abatement of a nuisance in
accordance with the provisions as herein provided, the notice, whether by mail
or publication, shall state: that any accumulations of trash or excessive weeds
or grass growth on the owner's property occurring within six (6) months after
the removal of trash or cutting or mowing of weeds or grass on the property
pursuant to the notice may be summarily abated by the town; that the costs of
such abatement shall be assessed against the owner; and that a lien shall be
imposed on the property to secure such payment, all without further notice to
the property owner. At the time of each summary abatement the town clerk shall
notify the property owner of the abatement and costs thereof. The notice shall
state that the property owner may request a hearing within ten (10) days after
the date of mailing the notice. Unless otherwise determined at the hearing, the
cost of such abatement shall be determined and collected as provided in this
section. However, these summary abatement procedures shall not apply if the
records of the county clerk show that the property was transferred after the
notice was given pursuant to this section.
      5.   The owner of the property may give his written consent to the town
authorizing the removal of the trash or the mowing of the weeds or grass. By
giving his written consent, the owner waives his right to a hearing by the
town.
      6.   A hearing may be held by the administrative officer to determine
whether the accumulation of trash or the growth of weeds or grass has caused
the property to become detrimental to the health, benefit or welfare of the
public and the community or a hazard to traffic or creates a fire hazard to the
danger of property. The property owner shall have a right of appeal to the town
administrative officer, except that if the town administrative officer conducts
the initial hearing, then the right of appeal is to the town board of trustees.
The appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of appeal with the town
administrative officer within ten (10) days after the administrative order is
rendered.
      7.   If the administrative officer finds the condition of the property
constitutes a detriment or hazard and that the property would be benefited by
the removal of such conditions, the administrative officer shall direct the
clearing or cleaning be done by one of the following methods: (1998 Code)
         a.   By the town for the actual costs of such actions and any other
expenses that may be necessary in conjunction therewith including the cost of
the notice and mailing. (Ord. 2009-3, 7-13-2009)
         b.   On a private contract basis, in which case it shall be awarded to
the lowest and best bidder.
The agents of the town are granted the right of entry on the property for the
removal of trash, mowing of weeds or grass, cleaning and performance of
necessary duties as a governmental function of the town. Immediately following
the cleaning or mowing of the property, the town clerk shall file a notice of
lien with the county clerk describing the property and the work performed by
the town, and stating that the town claims a lien on the property for the
cleaning and mowing costs, and that such costs are the personal obligation of
the property owner from and after the date of filing of the notice.
      8.   After the property has been cleaned, the administrative officer
shall determine the actual cost of such cleaning and any other expenses as may
be necessary in connection therewith, including the cost of the notice and
mailing. The town clerk shall forward by mail to the property owner specified
in this section a statement of the actual cost and demanding payment.
      9.   If payment is not made within thirty (30) days from the date of the
mailing of the statement, the town clerk shall forward a certified statement of
the amount of the cost to the county treasurer of the county in which the
property is located, and the same shall be levied on the property and collected
by the county treasurer as other taxes authorized by law. The cost and the
interest thereon shall be a lien against the property from the date the cost is
certified to the county treasurer and shall continue until the cost shall be
fully paid.
      10.   At any time prior to the collection as provided herein the town may
pursue any civil remedy for collection of the amount owing and the interest
thereon. Upon receiving payment, if any, the town clerk shall forward to the
county treasurer a notice of such payment and directing discharge of the lien
or part thereof.
   B.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any property used for
agricultural purposes. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS 1
SECTION:
8-301: Definitions
8-302: Report To Be Made
8-303: Condemnation, Boarding And Securing Of Dilapidated Buildings, Notice,
Removal, Lien, Payment
8-304: Clearing Up Of Premises From Which Buildings Have Been Removed
8-305: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS §§ 22-112, 22-112.1.
8-301: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter:
BOARDING AND SECURING OR BOARDED AND SECURED: The closing, boarding or locking
of any or all exterior openings so as to prevent entry into the structure.
CLEANING OR CLEANED: The removal of trash or weeds from the premises.
DILAPIDATED BUILDING: The neglect of necessary repairs to a building or
allowing it to fall into a state of decay or allowing it to fall into partial
ruin to such an extent that the building is a hazard to the health or safety or
welfare of the general public.
UNSECURED BUILDING: A structure which through neglect or injury lacks necessary
repairs or otherwise is in a state of decay or partial ruin to such an extent
that the structure is a hazard to the health, safety or welfare of the general
public. (1998 Code)
8-302: REPORT TO BE MADE:
Any officer or employee of this town who discovers or receives a report of a
dilapidated building which has become detrimental to the health, benefit and
welfare of the public and the community or creates a fire hazard to the danger
of property, shall report such conditions to the administrative officer. (1998
Code)
8-303: CONDEMNATION, BOARDING AND SECURING OF DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS, NOTICE,
REMOVAL, LIEN, PAYMENT 1 :
   A.   The administrative officer may cause dilapidated buildings within the
town limits to be torn down and removed, or boarded or secured, in accordance
with the following procedure:
      1.   At least fifteen (15) days' notice shall be given to the owner of
the property before the town takes action or holds a hearing as provided
herein. A copy of the notice shall be posted on the property to be affected. In
addition, a copy of the notice shall be sent by mail to the property owner at
the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in the office of the county
treasurer. Written notice shall also be mailed to any mortgage holder as shown
by the records in the office of the county clerk to the last known address of
the mortgagee. At the time of mailing of notice to any property owner or
mortgage holder, the town shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal
service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and
address of the mailee. However, if neither the property owner nor mortgage
holder can be located, notice may be given by posting a copy of the notice on
the property, or by publication, as defined by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section
1-102. Such notice may be published once not less than fifteen (15) days prior
to any hearing or action to be taken pursuant to this section;
      2.   A hearing shall be held by the administrative officer to determine
whether the property is dilapidated and has thereby become detrimental to the
health, benefit and welfare of the public and the community, or creates a fire
hazard to the danger of property, or needs to be boarded and secured;
      3.   If the administrative officer finds that the condition of the
property constitutes a detriment or a hazard, and that the property would be
benefited by the removal of such conditions, or by its boarding and securing,
the administrative officer may cause the dilapidated building to be torn down
and removed, or boarded and secured, and shall fix reasonable dates for the
commencement and completion of the work. The town clerk shall immediately file
a notice of lien with the county clerk describing the property, the findings of
the administrative officer at the hearing, and stating that the town claims a
lien on the property for the destruction and removal, boarding and securing
costs and that such costs are the personal obligation of the property owner
from and after the date of filing of the notice;
      4.   The property owner shall have a right of appeal to the town
administrative officer, or if the order is rendered by the town administrative
officer, then the right to appeal is to the town board of trustees. The appeal
shall be filed in writing with the town clerk within ten (10) days after the
administrative order is rendered;
      5.   If the work is not performed by the property owner within the dates
fixed by the administrative officer, the administrative officer shall direct
the tearing down and removal, or boarding and securing, be done by one of the
following methods: (1998 Code)
         a.   By the town for the actual costs of such actions and any other
expenses that may be necessary in conjunction therewith including the cost of
the notice and mailing. (Ord. 2009-4, 7-13-2009)
         b.   On a private contract basis, in which case it shall be awarded to
the lowest and best bidder;
      6.   After the building has been torn down and removed, or boarded and
secured, the administrative officer shall determine the actual cost of the
dismantling and removal of dilapidated buildings, or the boarding and securing,
and any other expenses as may be necessary in conjunction therewith, including
the cost of notice and mailing. The town clerk shall forward a statement of
such actual cost attributable to the dismantling and removal or boarding and
securing and a demand for payment by mail to the property owner at the address
specified in this section. In addition, a copy of the statement shall be mailed
to any mortgage holder at the address specified in this section. At the time of
mailing of the statement of costs to any property owner or mortgage holder, the
town shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service, which receipt
shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of the mailee;
      7.   If payment is not made within six (6) months from the date of the
mailing of the statement, the town clerk shall forward a certified statement of
the amount of the cost to the county treasurer of the county in which the
property is located. The town shall have a lien on the property for such costs,
together with interest thereon, and the lien shall continue until the cost
shall be fully paid;
      8.   When payment is made to the town for costs incurred, the town shall
file a release of lien or part thereof; and
      9.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any property zoned
and used for agricultural purposes.
   B.   Nothing in this section shall prevent the town from otherwise abating a
dilapidated building as a nuisance or otherwise exercising its police power to
protect the public health, safety or welfare. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 11 OS § 22-112.
8-304: CLEANING UP OF PREMISES FROM WHICH BUILDINGS HAVE BEEN REMOVED:
   A.   In all cases in which:
      1.   A house or building has been removed before the taking effect of
this chapter; or
      2.   A house or building is torn down or demolished pursuant to order of
the state fire marshal or one of his assistants or the sheriff of the county or
the chief of the fire department as provided by state law or as provided in
this chapter;
and in which any of the following conditions exist:
      1.   The premises have not been cleaned up;
      2.   The premises are cleaned up, and all lumber, brick, concrete,
cement, plaster, nails, wire, and other material have not been removed;
      3.   The materials removed but the cellar space and excavations have not
been filled;
      4.   A cistern or well has not been filled or safely and securely closed
and all openings to sanitary sewer have not been plugged to meet the
requirements of the town plumbing inspector and securely closed; and
      5.   The lot or lots have not been leveled and left entirely free from
trash or the same be not immediately done,
then the owner or owners of the lot or lots and the person, firm, or
corporation who tore down the house or building shall immediately comply with
the provisions of this chapter by having all of the things done. (1998 Code)
8-305: PENALTY:
Any person who shall tear down or begin the tearing down of any house or
building within the town limits of the town without having first procured a
permit therefor as herein provided shall be guilty of an offense against the
town and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 4
FOOD AND MILK REGULATIONS
SECTION:
Article A.    Food Service Sanitation
8-401: Regulations Adopted
8-402: Permit
Article B.    Milk And Milk Products
8-420: Regulations Adopted
8-421: Penalty
ARTICLE A. FOOD SERVICE SANITATION
8-401: REGULATIONS ADOPTED 1 :
The latest edition of the "Oklahoma State Department Of Health Rules And
Regulations Pertaining To Food Establishments" is hereby adopted and
incorporated by reference in this code. At least one copy of the rules and
regulations shall be on file in the office of the city clerk. The rules and
regulations shall govern except in case of conflict with the provisions of this
chapter, in which case the more restrictive terms shall prevail. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 63 OS § 1-1101 et seq.
8-402: PERMIT:
Annual permits are required for operation of food service establishments. Fee
for such permit shall be as set by the town board. (1998 Code)
ARTICLE B. MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS
8-420: REGULATIONS ADOPTED 2 :
   A.   The latest edition of the United States public health service
recommendation "grade A pasteurized milk ordinance with administrative
procedures" and the provisions of state law governing milk and milk products as
set out in 63 Oklahoma Statutes sections 1-1301 to 1-1311, as amended from time
to time, are hereby adopted and incorporated by reference in this code and are
enforceable by the town as fully as if they were set out at length herein. At
least one copy of the milk ordinance and referenced state law shall be on file
in the office of the town clerk. The milk ordinance and the referenced state
law shall govern except in case of conflict with the provisions of this
chapter, in which case the more restrictive terms shall prevail.
   B.   Only certified pasteurized and grade A pasteurized, and certified raw
or grade A raw milk and milk products shall be sold to the final consumer, or
to restaurants, soda fountains, grocery stores or similar establishments. In an
emergency, however, the sale of pasteurized milk and milk products which have
not been graded, or the grade of which is unknown, may be authorized by the
health authority, in which case, such milk and milk products shall be labeled
"ungraded".
   C.   All sampling, examining, grading and regarding of milk and milk
products and all inspections, and issuing and suspension or revocation of
permits shall be done by the health officer or his designee who shall be a
registered professional sanitarian. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
2 2. 63 OS § 1-1201 et seq.; 2 OS § 7-1 et seq.
8-421: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as
provided in section
1-108 of this code. Such person may also be enjoined from continuing such
violations. Each day upon which such a violation occurs shall constitute a
separate violation. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 5
ABANDONED, WRECKED VEHICLES
SECTION:
8-501: Definitions
8-502: Prohibited; Nuisance Declared
8-503: Order Of Abatement
8-504: Responsibility For Removal
8-505: Notice To Remove
8-506: Hearing
8-507: Removal Of Motor Vehicles From Property
8-508: Collection Of City's Costs Of Removal
8-509: Penalty
8-501: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
JUNK VEHICLE: Any "vehicle", as defined herein, which is wrecked, dismantled,
partially dismantled, inoperative, deteriorated, decayed, lacks necessary
repairs or maintenance, abandoned, bearing no state license plate or bearing a
state license plate that is more than three (3) months out of date, or
discarded.
OWNER: Any person, firm, or corporation having a legal or equitable interest in
the property, including an officer, guardian, executor, and administrator,
mortgagee in possession, managing or leasing agent of such person, firm, or
corporation.
PRIVATE PROPERTY: Any real property which is not public property.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: That property which is dedicated to the public use and over
which the federal, state or municipal government or any political subdivision
thereof exercises control and dominion.
VEHICLE: A device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices designed to be moved by
human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. The term shall
include, but not be limited to, automobiles, buses, motorbikes, motorcycles,
motor scooters, trucks, tractors, go-carts, golf carts, boats and trailers.
(Ord. 2009-1, 7-13-2009)
8-502: PROHIBITED; NUISANCE DECLARED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to park, store,
leave, or permit the parking, storing, or leaving of any vehicle of any kind
which is in an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, rusted, junked, or
partially dismantled condition whether attended or not, upon any public or
private property within the town for a period of time in excess of seventy two
(72) hours. The presence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative,
rusted, junked or partially dismantled vehicle or parts thereof on private or
public property is hereby declared a public nuisance which may be abated as
such in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   The provisions of subsection A of this section shall not apply to any
vehicle enclosed within a building on private property or to any vehicle held
in connection with a lawful business enterprise, and property operated in the
appropriate zone, pursuant to the zoning ordinance or to any vehicle in
operable condition specifically adopted or designed for operation on drag
strips or raceways or any vehicle retained by the owner for antique collection
purposes in a storage place in an enclosed building on private property
maintained in a lawful place and manner. (Ord. 2009-1, 7-13-2009)
8-503: ORDER OF ABATEMENT:
In all cases where it shall have been determined that any nuisance shall be
abated, and the nuisance is not abated within the time specified in the notice,
an order of abatement shall be entered by the board of trustees or designee who
shall assign a value to the vehicle and cause the vehicle or its parts to be
removed and stored in a proper place for not more than thirty (30) days. (Ord.
2009-1, 7-13-2009)
8-504: RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVAL:
   A.   Upon proper notice and opportunity to be heard, the owner of the
private property on which the abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative
vehicle is located, shall be responsible for its removal. In the event of
removal and disposition by the town or its designee, the owner of the private
property where the vehicle is located shall be liable for the expenses
incurred.
   B.   The owner of any vehicle so removed may regain possession thereof by
making application to the town within thirty (30) days after its removal. The
owner shall pay the designated wrecker service all reasonable costs of towing
and storage liens which shall have accrued to such vehicle. If the vehicle is
not reclaimed within thirty (30) days, it may be sold without further notice
from the town. (Ord. 2009-1, 7-13-2009)
8-505: NOTICE TO REMOVE:
   A.   The town administrator or designee shall give notice of removal to the
owner of the private property where a "nuisance" as defined in this part is
located. At least ten (10) days' notice shall be given to the owner of the
property by mail at the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in the
county treasurer's office before the town takes action. It shall constitute
sufficient notice, when at the time of mailing of the notice to the property
owner, the administrator shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal
service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and
address of the mailee and if such person or entity cannot be found, then a copy
of the notice may be served by posting a copy in some conspicuous place on the
premises upon which the vehicle is located, at least ten (10) days prior to any
abatement action by the enforcement official.
   B.   The notice shall order the property owner to abate the nuisance and
shall further state that unless such abatement is performed within ten (10)
days of the date of the notice, the nuisance may be abated by the town. (Ord.
2009-1, 7-13-2009)
8-506: HEARING:
   A.   The owner may give written consent authorizing the town to abate the
nuisance under section
8-109 of this part. Such consent shall waive the right to a hearing.
   B.   At any time within ten (10) days from the date of the notice and order
provided for in this chapter, the owner may request, in writing to the
administrator, a hearing to be conducted for the purpose of contesting the
determination that a nuisance exists upon his property. The board of trustees
shall conduct such hearing as soon as may be practicable but not earlier than
five (5) days after receipt of the owner's request for such hearing, and not
later than fifteen (15) days after such receipt.
   C.   At such hearing such owner shall have the right to be represented by
counsel, to present testimony, or evidence and arguments, and to cross examine
witnesses. All testimony shall be taken under oath. If the board, after such
hearing, shall determine that the inoperative vehicle or junked vehicle
constitutes a growing blight or a substantial detriment to health and safety of
the residents of the community, he/she shall file, in writing, findings of
fact, and order that such nuisance be abated within ten (10) days, and shall
cause such finding and order to be served upon such owner at the conclusion of
the hearing. (Ord. 2009-1, 7-13-2009)
8-507: REMOVAL OF MOTOR VEHICLES FROM PROPERTY:
If the violation described in the notice served pursuant to this chapter has
not been remedied within the ten (10) day period of compliance, or in the event
that a notice requesting a hearing has not been timely filed, and the existence
of the violation is affirmed by the board of trustees, then the town
administrator or designee may continue to recommend prosecution of criminal
charges on a daily basis for failure to abate the nuisance and/or shall have
the right to take possession of the inoperative or junked vehicle and remove it
from the premises. It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere, hinder, or
to refuse to allow such person or persons to enter upon private property for
the purpose of removing a vehicle under the provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
2009-1, 7-13-2009)
8-508: COLLECTION OF CITY'S COSTS OF REMOVAL:
   A.   Upon the failure of the owner or occupant of property from which
abandoned vehicles have been removed by the town to pay the unrecovered expense
incurred by the town in such removal, the amount of the unrecovered cost may be
added to the municipal utility bills of the private property from which removed
and recovered in the same manner as such bills.
   B.   If the private property is not served by municipal utilities or if
collection efforts are not successful, the cost may be certified by the town
clerk to the county treasurer of the county in which the property is located
who shall add the same to the ad valorem taxes assessed against the property,
until paid, and such costs shall be collected in the same manner as ad valorem
taxes assessed against the property, and when collected shall be paid to the
town. (Ord. 2009-1, 7-13-2009)
8-509: PENALTY:
In addition to the procedures for removal of vehicles, any person who shall
violate any of the provisions hereof shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty
of an offense against the town, and be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code. Each act in violation of any of the provisions hereof shall
constitute a separate offense and may be chargeable as such. Each day's
continued violation of any of the provisions hereof shall constitute a separate
offense and may be punishable as such. (Ord. 2009-1, 7-13-2009)
CHAPTER 6
TOBACCO AND VAPOR PRODUCTS
SECTION:
8-601: Definitions
8-602: Prohibited Conduct
8-603: Required Signs
8-604: Enforcement
8-601: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
INDOOR AREA: Means any enclosed area used or visited by employees or the
public, at all times, regardless of whether work is being performed. Indoor
area includes work areas, employee lounges, restrooms, conference rooms,
classrooms, employee cafeterias, hallways, and any other spaces used or visited
by employees, as well as all space between a floor and ceiling that is
predominantly or totally enclosed by walls or windows, regardless of doors,
doorways, open or closed windows, stairways, or the like.
MUNICIPAL PROPERTY: Means all buildings, indoor areas, and outdoor areas,
including but not limited to recreational areas, and other property, or
portions thereof, owned or operated by the Town of Beaver, including but not
limited to vehicles and equipment owned by the Municipality.
OUTDOOR AREA: Means any area that is not an indoor area, and includes outdoor
recreational areas.
SMOKING: Means the carrying by a person of a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe, or
other lighted smoking device.
TOBACCO PRODUCT: Means any product that contains tobacco and is intended for
human consumption. Tobacco product does not include any product approved by the
United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation
product.
VAPOR PRODUCT: Means any noncombustible product, that may or may not contain
nicotine, that employs a mechanical heating element, battery, electronic
circuit, or other mechanism, regardless of shape or size, that can be used to
produce a vapor in a solution or other form. Vapor product shall include any
vapor cartridge or other container with or without nicotine or other form that
is intended to be used with an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device and any
vapor cartridge or other container of a solution, that may or may not contain
nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic cigarette,
electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, or electronic device. (Ord. 2017-1, 6-
8-2017, eff. 7-1-2017)
8-602: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
   A.   Smoking tobacco products is prohibited in all places in which smoking
tobacco products is prohibited by Oklahoma State law.
   B.   Using tobacco products and vapor products is prohibited on all
Municipal property, whether an indoor area and/or outdoor area, including parks
and recreational areas.
   C.   Nothing in this section prohibits any person or entity from prohibiting
the use of tobacco products or vapor products on their property, even if the
use of tobacco products or vapor products is not otherwise prohibited in that
area.
   D.   No person or entity shall knowingly permit the use of tobacco products
or vapor products in an area that is under the control of that person or entity
and in which the use of tobacco products or vapor products is prohibited by
law.
   E.   No person or entity shall permit the placement of ash receptacles, such
as ash trays or ash cans, within an area under the control of that person or
entity and in which smoking is prohibited by law. However, the presence of ash
receptacles shall not be a defense to a charge of the use of tobacco products
or vapor products in violation of any provision of this section.
   F.   No person or entity shall intimidate, threaten, or otherwise retaliate
against another person or entity that seeks to attain compliance with this
section. (Ord. 2017-1, 6-8-2017, eff. 7-1-2017)
8-603: REQUIRED SIGNS:
   A.   The person or entity that has legal or de facto control of an area in
which the use of tobacco products or vapor products is prohibited by section
8-602 of this chapter shall post a clear, conspicuous, and unambiguous sign at
each point of entry to the area, and in at least one other conspicuous point
within the area.
   B.   For restrictions on the use of tobacco products or vapor products in
indoor areas, the sign or decal shall be at least 4 inches by 2 inches in size
and shall clearly state that smoking or tobacco use is prohibited or that a
tobacco-free environment is provided. For restrictions on the use of tobacco
products or vapor products in outdoor areas, signs shall be weather- resistant,
at least 15 inches by 15 inches in size, with lettering of at least one inch
(1"), and shall clearly state that smoking or tobacco use is prohibited or that
a tobacco-free environment is provided.
   C.   For purposes of this section, the Town Administrator or his/her
designee shall be responsible for the posting of signs on Municipal property,
in both indoor areas and outdoor areas.
   D.   Notwithstanding this provision, the presence or absence of signs shall
not be a defense to a charge of the use of tobacco products or vapor products
in violation of any other provision of this chapter. (Ord. 2017-1, 6-8-2017,
eff. 7-1-2017)
8-604: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility of Beaver
Police Department. In addition, any peace officer or Code enforcement official
may enforce this chapter.
   B.   Any person who knowingly violates any provision contained in this
chapter shall be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) plus court costs, fees, statutory penalties and assessments, if
applicable.
   C.   The possession of a lighted tobacco product in violation of this
chapter is a nuisance. (Ord. 2017-1, 6-8-2017, eff. 7-1-2017)
PART 9
LICENSING AND BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES GENERALLY
SECTION:
9-101: License Required
9-102: Issuance
9-103: License Period
9-104: Payment Of Fees; Proration
9-105: Transfer
9-106: License Display
9-107: Revocation Or Suspension Of License; Appeal
9-108: Exemptions
9-109: License Fee Schedule
9-101: LICENSE REQUIRED 1 :
Except for those occupations regulated by state law, it is unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation, either as principal, officer, agent, servant or
employee, to engage in any calling, trade, profession or occupation without
first paying to the town the fee or tax required, and procuring a current
license from the town clerk. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS §§ 22-106, 22-107.
9-102: ISSUANCE:
All licenses shall be issued by the town clerk. No license shall be issued
until all conditions prescribed by the ordinance have been complied with, and a
certificate of examination or inspection filed with the town clerk, in those
cases where examination or inspection is required by ordinance. Any applicant
for a license shall make application upon such forms as may be prescribed by
ordinance or may be prescribed by the town clerk. (1998 Code)
9-103: LICENSE PERIOD:
All licenses shall expire annually on June 30, unless a different date of
expiration is provided by the ordinance providing for the particular license.
(1998 Code)
9-104: PAYMENT OF FEES; PRORATION:
All license fees shall be paid in advance for the license period for which
issued. The license fee may be prorated for a new business commencing during
the second six (6) months of a fiscal year; the prorated fee shall be in
proportion to the amount of the year remaining during which time it will
operate. At the direction of the town board, the town clerk may issue licenses
to licensees, sending them statements for fees due, and if the same is not paid
within sixty (60) days from the due date, the license shall thereupon become
null and void. (1998 Code)
9-105: TRANSFER:
No license shall be sold or otherwise transferred. (1998 Code)
9-106: LICENSE DISPLAY:
It is the duty of any person, having obtained a license for any authorized
purpose, to have the same placed or posted in a secure manner in some public
place on the premises occupied and used for such business and where the license
may be readily seen at any time by any person entering the place of business.
Any licensee who does not occupy any certain premises for the conduct of such
licensed business, shall carry his license on his person and shall display the
same whenever requested. (1998 Code)
9-107: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE; APPEAL:
All licenses issued by the town shall be subject to revocation by the duly
authorized officer of the town board upon any breach of any condition
prescribed by ordinance for the regulation of such licensed occupation or in
the event such licensee operates such licensed occupation or business in
violation of the laws of the town or the state, or in violation of any law or
regulation of the United States government. The duly authorized officer shall
mean the town clerk in all instances except when some other person or board is
given the authority by ordinance to revoke or suspend the particular license.
The duly authorized officer shall either give written notice by personal
service, or by mail to the licensee, of the revocation of his license, or the
suspension of the same, which notice, if mailed, shall be mailed to the address
given on the application or license. The license shall stand revoked or
suspended from the time of the giving of such notice. Any licensee, however,
may appeal to the town board from such decision within ten (10) days after the
aforesaid notice by filing a written request with the town clerk for a hearing.
The hearing shall be held by the town board at the next regular meeting
following the filing of the appeal, but may be continued from day to day. The
appealing licensee may be represented by counsel. The hearing shall be
conducted in an informal manner, but no license shall be revoked or suspended
except upon a preponderance of the evidence. The board may affirm, modify or
vacate the order of revocation or suspension, and its decision shall be final.
(1998 Code)
9-108: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   The following shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter:
      1.   A farmer selling in town produce actually produced by him in this
county;
      2.   All scientific or literary entertainers or lecturers;
      3.   All concerts, musicals or other entertainment given exclusively by
the citizens of the town; and
      4.   All entertainments, the proceeds from which are to be devoted to
charity or to public uses or improvements. (1998 Code)
9-109: LICENSE FEE SCHEDULE:
   A.   A tax or license fee, as shall be set by the town board by motion or
resolution, is assessed upon each of the persons engaging in any of the
occupations, trades or businesses, licensed or taxed by the town, for which
such person shall first procure a license. Any person who shall engage in more
than one business, trade or occupation on which any license fee is required by
the town ordinances, so long as such businesses are operated under one roof and
one ownership, shall pay only one license fee.
   B.   All businesses and occupations in the town are subject to license
herein. Fees for each license are adopted by motion or resolution of the town
board. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ITINERANT VENDORS 1
SECTION:
9-201: Definitions
9-202: License Required; Blanket License
9-203: Fee
9-204: Application For License
9-205: Investigation; Approval Or Disapproval
9-206: Bond For License
9-207: Service Of Process
9-208: Sale Of Foods
9-209: Identification Tag Or Badge; Display
9-210: Exceptions
9-211: Provisions Cumulative; Revocation
9-212: Going Upon Private Residences
9-213: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 434; 72 OS § 1.
9-201: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meaning
respectively ascribed to them herein:
COMMERCIAL: Soliciting for a business purpose which is intended to be for
profit and is not intended to be charitable, religious, not for profit or
political.
ITINERANT: Having no regular place of doing business or soliciting in the town
and includes, but is not limited to, making regular delivery or providing goods
over an established route through the town.
PEDDLER: A person soliciting commercial orders for goods or services which are
to be provided from stocks or goods carried with the peddler or which are
services provided by the peddler at the time the order is made.
SOLICITING: All activities of peddlers, solicitors and vendors attempting to
obtain business. Such activities may include, but are not limited to,
distribution of handbills or leaflets to the public directly or by placing them
in a mailbox, on a doorknob or otherwise on any property; coming personally
onto any property for the purposes defined herein; calling the occupants of any
property by telephone for the purposes herein defined; or calling or inviting
any prospective customers to purchase or obtain merchandise, product or
service.
SOLICITOR: A person soliciting commercial orders for goods or services which
are to be provided or shipped to the consumer at a later date.
VENDOR: Any person engaged in a business or occupation selling or offering to
sell any merchandise, product or service, and includes, but is not limited to,
peddlers and solicitors. (1998 Code)
9-202: LICENSE REQUIRED; BLANKET LICENSE:
   A.   Any itinerant vendor, solicitor or peddler shall obtain a license from
the town prior to any soliciting in the town, unless exempted herein, to cover
each person who will be soliciting and each location or separate place of
business.
   B.   Owners or lessees of buildings in which itinerant vendors operate or
locate must obtain a blanket license covering all itinerant vendors who will be
established in the building controlled by the owner or lessee. Governmental
agencies owning public buildings may arrange a letter of agreement with the
town in lieu of a license if licensing is contrary to the regulations governing
the governmental agency. In such a case, the letter of agreement will provide
for the same requirements as are shown in this chapter and will provide that
the town receive half the rental fee paid by the itinerant vendor until the
town's receipts equal the amount required for a blanket license fee. (1998
Code)
9-203: FEE:
The fee for licenses herein required shall be as set by the town board of
trustees by motion or resolution. The fees may be waived for educational,
charitable, religious groups, qualifying as 501(c)(3) organizations who make
house to house solicitations. (1998 Code)
9-204: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Applicants for licenses shall file during regular business hours a
written application signed by the applicant, if an individual, by all partners
if a partnership, and by a qualified corporate officer, if a corporation, with
the licensing officer, showing:
      1.   Name and address of person or persons having the management or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the town; the location or address of such person or persons
when engaged in such business; the permanent address or addresses of such
person or persons; the capacity in which such person or persons will act; the
name and address of the person, firm or corporation for whose account the
business will be carried on, if any, and if a corporation, under the laws of
what state the same is incorporated;
      2.   The place or places in the town within the proper zoning
classification, where it is proposed to carry on the applicant's business and
the length of time during which it is proposed that the business be conducted;
      3.   Place or places, other than permanent place of business of the
applicant, within the six (6) months next preceding the date of the
application, where the applicant has conducted a transient business;
      4.   The nature of the goods or products being sold, that is whether they
are "seconds", rejects or first line quality, and whether any warranty applies
to the items being sold; if a warranty applies, the period of the warranty and
the name and address of the warrantor and the procedures for filing for the
adjustment of refund shall be specified;
      5.   A statement that the applicant agrees to the requirement to pay all
state and town sales taxes due on all items which are subject to sales taxes
and recognizes that a copy of all applications will be provided to the local
office of the Oklahoma tax commission;
      6.   Current state sales tax permit number;
      7.   Current license or permit, if any, which may be required by state
law or ordinances of the town for the particular activity or business;
      8.   If a motor vehicle is to be used in the business, a description of
the vehicle together with motor vehicle registration number and the license
number for the vehicle; and:
         a.   Proof of liability insurance required by state law; and
         b.   Proof or verification from the insurance carrier that the town
clerk will be provided at least ten (10) days notice of any cancellation; and
      9.   Proof of 501(c)(3) tax status if claiming exemption from the license
fees.
   B.   Applicants for a blanket itinerant vendor license shall file during
regular business hours a written application signed by the applicant, if an
individual, by all partners, if a partnership, and by a corporation officer, if
a corporation, with the clerk showing:
      1.   Name and address of person or persons having the management or
supervision of the building in which itinerant vendor shall conduct business;
      2.   Name and address of the person or persons having the management or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that is proposed to be
carried on in the town; the location or address of such person or persons when
engaged in such business; the permanent address or addresses of such person or
persons; the capacity in which such person or persons will act; the name and
address of the person, firm or corporation for whose account the business will
be carried on, if any, and if a corporation, under the laws of what state the
same is incorporated and licensed to operate in the state;
      3.   A general description of the products or services that will be sold
by the itinerant vendor;
      4.   A statement that the applicant shall establish the following
controls over itinerant vendors and shall maintain records concerning each
itinerant vendor for one year after the engagement dates involving the
itinerant vendors:
         a.   The applicant shall determine the names and addresses of each
salesperson involved locally for an itinerant vendor and determine the names
and permanent addresses of the parent company, if any, controlling the
itinerant vendor;
         b.   The applicant shall determine the nature of the merchandise or
product to be sold, determine whether it is a "reject" line or seconds,
determine whether there are warranties of the product, and how any complaint is
to be filed for warranty adjustment. The applicant shall require that the
vendor display a sign prominent enough to disclose to all potential customers
that the product consists of seconds, rejects or irregulars if such is the
case;
         c.   The applicant shall inform each vendor of the requirement to pay
state and town sales taxes and shall forward the name, product involved, and
dates of the vendor's engagement to the local office of the state tax
commission. Further, the applicant will furnish the vendor with one copy of the
state sales tax report form and require him to certify that he will submit a
sales tax report at the conclusion of his engagement in the town;
         d.   The applicant shall post proof of liability insurance policy in
effect in amount of twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00);
         e.   The applicant shall provide copies of all ordinances,
regulations, tax forms, etc., to itinerant vendor and provide the town with a
statement signed by the vendor agreeing to comply with same; and
         f.   The applicant shall post a notice with the town thirty (30) days
in advance, listing each itinerant vendor establishing a business. (1998 Code)
9-205: INVESTIGATION; APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL:
   A.   All applications for licensing or registration shall be immediately
referred for investigation as to the truth thereof, which investigation shall
be conducted within ten (10) business days after the application and fee are
deposited with the town.
   B.   If the town finds no past history of the applicant indicating
violations of this code and that the application is properly made and truthful,
a license shall be issued to the approved applicant upon payment of the fee
therefor and the filing of the required bond.
   C.   In all matters of denial of the license or registration, the applicant
shall be forthwith advised thereof. The applicant shall be advised that an
appeal of a denied license may be submitted to the town board of trustees.
(1998 Code)
9-206: BOND FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Before any license as provided by this chapter shall be issued, such
applicant shall file a bond running to the town. A person engaging in business
as an itinerant vendor shall file a bond in the sum set forth in the bond
schedule, secured by the applicant as principal and two (2) sureties upon whom
service of process may be made in the state.
   B.   All such bonds shall be approved by the town attorney and conditioned
that:
      1.   Applicant shall comply with all of the provisions of the ordinances
of the town and the statutes of the state regulating and concerning the sale of
goods or wares and merchandise; and
      2.   Will pay all judgments rendered against the applicant for any
violation of the ordinances or statutes, or any of them, together with all
judgments and costs that may be recovered against him by any person or persons
for damage growing out of any misrepresentation or deceptive practice by any
person transacting such business with such applicant, whether such
misrepresentation or deception were made or practiced by the owner or by their
service, agents or employees, either at the time of making the sale or through
any advertisement of any character whatsoever, printed or circulated with
reference to the goods, wares and merchandise sold or any part thereof. Any
action on the bond may be brought in the name of the town to the use of the
aggrieved person. (1998 Code)
9-207: SERVICE OF PROCESS:
Before any license for an itinerant vendor, as herein provided, shall be
issued, such applicant shall file with the town an instrument nominating and
appointing the town clerk his true and lawful agent, with full power and
authority to acknowledge service of notice of process for and on behalf of the
applicant in respect to any matters connected with or arising out of the
business transaction under the license and the bond given as required by this
chapter, or for the performance of the conditions of the bond or for any breach
thereof. The instrument shall also contain recitals to the effect that the
applicant for the license consents and agrees that service of any notices or
process may be made upon the agent and when so made shall be taken and held to
be as valid as if personally served on the person or persons applying for the
license under this chapter, according to the laws of the state or any other
state and waiving all claims or right of error by reason of such
acknowledgement of service or manner of service. Immediately upon service of
process upon the town clerk, as herein provided, the town clerk shall send to
the licensee at his last known address, by certified mail, a copy of the
notice. (1998 Code)
9-208: SALE OF FOODS:
   A.   All applicants for license to sell foods and merchandise for human or
animal consumption shall have their application for license approved in
accordance with the applicable state food establishment requirements before the
licenses are issued.
   B.   The sale of foods requires an individual license not covered by blanket
licenses. (1998 Code)
9-209: IDENTIFICATION TAG OR BADGE; DISPLAY:
   A.   At all times there shall be posted in a conspicuous place upon each:
      1.   Licensee if an individual;
      2.   Vehicle or booth used by a licensee; or
      3.   Building or premises as appropriate for blanket licenses,
a badge, tag or card issued by the town as proof of issuance of a license. The
card, tag or badge shall state the name of the licensee and the date of
expiration of the license. Blanket licenses shall be displayed and readily
available for inspection by the town. (1998 Code)
9-210: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   The following are exempt from the license requirements of this chapter:
      1.   Farmers and truck gardeners from lands owned, cultivated or
controlled by them, who offer for sale or sell, or who solicit and sell from
house to house, vegetables, butter, eggs and farm products produced and raised
by the farmers and truck gardeners from such land or produced thereon;
      2.   Needy ex-service persons holding a certificate duly issued by a
district judge having jurisdiction as provided by law.
   B.   Any person who desires to be exempt from the license fees levied under
this chapter due to engaging in interstate commerce shall provide sufficient
data on transactions and proof to the town to establish the interstate commerce
nature of his business and transactions. If the town refuses to issue an
interstate commerce exemption for the license fees to a commercial business
activity, then the applicant is entitled to a hearing before the town judge.
(1998 Code)
9-211: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE; REVOCATION:
The requirements of this chapter are cumulative to any provisions of state law
or town ordinances regulating or governing any of the activities licensed
herein. In the case of any conflict between the provisions of this chapter and
those of any other town ordinance or state law, the more restrictive
requirements shall apply. (1998 Code)
9-212: GOING UPON PRIVATE RESIDENCES:
The practice of going in and upon private residences in the town by solicitors,
peddlers, hawkers, itinerant vendors and transient vendors of merchandise and
service, not having been requested or invited to do so by the owner or occupant
of the private residence, for the purpose of soliciting order for merchandise
or services, or for the purpose of selling, disposing or providing the same, is
hereby declared to be a nuisance and punishable as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (1998 Code)
9-213: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 3
MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARIES, MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWER FACILITIES, AND
MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROCESSOR FACILITIES
SECTION:
9-301: Definitions
9-302: Medical Marijuana Dispensary
9-303: Conditions Of Operation
9-304: Medical Marijuana Grower Facilities
9-305: Medical Marijuana Processor Facilities
9-306: Permit Inspections And Other Requirements
9-301: DEFINITIONS:
                                      Means an Application for a Permit under
                                      this Chapter and includes all
APPLICATION:                          supplemental documentation attached or
                                      required to be attached thereto; the
                                      person filing the application shall be
                                      known as the "Applicant".
CLERK:                                Means the Beaver Town Clerk or his/her
                                      designee.
CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:             Means the Beaver Code Enforcement Officer
                                      or his/her designee.
                                      Means a current and valid license for a
LICENSE:                              medical marijuana dispensary facility
                                      issued by the State of Oklahoma.
                                      Means a person holding a current and
LICENSEE:                             valid Oklahoma license for a medical
                                      marijuana dispensary facility.
                                      Means an establishment licensed under
                                      Title 63, Section 422 of the Oklahoma
MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWER FACILITY:    Statutes whereby the growing of medical
                                      marijuana is conducted on the premises
                                      and then sold to a licensed retailer or
                                      processor.
                                      Means an establishment licensed under
                                      Title 63, Section 421 of the Oklahoma
MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY:         Statutes whereby the retail sale of
                                      medical marijuana is conducted on the
                                      premises.
                                      Means an establishment licensed under
                                      Title 63, Section 423 of the Oklahoma
                                      Statutes, whereby Marijuana plants are
MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROCESSOR FACILITY: processed (packaged) into the
                                      concentrates, edible, and other forms for
                                      consumption and then sold to a licensed
                                      retailer.
                                      Means a current and valid permit for a
                                      medical marijuana dispensary facility
PERMIT:                               issued under this Chapter, which shall be
                                      granted to a permit holder only for and
                                      limited to a specific permitted premises
                                      and specific permitted property.
PERMIT HOLDER:                        Means the person that holds a current and
                                      valid permit issued under this Chapter.
                                      Means the building or buildings within
PERMITTED PREMISES:                   which the permit holder will be
                                      authorized to conduct the facility's
                                      activities pursuant to the permit.
                                      Means the real property comprised of a
PERMITTED PROPERTY:                   lot, parcel or other designated unit of
                                      real property upon which the permitted
                                      premises are situated.
                                      Means a natural person, company,
                                      partnership, profit or non-profit
PERSON:                               corporation, limited liability company or
                                      any joint venture for a common purpose.
                                      (Ord. 2020-02, 9-10-2020)
 
9-302: MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY:
   A.   No person shall operate a medical marijuana dispensary at any time or
any location within the Town of Beaver unless a currently effective permit for
that business at that location has been issued under this Chapter.
   B.   Medical marijuana dispensary shall operate only as allowed under this
Chapter.
   C.   The requirements set forth in this Chapter shall be in addition to, and
not in lieu of, any other licensing or permitting requirements imposed by
applicable federal, state or local laws, regulations, codes or ordinances.
   D.   All operators of medical marijuana dispensaries are required to obtain
a medical marijuana dispensary permit from the municipal clerk.
   E.   The medical marijuana dispensaries permit fee shall be one thousand
five dollars ($1500.00) per year. The fee shall be used to offset municipal
expenses covering costs related to licensing, inspection, administration, and
enforcement of retail marijuana establishments.
   F.   A medical marijuana dispensary permit shall only be located within a C-
3 Commercial District, which shall hereinafter be deemed a permitted use.
   G.   It is the sole and exclusive responsibility of each permit holder or
person applying to be a permit holder at all times during the application
period and during its operation to immediately provide the Town of Beaver with
all material changes in any information submitted on an application and any
other changes that may materially affect any state license or its town permit.
   H.   No permit issued under this article may be assigned or transferred to
any person unless the assignee or transferee has submitted an application and
all required fees under this article and has been granted a permit by the Town
of Beaver. No permit issued under this Chapter is transferrable to any other
location except for the permitted premises on the permitted property.
   I.   The original permit issued under this Chapter shall be prominently
displayed at the permitted premises in a location where it can be easily viewed
by the public, law enforcement and administrative authorities.
   J.   Acceptance by the permit holder of a permit constitutes consent by the
permit holder and its owners, officers, manager, agents and employees for any
state, federal or local law enforcement to conduct lawful examinations of the
facility and all articles of property in that facility during business hours to
ensure compliance with this Chapter, and other local regulations, and with the
permit.
   K.   No permit shall be granted or renewed for a medical marijuana
dispensary in a residence.
   L.   In addition to the terms of this Chapter, any medical marijuana
dispensary shall comply in all respect with the C-3 Commercial District, and
with all other applicable federal, state and local ordinance, laws, codes and
regulations. To the extent that the terms of this Chapter conflict with the
terms of any other applicable federal, state, or local ordinances, laws, codes
or regulations, the terms of the most restrictive ordinance, law, code or
regulation shall control.
   M.   No medical marijuana dispensary shall be located within one thousand
(1,000') feet from a public or private school. This distance is measured by a
straight line (shortest distance) from the property line of the dispensary to
any entrance of the school.
   N.   Application: An application for a permit for a retail marijuana
establishment shall be submitted to the Town Clerk, and shall contain the
following information:
      1.   The name, address, phone number and email address of the proposed
permit holder and the proposed medical marijuana dispensary location.
      2.   The names, home addresses and personal phone numbers for all owners,
directors, officers and managers of the permit holder and the medical marijuana
dispensary facility.
      3.   One (1) copy of all the following:
         a.   All documentation showing the proposed permit holder's valid
tenancy, ownership or other legal interest in the proposed permitted property
and permitted premises. If the applicant is not the owner of the proposed
permitted property and permitted premises, a notarized statement from the owner
of such property authorizing the use of the property for a medical marijuana
dispensary.
      4.   If the proposed permit holder is a corporation, non-profit
organization, limited liability company or any other entity other than a
natural person, indicate its legal status, attach a copy of all company
formation documents (including amendments), proof registration with State of
Oklahoma, and a certificate of good standing.
      5.   A valid, unexpired driver's license or state issued ID for all
owners, directors, officers and managers of the proposed establishment.
      6.   Evidence of a valid sales tax license for the business if such a
license is required by state law or local regulations.
      7.   Non-refundable application fee.
      8.   Submit a business and operations plan, showing in detail the medical
marijuana establishment's proposed plan of operation, including the anticipated
number of employees, a security plan, a description by category of all products
to be sold, a description and plan of all equipment and methods that will be
employed to stop any impact to adjacent uses, including enforceable assurances
that no odor will be detectable from the outside of the permitted premises, and
a plan for the disposal of marijuana and related by-products that will be used
at the establishment.
      9.   Whether the applicant has ever applied for or has been granted any
commercial license or certificate issued by a licensing authority in the State
of Oklahoma or any other jurisdiction that has been denied, restricted,
suspended, revoked, or not renewed and a statement describing the facts and
circumstances concerning the application, denial, restriction, suspension,
revocation, or non-renewal, including the licensing authority, the date each
action was taken, and the reason for each action.
      10.   Information regarding any other medical marijuana dispensary that
the licensee is authorized to operate in any other jurisdiction within the
State of Oklahoma, or any other state, and the applicant's involvement in each
facility.
      11.   Any other information reasonably requested by the Town of Beaver to
be relevant to the processing or consideration of the application. (Ord. 2020-
02, 9-10-2020)
9-303: CONDITIONS OF OPERATION:
   A.   Buildings where marijuana is stored or dispensed must be equipped with
ventilation/air filtration systems so that no odors are detectable off
premises.
   B.   The medical marijuana dispensary shall collect the applicable sales tax
on any sales subject to municipal sales taxes.
   C.   Any violations of this Chapter will result in the revocation of the
medical marijuana dispensary permit.
   D.   It is the intent of the Town of Beaver that nothing in the retail
marijuana establishment chapter be construed to:
      1.   Allow persons to engage in conduct that endangers or causes a public
nuisance;
      2.   Allow the use of marijuana for non-medical purposes; or
      3.   Allow any activity that is otherwise illegal and not permitted by
state law. (Ord. 2020-02, 9-10-2020)
9-304: MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWER FACILITIES:
   A.   Medical marijuana grower facilities are hereby allowed within the
municipal boundaries of Beaver, Oklahoma under the following conditions:
      1.   The facility must acquire a permit for the facility from the
Municipal Clerk. The permit for a commercial/industrial growing facility shall
be one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) per year, or other amount as
set periodically by Board resolution.
      2.   Reserved.
      3.   The medical marijuana grower facility shall only be located within
the Agricultural Zoning District and which shall hereinafter be deemed a
permitted use and with all grow operations contained within an enclosed
structure.
      4.   The medical marijuana grower facility must be constructed in such a
manner that the growing of the marijuana plants cannot be seen by the public
from a public right of way.
      5.   The growing area including any lighting, plumbing or electrical
components used shall comply with municipal building and fire codes. The
growing area must be properly ventilated so as not to create humidity, mold or
other related problems.
      6.   Growing marijuana shall not be conducted in a manner that
constitutes a public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to exist if
growing marijuana produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor, or vibration that
is detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare or interferes with the
reasonable enjoyment of life and property.
      7.   The medical marijuana grower facility shall collect the applicable
sales tax on any sales subject to municipal sales taxes. (Ord. 2020-02, 9-10-
2020)
9-305: MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROCESSOR FACILITIES:
   A.   Medical marijuana processor facilities are hereby allowed within the
municipal boundaries of Beaver, Oklahoma under the following conditions:
      1.   The facility must acquire a permit for the facility from the
Municipal Clerk. The permit for a commercial/industrial processing facility
shall be one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) per year, or other
amount as set periodically by Board resolution.
      2.   Reserved.
      3.   A medical marijuana processor facility shall only be located in the
Agricultural Zoning District, with all operations located within an enclosed
structure, and which shall hereinafter be deemed a permitted use.
      4.   A medical marijuana processor facility shall have a security fence
at least ten (10') foot in height and with limited access. The gates to the
secure area must be locked at all times.
      5.   The medical marijuana processor facilities must be constructed in
such a manner that the growing or processing of the marijuana plants cannot be
seen by the public from a public right of way.
      6.   The growing area including any lighting, plumbing or electrical
components used shall comply with municipal building and fire codes. The
growing and processing area must be properly ventilated so as not to create
humidity, mold or other related problems.
      7.   Growing marijuana shall not be conducted in a manner that
constitutes a public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to exist if
growing marijuana produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor, or vibration that
is detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare or interferes with the
reasonable enjoyment of life and property.
      8.   The medical marijuana processor facilities shall collect the
applicable sales tax on any sales subject to municipal sales taxes.
      9.   Buildings where marijuana is stored or dispensed must be equipped
with ventilation/air filtration systems so that no odors are detectable off
premises.
      10.   Any violations of this section will result in the revocation of the
medical marijuana processor facilities permit. (Ord. 2020-02, 9-10-2020)
9-306: PERMIT INSPECTIONS AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All permits outlined in this Chapter will be subject to inspection of
the facilities by an authorized municipal inspector prior to issuance.
   B.   The inspection prior to a permit decision will occur at a time
scheduled and approved by both the applicant and the municipal inspector.
   C.   The applicant will be required to be present during the inspection.
   D.   The smell of noxious odor emitted from smoking or consumption of
marijuana by a person possessing a valid state issued medical marijuana license
shall be treated as a public nuisance.
   E.   Other regulations: Smoking or using marijuana shall be prohibited on
all Town property including vehicles, buildings, parks or other facilities.
(Ord. 2020- 02, 9-10-2020)
PART 10
OFFENSES AND CRIMES
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-101: Attempts To Commit An Offense
10-102: Aiding In An Offense
10-103: Offense Defined
10-104: Violation Defined
10-105: Penalty Not To Excuse Offense
10-106: Capacity To Commit Offense
10-107: Intoxication, No Defense
10-108: Witness, Self-Incrimination
10-109: Nuisances
10-110: Conspiracy
10-111: Limitations Of Actions
10-112: Lawful Use Of Force
10-101: ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE:
Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the ordinances of the
town, and in such attempt does any act toward the commission of such offense,
but fails or is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration thereof, is guilty
of an offense, and shall be punished in the manner prescribed for the attempted
offense itself. (1998 Code)
10-102: AIDING IN AN OFFENSE:
When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a particular
offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who counsels or aids
another in the commission of such is guilty of an offense, or misdemeanor, and
punishable in the same manner as the principal offender. (1998 Code)
10-103: OFFENSE DEFINED:
The word "offense", whenever used in this code or in any part, chapter, article
or ordinance of the town means the unlawful act of doing, or failing to do,
some particular act or thing construed therein to be detrimental to the general
welfare, morals, peace, health or safety of the inhabitants of the town. (1998
Code)
10-104: VIOLATION DEFINED:
The doing of any of the acts or things prohibited, or failing to do any of the
acts or things commanded to be done, as more fully specified and set forth by
any provision of this code or any part, chapter or article hereof, or future
ordinances of the town, is hereby declared to be an offense against the good
order, public peace, morals, health, proper government and welfare of the town,
and unlawful. (1998 Code)
10-105: PENALTY NOT TO EXCUSE OFFENSE:
The imposition of one penalty for an offense shall not excuse it or permit it
to continue, nor prevent the imposition of further penalties, should the
offenses be continued or permitted to continue. (1998 Code)
10-106: CAPACITY TO COMMIT OFFENSE:
   A.   All persons are capable of committing an offense as herein provided,
except those belonging to the classes following:
      1.   Children under the age of seven (7) years;
      2.   Children over the age of seven (7) years, but under the age of
fourteen (14) years, in the absence of proof that at the time of committing the
act or neglect charged against them, they knew its wrongfulness;
      3.   Lunatics, insane persons, and all persons of unsound mind, including
persons temporarily or partially deprived of reason, upon proof that at the
time of committing the act charged against them they were involuntarily
incapable of knowing its wrongfulness;
      4.   Persons who committed the act, or made the omission charged, under
an ignorance or mistake of fact which disproves any criminal intent. But
ignorance of the law does not excuse from punishment for its violation;
      5.   Persons who committed the act charged without being conscious
thereof, involuntarily; and
      6.   Persons who committed the act, or made the omission charged, while
under involuntary subjection to the power of superiors. (1998 Code)
10-107: INTOXICATION, NO DEFENSE:
No act committed by any person while in a state of intoxication, whether from
liquor or drugs, shall be deemed less an offense by reason of his being in such
condition. (1998 Code)
10-108: WITNESS, SELF-INCRIMINATION:
No person otherwise competent as a witness, shall be incapacitated, excused or
disqualified from testifying concerning the offense mentioned in any section,
chapter or title of this code, or any ordinances hereafter enacted on the
grounds that his testimony might incriminate him, but the testimony which may
be given by such witness shall in no case be used against him. (1998 Code)
10-109: NUISANCES:
It is unlawful and an offense for any person to permit, maintain, aid, abet, or
sanction a nuisance on or about any premises owned by him or under his control
at any place within the corporate limits of the town. (1998 Code)
10-110: CONSPIRACY:
Any two (2) or more persons assembled or who shall assemble with the intent to
mutually agree to do any unlawful act with force or violence and shall make any
movement therefor against the property of the town or the person or property of
another person shall be guilty of an offense. (1998 Code)
10-111: LIMITATIONS OF ACTIONS:
The time within which a charge may be filed under the provisions of this
chapter shall be one year from the date of the commission or omission or in
cases involving fraud, deception or deceit, one year from the discovery of the
fraud, deception or deceit unless otherwise provided by the statutes of the
state. (1998 Code)
10-112: LAWFUL USE OF FORCE:
   A.   To use or to attempt to offer to use force upon or toward the person of
another is not unlawful in the town in the following cases:
      1.   When necessarily committed by a public officer in the performance of
any legal duty, or by any other person assisting him or acting by his
direction;
      2.   When necessarily committed by any person in arresting one who has
committed any felony, and delivering him to a public officer competent to
receive him in custody;
      3.   When committed either by the party about to be injured, or by any
other person in his aid or defense, in preventing or attempting to prevent an
offense against his person, or any trespass or other unlawful interference with
real or personal property in his lawful possession; provided, the force used is
not more than sufficient to prevent such offense, and that the same shall be
necessary for the self-defense of his person or property;
      4.   When committed by a parent or authorized agent of any parent, or by
any guardian, master or teacher, in the exercise of a lawful authority to
restrain or correct his child, ward, apprentice or scholar, provided restraint
or correction has been rendered necessary by the misconduct of such child,
ward, apprentice or scholar, or by his refusal to obey the lawful command of
such parent or authorized agent or guardian, master or teacher, and the force
used is reasonable in manner and moderate in degree;
      5.   When committed by a carrier of passengers, or the authorized agents
or servants of such carrier, or by any person assisting them at their request,
in expelling from any carriage, interurban car, vessel or other vehicle, any
passenger who refuses to obey a lawful and reasonable regulation prescribed for
the conduct of passengers, if such vehicle has first been stopped and the force
used is not more than is sufficient to expel the offending passenger, with a
reasonable regard to his personal safety;
      6.   When committed by any person in preventing an idiot, lunatic, insane
person or other person of unsound mind, including persons temporarily or
partially deprived of reason, from committing an act dangerous to himself or to
another, or enforcing such restraint as is necessary for the protection of his
person or for his restoration to health, during such period only as shall be
necessary to obtain legal authority for the restraint or custody of such
person;
      7.   In preventing or interrupting an intrusion upon the lawful
possession of property; and
      8.   To preserve the peace or prevent the commission of an offense.
   B.   Where force is permitted to effect a lawful purpose, only that degree
of force necessary to effect such purpose shall be used. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 2
OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
SECTION:
10-201: Assault And Battery
10-202: Assault Defined
10-203: Battery Defined
10-204: Reckless Conduct
10-201: ASSAULT AND BATTERY 1 :
No person shall commit an assault or battery, or both, upon the person of
another. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 21 OS § 641 et seq.; 11 OS § 22-110.
10-202: ASSAULT DEFINED:
An assault is any wilful and unlawful attempt or offer with force or violence
to do corporal hurt to another. (1998 Code)
10-203: BATTERY DEFINED:
A battery is any wilful and unlawful use of force or violence upon the person
of another. (1998 Code)
10-204: RECKLESS CONDUCT:
   A.   Reckless conduct, as used in this section, consists of an act which
creates a situation of unreasonable risk and probability of death or great
bodily harm to another and which demonstrates a conscious disregard for the
safety of another.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to endanger another's safety by reckless
conduct in the operation or handling of any weapon or instrument, including a
pistol, revolver or other firearm. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 3
OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
SECTION:
10-301: Petit Larceny; Embezzlement
10-302: Larceny By False Pretense
10-303: Altering Keys
10-304: Possession Of Stolen Property
10-305: Defrauding Public Accommodations; Proof; Exception
10-306: Concealing Unpurchased Merchandise, Merchant's Authority To Detain
10-307: Failure To Pay Fare For Public Conveyance
10-308: False Or Bogus Checks
10-309: Harmful Deception
10-310: Defacing Building, Damaging Property
10-311: Removing Or Breaking Private Property
10-312: Damaging Private Property
10-313: Public Works Under Construction
10-314: Damaging Or Tampering With Motor Vehicle
10-315: Tampering With Or Damaging Of Utilities
10-316: Destroying Trees And Shrubbery
10-317: Trespassing Prohibited, Notice; Soliciting Trespass Prohibited
10-318: Congregating, Parking On Premises After Hours
10-319: Unlawful Intrusion On Land
10-320: Throwing Or Shooting At Persons Or Property
10-321: Throwing Out Lighted Substances Or Debris Prohibited
10-322: Littering, Deposits Unlawful
10-323: Posting Advertising Matter On Building Of Another
10-324: Posting Advertising Matter On Utility Poles Or On Or Over Streets And
Sidewalks
10-325: Interference With Radio, Television Or Telephone Reception Of Others
10-326: False Weights
10-327: Electric Fences Prohibited
10-328: Unlawful Use Of Another's Garbage Or Refuse Container
10-329: Fireworks Prohibited; Exceptions; Permits
10-301: PETIT LARCENY; EMBEZZLEMENT 1 :
No person shall steal, take and carry away by fraud or stealth, with intent to
deprive another thereof, any personal property under the value of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) or embezzle any money, personal property or effects of
another. This section does not apply to taking property from the "person" of
another. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 21 OS §§ 1701 et seq., 1451 et seq.
10-302: LARCENY BY FALSE PRETENSE:
No person shall induce, or attempt to induce, any person to give up or pay over
any money or other thing of value which money or value does not exceed one
hundred dollars ($100.00), by any false representation or pretense, or in
exchange for any false or bogus coin or check, draft or other false evidence of
value, or in consideration of refraining from a lawful or unlawful arrest, or
in consideration of refraining from reporting any unlawful act to any public
official. (1998 Code)
10-303: ALTERING KEYS:
No person shall make or alter or attempt to make or alter any key or other
instrument that will open the lock of a building unless requested to do so by
some person having the right and authority to make such request. (1998 Code)
10-304: POSSESSION OF STOLEN PROPERTY 1 :
No person shall keep in his possession, or dispose of, or conceal any stolen
property, or fail promptly to inform some proper official of the possession
thereof, under circumstances indicating that such property had been stolen or
the possession thereof obtained unlawfully. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 21 OS § 1713.
10-305: DEFRAUDING PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS; PROOF; EXCEPTION:
   A.   No person shall obtain food, lodging or other accommodation in any
hotel, motel, inn, boarding, eating or rooming house or place, or any other
lodging place, with the intent to defraud the owner or keeper.
   B.   Proof that lodging, food and other accommodations were obtained by
false pretense or fictitious show of any package or other property or that the
person gave a check or negotiable paper on which payment was refused or that
the person left the hotel, motel, inn, boarding, eating or rooming house or
place, or other lodging place, without paying or offering to pay for the food,
lodging or other accommodation or that the person surreptitiously removed or
attempted to remove the package or property, or that the person registered
under a fictitious name shall be prima facie proof of attempt to defraud.
   C.   No person shall refuse to pay the legal fare of any of the vehicles
mentioned in this chapter after having hired the same, and no person shall hire
any vehicle with intent to defraud the person from whom it is hired of the
value of such service.
   D.   This section shall not apply where there has been an agreement in
writing for delay in payment. (1998 Code)
10-306: CONCEALING UNPURCHASED MERCHANDISE; MERCHANT'S AUTHORITY TO DETAIN:
Any person concealing unpurchased merchandise of any establishment, either on
the premises or outside the premises of the establishment, shall be presumed to
have so concealed the merchandise with the intention of committing a wrongful
taking of such merchandise. Such concealment or the finding of such unpurchased
merchandise concealed upon the person or among the belongings of such person
shall be conclusive evidence of reasonable grounds and probable cause for the
detention in a reasonable manner and for a reasonable length of time of such
person by a merchant, his agent or employee; any such reasonable detention
shall not be deemed to be unlawful nor render any such merchant, his agent or
employee, criminally or civilly liable. (1998 Code)
10-307: FAILURE TO PAY FARE FOR PUBLIC CONVEYANCE:
No person shall use or accept the use and services of any streetcar, taxicab,
omnibus, automobile or any other means of public conveyance of passengers,
operating under the code, ordinance, franchise, permit or license of the town
or state, and refuse or fail to pay to the operator of the conveyance the
usual, customary, regulation or legal charge, or price as fare immediately upon
the performance of the service. (1998 Code)
10-308: FALSE OR BOGUS CHECKS:
It is unlawful for any person, with intent to cheat and defraud, to obtain or
attempt to obtain from any person any money, property or valuable thing by
means of any false or bogus check or by any other written or printed or
engraved instrument or spurious coin. The term "false or bogus check" shall
include checks or orders given for money or property which are not honored on
account of insufficient funds of the maker to pay same, as against the maker or
drawer thereof. The making, drawing, issuing or delivering of a check, draft or
order, payment of which is refused by the drawee, shall be prima facie evidence
of intent to defraud and the knowledge of insufficient funds in or credit with,
such bank or other depository. Such maker or drawer shall not have paid the
drawee the amount due thereon, together with the protest fees, and the check or
order shall be presented for payment within thirty (30) days after same is
delivered and accepted. (1998 Code)
10-309: HARMFUL DECEPTION:
It is unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another, whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation, or otherwise, when such deception results in
or contributes to the loss, damage, harm or injury of the person deceived or of
a third party, or results in or contributes to the benefit of the deceiver.
(1998 Code)
10-310: DEFACING BUILDING, DAMAGING PROPERTY 1 :
   A.   No person shall purposely deface or damage any public or private
building or appurtenances thereof, or any fence, street, bridge, sidewalk,
driveway, street, or public work.
   B.   No person shall:
      1.   Destroy, injure, deface, damage or molest any structure, building,
work or other property, real or personal, belonging to another;
      2.   Use such property wrongfully to the detriment of the owner or other
person entitled to its use; or
      3.   Interfere wrongfully with the use of any such property by its owner
or any other person entitled to its use. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 21 OS § 1760.
10-311: REMOVING OR BREAKING PRIVATE PROPERTY:
No person shall wilfully, unlawfully or maliciously take and carry away or
cause to be taken and carried away any part of a house, barn, fence, gate or
other structure, or maliciously break, tear down or destroy any part of a
house, barn or other structure not his own. (1998 Code)
10-312: DAMAGING PRIVATE PROPERTY:
No person shall wilfully and wantonly damage or destroy the personal property
of another. (1998 Code)
10-313: PUBLIC WORKS UNDER CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Any person who removes, destroys, disturbs, or in any manner injures
any grade stake, stone or other mark or monument set by or under authority of
the town to designate or mark grades, lines, corners or bench marks on any
public work in the town prior to the completion and acceptance of the contract
for which such stakes or monuments are set, without lawful authority, is guilty
of an offense.
   B.   Any contractor or other person constructing any public work in the town
shall protect such work by barriers or obstructions. It is unlawful for any
person to cross the barriers or to remove them until the work has been
completed and opened by authority of the town. (1998 Code)
10-314: DAMAGING OR TAMPERING WITH MOTOR VEHICLE 1 :
   A.   No person, other than a peace officer in the performance of his
official duties, shall, with intent and without right to do so, injure or
tamper with any vehicle or in any other manner damage any part or portion of
the vehicle or any accessories, appurtenances or attachments thereto.
   B.   No person, other than a peace officer in the performance of his
official duties, shall, without right to do so and with intent to commit a
crime, climb into or upon a vehicle, whether it is in motion or at rest,
attempt to manipulate any of the levers, starting mechanism, brakes or other
mechanism or device of the vehicle while the vehicle is at rest and unattended,
or set in motion any vehicle while the vehicle is at rest and unattended. (1998
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 21 OS §§ 1787, 1788.
10-315: TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING OF UTILITIES 1 :
   A.   No person shall alter, remove, tamper with, molest, damage or injure
any wires, cable, appurtenance, structure, pipes or equipment of any utility of
the town, or any public utility, or connect or tamper with the wires, cables or
pipes of any electric, water, sewer, cable television or gas utility or of the
town without consent of the utility or town having been first obtained.
   B.   It is unlawful to open up any manhole or opening to a sewer unless
authorized by the town, or to leave a manhole or other opening so opened
without replacing the fixture or appliances thereto in their proper place and
position.
   C.   No person except a member of the fire department or a person acting on
lawful order or permit issued by the town shall open or use water from any fire
hydrant or take off the caps or damage the same. No person may block the
approach or access to a fire hydrant or attach, fasten, stand or brace anything
against or on the hydrant.
   D.   No person shall in any manner whatsoever:
      1.   Cut into, attach to or intercept the wires, cables or pipes, of any
electric, water, cable television or gas utility or of the town for the purpose
of fraudulently taking therefrom electric current, water, transmissions or gas;
      2.   Cut into, attach to or intercept the wires, cables or pipes for the
purpose of conducting around any meter electric current, water or gas in order
to prevent the current, water or gas from being measured by the meter, or in
such other manner so as to consume or use the utility or cable service so as to
evade payment therefor, with the unlawful intent to defraud the company or town
out of the value of the service; or
      3.   By any device or manipulation whatsoever to cause current,
transmissions, water or gas used upon any premises to be fraudulently conveyed
upon any premises for the purpose of use thereof, and with the intent to
defraud and cheat the utility or town from payment thereof.
   E.   Each day that any person maintains any such fraudulent connection with
any wires, cables or pipes, or fraudulently takes from any such wires, cables
or pipes either electric current, transmissions, water or gas shall constitute
a separate offense. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. See also section 17-101 of this code.
10-316: DESTROYING TREES AND SHRUBBERY:
   A.   No person shall wilfully, maliciously and without lawful authority cut
down, root up, sever, injure or destroy any fruit tree, shade or ornamental
tree, cultivated root or plant, grape or strawberry vine, shrub or plant
whatever standing on or attached to the land of another, or pick, destroy,
carry away therefrom, or in any way interfere therewith, any of the fruit
thereof.
   B.   No person shall wilfully or without lawful authority cut down, destroy,
root up or in any manner injure any fruit, shade or ornamental tree, shrub or
vine planted or growing on any street, land, avenue, alley or other public
ground of the town. (1998 Code)
10-317: TRESPASSING PROHIBITED, NOTICE; SOLICITING TRESPASS PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to commit a trespass
within this town upon either public or private property.
   B.   Trespass shall include each and every actual entry upon the premises of
an owner or other person in lawful possession of the premises without the
express consent of the owner or other person in lawful possession. Trespass
shall also mean remaining upon the premises of an owner or other person in
lawful possession after having been told to leave the premises by the owner, or
the agent, or employee of the owner or other person in lawful possession of the
premises. Trespass shall also mean the act of entering upon or remaining on
private property when such is plainly forbidden by signs, markings, or
otherwise, by verbal command of the owner, his agent, or employee, of after
having been directed to do so by a police officer, although this sentence shall
not apply to persons including employees whose presence upon the premises is
authorized by the owner or by a person in lawful possession of such premises.
Trespass shall also include the act of returning to private property after
having been directed to vacate the premises by the owner, his agent, employee
or police officer under the terms of this section.
   C.   Any of the following acts by any person shall be deemed a violation of
this section:
      1.   The doing of an injury or misfeasance to the person of another;
      2.   The doing of any injury or misfeasance to the property of another
when done with force and violence, either actual or implied;
      3.   Each and every actual entry upon the premises of another owner or
person in possession of real property, whether the property is public or
private, without the owner's or occupant's consent, express or implied;
      4.   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another in
violation of a notice exhibited thereon prohibiting entry at specified times;
      5.   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another in
violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing by any
owner or other lawful occupant thereof;
      6.   An entry upon any public property, including parks or parking areas,
in violation of a notice exhibited thereon prohibiting entry at specified
times;
      7.   An entry upon any public property in violation of any notice,
warning or protest given orally or in writing by a town official;
      8.   If on the property of another, or upon public property lawfully, a
failure or refusal to depart in case of being requested to so depart orally or
written, by any owner, lawful occupant, or by a town official;
      9.   An entry upon any portion of a public park, where the entry involves
the use of any vehicle, equipment or device where such use is specifically
prohibited;
      10.   An entry of any public building except for the purpose of
dispatching business with the public corporation or consent is obtained from
the town board of trustees or other public official which is lawfully
authorized to give consent; or
      11.   Remaining on public or private property at any time other than
during posted hours of business operation after having been directed to vacate
such premises by a police officer. The provisions of this subsection C11 shall
not apply to persons, including employees, whose presence upon such premises is
authorized by the owner or by a person in lawful possession of such premises;
nor shall the provisions of this subsection C11 apply unless hours of business
operation are posted upon such premises. Trespass also includes the act of
returning to private property before the posted time of opening for business
operation on the next business day after having been directed to vacate such
premises under the terms of this subsection C11.
   D.   For purposes of constituting a violation of this section, the exhibited
notice required under subsections C4, C5, C6, C7 and C9 of this section shall
meet the following criteria:
      1.   The notice shall be plainly posted in a place or places conspicuous
to those who would enter the property;
      2.   The notice shall be legible so as to afford reasonable warning prior
to the commission of a trespass; and
      3.   If upon property to which the public is invited at least some part
of the day, the notice shall clearly specify the days and times of day entry is
prohibited, and further specify that entry at such times constitutes a
punishable offense under the town code. (1998 Code)
10-318: CONGREGATING, PARKING ON PREMISES AFTER HOURS:
   A.   No person shall stand, walk, sit, lie, congregate or otherwise occupy
or remain upon the premises of any place or business within the town after
business hours without consent of the lawful owner, occupant, lessee or
employee thereof.
   B.   No person shall stop, stand, park, leave, or place any motor vehicle,
whether occupied or not, upon any public or private property without the
consent of the owner, occupant, lessee or employee thereof, except where such
property is provided for public parking and the use for such parking is not
restricted by proper notice. In addition to fine or other punishment for a
violation of this subsection, the vehicle so parked, left or placed shall be
subject to impoundment upon complaint of the property owner or lawful occupant;
the person violating this subsection shall be wholly responsible for payment of
towage and storage charges.
   C.   No person may be charged under this section unless the premises in
question is posted with a conspicuous sign which states, substantially, that
the premises are posted, and that any person congregating, occupying or
remaining upon the premises or parking or leaving a motor vehicle thereon, is
subject to prosecution pursuant to the town code.
   D.   When used in this section, the term "after business hours" shall mean
that the doors of the business which are open to the public during business
hours are closed and locked and that the business is no longer admitting
customers. The term applies to places of business which are vacant or
permanently or temporarily closed or otherwise unoccupied. The term "place of
business" means any private property upon which a building, house or other
structure is used for commercial or public purposes, e.g., without limitation,
restaurants, gas stations, shopping malls or centers, theaters convenience
stores, grocery stores, drugstores or pharmacies, recreational facilities,
wholesale or retail sales activities, offices, banks or other financial
institutions, manufacturing, professional services (medical, legal, accounting,
insurance, consulting).
   E.   There is a rebuttable presumption that any person or motor vehicle upon
the premises of a place of business that is properly posted pursuant to this
section after such time as the front door or other such door that admits
members of the public is closed and locked is on the premises of such business
unlawfully under this section; however, this presumption shall not be applied
within thirty (30) minutes of any opening or closing times posted by such place
of business. This presumption may only be rebutted by proof beyond a reasonable
doubt that any person held by the municipal judge to be subject to this
rebuttable presumption was on the premises in question with permission of the
lawful owner, occupant, lessee or employee thereof.
   F.   If a motor vehicle is alleged to be unlawfully parked or left under
this section, it shall be rebuttably presumed that the person in whose name the
motor vehicle was last registered was the person who parked or left the motor
vehicle.
   G.   The parking or leaving of a motor vehicle as set forth herein shall
constitute the offense of unlawful parking or leaving a motor vehicle after
business hours, punishable as provided in section
1-108 of this code.
   H.   If a person violates subsection A of this section, it shall constitute
the offense of unlawful presence on property after business hours or
congregating after business hours and is punishable as provided in section
1-108 of this code.
   I.   The provisions of this section are cumulative of other applicable
offenses enacted in this code or state law. (1998 Code)
10-319: UNLAWFUL INTRUSION ON LAND:
   A.   No person shall intrude or remain upon any lot or piece of land, or in
any building within the town without license or authority from the owner
thereof, or erect or occupy thereon any structure whatever without such license
or authority.
   B.   No person shall place, erect or occupy within the bounds of any street,
alley or avenue of the town any structure whatever unless such person is
granted a license by the town to do so. (1998 Code)
10-320: THROWING OR SHOOTING AT PERSONS OR PROPERTY:
No person shall throw or shoot any object into or across any street or alley,
or in any place where he is likely to hit another person wrongfully, or injure
property, or to throw any object at any person, vehicle, structure, or property
of another, whether public or private, except where such is done in defense of
oneself or another person or property. (1998 Code)
10-321: THROWING OUT LIGHTED SUBSTANCES OR DEBRIS PROHIBITED:
No person shall throw, drop, deposit or otherwise place in, upon or within the
limits of any street, avenue, public ground, public waterway or town owned
property or waterway any lighted cigarette, cigar or other flaming or glowing
substances, or any substance or thing which may cause a fire. (1998 Code)
10-322: LITTERING, DEPOSITS UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful to throw, deposit or discharge any item or waste material,
liquid or solid, on any street or public place in the town or upon the property
of another without express authority to do so. (1998 Code)
10-323: POSTING ADVERTISING MATTER ON BUILDING OF ANOTHER:
   A.   No person shall place upon any building any advertising matter of any
kind, nor print or exhibit printing on a building or any part thereof, in
words, signs or characters, except with the express consent of the owner,
lessee or authorized agent of the owner of the building.
   B.   No person shall place, post, paint, mark, write, print or put any sign,
poster, picture, announcement, writing, device, advertisement or other marking
upon any public or private building, fence, sidewalk, bridge, post, automobile
or vehicle or property of another without the consent of the owner or person in
charge thereof. (1998 Code)
10-324: POSTING ADVERTISING MATTER ON UTILITY POLES OR ON OR OVER STREETS AND
SIDEWALKS:
It is unlawful for any person to place any advertising matter of any kind on
any utility pole, or to place any advertising on the streets or sidewalks of
the town or to place any advertising on any signs or banners stretched over the
streets or sidewalks of the town. Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent
any permanently located commercial or business establishment in the town from
erecting and maintaining business or commercial signs in accordance with the
ordinances of the town, nor to prohibit the granting of permission by the town
to religious, charitable, patriotic or civic bodies to use banners across the
streets of the town in such places as may be designated by the town clerk for
the observance of holidays, charitable drives and the commemoration and
celebration of other public or civic occasions. (1998 Code)
10-325: INTERFERENCE WITH RADIO, TELEVISION OR TELEPHONE RECEPTION OF OTHERS:
It is unlawful for any person, or any officer or employee of any person, to
operate or use any citizen band radio, ham radio or other electrical apparatus
or machine which materially and unduly interferes with radio, television or
telephone reception of others. (1998 Code)
10-326: FALSE WEIGHTS:
It is unlawful for any person to sell any commodity or article of merchandise
and in the sale thereof knowingly make or give a false or short weight therefor
or for any person owning or keeping or having in charge any scale used in
weighing any animal, commodity or article to knowingly and wilfully report any
false or untrue weight whereby another person shall be defrauded or damaged.
(1998 Code)
10-327: ELECTRIC FENCES PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to erect, install or maintain any electrically
charged fence within the town, except that the building official may issue a
permit for an electrically charged fence to retain animals upon proof that the
fence will not be hazardous to life, and upon proof that the electric charge is
regulated by a controlling device. (1998 Code)
10-328: UNLAWFUL USE OF ANOTHER'S GARBAGE OR REFUSE CONTAINER:
   A.   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to dispose of garbage,
refuse, rubbish or waste into any refuse container, dumpster or other
receptacle for the deposit of same belonging to or leased by another, whether
by rental agreement, lease or agreement with the town or a public or private
trash, garbage or refuse hauling service, without the permission of the owner,
lessee or other person entitled to the possession or use thereof.
   B.   It is unlawful and an offense to use the town's dumpsters for dumping
without an issued permit therefor. (1998 Code)
10-329: FIREWORKS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS; PERMITS:
   A.   For the purpose of this section, "fireworks" shall have the same
meaning as in state law, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1621 et seq.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to manufacture, display, sell, possess or
expose for sale, possess, use or discharge fireworks within the town except as
provided in this section.
   C.   Pyrotechnic or fireworks displays may be authorized in accordance with
the town fire code when under proper control and the time, place and manner of
the display is permitted by the town.
   D.   Except where prohibited by state law, fireworks may be displayed, sold,
possessed, used and discharged on July 1 through July 4 of each year. (1998
Code)
CHAPTER 4
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
SECTION:
10-401: Disturbing The Peace
10-402: Disturbing Funerals
10-403: Disorderly Conduct
10-404: Unnecessary Noise Prohibited
10-405: Parades And Public Assemblies
10-401: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
   A.   It is unlawful to disturb or alarm the peace of another or others by
doing any of the acts set out in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Disturbing the peace is the doing of any of the following in such a
manner as would foreseeably alarm or disturb the peace of another or others:
      1.   Using obscene, offensive, abusive, profane, vulgar, threatening,
violent or insulting language or conduct;
      2.   Appearing in an intoxicated condition;
      3.   Engaging in a fistic encounter;
      4.   Lewdly exposing one's person, or private parts thereof, in any
public place or in any place where there are present other persons to be
offended or annoyed thereby;
      5.   Pointing any pistol or any other deadly weapon, whether loaded or
not, at any other person or persons either in anger or otherwise;
      6.   Holding an unlawful assembly of two (2) or more persons, including
being assembled together and acting in concert, to do any unlawful act against
the peace or to the terror of others or preparing for or moving toward such
acts, or otherwise assembling unlawfully or riotously;
      7.   Interrupting any lawful assembly of people by making noise, by rude,
indecent or improper behavior, by profane, improper or loud language, or in any
other manner, either within the place of assembly or within hearing distance
thereof;
      8.   Obstructing the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles on a street,
right of way or sidewalk, or other public place;
      9.   Obstructing, molesting or interfering with any person lawfully in a
public place;
      10.   Making unnecessarily loud, offensive noises;
      11.   Disturbing any congregation or assembly of persons meeting for
religious worship by making noise, by rude, indecent or improper behavior, by
profane, improper or loud language, or in any other manner, either within the
place of worship or within hearing distance thereof; or
      12.   Committing any other act in such a manner calculated as to
unreasonably disturb, interfere or alarm the public or the comfort and repose
of any person.
   C.   Whenever any police officer shall, in the exercise of reasonable
judgment, decide that the presence of any person in any public place is causing
any of the conditions enumerated in subsection A of this section, he may, if he
deems it necessary for the preservation of the public peace and safety, order
that person to leave that place; and any who shall refuse to leave after being
ordered to do so by a police officer shall be guilty of a violation of this
section.
   D.   This section shall not apply to peaceful picketing, public speaking or
other lawful expressions of opinion not in contravention of other laws. (1998
Code)
10-402: DISTURBING FUNERALS:
No person shall wilfully disturb, interrupt or disquiet any assemblage of
people who have met for the purpose of any funeral, or obstruct or detain any
person engaged in accompanying any funeral to a place of burial. (1998 Code)
10-403: DISORDERLY CONDUCT 1 :
A person shall be guilty of disorderly conduct if, with the intent to cause
public inconvenience, annoyance, alarm or recklessly creating the risk thereof
he:
      1.   Acts in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby any
person is placed in fear of safety of his life, limb or health;
      2.   Acts in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby the
property of any person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged;
      3.   Endangers the lawful pursuits of another by acts of violence, angry
threats and abusive conduct;
      4.   Jostles or crowds or pushes any person in any public place;
      5.   Uses "fighting words" directed toward any person and thus creates a
turmoil;
      6.   Causes, provokes or engages in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct
so as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another; or
      7.   By acts of violence interferes with another's pursuit of a lawful
occupation. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 22-110.
10-404: UNNECESSARY NOISE PROHIBITED 1 :
   A.   No person shall make, continue or cause to be made or continued any
excessive, unnecessary or unusually loud noise or any noise which either
annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or
safety of others, within the limits of the town.
   B.   Permits may be granted by the town for certain activities and events
which are exempt from the provisions of this section. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 22-110.
10-405: PARADES AND PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES 1 :
   A.   As used in this section, "parade" means any parade, march, ceremony,
show, demonstration, exhibition, pageant or procession of any kind, or any
similar display, in or upon any street, park or other public place in the town.
   B.   No person shall use any street, alley, public way, park or other
property owned or controlled by the town, except those places specifically
designed and intended for such use, for the purpose of holding, conducting,
causing or participating in any parade, street fair, street dance, carnival,
assemblage or activity of any nature which may cause the disturbance or
interference of the normal and ordinary use of the property by other persons,
without first having obtained a permit for such purpose. The permits may be
granted by the town clerk under such conditions as deemed appropriate.
   C.   Permits shall not be required under this section in the case of
construction or repairs to or within any such street or property, provided all
other requirements of this code are complied with.
   D.   Not less than two (2) weeks prior to the closing or use of a street or
property for a parade, an application shall be submitted by the party to the
town. The time requirements may be waived by the town clerk at his discretion
if sufficient time exists for the proper review of the application as herein
provided. The application shall be submitted upon a form prescribed by the
town. The application shall provide such other information as requested.
   E.   The town clerk shall issue a permit as provided for hereunder when,
from a consideration of the application and from such other information as may
otherwise be obtained, he finds that:
      1.   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
      2.   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great
a number of police officers of the town to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
town;
      3.   The conduct of such parade will not require the diversion of so
great a number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions
of the town other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and
areas contiguous thereto;
      4.   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly
points of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police
protection of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to such assembly
areas;
      5.   The conduct of such parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
      6.   The conduct of the parade is not reasonably likely to cause injury
to persons or property, to provoke disorderly conduct or create a disturbance;
and
      7.   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its
point of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route.
   F.   The town clerk, in such cases as shall be determined in his discretion,
may require as a condition to the issuance of a permit herein such insurance or
bond holding the town harmless from any and all liability for injury or damage
of any kind whatsoever occurring during such activity covered by the permit.
   G.   Without regard to the above provision of this section, the town clerk,
from his consideration of available, appropriate and necessary information,
shall deny the application for a permit provided for by this chapter when, from
this information, he has reason to believe that any contemplated advocacy at
the proposed event will be directed to inciting or producing imminent lawless
action and will likely incite or produce such action.
   H.   The town clerk, in denying an application for a parade permit, may
authorize the conduct of the parade on a date, at a time or over a route
different from that named by the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an
alternate permit shall so indicate within five (5) days after notice of the
action of the town clerk. An alternate parade permit shall conform to the
requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit under this
section. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS § 15-102.
CHAPTER 5
OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC
SECTION:
10-501: Public Intoxication
10-502: Marijuana Prohibited
10-503: Drug Paraphernalia
10-504: Sniffing Glue, Paint And Other Substances
10-505: Curfew For Minors
10-506: False Representation As Blind, Crippled Or Physically Defective To
Obtain Money, Aid
10-507: Prowling On Premises
10-508: Misrepresenting Age By False Documents
10-509: Obscene, Threatening Or Harassing Telephone Calls
10-510: Disorderly House
10-511: Nudity, Improper Dress, Indecent Exposure
10-512: Gambling And Gambling Devices
10-513: Prostitution Prohibited
10-514: Offenses Near Schools
10-515: Sleeping In Public Places, Private Property
10-516: Contributing To Delinquency Of A Minor
10-517: Tobacco To Minors Prohibited
10-501: PUBLIC INTOXICATION 1 :
No person shall be in any public place in a state of intoxication. A "state of
intoxication" means the condition in which a person is under the influence of
drugs, intoxicating liquors or nonintoxicating beverage to such an extent as to
deprive the person of his full mental or physical power or be unable to
exercise care for his own safety or the safety of others. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 63 OS § 2101 et seq., 37 OS § 8.
10-502: MARIJUANA PROHIBITED 1 :
   A.   It is unlawful for any person:
      1.   To appear or be upon or in any street, alley, place of business, or
other public place while under the influence of marijuana;
      2.   To use, have, or possess marijuana upon or in any street, alley,
place of business, or other public place within the Town;
      3.   To use marijuana in any place within the Town except as legally
prescribed by a physician licensed to practice in the State; or
      4.   To be about a place where marijuana is sold or furnished illegally.
   B.   For the purpose of this section, "marijuana" means all parts of the
plant Cannabis sativa L., whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; the rosin
extracted from any part of such plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture, or preparation of such plant, its seeds or rosin but shall
not include the mature stalks of such plant, fibre produced from such stalks,
oil or cake made from the derivative, mixture or preparation of such mature
stalks (except rosin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake, or the
sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of germination. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 63 OS § 2-101 et seq.
10-503: DRUG PARAPHERNALIA 1 :
   A.   For the purpose of this section, "drug paraphernalia" means all
equipment, products and materials of any kind which are used, intended for use,
or designed for use, in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing,
harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing,
preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing,
concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing into the
human body a controlled substance in violation of the State Uniform Controlled
Dangerous Substances Act, 63 Oklahoma Statutes section
2-101 et seq., hereinafter referred to as "the Act", and adopted by reference
herein. It includes, but is not limited to:
      1.   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived;
      2.   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, or preparing controlled
substances;
      3.   Isomerization devices used, intended for use, or designed for use in
identifying, or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of
controlled substances;
      4.   Testing equipment used, intended for use, or designed for use in
identifying, or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of
controlled substances;
      5.   Scales and balances used, intended for use, or designed for use in
weighing or measuring controlled substances;
      6.   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose and lactose, used, intended for use, or designed for use in
cutting controlled substances;
      7.   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use, or designed for
use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining,
marijuana;
      8.   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used,
intended for use, or designed for use in compounding controlled substances;
      9.   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used, intended
for use, or designed for use in packaging small quantities of controlled
substances;
      10.   Containers and other objects used, intended for use, or designed
for use in storing or concealing controlled substances;
      11.   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, intended for
use, or designed for use in parenterally injecting controlled substances into
the human body; and
      12.   Objects used, intended for use, or designed for use in ingesting,
inhaling, or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil
into the human body, such as:
         a.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal
bowls;
         b.   Water pipes;
         c.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         d.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         e.   Roach clips: meaning objects used to hold burning materials, such
as a marijuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be held in
the hand;
         f.   Miniature cocaine spoons, and cocaine vials;
         g.   Chamber pipes;
         h.   Carburetor pipes;
         i.   Electric pipes;
         j.   Air driven pipes;
         k.   Chillums;
         l.   Bongs; or
         m.   Ice pipes or chiller.
   B.   In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia, a court or
other authority should consider, in addition to all other logically relevant
factors, the following:
      1.   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
      2.   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or of anyone in control of
the object, under any state or federal law relating to any controlled
substance;
      3.   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of the act;
      4.   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
      5.   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the object:
      6.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or of
anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he knows, or
should reasonably know, intended to use the object to facilitate a violation of
the act; the innocence of an owner, or of anyone in control of the object, as
to a direct violation of the act shall not prevent a finding that the object is
intended for use, or designed for use as drug paraphernalia;
      7.   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object concerning
its use;
      8.   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
      9.   National and local advertising concerning its use;
      10.   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
      11.   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
      12.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise;
      13.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community; and
      14.   Expert testimony concerning its use.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with intent to use,
drug paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture,
compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack,
store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into
the human body a controlled substance in violation of the act.
   D.   It is unlawful for any person to deliver, possess with intent to
deliver, or manufacture with intent to deliver, drug paraphernalia, knowing, or
under circumstances where one reasonably should know, that it will be used to
plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert,
produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain,
conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body a
controlled substance in violation of the act.
   E.   It is unlawful for any person to place in any newspaper, magazine,
handbill, or other publication any advertisement, knowing, or under
circumstances where one reasonably should know, that the purpose of the
advertisement, in whole or in part, is to promote the sale of objects designed
or intended for use as drug paraphernalia. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 63 OS § 2-101.1.
10-504: SNIFFING GLUE, PAINT AND OTHER SUBSTANCES:
No person shall sniff or inhale paint, glue, gasoline or other volatile
substances for purposes of intoxication. (1998 Code)
10-505: CURFEW FOR MINORS:
   A.   This section shall be known and may be cited as the "curfew ordinance"
or "regulation of the presence and conduct of minors on streets and public
places".
   B.   For the purposes of this section the following terms, phrases, words,
and their derivations shall have the meaning given herein:
   MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18).
   PARENT: Any person having legal custody of a minor as:
      1.   A natural or adoptive parent;
      2.   A legal guardian;
      3.   A person who stands in loco parentis; or
      4.   A person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the court.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground or
place to which the general public has access and a right to resort for
business, entertainment, or other lawful purpose. A public place shall include,
but not be limited to, any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley,
cafe, theater, drugstore, pool room, shopping center and any other place
devoted to amusement or entertainment of the general public. It shall also
include the front or immediate area of the above.
   REMAIN: To stand behind, to tarry and to stay unnecessarily upon the
streets, including the congregating of groups (or of interacting minors)
totaling four (4) or more persons in which any minor involved would not be
using the streets for ordinary or serious purposes such as mere passage or
going home.
   STREET: A way or place, of whatsoever nature, open to the use of the public
as a matter of right for purposes of vehicular travel or in the case of a
sidewalk thereof for pedestrian travel. The term street includes the legal
right of way, including, but not limited to, the cartway or traffic lanes, the
curb, the sidewalks whether paved or unpaved, and any grass plots or other
grounds found within the legal right of way of a street.
   TIME OF NIGHT: Based upon the prevailing standard of time, whether Central
Standard Time or Central Daylight Saving Time, generally observed at that hour
by the public.
   YEAR OF AGE: Continues from one birthday, such as the seventeenth to (but
not including the day of) the next, such as the eighteenth birthday, making it
clear that seventeen (17) or less years of age is herein treated as equivalent
to the phrase "under eighteen (18) years of age".
   C.   It is unlawful for any person seventeen (17) or less years of age
(under 18) to be or remain in or upon the streets within the city at night
during the period ending six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and beginning:
      1.   At ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. for minors fifteen (15) years of age or
younger;
      2.   At twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight for minors more than fifteen (15)
years of age on Sunday through Thursday; and
      3.   At one o'clock (1:00) A.M. on Saturday morning and Sunday morning
for minors more than fifteen (15) years of age.
   D.   In the following exceptional cases a minor on a city street during the
nocturnal hours for which subsection C of this section is intended to provide
the maximum limits of regulation shall not, however, be considered in violation
of the curfew ordinance:
      1.   When accompanied by a parent of such minor;
      2.   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent of such minor to
take the parent's place in accompanying the minor for a designated period of
time and purpose within a specified area;
      3.   When exercising first amendment rights protected by the United
States constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech
and the right of assembly. Such minor shall evidence the bona fides of such
exercise by possessing a written communication, signed by such minor and
countersigned, by a parent of such minor with their home address and telephone
number, specifying when, and where and in what manner the minor will be on the
streets at night (during hours when the curfew ordinance is otherwise
applicable to the minor) in the exercise of a first amendment right specified
in such communication;
      4.   In case of reasonable necessity, but only if the minor has in the
minor's possession a written communication signed by the minor, countersigned
by a parent of such minor evidencing their home address and telephone number,
and establishing such reasonable necessity relating to specified streets at a
designated time for a described purpose including points of origin and
destination;
      5.   When the minor is on the sidewalk of the place where such minor
resides, or on the sidewalk of either next door neighbor not communicating an
objection to the police officer;
      6.   When returning home, by a direct route from (and within 30 minutes
of the termination of) a school activity, or activity of a religious or the
voluntary association, provided the minor has a written communication in the
minor's possession, countersigned by a parent indicating the home address and
telephone number, the purpose for the event, when, where and in what manner the
minor will be on the streets at night;
      7.   When authorized, by regulation issued by the city council, in other
similar cases of reasonable necessity, similarly handled but adapted to
necessary nighttime activities of more minors than can readily be dealt with on
an individual special permit basis. Normally such regulation by the city
council permitting use of the streets should be issued sufficiently in advance
to permit appropriate publicity through news media and through other agencies
such as the schools, and shall define the activity, the scope of the use of the
streets permitted, the period of time involved not to extend more than thirty
(30) minutes beyond the time for termination of such activity, and the reason
for finding that such regulation is reasonably necessary and is consistent with
the public interest and the purposes of this curfew ordinance;
      8.   When the minor carries a certified card of employment, briefly
identifying the minor, the addresses of his home and his place of employment
and his hours of employment or caries a valid proof of employment which may
include the latest payroll receipt not over thirty (30) days old; or
      9.   When the minor is, with parental consent, in a motor vehicle. This
contemplates normal travel. This clearly exempts bona fide interstate movement
through the city, particularly on normal routes.
   E.   It is unlawful for a parent having legal custody of a minor knowingly
to permit or by insufficient control to allow such minor to be or remain upon
any city street under circumstances not constituting an exception to, or
otherwise beyond the scope of, this section. The term "knowingly" includes
knowledge which a parent should reasonably be expected to have concerning the
whereabouts of a minor in that parent's legal custody. It is intended to
continue to keep neglectful or careless parents up to a reasonable community
standard of parental responsibility through an objective test. It shall a
fortior, be no defense that a parent was completely indifferent to the
activities or conduct or whereabouts of such minor.
   F.   It shall be unlawful for any person operating or having charge of any
public place to knowingly allow, permit or suffer the presence of minors in
violation of the curfew established by this chapter.
   G.   Upon finding or having attention called to any minor on the streets in
prima facie violation of this section, a police officer of the city shall
normally take the minor to the city police station, or other place designated
by the chief of police, where a parent shall immediately be notified to come
for such minor, whereupon they shall be interviewed. This is intended to permit
ascertainment, under constitutional safeguards, of relevant facts, and to
centralize responsibility in the personnel then on duty for accurate,
effective, fair, impartial and uniform enforcement, and recording, thus making
available experienced supervisory personnel, the best facilities and access to
information and records. In the absence of convincing evidence such as a birth
certificate, a police officer on the street shall in the first instance use his
best judgment in determining age.
      1.   Police procedures shall constantly be refined in the light of
experience and may provide, inter alia, that the police officer may deliver to
a parent thereof a minor under appropriate circumstances. For example, a minor
of tender age near home whose identity may readily be ascertained or is known;
      2.   In any event such police officer shall within twenty four (24)
hours, file a written report with the chief of police. The report shall be
treated for purposes of juvenile records in accordance with state statutes;
      3.   When a parent, immediately called, has come to take charge of the
minor, and the appropriate information has been recorded, the minor shall be
released to the custody of such parent. If the parent cannot be located, or
fails to take charge of the minor, then the minor shall be released to the
juvenile authorities, except to the extent that in accordance with police
regulations, approved in advance by juvenile authorities, the minor may
temporarily be entrusted to a relative, neighbor or other person who will on
behalf of a parent assume the responsibility of caring for the minor pending
the availability or arrival of a parent; or
      4.   In the case of first violation by a minor, the chief of police shall
cause to be personally delivered or by certified mail, send to a parent written
notice of violation with a warning that any subsequent violation shall result
in full enforcement of the curfew ordinance, including enforcement of parental
responsibility and of applicable penalties.
   H.   If after the warning notice pursuant to subsection G4 of this section
of a first violation by a minor, a parent violates subsection E of this section
(in connection with a second violation by the minor), this shall be treated as
an offense by the parent. The penalty upon a plea of guilty, nolo contendere,
or finding of guilt shall be as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (1998 Code)
10-506: FALSE REPRESENTATION AS BLIND, CRIPPLED OR PHYSICALLY DEFECTIVE TO
OBTAIN MONEY, AID 1 :
No person shall falsely represent himself as blind, deaf, dumb, crippled or
physically defective for the purpose of obtaining money or other things of
value, or to secure aid or assistance on account of such false representation.
(1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 21 OS §§ 22, 22.851 et seq.
10-507: PROWLING ON PREMISES 1 :
No person shall be upon the property or premises of another with the intent to
peer or peep into the window or door of the dwelling. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 21 OS § 1171.
10-508: MISREPRESENTING AGE BY FALSE DOCUMENTS 1 :
No person shall, for the purpose of violating any statutes of the state or any
ordinances of the town, wilfully and knowingly misrepresent his age by
presenting a false document purporting to state his true age or by presenting a
document not his own. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. 21 OS §§ 1518 – 1520.
10-509: OBSCENE, THREATENING OR HARASSING TELEPHONE CALLS 1 :
   A.   No person shall by means of a telephone, wilfully:
      1.   Make any comment, request, suggestion or proposal which is obscene,
lewd, lascivious, filthy or indecent;
      2.   Make a telephone call, whether or not conversation ensues, without
disclosing his identity and with intent to annoy, abuse, threaten or harass any
person at the called number;
      3.   Permit any telephone under his control to be used for any purpose
prohibited by this section; or
      4.   In conspiracy or concerted action with other persons, make repeated
calls or simultaneous calls solely to harass any person at the called number.
   B.   Use of a telephone facility under this section shall include all uses
made of such a facility between the points of origin and reception. Any offense
under this section is a continuing offense and shall be deemed to have been
committed at either the place of origin or the place of reception. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 4. 21 OS § 1172.
10-510: DISORDERLY HOUSE 1 :
   A.   A "disorderly house" means any structure or vehicle by which the peace,
comfort, health, welfare or decency of the public is disturbed by reason of the
people therein committing or resorting to any of the following acts:
      1.   The sale, distribution, possession or use of any controlled
dangerous substance, the sale, distribution, possession or use of which is
declared unlawful by state statute;
      2.   The violation of any of the ordinances of this town or statutes of
this state regulating the sale, distribution, possession or use of alcoholic
and nonintoxicating beverages as defined by law;
      3.   The performance of any sexual act declared unlawful by state statute
or town ordinance including, but not limited to, soliciting for purposes of
prostitution; or
      4.   The violation of any state statute or town ordinance prohibiting
gambling.
   B.   No person shall keep or maintain, or aid, abet or assist in keeping and
maintaining a disorderly house.
   C.   No owner, lessee, lessor, or other person, partnership or corporation
having control over any house, building, structure, tent, vehicle, mobile home,
or recreational vehicle shall knowingly use, lease, sublease or otherwise
permit the use of same for the purpose of keeping therein any disorderly house,
and knowing or ascertaining that such house, building, structure, tent,
vehicle, mobile home, or recreational vehicle is so occupied as a disorderly
house, no persons, partnership or corporation shall continue to grant
permission to so use such premises as a disorderly house.
   D.   No person shall knowingly reside in, enter into, or remain in a
disorderly house. In any prosecution for violation of this section, the town
shall have the burden to prove such knowledge by direct evidence only and not
by circumstantial evidence. This section shall not apply to physicians or
officers in the discharge of their professional or official duties. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 22-109.
10-511: NUDITY, IMPROPER DRESS, INDECENT EXPOSURE 1 :
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Appear in any public place in the town in a state of nudity;
      2.   Appear in any public place in the town in any offensive, indecent or
lewd dress; or
      3.   Make an indecent public exposure of his or her person. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 21 OS § 1021.
10-512: GAMBLING AND GAMBLING DEVICES 1 :
   A.   Any person who plays or carries on, or opens or causes to be opened, or
who conducts, either as owner or employee, roulette, craps, or any banking or
percentage game, played with dice, cards or any other device, for money,
checks, credit or any representative of value, or any other gambling game, is
guilty of an offense.
   B.   Any person who bets on or plays at any of the prohibited games
mentioned in subsection A above, or otherwise gambles, is guilty of an offense.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to exhibit or expose to view in any
building, or in any part of or room in any building, any table, cards, dice,
roulette wheel or other article or apparatus designed for or used for gambling
purposes.
   D.   It is unlawful for any person to keep, own, operate, use, conduct or
cause to be kept, operated, used or conducted, either as owner, manager,
dealer, clerk or employee, and whether for hire or not, any punch board,
machine, cards, game, parlay card or any other device or paraphernalia, wherein
or whereby any money or property or any representative of either, or other
valuable thing, may be played, bet, staked, wagered or hazarded, won, lost or
obtained upon any chance, combination of numbers, emblems or any uncertain or
contingent event or condition, or football or baseball contest.
   E.   It is unlawful for any person to play any prohibited game described in
this section.
   F.   It is unlawful for any person to bar or barricade any building, or any
part of or room in any building, in order to render the same difficult to
access or ingress by the police officers of the town, in which building, or any
part of, or room in any such building, any table, cards, dice, roulette wheel
or other article or apparatus designed for or being used for gambling purposes
are exhibited or exposed to view.
   G.   The apparatus and paraphernalia used in the conduct of any of the
gambling games prohibited by this section are hereby declared to be a public
nuisance and subject to seizure and suppression by any officer, and shall be
abated, forfeited and destroyed upon the order and decree of any court of
competent jurisdiction.
   H.   It is unlawful for any person to be about in the immediate vicinity
where a person or persons are gambling, whether by playing games, operating a
slot machine or other device, or otherwise.
   I.   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent the sponsoring
and operation of bingo games by nonprofit religious, fraternal, charitable or
educational organizations; provided the organizations are properly licensed and
operated in accordance with law. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 21 OS §§ 941 et seq., 942, 943, 916, 995.1 et seq.; 3A OS § 200 et seq.; 22
  OS § 1261 et seq.
10-513: PROSTITUTION PROHIBITED 1 :
   A.   As used in this section, "prostitution" means and includes the getting
or receiving of the body for sexual intercourse for hire and includes the
giving or receiving of the body for indiscriminate sexual intercourse without
hire.
   B.   It is unlawful:
      1.   To engage in prostitution, lewdness or assignation;
      2.   To solicit, induce, entice or procure another to commit an act of
lewdness, assignation or prostitution; or
      3.   To aid, abet or participate in the doing of any of the acts herein
prohibited.
   C.   No person shall in any way or manner whatever, keep, harbor or house
any prostitute.
   D.   No person shall entice or attempt to entice any female into a house of
prostitution, or have illicit sexual intercourse with any female under eighteen
(18) years of age.
   E.   No person shall keep or maintain a house of prostitution or house of
assignation.
   F.   No person shall lease, let or furnish any building, room, tent or
structure of any kind, or any conveyance used or to be used as a place of
prostitution or assignation within the town, or knowingly permit the same to be
so used.
   G.   No person shall knowingly accept, receive, levy or appropriate any
money or other thing of value without consideration from a prostitute or from
the proceeds of any women engaged in prostitution.
   H.   No person shall offer, or offer to secure another for the purpose of
prostitution, or for any other lewd or indecent act.
   I.   No person shall direct, take or transport, or offer or agree to take or
transport or aid or assist in transporting, any person to any house, place,
building or other structure, vehicle, trailer or other conveyance, or to any
other person with knowledge or having reasonable cause to believe that the
purpose of such directing, taking or transporting is prostitution, lewdness or
assignation.
   J.   It is unlawful for a person to be present in a public place in a manner
and under circumstances manifesting the purpose of inducing, enticing,
soliciting or procuring another to commit an act of prostitution. Among the
circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such a purpose is
manifested are: that such person is a known prostitute or procurer; that such
person repeatedly beckons to, stops or attempts to stop or engage passersby in
conversation, or repeatedly stops or attempts to stop motor vehicle operators
by hailing, waving of arms or any other bodily gesture. No arrest shall be made
for a violation of this subsection unless the arresting officer first affords
such person an opportunity to explain such conduct, and no one shall be
convicted of violating this subsection if it appears at trial that the
explanation given was true and disclosed a lawful purpose.
   K.   For the purpose of this section, a "known prostitute or procurer" is a
person who, within one year prior to the date of the suspected violation of
this section has, within the knowledge of the arresting officer, been convicted
of a violation of this section or has been convicted of violating any statute
or ordinance of any jurisdiction which makes prostitution or soliciting for the
purpose of prostitution unlawful. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 21 OS §§ 1030, 1029, 1081.
10-514: OFFENSES NEAR SCHOOLS:
   A.   No person shall engage in any of the conduct or acts hereinafter set
forth around, in or near any school or school grounds or streets and alleys
adjacent to any school:
      1.   Any conduct that would disturb the orderly conduct of the school;
      2.   Annoying or molesting any student or employee of the school;
      3.   Lewd or wanton conduct in, near or around any of the schools or
school grounds or streets and alleys adjacent to the schools;
      4.   Moving or parking any vehicle in the vicinity of any school for the
purpose of annoying or molesting any student or employee of the school; or
      5.   Any other act or conduct calculated to or likely to annoy or molest
any student or employee of such school. (1998 Code)
10-515: SLEEPING IN PUBLIC PLACES, PRIVATE PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person, without lawful reason, between the hours of
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and sunrise, to sleep on any street, in any
other public place, or on any property of another without the expressed or
tacit consent of the owner or person in charge of such place. (1998 Code)
10-516: CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY OF A MINOR 1 :
   A.   As used in this section:
    ANY PERSON: Any human being, without regard to the legal or natural
relationship to a minor, as well as legal or corporate entities.
   MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   B.   Any person who shall knowingly or wilfully cause, aid, abet or
encourage a minor to be, to remain, or to become a delinquent child, as defined
by State law, shall be guilty of an offense. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 21 OS § 856 et seq.
10-517: TOBACCO TO MINORS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful and an offense for any person to sell, barter, give or otherwise
furnish cigarettes, cigars or tobacco in any form to a minor, or to permit such
minor to frequent any premises owned, held or managed by him for the purpose of
using or procuring cigarettes, cigars or tobacco in any form. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 6
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
SECTION:
10-601: Escaping Custody
10-602: Conveying Instruments To Assist Escape
10-603: Assisting Prisoner To Escape
10-604: Delivery Of Articles To Person In Confinement
10-605: Assaulting Town Officer
10-606: Resisting A Police Officer
10-607: Citizens' Duty To Assist
10-608: Obedience To Orders Of Police And Firefighter
10-609: Eluding Police Officer By Motor Vehicle
10-610: Use Of Siren Or Whistle
10-611: Impersonating A Police Officer Or Any Town Officer
10-612: False Statements, Reports Or Complaints
10-613: False Alarms
10-614: Removal Of Barricades
10-615: Resisting Public Officials
10-616: Duties Of The Public At Fires, Emergencies
10-617: Tampering With Signs, Equipment
10-601: ESCAPING CUSTODY:
No person lawfully in custody or confined in the town jail, before or after
conviction for any violation of the ordinances of the town, or held in custody
going to the town jail, or working upon the streets or other public grounds of
the town or in custody of any officer of the town, shall break or attempt to
break such town jail or custody, and escape or attempt to escape therefrom.
(1998 Code)
10-602: CONVEYING INSTRUMENTS TO ASSIST ESCAPE:
No person shall convey into the town jail any disguised instrument or anything
proper or useful to facilitate the escape of any prisoner lawfully committed to
or detained in the town jail for any violation of the town ordinances, for any
criminal offense, or lawfully detained or imprisoned therein, whether such
escape is effected or attempted or not. (1998 Code)
10-603: ASSISTING PRISONER TO ESCAPE 1 :
No person shall in any way aid, remove or assist any person to resist or escape
from custody of any police officer or from any lawful confinement in the town.
(1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 21 OS §§ 437, 441.
10-604: DELIVERY OF ARTICLES TO PERSON IN CONFINEMENT:
No person shall deliver any article or thing to any person under arrest without
the consent of the officer having charge and custody of the prisoner. (1998
Code)
10-605: ASSAULTING TOWN OFFICER 1 :
No person shall knowingly commit any assault, battery or assault and batter any
town official or police officer or firefighter while in the performance of
their duties. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 21 OS §§ 649, 650.
10-606: RESISTING A POLICE OFFICER:
   A.   It is unlawful to resist, oppose or assault, prevent, fail to cooperate
with or in any way interfere with a police officer or any person duly
authorized to act as such, while the officer or person is discharging or
attempting to discharge his official duties within the limits of the town.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to warn or signal another so as to assist
such other person to flee, escape or evade an officer seeking to make an arrest
or for any person to bar or lock any door or barrier in the face of or in front
of an approaching officer.
   C.   Resisting an officer is the intentional opposition or resistance to, or
obstruction of, an individual acting in his official capacity, and authorized
by law to make a lawful arrest or seizure of property, or to serve any lawful
process or court order, when the offender knows or has reason to know that the
person arresting, seizing property, or serving process is acting in his
official capacity.
   D.   The words "obstruction of" shall, in addition to their common meaning,
include:
      1.   Flight by one sought to be arrested before the arresting officer can
restrain him and after notice is given that he is under arrest;
      2.   Any violence toward or any resistance or opposition to the arresting
officer after the arrested party is actually placed under arrest and before he
is under arrest; or
      3.   Refusal by the arrested party to give his name and make his identity
known to the arresting officer. (1998 Code)
10-607: CITIZENS' DUTY TO ASSIST:
It is the duty of all persons in the town when called upon by any police
officer to promptly aid and assist him in the execution of his duties. (1998
Code)
10-608: OBEDIENCE TO ORDERS OF POLICE AND FIREFIGHTER:
No person shall fail to heed a reasonable order of a police officer or
firefighter while such officer is in the discharge of an official duty in
maintaining the public safety or welfare. (1998 Code)
10-609: ELUDING POLICE OFFICER BY MOTOR VEHICLE:
No operator of a motor vehicle who has received a visual or audible signal, a
red light or a siren from a police officer driving a motor vehicle, showing the
same to be an official police, sheriff or highway patrol car directing the
operator to bring his vehicle to a stop, shall wilfully increase his speed or
extinguish his lights to elude or attempt to elude such police officer, or
attempt in any other manner to elude the police officer. (1998 Code)
10-610: USE OF SIREN OR WHISTLE:
   A.   No person shall use any police whistle or any other instrument used by
police officers to give signals to each other, or imitate any signal given by
one police officer to another or any special signal used by police officers,
for the purpose of improperly or causelessly attracting the attention of the
police.
   B.   No person, except members of police department, fire department or
ambulance services, shall ring, use or otherwise sound any gong, siren, whistle
or any other device for making similar noise. (1998 Code)
10-611: IMPERSONATING A POLICE OFFICER OR ANY TOWN OFFICER 1 :
   A.   No person, other than police officers of the town, shall wear or carry
the uniform, apparel, badge, identification card or any other insignia of
office like or similar to, or a colorable imitation of that adopted and worn or
carried by the police officers of the town.
   B.   No person shall do or attempt any act to impersonate a police officer.
   C.   It is unlawful to falsely impersonate any officer or employee of the
town, or falsely represent himself to be an officer or employee of the town, by
any kind of representation, pretense, insignia, sound, clothing or conduct, or
exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or powers of an
officer or employee of the town without being authorized to do so. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 21 OS §§ 263, 264, 1533.
10-612: FALSE STATEMENTS, REPORTS OR COMPLAINTS:
   A.   No person shall knowingly make or file or cause to be made or filed a
false or misleading report or misrepresentation, allegation or complaint with
the police department or any officer or employee of the town, or on any
official application or to commit perjury before any tribunal of the town.
   B.   No person shall wilfully and without probable cause make a false report
to any person of any crime, violation of the town's ordinances, or
circumstances indicating the possibility of crime or violation having been
committed, including, but not limited to, the unlawful taking of personal
property, which report causes or encourages the exercise of police or other
official action or investigation. (1998 Code)
10-613: FALSE ALARMS:
It is unlawful for any person to turn in a false alarm of any nature or in any
manner to deceive or attempt to deceive the fire department, police department
or any other emergency personnel, or summon any officer or employee thereof
with reference to any fire alarm or reported fire, accident or other emergency
or knowingly to cause the fire department or police department or its officers
or employees to make a useless or unnecessary run to any part of the town or
outside the town. (1998 Code)
10-614: REMOVAL OF BARRICADES:
It is unlawful for any person except by proper authority to remove any
barricade or obstruction placed by authority of the town to keep traffic off
any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk or other area. (1998 Code)
10-615: RESISTING PUBLIC OFFICIALS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or wilfully to:
      1.   Resist, oppose or obstruct the chief of police, any other police
officer, the municipal judge, or any other officer or employee of the town in
the discharge of his official duties;
      2.   Obstruct, threaten or otherwise intimidate or attempt to intimidate
any officer or employee from the discharge of his official duties; or
      3.   Assault or beat, or revile, abuse, be disrespectful to, use abusive
or indecent language toward or about, any such officer or employee while such
officer or employee is in the discharge of his official duties. (1998 Code)
10-616: DUTIES OF THE PUBLIC AT FIRES, EMERGENCIES 1 :
   A.   All persons at fires or other emergencies or accidents shall conduct
themselves in an orderly and lawful manner and to assist in maintaining law and
order.
   B.   No person at or near any fire or emergency shall conduct himself in a
disorderly manner or neglect or refuse to promptly obey any order of the fire
chief or his assistants relative to such fire; and no person shall resist,
obstruct, hinder or abuse any officer of the fire department or any firefighter
in the proper discharge of his duty.
   C.   Every police officer present at a fire shall keep back all persons who
are in the way or impeding the work of the fire department, and so far as
possible protect all property from loss or injury, and cooperate with and
assist the fire department in every way possible while at the fire. The fire
chief or an assistant fire chief or any police officer shall have the power to
designate persons to guard any goods.
   D.   No person shall follow or block the way of any emergency vehicle
engaged in an emergency run, or knowingly interfere with officers at the
location of any fire or emergency. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 21 OS § 127.
10-617: TAMPERING WITH SIGNS, EQUIPMENT 1 :
It is unlawful for any person to tamper with any signs, signal equipment or
other device placed, operated and maintained by the town in connection with the
administration of its code provisions, ordinances, regulations, services,
functions or performance of duties thereto. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. See also section 10-315 of this part.
PART 11
PARKS, RECREATION AND CEMETERY
CHAPTER 1
PARKS AND RECREATION GENERALLY
SECTION:
11-101: Board Of Trustees To Make Rules
11-102: Fees To Be Determined
11-103: Penalty
11-101: BOARD OF TRUSTEES TO MAKE RULES:
The board of trustees shall promulgate, invoke, create, amend and enforce such
rules, regulations, and other requirements as it deems necessary or expedient
in connection with the use of all recreational and park facilities owned or
operated by the town. (1998 Code)
11-102: FEES TO BE DETERMINED:
The town shall provide by rules, from time to time, the fees charged for any
such park or recreational privileges on any property or facility for
recreational purposes owned or operated by the town. (1998 Code)
11-103: PENALTY:
It is unlawful for any person to use any of the park or recreational facilities
without having complied with the rules and regulations promulgated by the board
of trustees in connection therewith. Anyone violating any of the rules and
regulations, or failing to comply with such, shall be guilty of an offense, and
on conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (1998 Code)
PART 12
PLANNING, ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
12-101: Planning Commission Created
12-102: Quorum
12-103: Organization And Rules
12-104: Power To Employ Staff
12-105: Powers And Duties
12-106: Purposes Of Plan
12-107: Subdivision Of Land
12-108: Zoning Commission
12-109: Uniformity Of Regulations
12-110: Comprehensive Plan; Purpose Of Regulations And Matters Considered
12-111: Zoning Ordinance Adopted
12-101: PLANNING COMMISSION CREATED 1 :
There is hereby created a planning commission of the town. The commission shall
be composed of five (5) members, nominated by the mayor and confirmed by the
town board of trustees. The mayor shall be an ex officio member of the
commission. Each appointed member shall hold office for a period of three (3)
years, or until his successor takes office. The appointed members of the
commission shall be nominated and appointed solely with reference to their
fitness and without reference to party affiliation and shall serve without
compensation. Members may be removed by the town board of trustees only for
inefficiency, neglect of duty or malefaction in office. Vacancies occurring
otherwise than through the expiration of term shall be filled only for the
unexpired terms by the mayor with confirmation by the town board of trustees.
The mayor shall receive no compensation for his service on the commission.
(1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 45-101 et seq.
12-102: QUORUM:
Three (3) members of the planning commission shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. Any action taken shall be official when concurred in
by not less than a majority of all appointed members of the planning commission
entitled to vote. (1998 Code)
12-103: ORGANIZATION AND RULES:
Each year the commission shall elect a chairman, a vice chairman and a
secretary, and may create and fill such other offices as it may deem necessary.
The term of the chairman, vice chairman, and secretary shall be one year. The
planning commission shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and
regulations necessary to effectuate the purposes of this part. (1998 Code)
12-104: POWER TO EMPLOY STAFF:
The planning commission, subject to approval of the town board of trustees,
shall have the power and authority to employ planners, engineers, attorneys,
clerks and other help deemed necessary within the limits of the appropriation
fixed by the town board of trustees. The salary and compensation of such
employees shall be fixed by the town board of trustees and shall be paid out of
the town treasury as are other officers and employees. Necessary expenses
incurred by the commission shall be paid from the town treasury as other legal
expenses of the town. (1998 Code)
12-105: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The planning commission shall have the power to prepare and recommend to the
town board of trustees for adoption a comprehensive plan for the physical
development of the town. In conducting its work, the planning commission may
consider and investigate any subject matter tending to the development and
betterment of the town and may make recommendations as it may deem advisable
concerning the adoption thereof to the town board of trustees. The planning
commission may make or cause to be made surveys, studies, maps and plans in the
conduct of its activities. Before final action is taken by the town board of
trustees on the location or design of any public buildings, statue, memorial,
park, boulevard, street, alley, playground, public grounds, bridge or change in
any location of any street or alley, such question shall be submitted to the
planning commission for investigation and report. In the preparation of the
comprehensive plan, the planning commission may from time to time prepare and
recommend to the town board of trustees for adoption a part or parts thereof,
which parts shall cover one or more major geographical divisions of the town or
one or more major elements of the comprehensive plan. The planning commission
may from time to time recommend extending, amending or changing any portion of
the comprehensive plan. (1998 Code)
12-106: PURPOSES OF PLAN:
In the preparation of such plan, the planning commission may make careful and
comprehensive surveys and studies of present conditions and future growth of
the town with due regard to its relation to neighboring territory. The plan
shall be made with the general purpose of guiding and accomplishing a
coordinated, adjusted and harmonious development of the town and its environs
which will, in accordance with present and future needs, best promote health,
safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity and general welfare, as well as
efficiency and economy in the process of development; including, among other
things, adequate provisions for traffic, the promotion of safety from fire and
other dangers, adequate provision for light and air, the promotion of healthful
and convenient distribution of population, the promotion of good civic design
and arrangement, and wise and efficient expenditure of public funds. (1998
Code)
12-107: SUBDIVISION OF LAND:
The planning commission may prepare and recommend to the town board of trustees
for adoption rules and regulations governing the subdivision of land within the
corporate limits for the town. All plans, plats or replats of land laid out in
lots, plots, blocks, streets, alleys or other ways intended to be dedicated to
public or private use within the corporate limits of the town may first be
submitted by the town board of trustees to the planning commission for its
recommendations. The disapproval of any such plan, plat or replat by the town
board of trustees shall be deemed a refusal of the dedications shown thereon.
No plat or replat of subdivision of land, or dedication of street or alley or
other easement shall be entitled to record unless it bears the signature of the
mayor, attested by the town clerk, certifying the approval and acceptance
thereof by the town board of trustees. (1998 Code)
12-108: ZONING COMMISSION:
The planning commission shall also act as the zoning commission, which shall
have the power to prepare and to recommend to the town board of trustees for
adoption a zoning plan to regulate and restrict the height, number of stories
and size of buildings and other structures, the percentage of lot that may be
occupied, the size of yards, courts and other open spaces, the density of
population, the location and use of buildings, structures and land for trade,
industry, residence and other purposes. (1998 Code)
12-109: UNIFORMITY OF REGULATIONS:
The planning commission may recommend the division of the town into districts
of such number, size and area as may be deemed best suited to carry out the
zoning plan. All such regulations shall be uniform for each class or kind of
buildings throughout each district, but the regulations in one district may
differ from those in other districts. (1998 Code)
12-110: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN; PURPOSE OF REGULATIONS AND MATTERS CONSIDERED:
Zoning regulations shall be made in accordance with a comprehensive plan and
designed to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire, panic
and other dangers; to promote health and the general welfare; to provide
adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding of land; to avoid undue
concentration of population; to facilitate the adequate provisions of
transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, and other public requirements.
Such regulations shall be made with reasonable consideration, among other
things, as to the character of the district and its peculiar suitability for
particular uses, and with a view to conserving the value of buildings and
encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the municipality. (1998
Code)
12-111: ZONING ORDINANCE ADOPTED:
The town's zoning ordinance, and all amendments thereto, is hereby incorporated
herein by reference. Violations of the town's zoning regulations are punishable
as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 2
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
12-201: Findings Of Fact
12-202: Statement Of Purpose
12-203: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
12-204: Definitions
12-205: Lands To Which Special Flood Hazard Applies
12-206: Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
12-207: Establishment Of Development Permit
12-208: Compliance
12-209: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
12-210: Interpretation
12-211: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
12-212: Designation Of The Floodplain Administrator
12-213: Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator
12-214: Permit Procedures
12-215: Variance Procedures
12-216: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction; General Standards
12-217: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction; Specific Standards
12-218: Standards For Subdivision Proposals
12-201: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the community are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by
the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous
to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage. (1998 Code)
12-202: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
   A.   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety
and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      1.   Protect human life and health;
      2.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      3.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      4.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      5.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
      6.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
      7.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a
flood area. (1998 Code)
12-203: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
   A.   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following
methods:
      1.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
      2.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      3.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
      4.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; or
      5.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands. (1998 Code)
12-204: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give
this chapter its most reasonable application. The following terms as used
herein will mean:
ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or
similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport, and
deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.
APEX: A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow path
of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan
flooding can occur.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO, AM, or VO zone on a community's
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) chance or greater
annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet (3') where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater change of flooding in any given year.
The area may be designated as zone A on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM).
After detailed ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of
the FIRM, zone A usually is refined into zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-30,
VE or V.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equalled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
ELEVATED BUILDING: A nonbasement building:
   A.   Built, in the case of a building in zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B,
C, X, and D, to have the top of the elevated floor, or in the case of a
building in zones V1-30, VE, or V, to have the bottom of the lowest horizontal
structure member of the elevated floor elevated above the ground level by means
of pilings, columns (posts and pillars), or shear walls parallel to the flow of
the water; and
   B.   Adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the
building during a flood of up to the magnitude of the base flood.
In the case of zones A1-30, A1, A, A99, AO AH, B, C, X, D, "elevated building"
also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid foundation
perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement
of floodwaters. In the case of zones V1-30, VE, or V, "elevated building" also
includes a building otherwise meeting the definition of "elevated building",
even though the lower area is enclosed by means of breakaway walls if the
breakaway walls meet the standards of section 60.3(e)(5) of the national flood
insurance program regulations.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purpose of determining rates, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing
construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures".
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM): The official map of a community, issued by
the administrator, where the boundaries of the flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow)
related to erosion areas having special hazards which have been designated as
zone A, M, or E.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community, on which the
federal emergency management agency has delineated both the areas of special
flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal emergency
management agency. The report contains flood profiles, water surface elevation
of the base flood, as well as the flood boundary-floodway map.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source. (See definition of Flood Or Flooding.)
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a
floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control ordinance) and
other applications of police power. The term describes such state or local
regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for the
purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds have
been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within a community subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY): The channel of a river or other watercourse and
the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the department of interior) or preliminarily determined
by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the national register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of interior as
contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district
or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as a
registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary
of interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory or historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
      1. By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the
interior; or
      2. Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved
programs.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirement of section 60.3 of the national
flood insurance program regulations.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929, or other datum to which the
base flood elevations shown on a community's flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, "new construction" means structures for which the "start of
construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the coastal barrier resources act (Pub. L. 97-348), includes
substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was issued,
provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within one
hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the
first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets or walkways; nor does it include excavation of
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before "start of construction" of
the improvement. This includes structures which have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary conditions; or
   B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure".
VARIANCE: A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this chapter
when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance,
therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise prohibited
by this chapter. For full requirements see section 60.6 of the national flood
insurance program regulations.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until such time
as that documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the national geodetic
vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, herein specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas. (1998 Code)
12-205: LANDS TO WHICH SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD APPLIES:
This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the community. (1998 Code)
12-206: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD 1 :
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal emergency
management agency on its flood hazard boundary map (FHBM) and any revisions
thereto are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
chapter. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Beaver is community no. 490009A, map dated June 28, 1974.
12-207: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the
provisions of this chapter. (1998 Code)
12-208: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations. (1998 Code)
12-209: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail. (1998 Code)
12-210: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions
shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor appeal any other powers granted under
state statutes. (1998 Code)
12-211: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the community or any official or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder. (1998 Code)
12-212: DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The town administrator is hereby appointed the floodplain administrator to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and other appropriate
sections of 44 CRF (national flood insurance program regulations) pertaining to
floodplain management. (1998 Code)
12-213: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Duties and responsibilities of the floodplain administrator shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter;
      2.   Review permit application to determine whether proposed building
site will be reasonably safe from flooding;
      3.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter;
      4.   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including section 404 of the federal water pollution control act
amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334) from which prior approval is required;
      5.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the floodplain administrator shall make the necessary interpretation;
      6.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state
coordinating agency which is the Oklahoma water resources board prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the federal emergency management agency;
      7.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained; and
      8.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with section
12-206 of this chapter, the floodplain administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available
from a federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of
sections
12-216,
12-217 and
12-218 of this chapter. (1998 Code)
12-214: PERMIT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application for a development permit shall be presented to the
floodplain administrator on forms furnished by him and may include, but not be
limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions,
and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and proposed
structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the location of
the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard. Additionally, the
following information is required:
      1.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor,
including basement, of all new and substantially improved structures;
      2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed;
      3.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of subsection 12-217A2 of this chapter;
      4.   Description of the extent of which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
      5.   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with
subsection 12-213A1 of this chapter.
   B.   Approval or denial of a development permit by the floodplain
administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the
following relevant factors:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      2.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      3.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      4.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      5.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      6.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      7.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      8.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      9.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for proposed use; and
      10.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area. (1998 Code)
12-215: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   The town planning commission shall hear and render judgment on requests
for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   The appeal board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the floodplain administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
   C.   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may
appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   D.   The floodplain administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the federal emergency
management agency upon request.
   E.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   F.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing the relevant factors in subsection 12-214B of
this chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the
one-half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for issuing the
variance increases.
   G.   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter as set out in section
12-202 of this chapter.
   H.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   I.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   J.   Prerequisites for granting variances:
      1.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief;
      2.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a. Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         b. A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         c. A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances; and
      3.   Any application to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the costs of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
   K.   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that:
      1.   The criteria outline in subsections A through I of this section are
met; and
      2.   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety. (1998 Code)
12-216: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION; GENERAL STANDARDS:
   A.   In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are
required for all new construction and substantial improvements:
      1.   All of new construction or substantial improvements shall be
designed or modified and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic
loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
      2.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      3.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
      4.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding;
      5.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
      6.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the system into floodwater; and
      7.   On site wastewater disposal systems shall be located to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding. (1998 Code)
12-217: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION; SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
   A.   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data
has been provided as set forth in section
12-206, subsection 12-213A8 of this chapter, or subsection 12-218C of this
part, the following provisions are required:
      1.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to or above the base flood elevation. A registered
professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification
to the floodplain administrator that the standard of this subsection as
proposed in subsection 12-214A of this chapter is satisfied;
      2.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
the base flood level or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop or review structural design, specifications, and
plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
in this subsection. A record of such certification which includes the specific
elevation, in relation to mean sea level, to which such structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the floodplain administrator; and
      3.   Manufactured Homes: Manufactured homes are required to be placed
within zone A on a community's FHBM or FIRM and shall be installed using
methods and practices which minimize flood damage. For the purpose of this
requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but
are not limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This
requirement is in addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements
for resisting wind forces. (1998 Code)
12-218: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS:
   A.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with sections
12-201 through
12-203 of this chapter.
   B.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet development
permit requirements of sections
12-207,
12-214 of this chapter and the provisions of section
12-216 of this chapter.
   C.   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development, including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions, which is greater than fifty (50) lots or five (5)
acres, whichever is less, if not otherwise provided pursuant to section
12-206 or subsection
12-213A8 of this chapter.
   D.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   E.   All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions, shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage. (1998 Code)
PART 13
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
FIRE CODE AND PREVENTION
SECTION:
13-101: Adoption Of Fire Prevention Code
13-102: Modifications
13-103: New Materials, Processes, Or Occupancies Which May Require Permits
13-104: Appeals
13-105: Penalties
13-101: ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE 1
:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing
conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion, that certain
code known as fire prevention code recommended by the National Fire Protection
Association, and that certain code known as the life safety code recommended by
the National Fire Protection Association, being particularly the latest
editions thereof and the whole thereof, save and except such portions as are
hereinafter deleted, modified, or amended by this code. At least one copy of
the fire prevention code and the life safe code are on file in the office of
the town clerk. The fire prevention code and the life safety code are hereby
adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein; and from the
date on which this code shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be
controlling within the limits of the town. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also part 5, chapter 5 of this code.
13-102: MODIFICATIONS:
   A.   The town board of trustees shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the fire prevention code and the life safety code upon
application in writing by the owner or lessee, or his duly authorized agent,
when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict
letter of the code provided that the spirit of the code shall be observed,
public safety secured, and substantial justice done. The particulars of such
modification when granted or allowed and the decision of the fire chief and
board of trustees thereon shall be entered upon the records of the board of
trustees, and a signed copy shall be furnished the applicant.
   B.   The town limits are the limits in the fire prevention code in which
storage of flammable liquids in aboveground tanks, new bulk plants for
flammable liquids, bulk storage of LPG and storage of explosives and blasting
agents, are prohibited. (1998 Code)
13-103: NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES, OR OCCUPANCIES WHICH MAY REQUIRE PERMITS:
The town board of trustees may act as a committee to determine and specify,
after giving affected persons an opportunity to be heard, any new materials,
processes, or occupancies, which shall require permits, in addition to those
now enumerated in said code. The fire chief shall post such list in a
conspicuous place in his office, and distribute copies thereof to interested
persons. (1998 Code)
13-104: APPEALS:
Whenever the chief of the fire department shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions
of the code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code have
been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the
decision of the chief of the fire department to the town board of trustees
within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision appealed. (1998 Code)
13-105: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who violates any of the provisions of the codes hereby
adopted or fails to comply therewith, or who violates or fails to comply with
any order made thereunder, or who builds in violation of any detailed statement
of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any
certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been
taken, or who fails to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the
town board of trustees or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time
fixed therein, shall severally for every such violation and noncompliance
respectively, be guilty of an offense, punishable as provided in section
1-108 of this code. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not
excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be
required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable
time. When not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days that prohibited
conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the
enforced removal of prohibited conditions. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE SERVICES
SECTION:
Article A.    Fire Department
13-201: Fire Department
13-202: Volunteer Department
13-203: Fire Chief
13-204: Duties Of The Assistant Chief
13-205: Company Officers
13-206: Secretary-Treasurer
13-207: Membership, New Members
13-208: Bylaws
13-209: Rules And Regulations
13-210: Social Officers
13-211: Use Of Fire Equipment
13-212: Authority Of Firefighters At Fires
13-213: Right Of Entry
Article B.    Calls Outside Limits
13-221: Power To Contract
13-222: Contracts For Service
13-223: Authority To Answer Calls
13-224: Charges For Calls Made Outside Town
13-225: Firefighters Serving In Regular Line Of Duty
13-226: Department Considered Agent Of State
ARTICLE A. FIRE DEPARTMENT
13-201: FIRE DEPARTMENT:
   A.   There is a fire department of the town, the head of which is the chief
of the fire department.
   B.   It is the duty of the fire department, among others, to extinguish
fires; to rescue persons endangered by fire; to resuscitate, and to administer
first aid to, persons injured in or about burning structures or elsewhere in
case of an emergency; to promote fire prevention; and unless otherwise
provided, to enforce all ordinances relating to fires, fire prevention and
safety of persons from fire in public and private buildings. (1998 Code)
13-202: VOLUNTEER DEPARTMENT:
   A.   The fire department of the town is a volunteer department which has in
its service not less than six (6) nor more than twenty (20) volunteer
firefighters.
   B.   For the purpose of this chapter, a volunteer firefighter is considered
as one who is enrolled as a member of the fire department and who serves in the
capacity without receiving a regular salary. (1998 Code)
13-203: FIRE CHIEF:
   A.   The chief shall be the administrative head of the department, subject
to the laws of the state, ordinances of the town, and the rules and regulations
adopted in this chapter. The chief shall have the following powers and duties,
and he may assign duties to other members of the department:
      1.   The chief shall be responsible for the general condition and
efficient operation of the department, the training of members, and the
performance of all other duties imposed upon him. He shall have supervision and
control of the fire department, subject to the supervision and control of the
town board;
      2.   The chief may inspect or cause to be inspected by members of the
department the fire hydrants, cisterns and other sources of water supply at
least twice each year;
      3.   The chief may maintain a library or file of publications on fire
prevention and fire protection and shall make use of it to the best advantage
of all members;
      4.   The chief shall make every effort to attend all fires and direct the
officers and members in the performance of their duties;
      5.   The chief shall see that the citizens are kept informed on fire
hazards in the community and on the activities of the department;
      6.   The chief shall see that each fire is carefully investigated to
determine its cause, and in the case of suspicion of incendiarism or arson,
shall notify proper authorities and secure the preservation of all possible
evidence for future use in the case;
      7.   The chief is authorized to enter any building or premises in the
town at any reasonable hour for the purpose of making inspections and to serve
written notice on persons for any violations that may be found; and
      8.   The chief shall see that complete records are kept of all fires,
inspections, apparatus and equipment, personnel and other information of the
department and shall make reports to the town board as he may require. The
chief shall keep the town informed regarding the fire department and its needs.
(1998 Code)
13-204: DUTIES OF THE ASSISTANT CHIEF:
In the absence of the chief, the assistant chief on duty shall command the
department and be held responsible therefor in all respects with the full
powers and responsibilities of the chief. The assistant chief shall be elected
from among the members of the department and be appointed by the chief, with
approval of the town board. (1998 Code)
13-205: COMPANY OFFICERS:
   A.   Company officers shall be selected by the chief based on the following
criteria:
      1.   Knowledge of firefighting;
      2.   Leadership ability; and
      3.   Knowledge of firefighting equipment. (1998 Code)
13-206: SECRETARY-TREASURER:
   A.   One member elected by the members of the fire department, subject to
approval of the chief, shall be a secretary-treasurer. His duties shall consist
of the following:
      1.   Calling the roll at the opening of each meeting;
      2.   Keeping the minutes of each meeting; and
      3.   Collecting any money due the department by the members. (1998 Code)
13-207: MEMBERSHIP, NEW MEMBERS:
   A.   Membership of the department shall consist of such persons as may be
appointed by the chief and approved by the board. Determination of whether
candidates for appointment are capable of performing their duties shall be made
by the chief after a medical and physical examination has been made in a manner
prescribed by the chief and approved by the town board.
   B.   New members of the department shall be appointed by the chief and shall
be on probation for one year after their appointment. Upon completion of their
probation period, new members must be approved by the majority of the other
members of the fire department, the chief and the town board. (1998 Code)
13-208: BYLAWS:
   A.   The bylaws of the department shall include the following:
      1.   All volunteer fire department members are required, when notified,
to respond to alarms of fire and other emergencies;
      2.   A member is required to be present at all regular meetings, called
meetings and schools presented for the benefit of the firefighters;
      3.   At least one regular business meeting of the members shall be held
each month;
      4.   Any member having two (2) unexcused absences in succession or three
(3) unexcused absences in a period of three (3) months will be dropped from the
fire department rolls;
      5.   Any member leaving the town for an extended period of time is
required to notify the chief;
      6.   Any member refusing to attend training classes provided for members
of the department will be dropped;
      7.   Any member of the fire department may be dropped from the rolls for
the following offenses:
         a.   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
         b.   Any act of insubordination;
         c.   Neglect of duty;
         d.   Any violation of rules and regulations governing the fire
department;
         e.   Conviction of a felony; or
         f.   By a majority vote of the members of the company and approval of
the chief;
      8.   Members with less than ten (10) years' service are required to
attend school and achieve certification as soon as practicably possible.
Members with ten (10) or more years' service have three (3) years in which to
be certified by training. (1998 Code)
13-209: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The town board of trustees, by motion or resolution, may adopt and change
regulations relating to the fire department, its organization, operation and
compensation. (1998 Code)
13-210: SOCIAL OFFICERS:
The department may elect a president, vice president, secretary or treasurer to
be known as social officers. Such officers may be elected in any manner and for
any term the members may decide upon, and their duties shall be to arrange for
and manage any or all social functions sponsored by the members. The functions
and duties of the social officers shall in no way interfere with those of the
regular department officers who are charged with responsibility for all fire
service activities of the department. (1998 Code)
13-211: USE OF FIRE EQUIPMENT:
   A.   The department shall be equipped with such apparatus and other
equipment as maybe required from time to time to maintain its efficiency and
properly protect life and property from fire.
   B.   Recommendations of apparatus and equipment needed shall be made by the
chief, purchased after approval as other town purchases.
   C.   All equipment of the department shall be safely and conveniently housed
in such places as may be designated by the town board.
   D.   Suitable arrangements and equipment shall be provided for people to
turn in alarms and to notify members of the department so that they may
promptly respond.
   E.   No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any private
purpose, nor shall any person wilfully and without proper authority take away
or conceal any article used in any way by the department. No person shall enter
any place where fire apparatus is housed or handle any apparatus or equipment
belonging to the department unless accompanied by, or having the special
permission of, an officer or authorized member of the department. (1998 Code)
13-212: AUTHORITY OF FIREFIGHTERS AT FIRES:
The fire chief, assistant fire chiefs or other fire department officers in
charge shall have complete charge and control at all fires. Fire orders shall
be obeyed. The chief or his officers may prescribe limits in the vicinity of a
fire which no persons except those residing or owning property therein shall be
permitted to enter except on the order of the officer in command. Police
officers may aid in carrying into effect the provisions of this section. (1998
Code)
13-213: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The chief of the fire department and his designee may at all reasonable hours
enter any building or premises within his jurisdiction for the purpose of
making any inspection or investigation which, under the provisions of this
chapter and other provisions of this code, he may deem necessary to make. (1998
Code)
ARTICLE B. CALLS OUTSIDE LIMITS
13-221: POWER TO CONTRACT 1
:
The town is hereby authorized and empowered to enter into contracts or
agreements with individuals, firms, private corporations or associations, or
military installations or commands, or political subdivisions of the state for
fire protection outside the corporate limits of the town, and to contract to
provide fire protection jointly with other organizations and municipal
subdivisions of the state. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 29-105 et seq.
13-222: CONTRACTS FOR SERVICE:
Any contract entered into by the town, with an individual owner, a firm,
private corporation, association or political subdivision, for outside aid or
mutual aid for fire protection, shall provide for the payment by the owner,
firm, private corporation, association or political subdivision for such
service, equipment or personnel in an amount reached through negotiation by the
parties. (1998 Code)
13-223: AUTHORITY TO ANSWER CALLS:
The fire department is authorized to answer all calls within a distance of five
(5) miles of the nearest fire station, if first approved by the fire chief on
duty, and unless, in the opinion of the chief, it is inexpedient to do so on
account of another fire in the town, broken apparatus, impassable or dangerous
highways or other physical condition. The fire chief shall determine that the
equipment and personnel to be dispatched for such calls are not needed for
other purposes within the town. (1998 Code)
13-224: CHARGES FOR CALLS MADE OUTSIDE TOWN:
The town may enter into a contract with persons, organizations or associations
to provide fire protection service outside the town limits. Such contracts
shall be conditioned upon the determination of the fire chief that the property
in question is within a reasonable distance from the town and that prior to any
fire protection equipment being dispatched for any fire call for such property,
the fire chief on duty shall first approve such call and determine that the
equipment and personnel to be dispatched are not needed for other purposes
within the town. The charges for such calls shall be as specified in the fee
schedule. (1998 Code)
13-225: FIREFIGHTERS SERVING IN REGULAR LINE OF DUTY:
All firefighters attending and serving at fires or doing fire prevention work
outside the corporate limits of the town, as herein provided, shall be
considered as serving in their regular line of duty as fully as if they were
serving within the corporate limits of the town. The firefighters shall be
entitled to all the benefits of any fire pension and relief fund in the same
manner as if the firefighting or fire prevention work was being done within the
corporate limits of the town. (1998 Code)
13-226: DEPARTMENT CONSIDERED AGENT OF STATE:
The fire department when answering any fire alarm or call or performing any
fire prevention services outside the corporate limits of the town shall be
considered as an agent of the state, and acting solely and alone in a
governmental capacity, and the town shall not be liable in damages for any act
of commission, omission or negligence while answering or returning from any
fire, or reported fire, or doing any fire prevention work under and by virtue
of this article. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 3
POLICE SERVICES
SECTION:
13-301: Police Department Created; Chief
13-302: Duties
13-303: Officers
13-301: POLICE DEPARTMENT CREATED; CHIEF:
There shall be a police department, the head of which is the chief of police,
or the police chief, appointed by the town board of trustees and removable by
the town board. The police chief is an officer of the town and has supervision
and control of the police department. All police officers are officers of the
town. (1998 Code)
13-302: DUTIES:
It is the duty of the police department to apprehend and arrest on view or on
warrant and bring to justice violators of the ordinances of the town; to
suppress all riots, affrays and unlawful assemblies which may come to their
knowledge, and generally to keep the peace; to serve warrants, writs,
executions and other processes properly directed and delivered to them; to
apprehend and arrest persons violating federal or state laws as provided by
law, and to turn them over to proper authorities; and in all respects to
perform all duties pertaining to the offices of police officers. (1998 Code)
13-303: OFFICERS:
Police officers shall be appointed by the police chief subject to approval of
the board of trustees of the town. Police officers shall perform such duties as
shall be required of them by the police chief, the town ordinances, federal,
state or county laws or regulations, and other actions required in the
maintenance of good order and public peace. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 4
CIVIL DEFENSE
SECTION:
13-401: Purpose Of Chapter
13-402: Department
13-403: Responsibilities And Duties Of Director, Deputies
13-404: Emergency Powers Of Civil Defense Organization
13-401: PURPOSE OF CHAPTER:
The purpose of this chapter is to create an emergency management and civil
defense organization for the town to be prepared for, and to function in the
event of, emergencies endangering the lives and property of the people of the
town. The duty of such civil defense organization shall be the protection of
the lives and health of the citizens of the town and the property and property
rights, both private and public, and to perform all functions necessary and
incident thereto. (1998 Code)
13-402: DEPARTMENT:
The purpose of the civil defense department (hereinafter "department") is to
prepare for, and function in the event of, emergencies endangering the lives
and property of the citizens of the town. The department is headed by a
director, appointed by the town board of trustees for such compensation and
under such terms as the town board of trustees may establish. The director
serves at the pleasure of the town board of trustees. (1998 Code)
13-403: RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR, DEPUTIES:
   A.   The director of the department shall be the administrative head of the
department and shall be responsible for carrying out the emergency management
and civil defense program of the town in coordination with the civil defense
advisory committee. He shall have such further duties and responsibilities to
cooperate with all emergency services and civil defense agencies of other
governmental units including the state and the federal government.
   B.   The town board of trustees or the director, when empowered by the town
board of trustees, may designate some person as deputy director or assistant
director and shall prescribe the duties of the deputy or assistant from time to
time as necessary for the carrying out of the emergency management and civil
defense program of the town. The deputy director shall perform all duties of
the director upon the death, disability or illness, or separation from service
of the director. In addition to the foregoing duties, the deputy or assistant
shall render such aid and assistance and perform such duties under the
emergency management and civil defense program of the town as may be required
by the director. (1998 Code)
13-404: EMERGENCY POWERS OF CIVIL DEFENSE ORGANIZATION:
   A.   In the event of an enemy caused emergency or emergency resulting from
natural causes, the director, after due authorization from the mayor, shall
have the power and authority to enforce all rules and regulations relating to
emergency management and civil defense and, if necessary, to take control of
transportation, communications, stocks of fuel, food, clothing, medicine, and
public utilities for the purpose of protecting the civilian population. He
shall cooperate in every way with other governmental agencies, emergency
management services and civil defense organizations.
   B.   The director, other members of the department and members of any
emergency services and the civil defense organization established herein shall
have the power and authority to enforce the laws of the state and ordinances of
the town during the period of emergency, and shall at such time have the
further power to make arrests for violations of such laws or ordinances. (1998
Code)
CHAPTER 5
UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
SECTION:
13-501: Delivery Required; Records
13-502: Disposition Of Personal Property; General Procedures
13-503: Seized Property Related To Gambling, Report And Disposition
13-504: Seized Property Related To Alcoholic Beverages, Disposition
13-505: Property Of Deceased Persons
13-506: Exchange Of Unclaimed Or Confiscated Weapons
13-507: Recovery By Owner
13-501: DELIVERY REQUIRED; RECORDS 1
:
   A.   All personal property which comes into the possession of any police
officer, which has been found or stolen or taken off the person or out of the
possession of any prisoner or person suspected of or charged with being a
criminal, and which is not known to belong to some person laying claim thereto,
shall be, by the officer securing possession thereof, delivered into the charge
of the police chief. The police chief shall, in a permanent record book kept
for that purpose, make a record sufficient to identify the property, with the
date and circumstances of the receipt thereof and the name of the person from
whom it was taken and the place where it was found. The record shall also
disclose the subsequent disposal thereof, giving the date of sale, name and
address of the purchaser, and the amount for which it was sold.
   B.   For the purpose of this chapter, "police chief" means the police chief
or his designee. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 34-104; 15 OS § 511 et seq.; 22 OS §§ 1321 et seq., 1261 et seq.;
  37 OS § 539; 60 OS § 655.
13-502: DISPOSITION OF PERSONAL PROPERTY; GENERAL PROCEDURES 1
:
   A.   The police chief is authorized to sell personal property, other than
animals, money or legal tender of the United States, except as provided in
subsection B of this section, which has come into his possession in any manner
if:
      1.   The owner of the personal property is unknown or has not claimed the
property;
      2.   The property has been in the custody of the police chief for at
least six (6) months; or
      3.   The property or any part thereof is no longer needed to be held as
evidence or for any other purpose in connection with any litigation.
      Any owner, to recover or claim property, must be able to satisfactorily
prove ownership to the police chief.
   B.   Any property found by a person other than public official which shall
be delivered to any police officer for "identification" and registration, if
not claimed or identified within thirty (30) days, shall, within ten (10)
additional days thereafter, if requested by the finder, be returned to him, and
a record of such disposal made thereof. However, in all other cases, only
property in which the finder relinquishes any future claim to its ownership
will be stored in the town police property room.
   C.   The police chief shall file an application in the district court of the
county requesting the authority of the court to conduct a sale of such personal
property or money or legal tender which has a fair market value of more than
its face value. The police chief shall attach to his application a list
describing such property or money or legal tender including any identifying
numbers and marks, the date the property or money or legal tender came into his
possession, and the name of the owner and his address, if known. The court
shall set the application for hearing not less than ten (10) days nor more than
twenty (20) days after filing of the application.
   D.   In any instance where the property has an actual or apparent value of
more than twenty five dollars ($25.00), at least ten (10) days prior to the
date of the hearing, notice of the hearing shall be sent by certified mail to
each owner at his address as listed in the application. If the owner of any
property with an actual or apparent value exceeding five hundred dollars
($500.00) is unable to be served notice by certified mail, notice shall be
provided by one publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the town.
The notice shall contain a brief description of the property or money or legal
tender of the owner and the place and date of the hearing. The notice shall be
posted at the assigned place for the posting of town notices, and at two (2)
other public places in the town.
   E.   If no owner appears and establishes ownership to the property or money
or legal tender at the hearing, the court shall enter an order authorizing the
police chief to sell the personal property or money or legal tender for cash to
the highest bidder at an auction sale, after at least five (5) days' notice of
the sale has been published. The police chief shall thereafter make a return of
the sale, and the order of the court confirming the sale shall vest title to
the property or money or legal tender in the purchaser. The money received from
the sale of the personal property or money or legal tender shall be deposited
in the town's general fund after first paying court costs and other expenses.
   F.   All money or legal tender of the United States, except as provided in
subsection B of this section, which has come into the possession of the police
chief pursuant to the circumstances provided for in subsection A of this
section, shall be transferred by the police chief to the town clerk for deposit
in the general fund. Prior to any such transfer, the police chief shall file an
application in the district court requesting the court to enter an order
authorizing him to transfer the money for deposit in the general fund. The
application shall describe the money or legal tender, any serial numbers, the
date the same came into his possession, and the name of the owner and his
address, if known. Upon filing the application which may be joined with an
application as described in subsection B of this section, a hearing shall be
set not less than ten (10) days nor more than twenty (20) days from the filing
of the application. Notice of the hearing shall be given as provided for in
subsection C of this section. The notice shall state that upon failure of
anyone to appear to prove ownership to the money or legal tender, the court
shall order the same to be deposited in the general fund. The notice may be
combined with a notice to sell personal property as provided for in subsection
B of this section. If no one appears to claim and prove ownership to the money
or legal tender at the hearing, the court shall order the same to be
transferred to the general fund as provided in this subsection.
   G.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any dangerous or
deadly weapons, narcotic or poisonous drugs, explosives, or any property of any
kind or character, which the possession of is prohibited by law, nor to any
property for which a specific procedure is otherwise established by law,
ordinance or proper order. By order of the trial court, any such property filed
as an exhibit or held by the municipality shall be destroyed or sold or
disposed of, pursuant to the conditions prescribed in such order.
   H.   Property authorized to be destroyed herein or by state or other law, or
which cannot be sold or used by the town, shall be destroyed on order of the
police chief. The destruction of personal property must be witnessed by at
least three (3) members of the police department who must sign a certificate of
destruction listing all property destroyed, a general description of same, the
date, time, place and manner of such destruction. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 11 OS § 34-104.
13-503: SEIZED PROPERTY RELATED TO GAMBLING; REPORT AND DISPOSITION 1
:
   A.   If any personal property used for the purpose of violating any of the
gambling laws of this state, shall be seized by any officer or person with or
without a search warrant, such officer or person is hereby required within five
(5) days of the seizure to make a written report under oath and file the same
with the county clerk, which report shall in detail state the name of the
officer or person making the seizure, the place where seized and an inventory
of the property or articles so taken into possession. Within five (5) days
after seizing such property, the officer shall deliver the property to the
sheriff of the county and take the sheriff's receipt therefor, in duplicate,
and the sheriff shall retain the same and all thereof until the same shall be
destroyed pursuant to the orders of the court.
   B.   In computing the time, five (5) days, Sundays and holidays shall be
excluded and not counted.
   C.   A duplicate copy of the receipt shall be filed with the county clerk,
who shall keep a record of same. However, the sheriff and his deputies shall be
required to make the affidavit and issue the receipt and otherwise comply with
the provisions of this section. The sheriff shall be liable on his bond for the
safe keeping of all such property so turned over to him under the provisions of
this section. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 22 OS § 1261.
13-504: SEIZED PROPERTY RELATED TO ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; DISPOSITION 1
:
   A.   If town police officers seize:
      1.   Any apparatus, equipment, vehicle or instrumentality used for, or
intended for use in manufacturing or transporting any alcoholic beverages in
violation of the state alcoholic beverage control laws; or
      2.   Any alcoholic beverages possessed, sold, transported, manufactured,
kept or stored in violation of the state alcoholic beverage control laws, and
if the court finds from a preponderance of the evidence that the property
seized was lawfully subject to seizure, then the court shall render judgment
accordingly and order the property forfeited to the town in which the seizure
of the property took place. Such seized property shall be sold by the town,
after giving ten (10) days' notice by one publication in a legal newspaper of
the county at least ten (10) days before such sale. Appeal from such an order
may be taken as in civil cases. When such property is sold under the provisions
of this section, the proceeds thereof shall be distributed as follows:
         a. First, to the payment of the costs of the case in which the order
of forfeiture was made and the actual expenses of preserving the property; and
         b. Second, the remainder shall be deposited with the town. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 37 OS § 539.
13-505: PROPERTY OF DECEASED PERSONS:
The personal property of a deceased person shall be delivered only to the next
of kin of such person or to the legally appointed representative of his estate.
If the personal property is claimed by the legally appointed representative of
the estate of the deceased, a certified copy of the order of the district court
appointing such person shall be deemed sufficient authority to support the
claim. If the personal property is claimed by the next of kin, the claimant
shall furnish an affidavit to the effect that he is the person entitled to
possession of the property; the affidavit shall be deemed sufficient authority
to support the claim. If personal property of a deceased person remains
unclaimed for a period of ninety (90) days, it shall be disposed of in the
appropriate manner provided in this chapter. (1998 Code)
13-506: EXCHANGE OF UNCLAIMED OR CONFISCATED WEAPONS:
   A.   Unclaimed or confiscated weapons which have been in the possession of
the police department for one hundred twenty (120) days or more may be traded
by the police chief or his designee, for new weapons for use by the police
department. The unclaimed or confiscated weapons may only be traded to such gun
dealers who have complied with applicable state and federal regulations
concerning firearms and, in the opinion of the police chief or his designee,
are reputable.
   B.   In trading such unclaimed or confiscated weapons, the police chief or
his designee shall advertise for bids for such trade. Such advertisement for
bids shall be done in accordance with prevailing and established bid procedure
as formulated by the purchasing entity of the town.
   C.   The value of such unclaimed and confiscated weapons as hereinabove
discussed shall in all cases be determined by their fair market value of the
new weapons received in such trade. (1998 Code)
13-507: RECOVERY BY OWNER:
If any property is sold as herein provided, and the owner thereof takes and
recovers possession of same from the purchaser, the amount paid therefor shall
be returned to the purchaser, upon verified claim being submitted and approved
by the police chief. (1998 Code)
PART 14
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
14-101: Obstructions Generally
14-102: Interfering With Street, Free Flow Of Traffic
14-103: Removal Of Trees And Shrubs, Obstructing View Of Traffic
14-104: Display Of Goods, Wares And Merchandise For Sale
14-105: No Structures On Or Over Streets And Sidewalks
14-106: Playing Prohibited
14-107: Water On Streets; Water Not To Drain From Washing Vehicle
14-108: Unlawful To Injure Trees, Shrubbery
14-109: Signs Obstructing View, In Sight Triangle, Prohibited
14-110: Duties Of Owners And Occupants Of Adjacent Property Relative To
Sidewalk Obstructions, Hazards
14-111: Penalty
14-112: Prohibited Signs
14-101: OBSTRUCTIONS GENERALLY:
It is unlawful for any person to obstruct in any manner any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public way by leaving or permitting to remain thereon or
therein any vehicle, object, material, structure, fence or other obstruction of
any kind. (1998 Code)
14-102: INTERFERING WITH STREET, FREE FLOW OF TRAFFIC:
   A.   It is unlawful to:
      1.   Obstruct any public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any
other public place or building by hindering or impeding or tending to hinder or
impede the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or pedestrians;
or
      2.   Commit in or upon any public street, public highway, public sidewalk
or any other public place or building any act or thing which is an obstruction
or interference to the free and uninterrupted use of property or with any
business lawfully conducted by anyone in or upon or facing or fronting on any
such public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any other public place
or building, all of which prevents the free and uninterrupted ingress, egress,
and regress, therein, thereon and thereto.
   B.   Subject to the restrictions in subsection A of this section, golf
carts, privately or publicly owned, but not ATVs or similar vehicles, may be
operated on public rights-of-way under the following conditions:
      1.   Operation shall be during daylight hours only with "daylight hours"
being defined as beginning half an hour after sunrise and ending half an hour
before sunset.
      2.   Operation must not occur on any State or Federal highway except to
cross such a highway as expediently as possible after making a complete stop
before proceeding across such State or Federal highway.
      3.   All operators of golf carts must be licensed drivers and must be
eighteen (18) years of age or older.
      4.   All operators of golf carts must have liability insurance in the
minimum amounts established by the State of Oklahoma for motorized vehicles and
provide proof of such liability insurance upon request of any law enforcement
officer.
      5.   All State, County and local laws and regulations pertaining to
motorized vehicles shall govern the operation of golf carts and all such laws
and regulations shall be observed and obeyed by anyone operating a golf cart on
public rights-of-way.
   C.   When any person violates any of the provisions of subsection A or B of
this section, a police officer or any law enforcement officer shall order that
person to stop violating such provisions and to move on or disburse, or to
remove any obstructions. Any person who fails or refuses to obey such orders
shall be guilty of a violation of this section and an offense.
   D.   Before the closing of any public way or easement, a public hearing
shall be had to determine the feasibility of any such closing. All owners of
property, utilities and easements which could in any way be adversely affected
by such closing shall be afforded thirty (30) days' notice of the public
hearing to be had thereon. At the public hearing held thereon a determination
shall be made that such closing be deemed necessary or expedient. (Ord. 2013-1,
4-3-2013)
14-103: REMOVAL OF TREES AND SHRUBS, OBSTRUCTING VIEW OF TRAFFIC 1
:
   A.   The owner of every lot or parcel of land in the town upon which any
trees, shrubs or plants are growing, or upon which any obstruction has been
placed, shall remove such trees, shrubs, plants or obstruction, or parts
thereof, if they are so situated as to constitute a traffic hazard by
obstructing the view of any driver of any vehicle on the streets of the town to
the extent that the driver is unable to observe the approach of other vehicles
on streets and alleys and at intersections.
   B.   The owner of any premises abutting on any street shall trim all trees
and shrubbery growing in the parking, between the sidewalks and the roadway, of
any such street, and all trees and shrubbery growing on any part of the
premises adjacent to the sidewalks or any street or alley in such manner that
the boughs or limbs thereof shall not obstruct free and convenient passage,
sight and travel along the streets, sidewalks and alleys. If premises are
occupied by some person other than the owner, such occupant shall trim the
trees and shrubbery in the same manner as hereinbefore required of the owner.
Such trees and shrubbery shall be trimmed so that the lowest branches or
foliage shall not be lower than ten feet (10') above the roadway of a street or
alley, nor lower than eight feet (8') above the sidewalk.
   C.   Any owner or occupant who fails, refuses or neglects to trim trees and
shrubbery as provided in this section, after receiving five (5) days' notice
from the town clerk or his designee to do so, is guilty of an offense against
the town. In addition to any fine or punishment as an offense, the town may act
to abate the nuisance. Every day that the owner or occupant fails, refuses or
neglects to trim such trees or shrubbery after the expiration of the five (5)
days' notice shall be a separate offense. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also part 8, chapter 2 of this code.
14-104: DISPLAY OF GOODS, WARES AND MERCHANDISE FOR SALE:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this code, it is unlawful for any
person to display any goods, wares or merchandise for sale, or to sell the
same, on any street, alley or sidewalk, or from any vehicle parked thereon, in
the corporate limits of the town. Each separate sale or offer to sell in
violation hereof shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   Any vehicle parked on the streets, alleys or sidewalks for the purpose
of making merchandise available for sale by the methods prohibited by this
section shall be promptly moved by the driver upon order of the police of the
town, and if not promptly moved, the same shall be towed from such location
upon order of the police department, and the driver or custodian of the vehicle
shall also be deemed guilty of an offense.
   C.   In each instance where an individual is guilty of an offense under the
provisions of this section, the person for whom such individual is acting in
the capacity of an agent or employee shall be guilty of a separate offense.
(1998 Code)
14-105: NO STRUCTURES ON OR OVER STREETS AND SIDEWALKS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to erect or construct, or cause to be
erected or constructed, any cellar or basement way, stairway, door, awning
post, canopy or any other kind of structure projecting into, upon or over, and
adjoining any street or sidewalk within the town, except that the building
official may, in his discretion, authorize the same to be done, where the
public health, safety and necessity demand, by granting a permit therefor.
   B.   Upon the granting of a permit under this section, conditions as to the
erection of the structure through, upon or over any street or sidewalk may be
fixed by the town, and a contract shall be entered into as to the maintenance
of the structure and as an indemnifying agreement secured, indemnifying and
saving the town harmless from any loss, costs or damage by reason of the
structure projecting into, upon or over, and adjoining any street or sidewalk
within the fire limits of the town. (1998 Code)
14-106: PLAYING PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to engage in any sport, game, amusement or to
play in, on or across the main traveled portion of any sidewalk, street, avenue
or alley of the Town except as may be authorized by ordinance. (1998 Code)
14-107: WATER ON STREETS; WATER NOT TO DRAIN FROM WASHING VEHICLE:
It is unlawful for any person to wash or drain into any street, alley or other
public place in the Town any water from his house or premises or to allow any
filth or water to escape from his premises upon any of the places above
mentioned or upon property contiguous thereto. No auto or other vehicle shall
be washed at any place within the Town where the water, dirt, or other
substances removed therefrom will drain into any street or sidewalk of the
Town. (1998 Code)
14-108: UNLAWFUL TO INJURE TREES, SHRUBBERY:
It is unlawful for any person to injure any tree or shrubbery on a street or
alley in the Town. This section shall not prohibit the lawful and proper care
and removal of such trees and shrubbery. (1998 Code)
14-109: SIGNS OBSTRUCTING VIEW, IN SIGHT TRIANGLE, PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to otherwise place any object, vehicle or
structure on or so near to any street right-of-way such that same constitutes a
traffic or safety hazard for either pedestrians or vehicular traffic traveling
on or onto the street.
   B.   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to erect, construct,
locate, maintain or allow to remain on his property any sign, fence or
structure within an area known as the "sight triangle", which is defined as
that area formed by measuring from the point of intersection of two (2) lot
lines a distance of twenty five feet (25') along each lot line and connecting
the points so established to create a triangle with sides abutting street
right-of-way. Any sign, fence or structure placed or located in the area is
hereby determined to be a public nuisance, and the Town is authorized to cause
the structure, fence or sign to be removed. (1998 Code)
14-110: DUTIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS OF ADJACENT PROPERTY RELATIVE TO
SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTIONS, HAZARDS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to allow any obstruction of any kind to
accumulate in the sidewalk in front of his premises. All owners and occupants
of property are required to keep their premises and the sidewalks, gutters,
streets and alleys adjacent thereto free from weeds, trash and all obstructions
and to remove such weeds, trash and obstructions from such places.
   B.   It is unlawful to deposit, throw or sweep into or upon a street, alley,
parking or sidewalk of the Town any trash, weeds, tree trimmings, dirt or any
other refuse of any kind.
   C.   It is unlawful for the owner or occupant of property abutting upon a
sidewalk or sidewalk area to permit the sidewalk or sidewalk area adjacent to
the property to become a hazard to persons using the sidewalk or sidewalk area.
(1998 Code)
14-111: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of an offense,
and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this Code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall constitute
a separate offense. (1998 Code)
14-112: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
   A.   Signs In Rights-Of-Way: No sign other than an official traffic sign or
other official sign erected with local, State or Federal authorization shall be
permitted to be located within two feet (2') of the edge of any street, or
within any easement, right-of- way, alley, road or public way, unless
specifically authorized by ordinance, State or Federal law.
   B.   Traffic Hazard: No sign shall be permitted to be located in such a
manner as to obstruct or otherwise interfere with an official traffic sign,
signal or device, or obstruct or interfere with a driver or pedestrian's view
of approaching, merging or intersecting traffic.
   C.   Attachment To Poles In The Right-Of-Way: Except as otherwise provided
in subsection A of this section, no sign shall be permitted to encroach upon or
overhang any public right-of-way or be attached to any utility pole, traffic
light poles or any other public facility or structure located within the public
right-of- way.
   D.   Penalty: No person, firm, corporation or any other entity shall violate
any subsection of this section, by placing of a prohibited sign, or failure to
remove a prohibited sign after notice by the Town, or permitting a prohibited
sign to remain on any property owned or controlled by such person, firm,
corporation or any other entity, or by any other act or omission that would
violate this section, and if convicted of the same, shall be guilty of any
offense and pay a fine of up to two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), plus court
costs, State assessments and fees; provided each day of continued violation
shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 2017-2, 10-12-2017)
CHAPTER 2
CURB AND STREET CUTS
SECTION:
Article A.    Street Cuts
14-201: Unlawful To Cut Without Permit
14-202: Permit
14-203: Fee
14-204: Notification Of Completion Of Work
14-205: No Delays
Article B.    Curb Cuts
14-211: Permit For Curb Cuts
14-212: Fee
14-213: Inspection
14-214: Penalty
ARTICLE A. STREET CUTS
14-201: UNLAWFUL TO CUT WITHOUT PERMIT:
It is unlawful for any person to cut the pavement or curb in or on any of the
streets, sidewalks, avenues or alleys in the town for the purpose of laying
pipe or other connections for utilities, or to cut or otherwise injure the
pavement or curb on any of the streets, sidewalks, avenues or alleys for any
purpose whatsoever without a permit therefor as provided by this chapter. (1998
Code)
14-202: PERMIT:
Every person who desires to lay pipes or lines for the purpose of making and
preparing any connections to utilities which will require the cutting of the
pavement to make such connections shall make application for and procure from
the town a written permit to cut such pavement or curb and make such
installations for the proposed purpose or otherwise. No person shall have any
right or authority to construct or install any pipes or lines or otherwise cut
the pavement or curbs without first having secured such permit. (1998 Code)
14-203: FEE:
Any person desiring to cut the pavement or other hard surface on any street or
sidewalk in the town shall pay a fee for the permit. The fee shall be in such
amount as set by the town board by motion or resolution. (1998 Code)
14-204: NOTIFICATION OF COMPLETION OF WORK:
All permittees, when they have completed the work for which such cut has been
made, shall notify the town of the completion of such work in order that the
same may be inspected and approved. (1998 Code)
14-205: NO DELAYS:
Any permittee cutting pavement by virtue of a permit as authorized herein shall
perform the excavation or other work without delay or interruption. (1998 Code)
ARTICLE B. CURB CUTS
14-211: PERMIT FOR CURB CUTS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to cut, break, tear out or remove the
curbing or any part thereof along the street in the town for any purpose except
in accordance with this article. Any person desiring to cut any curbing in the
town shall first obtain a permit from the town before doing so. Application for
such permit shall be in writing to the town and shall state the time and place
that applicant desires to break the curbing. The application shall contain such
other information as is required by the town.
   B.   The town may, in its discretion, refuse to approve any permit to cut
any curbing along the streets of the town when the cutting of the curbing shall
constitute a traffic hazard, or interfere in any way with the safety of the
public in the use of the street or adjacent sidewalk, or in any way deteriorate
or damage the street or interfere with the use thereof by the public. Only such
portions of any curbing may be cut or removed as in the opinion of the building
officer may be consistent with and not detrimental to the general public
welfare. (1998 Code)
14-212: FEE:
A fee as set by the town board of trustees by motion or resolution shall be
paid to the town prior to obtaining the permit required in this article. (1998
Code)
14-213: INSPECTION:
The removing of such curbing, the construction of the driveway and all other
parts of the work in connection therewith shall be subject to the inspection
and approval of the town. (1998 Code)
14-214: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (1998 Code)
PART 15
TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS AND ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
15-101: Definitions
15-102: Application Of Regulations
15-103: Vehicle Equipment Generally
15-104: Size, Weight Of Vehicles
15-105: Securing Loads
15-106: Inspection Of Vehicles By Officers
15-107: Opening And Closing Vehicle Doors
15-108: Boarding Or Alighting From Vehicles
15-109: Unlawful Riding
15-110: Authorizing Or Permitting Violations Prohibited
15-111: Application To Animal Drawn Vehicles
15-112: Working On Streets; Exceptions
15-113: Authorized Emergency Vehicles
15-114: Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicles
15-115: Following Fire Apparatus Prohibited
15-116: Crossing Fire Hose
15-117: Duty Of Police
15-118: Accidents, Duty To Stop, Leaving Scene Of Accident
15-119: Issuance Of Citation Tags
15-120: Failure To Obey Citation
15-121: Failure To Comply With Traffic Citations Attached To Parked Vehicle
15-122: Illegal Cancellation Of Traffic Citations
15-123: Disposition And Records Of Traffic Citations, Warrants, And Complaints
15-124: Court Records; Abstract To Be Sent To State Department Of Public Safety
15-125: Adoption Of State Traffic Code
15-126: Insurance Or Certificate Required
15-127: Truck Routes
15-101: DEFINITIONS 1
:
For the purposes of this part the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them. However, for any words and phrases used
in this part which are not defined in this section, but are defined in the laws
of the state regulating traffic, the definition in the laws of the state shall
be deemed to apply to the words and phrases used in this part.
ALLEY: A public passageway or street which affords only secondary means of
vehicular access to abutting property, and having no legal or official name
other than alley.
BICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having two (2) or three (3) tandem wheels any of which is more than twenty
inches (20") in diameter.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: Every vehicle designed, maintained, or used primarily for
the transportation of property.
CURB LOADING ZONE: A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
EMERGENCY VEHICLES: Vehicles of fire departments, police vehicles and
ambulances.
INTERSECTION: The area embraced within the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two (2) streets or highways which join one another at, or
approximately at, right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling
upon different streets or highways joining at any other angle may come in
conflict.
LANED ROADWAY: A roadway which is divided into two (2) or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which is
propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails.
MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with
the ground, but excluding a tractor.
OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD: Whenever certain hours are named herein they shall mean
standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in this town.
OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES: All signs, signals, markings and devices not
inconsistent with this code placed or erected by authority of a public body or
official having jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding
traffic.
PARK OR PARKING: The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, other than
temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading merchandise or passengers.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
POLICE OFFICER: Any officer of the town police department or any other officer
authorized by law to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for
violations of traffic regulations.
PRIVATE ROAD OR ROADWAY: Every way or place in private ownership and used for
vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
RAILROAD: A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails.
RAILROAD TRAIN: A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without cars
coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
ROADWAY: That portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a street
includes two (2) or more separate roadways the term "roadway" as used herein
shall refer to any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways
collectively.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral lines
of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for use of pedestrians.
STAND OR STANDING: The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, other
than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving or discharging
passengers.
STOP: When required, complete cessation from movement. When prohibited, stop or
stopping means any halting even momentarily of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic control sign or
signal.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
THROUGH STREET: Every street or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic is
given preferential right of way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting streets is required by law to yield right of way to
vehicles on such through street in obedience to either a stop sign or a yield
sign, when such signs are erected as provided in this part.
TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any street for purposes of
travel.
TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL: Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated by which traffic alternately is directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 1-101 et seq.
15-102: APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   The provisions of this part shall apply to every street, highway,
alley, roadway, sidewalk, driveway, park area, every other public way either
within or outside the corporate limits of the town, the use of which the town
has jurisdiction and authority to regulate, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Those dedicated to or acquired by the public for public use;
      2.   Those upon land owned by the town;
      3.   Those upon land owned by any other governmental unit, but the
regulation of the use of which has been given to the town;
      4.   Those upon private property, the regulation of the use of which has
been given to the town. (1998 Code)
15-103: VEHICLE EQUIPMENT GENERALLY 1
:
   A.   Every vehicle operated upon the streets of the town shall be equipped
as required by law. It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Operate a vehicle upon a street of the town which is not equipped as
required by law;
      2.   Fail to use such equipment in the manner required by law, or to use
it in a manner prohibited by law; or
      3.   Operate a vehicle which has equipment prohibited by law upon a
street in the town. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 12-101 et seq.
15-104: SIZE, WEIGHT OF VEHICLES 1
:
   A.   No person shall drive on or convey through any street any vehicle the
width, height, length, weight, or load of which exceeds that authorized by
state law, except in accordance with a permit issued by state authority or by
the chief of police.
   B.   No vehicle weighing more than ten (10) tons shall be operated upon the
streets, alleys and other public ways within the town, except on state
highways. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS § 14-101 et seq.
15-105: SECURING LOADS:
   A.   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street or alley unless the
vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand or
salt may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other
substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining the
roadway.
   B.   No person shall operate on any street or alley any vehicle with any
load unless the load, and any covering thereon, is securely fastened so as to
prevent the covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a
hazard to other users of the streets or alleys.
   C.   This section shall not apply to trucks loaded only with livestock,
poultry or agricultural products except baled agricultural products but any
such truck shall be constructed or loaded as to prevent the livestock or
poultry from escaping therefrom. (1998 Code)
15-106: INSPECTION OF VEHICLES BY OFFICERS:
Police officers have authority to inspect and test any vehicle upon the streets
of the town at any time to determine whether it is safe, whether it is properly
equipped, and whether its equipment is in proper adjustment or repair. (1998
Code)
15-107: OPENING AND CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS 1
:
No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-1105.
15-108: BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES:
No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion. (1998 Code)
15-109: UNLAWFUL RIDING:
No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designed or
intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to persons riding
within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise. (1998 Code)
15-110: AUTHORIZING OR PERMITTING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED:
No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a vehicle owned by him,
registered in his name or under his control to be driven, parked or stopped in
violation of any provision of this part. No parent of any child or guardian of
any ward shall cause, authorize or knowingly permit such child or ward to
violate any provision of this part. (1998 Code)
15-111: APPLICATION TO ANIMAL DRAWN VEHICLES 1
:
Every person propelling any pushcart or riding an animal upon a roadway, and
every person driving any animal drawn vehicle, shall be subject to the
provisions of this part applicable to the driver of any vehicle except those
provisions of this part which by their very nature can have no application.
(1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-104.
15-112: WORKING ON STREETS; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Town employees or contractors, while repairing or improving the streets
of the town, and utility company personnel, when installing, improving, or
repairing lines or other utility facilities in the streets, are hereby
authorized as necessary, subject to control by the board of trustees, to close
any street or section thereof to traffic during such repair, maintenance, or
construction. In exercising such authority, the employees, personnel or
contractors shall erect or cause to be erected proper control devices and
barricades to warn and notify the public that the street has been closed to
traffic.
   B.   When any street has been closed to traffic under the provisions of
subsection A of this section and traffic control devices or barricades have
been erected, it is unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle through,
under, over, or around the traffic control devices or barricades, or otherwise
to enter the closed area. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to
persons while engaged in the construction, maintenance, and repair, or to
persons entering therein for the protection of lives or property. Persons
having their places of residence or places of business within the closed area
may travel, when possible to do so, through the area at their own risk.
   C.   Whenever construction, repair, or maintenance of any street or utility
line or facility is being performed under traffic, the employees, personnel, or
contractor concerned shall erect, or cause to be erected, traffic control
devices to warn and guide the public; and every person using the street shall
obey all signs, signals, markings, flagmen, or other traffic control devices
which are placed to regulate, control, and guide traffic through the
construction or maintenance area. (1998 Code)
15-113: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES 1
:
The provisions of this part shall not apply to a driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle, when responding to an emergency call or when in the pursuit
of an actual or suspected violator of the law or when responding to but not
upon returning from a fire alarm. The exemptions herein granted to an
authorized emergency vehicle shall apply only when the driver of the vehicle
while in motion sounds audible signal by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle as may
be reasonably necessary, and when the vehicle is equipped with at least one
lighted lamp displaying a red light visible under normal atmospheric conditions
from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the front of the vehicle, except
that an authorized emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be
equipped with or display a red light visible from in front of the vehicle.
These provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons,
nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of his
reckless disregard for the safety of others. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-106.
15-114: APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES 1
:
Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making use of
audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws of this state,
or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible signal
only, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right of way and shall
immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to the
right hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any intersection and shall stop
and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed,
except when otherwise directed by a police officer. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS § 11-405.
15-115: FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS PROHIBITED 1
:
The driver of any vehicle other than on official business shall not follow any
fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than five hundred
feet (500') or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where fire
apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. 47 OS § 11-1108(a).
15-116: CROSSING FIRE HOSE 1
:
No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department when
laid down on any street or private driveway, to be used at any fire or alarm of
fire, without the consent of the fire department official in command. (1998
Code)
 
Notes
1 4. 47 OS § 11-1109.
15-117: DUTY OF POLICE:
The police department shall have the power to enforce the street traffic
regulations of this town and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street
traffic in this town, to make arrests for traffic violations, to investigate
accidents and to cooperate with the officers of the town in the administration
of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve traffic
conditions. Officers of the fire department, when at the scene of a fire or
other emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic there or
in the immediate vicinity. (1998 Code)
15-118: ACCIDENTS, DUTY TO STOP, LEAVING SCENE OF ACCIDENT 1
:
   A.   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury
to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle or property shall
immediately stop his vehicle at the scene of such accident, or as close thereto
as possible, return to and remain at the scene of the accident until he has
given his name, address and the registration of his vehicle and shall upon
request exhibit his driver's license to the person injured or the driver or
occupant of, or person attending, any vehicle collided with, and shall render
to any person injured in such accident reasonable assistance, including the
carrying or making arrangement for the carrying of such persons to a physician,
surgeon or hospital for medical and surgical treatment if it is apparent that
this treatment is necessary, or if such is requested by the injured person.
Each such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary.
   B.   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
resulting in bodily injury to or death of any person or in which it is apparent
that damage to one vehicle or to the property is in excess of three hundred
dollars ($300.00) shall, as soon as practicable, report such accident to a
police officer or to the police department. If a driver makes out a written
report of the accident in the office of the police department as soon as
practicable after the accident, which report is to be forwarded to the state
department of public safety in accordance with state law, the driver shall be
deemed to be in compliance with this section.
   C.   Any person failing to stop or to comply with any of the requirements of
this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall
be fined as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 10-101 et seq.
15-119: ISSUANCE OF CITATION TAGS:
   A.   The chief of police is hereby authorized and directed to supply police
officers with citation tags in sets, each set consisting of an original and at
least two (2) duplicate copies, for the purpose of giving notice to persons
violating any provision of this part.
   B.   Notice may be given by delivering the tags to the violator or by
affixing it to the vehicle involved in the violation.
   C.   Each citation tag shall direct the violator to appear and to present
such tag at a designated place on or before a date and hour specified thereon.
Each tag shall bear the registration number of the vehicle.
   D.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to abridge the power of a
police officer to arrest any violator and take him into custody.
   E.   The town board of trustees may require that the police officers use
citation tags furnished by the finance department and that such tags are
serially numbered, and may regulate the use and handling of the citation tags.
(1998 Code)
15-120: FAILURE TO OBEY CITATION:
It is unlawful and an offense for any person to violate his written promise to
appear, given to an officer upon the issuance of a traffic citation regardless
of the disposition of the charge for which citation was originally issued.
(1998 Code)
15-121: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH TRAFFIC CITATIONS ATTACHED TO PARKED VEHICLE:
If a violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing, or parking under the
traffic laws or ordinances does not appear in response to a traffic citation
affixed to such motor vehicle within a period of five (5) days, the clerk of
the municipal court may send to the owner of the motor vehicle to which the
traffic citation was affixed a letter informing him of the violation and
warning him that in the event such letter is disregarded for a period of five
(5) days, a warrant of arrest may be issued. On any occasion where two (2) or
more such traffic citations have been affixed on the same motor vehicle and the
traffic citations have been disregarded, a warrant of arrest may be issued
without sending the letter provided in this section. (1998 Code)
15-122: ILLEGAL CANCELLATION OF TRAFFIC CITATIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to cancel or solicit the cancellation of any
traffic citation in any manner other than is provided by this chapter. (1998
Code)
15-123: DISPOSITION AND RECORDS OF TRAFFIC CITATIONS, WARRANTS, AND COMPLAINTS:
   A.   Every police officer upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of the motor vehicle laws of this state or any
traffic law of this town shall deposit the original and a duplicate copy of the
citation with his immediate superior officer, who shall cause the original to
be delivered to the municipal court.
   B.   Upon the filing of the original citation in the municipal court, the
citation may be disposed of only by trial in the court or by other official
action by a judge of the court, including forfeiture of bail or by payment of a
fine.
   C.   The chief of police shall maintain a record of all warrants issued by
the municipal court which are delivered to the police department for service,
and of the final disposition of the warrants.
   D.   No member of the police department or other officer or public employee
shall dispose of, alter, or deface a traffic citation or any copy thereof, or
the record of the issuance or disposition of any traffic citation, complaint,
or warrant, in a manner other than as required in this chapter. (1998 Code)
15-124: COURT RECORDS; ABSTRACT TO BE SENT TO STATE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC
SAFETY:
   A.   The municipal court clerk shall keep a record of every traffic citation
deposited with or presented to the court and shall keep a record of every
official action by the court or its traffic violations bureau in reference
thereto, including, but not limited to, a record of every conviction,
forfeiture of bail, judgment of acquittal, and the amount of fine or
forfeiture.
   B.   Within ten (10) days after the conviction or forfeiture of bail of a
person upon a charge of violating any provision of this chapter or other law
regulating the operation of vehicles on highways the municipal judge or clerk
of the court in which the conviction was had or bail was forfeited shall
prepare and immediately forward to the state department of public safety a
certified abstract of the court's record of the case. An abstract need not be
made of any conviction involving the illegal parking or standing of a vehicle.
   C.   The abstract must be made upon a form furnished by the state department
of public safety and shall include the name and address of the party charged,
the number of his operator's or chauffeur's license, the registration number of
the vehicle involved, the nature of the offense, the date of hearing, the plea,
the judgment, whether bail was forfeited, and the amount of the fine or
forfeiture. (1998 Code)
15-125: ADOPTION OF STATE TRAFFIC CODE 1
:
The provisions of the state motor vehicle code, 47 Oklahoma Statutes section
1-101 et seq., and the rules of the road, 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 10-101
et seq., are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference, and are
enforceable by the town within the town limits as fully as if set out at length
herein. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS §§ 10-101 et seq., 1-101 et seq.
15-126: INSURANCE OR CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
   A.   The owner of a motor vehicle registered in this state and operating the
vehicle within the town's boundaries, shall carry in such vehicle at all times
a current owner's security verification form listing the vehicle, or an
equivalent form which has been used by the state department of public safety
which shall be produced by any driver thereof upon request for inspection by
any law enforcement officer and, in case of a collision, the form shall be
shown upon request to any person affected by the collision.
   B.   The following shall not be required to carry an owner's or operator's
security verification form or an equivalent form from the department during
operation of the vehicle and shall not be required to surrender such form for
vehicle registration purposes:
      1.   Any vehicle owned or leased by the federal or state government, or
any agency or political subdivision thereof;
      2.   Any vehicle bearing the name, symbol or logo of the business,
corporation or utility on the exterior and which is in compliance with the
compulsory insurance law according to records of the department of public
safety which reflect a deposit, bond, self- insurance, or fleet policy;
      3.   Any vehicle authorized for operation, under a permit number issued
by the interstate commerce commission, or the Oklahoma corporation commission;
      4.   Any licensed taxicab; and
      5.   Any vehicle owned by a licensed motor vehicle dealer.
   C.   For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
    COMPULSORY INSURANCE LAW: The law requiring liability insurance in
conjunction with the operation of a motor vehicle in this state as found in
Oklahoma Statutes article VI, chapter 7, and 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 7-
606.
   OPERATOR'S POLICY: An operator's policy of liability insurance which shall
insure the named person against loss from the liability imposed upon him by law
for damages arising out of the operation or use by him of any motor vehicle not
owned by him, subject to the same limits of liability required in an owner's
policy.
   OWNER'S POLICY: An owner's policy of liability insurance which:
      1.   Shall designate by explicit description or by appropriate reference
all vehicles with respect to which coverage is thereby to be granted;
      2.   Shall insure the person named therein and insure any other person,
except as provided in subsection 3 of this definition, using an insured vehicle
with the express or implied permission of the named insured, against loss from
the liability imposed by law for damages arising out of the ownership,
maintenance, operation or use of such vehicle;
      3.   May provide for exclusions from coverage in accordance with existing
laws; and
      4.   Shall be issued by an authorized carrier providing coverage in
accordance with 47 Oklahoma Statutes section
7-204.
   SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM: A form, approved by the state board for property
and casualty rates, verifying the existence of security required by the
compulsory insurance law of the state of Oklahoma.
   SECURITY:
      1.   A policy or bond meeting the requirements of 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section
7-204;
      2.   A deposit of cash or securities having the equivalency of limits
required under 47 Oklahoma Statutes section
7-204 as acceptable limits for a policy or bond; or
      3.   Self-insurance, pursuant to the provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section
7-503, having the equivalency of limits required under 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section
7-204 as acceptable limits for a policy or bond.
   D.   Every operator of a motor vehicle registered in this state, shall while
operating or using such vehicle within the city's boundaries, carry either an
operator's or an owner's security verification form issued by a carrier,
providing the operator is not excluded from coverage thereon; or an equivalent
form issued by the department of public safety, reflecting liability coverage.
   E.   An owner or operator who fails to produce for inspection a valid and
current security verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by
the department upon request of any peace officer of the department shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be subject to a fine as
provided in section
1-108 of this code.
   F.   A sentence imposed for any violation of this section may be suspended
or deferred in whole or in part by the court.
   G.   Any person producing proof in court that a current security
verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by the department
reflecting this liability coverage for such person was in force at the time of
the alleged offense shall be entitled to dismissal of such charge.
   H.   Upon conviction, bond forfeiture or deferral of sentence, the court
clerk shall forward an abstract to the state department of public safety within
ten (10) days reflecting the action taken by the court. (1998 Code)
15-127: TRUCK ROUTES:
   A.   Truck routes through the town of Beaver shall be:
      Douglas Avenue also known as Highway 270.
      Main Street commencing on Douglas Avenue and ending at the livestock
yards.
   B.   These designated truck routes are to be used by trucks weighing fifty
six thousand five hundred eighty (56,580) pounds or less. (Res., 3-6-1995)
CHAPTER 2
OPERATION OF VEHICLES GENERALLY, PARKING AND SPEED
SECTION:
Article A.    General Provisions
15-201: Operation Of Vehicles Generally
15-202: Driver's License Required
15-203: Vehicle License Required
15-204: Unlicensed Vehicles
15-205: Display Of Inspection Sticker
15-206: Starting A Parked Vehicle
15-207: Drive On Right Side Of Roadway; Exceptions
15-208: Right Of Way Generally
15-209: Vehicle Turning Left
15-210: Reckless Driving
15-211: Driving While Impaired Or Under The Influence Of Intoxicating Liquor Or
Narcotics
15-212: Driving On Sidewalk
15-213: Limitations On Backing
15-214: Corner Cutting
15-215: Emerging From Alley, Driveway Or Building
15-216: Seat Belts And Child Passenger Restraints Required
15-217: Texting While Driving Prohibited
Article B.    Speed Regulations
15-220: General Rule For Speed Regulations
15-221: General Maximum Speed Limit
15-222: School Zones; Speed, Designation
Article C.    Parking Regulations
15-230: Obstructing Traffic Or Driveways
15-231: Park Within Indicated Space
15-232: Proximity To Curb, Parallel Parking
15-233: Angle Parking, Designation
15-234: Obedience To Angle Parking Rules
15-235: Parking Prohibitions In Specific Areas
15-236: Designation Of Loading Zones
15-237: Standing In Loading Zone
15-238: Prohibition Against Selling Merchandise From Parked Vehicles
15-239: Presumption In Reference To Illegal Parking
15-240: Handicapped Parking, Enforcement On Public Or Private Property
15-241: Truck And Other Large Vehicle Parking Restrictions
Article D.    Turning And Signals
15-250: Required Position, Method Of Turning At Intersections
15-251: Turns And U-Turns
15-252: Turning, Stopping Signals Required
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
15-201: OPERATION OF VEHICLES GENERALLY 1 :
Every person operating a vehicle in the town shall at all times operate the
vehicle in a prudent and careful manner and in compliance with the laws of the
town and state, having due regard for other vehicles, rights of pedestrians,
and property of others. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS §
  11-101 et seq.
15-202: DRIVER'S LICENSE REQUIRED 1 :
It is unlawful for any person who does not have a driver's license as required
by state law for operation of a vehicle upon the state highways, to operate a
motor vehicle within the town, or to operate a motor vehicle within the town in
violation of any restriction applied to the driver's license. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS §
  6-101 et seq.
15-203: VEHICLE LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall drive, propel, move, or park on the streets of this town any
motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer unless the motor vehicle, trailer, or
semitrailer is licensed as required by state law and the license is
conspicuously displayed thereon. (1998 Code)
15-204: UNLICENSED VEHICLES:
It is unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle not bearing a current
motor vehicle license tag or tags on any street or highway within the town.
(1998 Code)
15-205: DISPLAY OF INSPECTION STICKER:
No motor vehicle shall be operated on the streets of this town which does not
have displayed thereon an official inspection sticker as required by 47
Oklahoma Statutes sections 851 through 861, as amended. (1998 Code)
15-206: STARTING A PARKED VEHICLE:
No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked unless
and until such movement can be made in safety. (1998 Code)
15-207: DRIVE ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS 1 :
   A. Upon all roadways of sufficient width a vehicle shall be driven upon the
right half of the roadway, except:
      1. When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement; or
      2. When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair.
Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed of
traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing shall be
driven in the right hand lane when available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-301.
15-208: RIGHT OF WAY GENERALLY:
The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the right of
way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different street,
provided that the driver of a vehicle on a street which is not a state or
federal highway approaching an intersection with a state or federal highway
shall stop and yield the right of way to a vehicle which has entered the
intersection or which is so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
When two (2) vehicles enter or approach an intersection from different highways
at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall
yield the right of way to the vehicle on the right. (1998 Code)
15-209: VEHICLE TURNING LEFT 1 :
The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn left shall
yield the right of way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction
which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an
immediate hazard; but the driver, having so yielded and having given a signal
when and as required by this part, may make such left turn, and the drivers of
all other vehicles approaching the intersection from such opposite direction
shall yield the right of way to the vehicle making the left turn. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS § 11-402.
15-210: RECKLESS DRIVING 1 :
It is unlawful for any person to drive recklessly in the town. Reckless driving
shall include any person who drives a motor vehicle in wilful or wanton
disregard for the safety of persons or property or at a heedless or dangerous
rate of speed. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-901.
15-211: DRIVING WHILE IMPAIRED OR UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR OR
NARCOTICS 1 :
   A. It is unlawful for any person who is under the influence of intoxicating
liquor to drive, operate, or be in actual physical control of any motor vehicle
within this town.
   B. It is unlawful for any person whose ability to drive, operate or be in
actual physical control of any motor vehicle is impaired due to consumption of
intoxicating liquor or nonintoxicating beverages.
   C. It is unlawful for any person who is a habitual user of or under the
influence of any narcotic, drug, barbiturate, amphetamine, marijuana, or who is
under the influence of any other drug to a degree which renders him incapable
of safely driving a motor vehicle to drive a motor vehicle within this town.
The fact that any person charged with a violation of this subsection is or has
been lawfully entitled to use such narcotic drug, barbiturate, amphetamine,
marijuana, or other drug shall not constitute a defense against any charge of
violating this subsection. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS §§ 11-902, 751.
15-212: DRIVING ON SIDEWALK:
The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area except at a
permanent or temporary driveway. (1998 Code)
15-213: LIMITATIONS ON BACKING:
The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic. (1998
Code)
15-214: CORNER CUTTING:
No person shall drive a vehicle through any service drive or upon any parking
facility except with the intent of availing himself or herself of the services
offered on the premises served by the service drive or parking facility. No
person shall drive a vehicle through any service drive or across any parking
facility for the purpose of shortening their travel distance, avoiding a
traffic control device, avoiding using the streets for travel, or turning a
vehicle so as to proceed in opposite direction on the street from which it
entered the drive. (1998 Code)
15-215: EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING 1 :
The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging from
an alley, driveway or building shall stop the vehicle immediately prior to
driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway
or driveway, and shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian as may be
necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the
right of way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-704.
15-216: SEAT BELTS AND CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINTS REQUIRED:
   A.   Every operator and front seat passenger of a passenger car operated in
this town shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened safety belt system,
required to be installed in the motor vehicle when manufactured pursuant to
federal motor vehicle safety standard 208. For the purposes of this section,
"passenger car" shall mean "automobile" as defined in 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section 22.1, except that "passenger car" shall not include trucks, pickup
trucks, truck tractors, recreational vehicles, vans, motorcycles or motorized
bicycles.
   B.   Subsection A of this section shall not apply to an operator or
passenger of a passenger car in which the operator or passenger possesses a
written verification from a physician licensed in this state that he is unable
to wear a safety belt system for medical reasons. The issuance of such
verification by a physician, in good faith, shall not give rise to, nor shall
such physician thereby incur, any liability whatsoever in damages or otherwise,
to any person injured by reason of such failure to wear a safety seat belt
system. Subsection A of this section shall not apply to an operator of a motor
vehicle who is a route carrier of the U.S. postal service.
   C.   Every driver when transporting a child under four (4) years of age in a
motor vehicle operated on the roadways, streets, or highways of this town shall
provide for the protection of the child by properly using a child passenger
restraint system or a properly secured seat belt in the rear seat of the motor
vehicle. For purposes of this subsection, "child passenger restraint system"
means an infant or child passenger restraint system that meets the federal
standards for crash tested restraint systems as set by the United States
department of transportation. Children four (4) or five (5) years of age shall
be protected by the use of a child passenger restraint system or a seat belt.
The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to:
      1.   A nonresident driver transporting a child in this state;
      2.   The driver of a school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle, or other
motor vehicle not required to be equipped with safety belts pursuant to state
or federal laws;
      3.   The driver of an ambulance or emergency vehicle;
      4.   A driver of a vehicle if all of the seat belts in the vehicle are in
use; and
      5.   The transportation of children who for medical reasons are unable to
be placed in such devices.
A law enforcement officer is hereby authorized to stop a vehicle if it appears
that the driver of the vehicle has violated the provisions of this section and
to give an oral warning to the driver. The warning shall advise the driver of
the possible danger to children resulting from the failure to install or use a
child passenger restraint system or seat belts in the motor vehicle. A person
who violates the provisions of this subsection shall not be subject to any
criminal penalty. A violation of the provisions of this subsection shall not be
admissible as evidence in any civil action or proceeding for damages. In any
action brought by or on behalf of an infant for personal injuries or wrongful
death sustained in a motor vehicle collision, the failure of any person to have
the infant properly restrained in accordance with the provisions of this
subsection shall not be used in aggravation or mitigation of damages.
   D.   No law enforcement officer shall make routine stops of motorists for
the purpose of enforcing subsection A of this section. Any person convicted of
violating subsection A of this section shall be punished by a maximum fine of
ten dollars ($10.00) and court costs. (1998 Code)
15-217: TEXTING WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section:
   CELLULAR TELEPHONE: An analog or digital wireless telephone authorized by
the federal communications commission to operate in the frequency bandwidth
reserved for cellular telephones.
   COMPOSE, SEND OR READ: With respect to a text message means the manual
entry, sending or retrieval of a text message to communicate with any person or
device.
   ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE: An electronic device that permits the user
to manually transmit a communication of written text by means other than
through an oral transfer or wire communication. This term does not include a
device that is physically or electronically integrated into a motor vehicle or
a voice operated global positioning or navigation system that is affixed to a
motor vehicle, or a hands free device that allows the user to write, send or
read a text message without the use of either hand except to activate,
deactivate or initiate a feature or function.
   TEXT MESSAGE: Includes a text based message, instant message, electronic
message, photo, video or electronic mail.
   B.   Regulations: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor
vehicle on any street, alley or highway within the town while using a handheld
electronic communication device to manually compose, send or read an electronic
text message while the motor vehicle is in motion.
   C.   Exceptions: The provisions of subsection B of this section shall not
apply if the person is using the cellular telephone or electronic communication
device for the sole purpose of communicating with any of the following
regarding an imminent emergency situation:
      1.   An emergency response operator;
      2.   A hospital, physician's office or health clinic;
      3.   A provider of ambulance services;
      4.   A provider of firefighting services; or
      5.   A law enforcement agency.
   D.   Penalty: Any person who violates the provisions of subsection B of this
section shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of one hundred dollars
($100.00) and court costs. (Ord. 2015-11-1, 11-12-2015)
ARTICLE B. SPEED REGULATIONS
15-220: GENERAL RULE FOR SPEED REGULATIONS:
   A.   Any person driving a vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a
careful and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and
proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street and
any other condition then existing. No person shall drive any vehicle upon a
highway at a speed greater than will permit him to bring it to a stop within
the assured clear distance ahead.
   B.   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements of
subsection A of this section, drive at an appropriate reduced speed when
approaching and crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing, when
approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when
driving upon any narrow or winding roadway, and when special hazard exists with
respect to pedestrians or other traffic, or by reason of weather or highway
conditions. (1998 Code)
15-221: GENERAL MAXIMUM SPEED LIMIT:
No vehicle, unless specifically authorized by some other section of this code
or by posted signs, shall be driven at a speed greater than twenty five (25)
miles per hour upon any street within this town. The board of trustees may
determine that certain other speed regulations shall be applicable upon
specified streets in certain areas, in which event it shall be unlawful for any
person to drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of any speed so declared when
signs are in place giving notice thereof. (1998 Code)
15-222: SCHOOL ZONES; SPEED, DESIGNATION 1 :
No person shall operate a motor vehicle in excess of fifteen (15) miles per
hour between the hours or times as posted over or upon any portion of the
public streets of the town which have been designated as school zones and
marked as school zones in the manner provided by the statutes and regulations
of the state. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. This section provides that the hours and days be on the posted signs. Ord.
  adopted 12-5-1988 stated hours of 7:30 A.M. to 4:30 P.M.
ARTICLE C. PARKING REGULATIONS
15-230: OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC OR DRIVEWAYS:
No person shall park any vehicle upon a street or alley in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the
width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic. No person shall
stop, stand or park a vehicle within a street or alley in such position as to
block the driveway entrance to any abutting property. (1998 Code)
15-231: PARK WITHIN INDICATED SPACE:
In an area where parking spaces have been marked off on the surface of the
street, a driver parking a vehicle shall park it within a parking space as thus
marked off, and not on or over a line delineating a space. (1998 Code)
15-232: PROXIMITY TO CURB, PARALLEL PARKING:
Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway shall be so stopped or parked in
the direction of lawful traffic movement with the curb side wheels of the
vehicle parallel to and within eighteen inches (18") of the curb or roadway
edge. (1998 Code)
15-233: ANGLE PARKING, DESIGNATION 1 :
The board of trustees may determine upon what streets angle parking is
permitted and shall direct the marking or signing of the streets. Angle parking
shall not be indicated or permitted at any place where passing traffic would
thereby be caused or required to drive upon the left side of the street. "Angle
parking", for the purpose of this part, shall mean parking at the curb at
approximately a forty five degree (45°) angle between the right side of the
vehicle and the curb. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-1004(c).
15-234: OBEDIENCE TO ANGLE PARKING RULES:
   A.   On those streets which have been signed or marked for angle parking, no
person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or
edge of the roadway indicated by the signs or markings with the front of the
vehicle directed toward the curb or edge of the roadway.
   B.   No person shall park or stand a vehicle in angle parking spaces
designated by markings upon the pavement unless the vehicle is positioned
within the confines of an individually marked space. The vehicle shall not be
of such length, or positioned in a manner, as to protrude into the street a
distance which would cause or require passing traffic to change lanes or drive
on the left side of the street. (1998 Code)
15-235: PARKING PROHIBITIONS IN SPECIFIC AREAS 1 :
   A.   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic
control device, no person shall:
      1.   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
         a. On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street except as authorized otherwise in this section;
         b. On a sidewalk;
         c. Within an intersection;
         d. On a crosswalk;
         e. Along or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
         f. On any railroad tracks; or
         g. At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking; or
      2.   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except momentarily
to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
         a. In front of a public or private driveway;
         b. Within ten feet (10') of a fire hydrant;
         c. Within ten feet (10') of a crosswalk at an intersection; except in
marked parking spaces;
         d. Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing signal,
stop sign or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
         e. Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station; or
         f. At any place where official signs prohibit standing. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS § 11-1003.
15-236: DESIGNATION OF LOADING ZONES:
The board of trustees may determine the location of passenger and freight curb
loading zones and shall place and maintain appropriate signs indicating the
same and stating the hours during which the provisions of this section are
applicable. (1998 Code)
15-237: STANDING IN LOADING ZONE:
   A.   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or
period of time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of
passengers in any place marked as a passenger curb loading zone during hours
when the regulations applicable to such curb loading zone are effective, and
then only for a period not to exceed three (3) minutes.
   B.   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pick up
and loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone
during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no
case shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed thirty (30)
minutes.
   C.   The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place
marked as a freight curb loading zone for the purpose of, and while actually
engaged in, loading or unloading passengers, when such stopping does not
interfere with any motor vehicle used for the transportation of materials which
is waiting to enter or about to enter the zone. (1998 Code)
15-238: PROHIBITION AGAINST SELLING MERCHANDISE FROM PARKED VEHICLES:
It is unlawful for any person to park any vehicle upon a street in the town and
offer merchandise for sale therefrom. In addition to the penalty provided in
this part, the sale of merchandise from parked vehicles on streets in the town
is declared to be dangerous to traffic and to the persons congregating around
the vehicle and constitutes a public nuisance. (1998 Code)
15-239: PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING:
   A.   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was
at the time of the parking the registered owner of the vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
the vehicle was the person who parked or placed the vehicle at the point where,
and for the time during which, the violation occurred.
   B.   The presumption in subsection A of this section shall apply only when
the procedure as prescribed in this chapter has been followed. (1998 Code)
15-240: HANDICAPPED PARKING, ENFORCEMENT ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY 1 :
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to place or park a motor vehicle in any
parking space on private property accessible to the public and where the public
is invited or public property that is designated and posted as a reserved area
for parking of motor vehicles of a physically disabled person unless such
person has a physical disability insignia as under the provisions of 47
Oklahoma Statutes section
15-112, and such insignias are displayed as provided in 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section
15-112 or regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
   B.   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this section
shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be punishable
as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS §
  15-112.
15-241: TRUCK AND OTHER LARGE VEHICLE PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
The parking of trucks, trailers, recreational vehicles, industrial tractors,
mowers and other related equipment and any vehicle exceeding two (2) axles on
any street or alley within a district zoned residential is prohibited, except
for the immediate loading or unloading of persons or materials. No commercial
truck exceeding two (2) axles or in excess of a length of fifteen feet (15') or
both shall be allowed to park in any area of the town zoned as a residential
district. (1998 Code)
ARTICLE D. TURNING AND SIGNALS
15-250: REQUIRED POSITION, METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS 1 :
   A.   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do
so as follows:
      1.   Right Turns: Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn
shall be made as close as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the
roadway; or
      2.   Left Turns On Two-Way Roadways: At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of
the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such
centerline where it enters the intersection and after entering the intersection
the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the
centerline of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn
shall be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of
the intersection. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-601.
15-251: TURNS AND U-TURNS 1 :
   A.   The board of trustees may determine those intersections at which
drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left, or U-turn, and shall place
proper signs at such intersections. The making of such turns may be prohibited
between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event
the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs or they may be removed when
such turns are permitted.
   B.   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of
any such sign. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS § 15102(a).
15-252: TURNING, STOPPING SIGNALS REQUIRED 1 :
   A.   No person shall turn a vehicle to the right or left except upon giving
a signal of intention, as provided in this section, in the event any other
traffic may be affected by such movement.
   B.   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be
given continuously during not less than the last one hundred feet (100')
traveled by the vehicle before turning.
   C.   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle except
upon the giving of a signal of intention, as provided herein, to the driver of
any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is an opportunity to give such
signal. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-604.
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC SIGNALS AND DEVICES
SECTION:
15-301: Obedience To Devices
15-302: Necessity Of Signs
15-303: Interference With Devices, Or Signs Or Signals
15-304: Presumption Of Legality
15-305: Ratification Of Existing Devices
15-306: Traffic Control Signal Legend
15-307: Flashing Signals
15-308: Driving Within Traffic Lanes
15-309: One-Way Streets, Alleys Designation
15-310: Designation Of Through Streets
15-311: Signs At Through Streets
15-312: Procedures At Stop Signs
15-313: Procedure At Yield Signs
15-301: OBEDIENCE TO DEVICES 1 :
The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official traffic
control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the provisions of
this part unless otherwise directed by a traffic or police officer, subject to
the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in this
part. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-201(a).
15-302: NECESSITY OF SIGNS 1 :
No provision of this part for which official traffic control devices are
required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place
of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper position and
sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a
particular section does not state that official traffic control devices are
required, such section shall be effective even though no devices are erected or
in place. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS § 11-201(b).
15-303: INTERFERENCE WITH DEVICES, OR SIGNS OR SIGNALS 1 :
No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic control device or any
railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any
other part thereof. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. 47 OS § 11-207.
15-304: PRESUMPTION OF LEGALITY:
   A.   Whenever official traffic control devices are placed in position
approximately conforming to the requirements of this chapter, such devices
shall be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of
lawful authority, unless the contrary shall be established by competent
evidence.
   B.   Any official traffic control device placed pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter and purporting to conform to the lawful requirements pertaining
to such devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of this
chapter, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence. (1998
Code)
15-305: RATIFICATION OF EXISTING DEVICES:
All traffic control signs, signals, devices and markings placed or erected
prior to the adoption of this part and in use for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic are hereby affirmed, ratified and declared to be
official traffic control devices, provided such traffic control devices are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or state law. (1998 Code)
15-306: TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND:
Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting different
colored lights, or colored lighted arrows, successively, one at a time, or in
combination, only the colors green, red, and yellow shall be used, except for
special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend. These lights shall indicate
appropriate action and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as provided
by applicable state law. (1998 Code)
15-307: FLASHING SIGNALS 1 :
   A.   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a
traffic sign or signal it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as
follows:
      1.   Flashing Red (Stop Signal): When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection, or at a limit line when marked, or if
none, then before entering the intersection; and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign; or
      2.   Flashing Yellow (Caution Signal): When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   B.   This section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-204.
15-308: DRIVING WITHIN TRAFFIC LANES 1 :
   A.   Where traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the
driver of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane, except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement or otherwise authorized by
ordinance.
   B.   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two (2) or more clearly
marked lanes for traffic, the following rules, in addition to all others
consistent herewith, shall apply:
      1.   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane, and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety;
      2.   Upon a roadway which is divided into three (3) lanes, a vehicle
shall not be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and passing
another vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is
clear of traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn, or
where such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving
in the direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of
such allocation; and
      3.   Official signs may be erected directing slow moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway, and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-309.
15-309: ONE-WAY STREETS, ALLEYS DESIGNATION 1 :
   A.   Whenever any ordinance or resolution of this town designates any one-
way street or alley the appropriate town personnel shall place and maintain
signs giving notice thereof, and no such regulation shall be effective unless
the signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic
movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the
opposite direction is prohibited.
   B.   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys designated
as one-way streets or alleys, vehicular traffic shall move only in the
indicated direction when signs indicating the direction of traffic are erected
and maintained at every intersection where movement in the opposite direction
is prohibited. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS §§ 11-308, 15-102(a).
15-310: DESIGNATION OF THROUGH STREETS 1 :
The board of trustees, by motion or resolution, may designate any street or
part of a street a through street. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS 1971, § 15-108.
15-311: SIGNS AT THROUGH STREETS:
Whenever a through street is designated by the board of trustees, the
appropriate town personnel shall be directed to place and maintain a stop sign,
or on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation at any intersection
a yield sign, on each and every street intersecting such through street unless
traffic at any such intersection is controlled at all times by traffic control
signals. (1998 Code)
15-312: PROCEDURES AT STOP SIGNS 1 :
   A.   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting
roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting
roadway before entering the intersection.
   B.   After having stopped at a stop sign, the driver of a vehicle shall
yield the right of way to any vehicle which has entered the intersection from
another street or which is approaching so closely on the street as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but the driver having so yielded may proceed
and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield
the right of way to the vehicle so proceeding. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS §§ 11-403(b), 11-703(d).
15-313: PROCEDURE AT YIELD SIGNS 1 :
The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, if required for safety to
stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, the driver shall stop at a
clearly marked stop line, or if no stop line, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway. The driver approaching a yield sign shall yield the right
of way to any pedestrian legally crossing the roadway on which he is driving,
and to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another highway so
closely as to constitute an immediate hazard. The driver having so yielded may
proceed and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection
shall yield to the vehicle so proceeding, provided, however, that if such
driver is involved in a collision with a pedestrian in a crosswalk or vehicle
in the intersection after driving past a yield sign without stopping, such
collision shall be deemed prima facie evidence of his failure to yield right of
way. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. 47 OS §§ 11-403(c), 11-703(c).
CHAPTER 4
BICYCLES
SECTION:
15-401: Regulations Applicable Generally
15-402: Traffic Laws And Regulations Apply
15-403: Obedience To Traffic Control Devices
15-404: Riding On Bicycles
15-405: Use Right Side Of Roadway
15-406: Riding Abreast
15-407: Speed
15-408: Riding On Sidewalks
15-409: Lights And Reflectors
15-401: REGULATIONS APPLICABLE GENERALLY 1 :
It is unlawful for any person to do any act or fail to perform any act required
by the provisions of this chapter. The parent of any child or the guardian of
any ward shall not authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to
violate any of the provisions of this chapter. The provisions of this chapter
are applicable to bicycles operated upon any street or highway or upon any path
set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-1201.
15-402: TRAFFIC LAWS AND REGULATIONS APPLY 1 :
Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by
the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to vehicles or by
the traffic ordinances of this town applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except as to special regulations in this chapter and except as to those
provisions of law and ordinances which by their nature can have no application.
(1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS § 11-1202.
15-403: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official traffic
control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to vehicles, unless
otherwise directed by a police officer. Whenever authorized signs are erected
indicating that no right or left or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a
bicycle shall disobey the direction of any such sign, except where such person
dismounts from the bicycle to make any such turn, in which event such person
shall then obey the regulations applicable to pedestrians. Any person may walk
bicycles and shall then be subject to all laws applicable to pedestrians. (1998
Code)
15-404: RIDING ON BICYCLES 1 :
A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent and
regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons
at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-1203.
15-405: USE RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY:
Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to the right
side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing a standing
vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction. (1998 Code)
15-406: RIDING ABREAST:
Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two (2) abreast
except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles. (1998 Code)
15-407: SPEED:
No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing. (1998 Code)
15-408: RIDING ON SIDEWALKS:
Bicycles may not be ridden upon any sidewalk within the town. (1998 Code)
15-409: LIGHTS AND REFLECTORS 1 :
Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp on the
frame which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least five
hundred feet (500') to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type
approved by the state department of public safety, which shall be visible from
all distances from three hundred feet (300') to five hundred feet (500') to the
rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps of a motor
vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of five hundred
feet (500') to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector. (1998
Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS § 11-1207(a).
CHAPTER 5
IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
15-501: Purpose And Effect Of Impoundment Provisions
15-502: Place Of Impoundment
15-503: Duration Of Impoundment
15-504: Police Granted Authority To Impound Vehicles
15-505: Abandoned Or Disabled Vehicles
15-506: Vehicles On Bridge
15-507: Arrest And Detention Of Driver Of Vehicle
15-508: Vehicle Constitutes Traffic Hazard
15-509: Illegal Trespass By Vehicle
15-510: Vehicles Parked Overtime
15-511: Vehicles Blocking Fire Exits Or Hydrants
15-512: Vehicles Parked In Intersection
15-513: Stolen Vehicles; Recovery By Police
15-514: Vehicles With Outstanding Traffic Citations
15-515: Inventory Of Impounded Vehicles
15-516: Costs, Impoundment And Disposition
15-501: PURPOSE AND EFFECT OF IMPOUNDMENT PROVISIONS 1 :
The impoundment of vehicles under authority of the provisions of this chapter
shall be construed as an enforcement procedure for protection of the public
peace, safety and welfare, and the safeguarding of property, and shall be used
generally for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention and
abatement of public nuisances arising from traffic law violations, protection
of the public rights in the use of streets and thoroughfares from obstructions
placed and left in derogation of those rights, and for safeguarding and
protecting recovered stolen vehicles. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS §§ 955, 954A.
15-502: PLACE OF IMPOUNDMENT:
Every vehicle that is impounded under the provisions of this chapter shall be
removed to the nearest garage or place of safekeeping designated or maintained
by the town police department or otherwise maintained by the town. (1998 Code)
15-503: DURATION OF IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided, any vehicle impounded under the authority
of this chapter shall be stored and held safely until an order for its release
is received from an officer of the traffic violations bureau or other proper
police officer.
   B.   The order of release of an impounded vehicle shall be conditioned upon
the payment by the person to whom the release is issued of all impoundment
costs and accrued storage charges assessed against the vehicle. (1998 Code)
15-504: POLICE GRANTED AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES:
Members of the police department are hereby authorized within the limits set
forth in this chapter to impound vehicles under the circumstances hereinafter
enumerated. No impoundment shall be valid unless made under order of an
authorized police officer and in strict adherence with the procedures required
in this chapter. (1998 Code)
15-505: ABANDONED OR DISABLED VEHICLES:
   A.   A vehicle upon a street or highway may be impounded under the following
circumstances:
      1.   If left unattended and improperly parked on street, highway or other
public place and constitutes a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic;
      2.   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated
to such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal and the
vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an obstruction to traffic or a hazard;
      3.   If left unattended upon any street, alley, public place or place
where the public is permitted to park for business as to constitute a definite
hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic or has been abandoned.
(1998 Code)
15-506: VEHICLES ON BRIDGE:
An unattended vehicle left upon any bridge, viaduct or causeway or in any tube
or tunnel, where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic or hazard,
may be impounded. (1998 Code)
15-507: ARREST AND DETENTION OF DRIVER OF VEHICLE:
Whenever the driver or person in charge of any vehicle is placed under arrest
and taken into custody and detained by police under circumstances which leave
or will leave a vehicle unattended on any street, highway or other public
place, the vehicle may be impounded. (1998 Code)
15-508: VEHICLE CONSTITUTES TRAFFIC HAZARD:
A vehicle left unattended upon any street, alley or thoroughfare and so parked
illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic shall be impounded. (1998 Code)
15-509: ILLEGAL TRESPASS BY VEHICLE:
   A.   An unattended vehicle found to be in violation of this code may be
impounded when the required complaint has been properly made and filed as
provided in this section.
   B.   If a violation of the provisions of this code occurs, the owner or
legal occupant who complains shall sign a complaint against the person parking
the vehicle on the owner's or legal occupant's property, or if the identity of
the person parking the vehicle is unknown, then the complaint may be filed
against the registered owner of the vehicle. The complaint shall be verified
and shall allege that the complaining party is the owner or legal occupant of
the property upon which the vehicle is parked or standing.
   C.   Upon filing of the complaint by the property owner or legal occupant,
and if there appears to be proper cause to believe the provisions of this code
have been violated, the police department shall cause the vehicle to be
impounded from the property and placed in storage. (1998 Code)
15-510: VEHICLES PARKED OVERTIME:
Any unattended vehicle which has been parked for more than one hour in excess
of the time allowed for parking in any place shall be impounded, and any
vehicle parked in violation of this code regarding more than twenty four (24)
hours, shall be impounded. (1998 Code)
15-511: VEHICLES BLOCKING FIRE EXITS OR HYDRANTS:
Any vehicle illegally parked in such a manner that it blocks a fire escape
ladder, device or exit or blocks ready access to a fire hydrant shall be
impounded. (1998 Code)
15-512: VEHICLES PARKED IN INTERSECTION:
Any unattended vehicle illegally parked in any street intersection shall be
impounded. A disabled vehicle in an intersection with the person in charge of
the vehicle being present, shall be moved out of the intersection and to the
nearest available legal parking space at the street curbing. (1998 Code)
15-513: STOLEN VEHICLES; RECOVERY BY POLICE:
   A.   Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police and the registered owner
cannot be found within a reasonable time not exceeding one hour, or cannot be
determined from the registration papers or other identifying media in the
vehicle or from records or information available from reports of stolen cars,
the vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized place of impoundment and
the registered owner of the vehicle shall be notified of the location of the
place of impoundment as soon as possible by the police department.
   B.   If the registered owner is identified, located and notified of the
recovery of the stolen vehicle, the owner shall be given the right to make his
own arrangement for the removal of the vehicle within the period of one hour
from the time he is actually notified of its recovery, and if the owner is
unable or unwilling to effect the removal within the time specified the vehicle
may be impounded. (1998 Code)
15-514: VEHICLES WITH OUTSTANDING TRAFFIC CITATIONS:
Any vehicle for which two (2) or more citations have been issued, for violation
of an ordinance, and have not been presented as required, may be impounded if
parked in violation of any provision of this part. (1998 Code)
15-515: INVENTORY OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES:
Any vehicle impounded for any reason shall be inventoried by two (2) or more
persons for the protection of the owner and his property, the protection of
town law enforcement personnel, and the protection of the garage or wrecker
service moving or holding the vehicle. (1998 Code)
15-516: COSTS, IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSITION:
   A.   Any vehicle or personal property impounded as provided herein shall be
delivered back to the owner or legal representative thereof only after the
posting of any bond required or the payment of any fine and costs as may have
been assessed for violation for which the vehicle was impounded.
   B.   The vehicle or personal property may be sold or disposed of after
impoundment as provided herein in accordance with state law. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 6
PENALTIES
SECTION:
15-601: Penalty For Violations
15-601: PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS:
Any violations of the provisions of this part shall be punishable as provided
in section
1-108 of this code. (1998 Code)
PART 17
UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
17-101: Lease Of Utilities To Authority
17-102: Authority Rules Adopted By Reference; Penalty
17-103: Public Utility
17-104: Utility Services, Fees And Charges Generally
17-105: Failure To Pay Utility Bills; Penalty And Disconnection Of Service
17-106: Disposition Of Funds
17-107: Tap/Connection Fees
17-108: Deposits
17-101: LEASE OF UTILITIES TO AUTHORITY 1
:
The town hereby consents and agrees to the lease of the town's water, sanitary
sewerage, gas and refuse systems and facilities and all future additions
thereto to the Beaver public works authority as authorized by statute, to be
effective at the time and upon the terms and conditions specified in a certain
"lease" prepared under the direction of the town board of trustees and filed in
the office of the town clerk on this date. The mayor of the town hereby is
authorized and directed, on behalf of the town, to execute and deliver the
lease of the Beaver public works authority. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also town of Beaver public works authority rules and regulations.
17-102: AUTHORITY RULES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE; PENALTY:
Rules and regulations adopted by the Beaver public works authority are hereby
adopted and incorporated herein by reference, applicable as if set out in full
herein. Any violation of the rules and regulations of the authority shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (1998 Code)
17-103: PUBLIC UTILITY:
A utility department is hereby established for the town with responsibility for
the management, maintenance, care and operation of the town's utilities. The
head of the utility department is a utility superintendent who is appointed by
the town administrator. (1998 Code)
17-104: UTILITY SERVICES, FEES AND CHARGES GENERALLY:
   A.   Before using any town utility service, the customer shall make
application with the town and execute a contract(s) as may be required agreeing
to the terms and conditions of utility services as established by this code and
applicable law.
   B.   The operation of the town's utility services, including, but not
limited to, water, sewer and refuse collection and disposal, are all declared
to be public utilities and proper sources of revenue for the operation and
maintenance of the systems and for other purposes. (1998 Code)
   C.   All fees and charges in connection with any customer's use of the
town's sanitary sewer system, the town's water facility system or the operation
for the town's collection and disposal of refuse and garbage are billed in
accordance with applicable rates set by the board of trustees. All fees and
charges owing for any of these utility services shall be billed on one monthly
bill submitted to the customer each month. The utility bills submitted under
the terms of this section shall be payable on or before the third day of the
month following the submission of the bill to the customer. (Ord. 2010-2, 1-14-
2010)
17-105: FAILURE TO PAY UTILITY BILLS; PENALTY AND DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE:
   A.   Upon failure of any customer to pay any part of a utility bill
submitted by the town for any utility service by the third day of the month
following submission of the bill to the customer, the following actions and
penalties may result: (1998 Code; amd. Ord. 98-11, 11-4-1998; Ord. 2010-2, 1-
14-2010)
      1.   A ten percent (10%) penalty of all amounts owing on a utility bill
is added to any utility bill which is not paid by the third day of the month
following submission of the bill to the customer; (Ord. 98-11, 11-4-1998; amd.
Ord. 2010-2, 1-14-2010)
      2.   The authorized agent of the town may disconnect or discontinue any
or all utility services to the customer after mailing written notice to the
customer of the intent of the town to disconnect or discontinue any or all of
the utility services; and
      3.   The authorized agent of the town, upon direction of the board of
trustees, may discontinue to furnish water to any customer refusing or
neglecting to pay all or any part of a utility bill submitted after mailing
written notice to the customer of the intent of the town to disconnect the
water service.
If any utility service is discontinued or disconnected pursuant to this
section, the town or its agents shall not reconnect or reestablish service
until the full amount of any outstanding utility service bill is paid, plus the
penalty provided in this section, plus any applicable charges or expenses in
reconnecting or reestablishing the service. (1998 Code)
17-106: DISPOSITION OF FUNDS:
Funds derived from the operation of the sewer, water and refuse services shall
be deposited in the utility fund of the town to be used for upkeep,
maintenance, extensions, repair, payment of interest or principal on any
waterworks, sewer or utility bond issued by the town, and for such other uses
as the board of trustees of the town may deem proper. The town may deposit a
portion of the total monthly revenue into a sinking fund for the express
purpose of paying the revenue on a specific bond issue. (1998 Code)
17-107: TAP/CONNECTION FEES:
The utility superintendent shall approve any request for a water tap and
connection, a sewer tap on an existing line, or a sewer tap on a new line made
into the town sewage and water systems. Prior to granting approval by the
utility superintendent, the customer shall have paid the charge as applicable
for the tap or connection as set by the board of trustees by motion or
resolution. (1998 Code)
17-108: DEPOSITS:
A deposit in such sum as set by the board of trustees is required of every new
customer to the town's utility systems. The deposit may be refunded, minus any
outstanding balance owed to the town at the time the customer discontinues the
service or the town refunds the deposit. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 2
WATER SYSTEM
SECTION:
17-201: Mandatory Hookup
17-202: Maintenance Requirement
17-203: Water Shortage Emergency
17-204: Declaration Of Emergency, Proclamation, Notice And Publication
17-205: Length Of Emergency
17-206: Aggrieved Person
17-207: Violations
17-201: MANDATORY HOOKUP:
All residences and businesses within the corporate limits of the town shall be
required to be connected to the town water system. (1998 Code)
17-202: MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENT:
During any and all water line construction (replacement or new), the water
system user shall install a water "shutoff" valve inside the dwelling or
business. (1998 Code)
17-203: WATER SHORTAGE EMERGENCY:
   A.   Whenever an emergency exists by reason of a shortage of water due to
inadequate supply, limited treatment or distribution capacity or failure of
equipment or material, the mayor is authorized to restrict or prohibit the use
of water from the town's water system.
   B.   An emergency exists whenever the mayor reasonable determines that the
town's water system is unable to furnish to or will within sixty (60) days
become unable to supply the full commercial and domestic needs of the users
thereof, including adequate fire protection. (1998 Code)
17-204: DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY, PROCLAMATION, NOTICE AND PUBLICATION:
   A.   Upon the determination that such an emergency exists, the mayor shall
issue a proclamation declaring the emergency and setting out with particularity
an order restricting use of water from the town system. Such order may:
      1.   Restrict water usage during certain periods of the day or week or
according to any orderly nondiscriminatory scheme; or
      2.   Prohibit usages not essential to public health and safety.
The order may be revised from time to time as the mayor deems necessary.
   B.   The proclamation required by the preceding subsection shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the town or, if there is no
such newspaper in which the proclamation may be published within twenty four
(24) hours after the emergency arises, publication shall be by posting a copy
of the proclamation in ten (10) prominent places in the town. The emergency
shall be in full force and effect upon publication. Substantial compliance with
this section is sufficient to effect the emergency.
   C.   Whenever a sudden or unexpected event so reduces the availability of
water or water pressure as to create an immediate threat to public health or
safety, the notice of the proclamation may be given by any reasonable means,
including electronic means. The emergency shall be in full force and effect
upon such notice. If any such means is other than that required in subsection B
of this section, the proclamation shall be republished in accordance with said
subsection B within twenty four (24) hours of the first notice. (1998 Code)
17-205: LENGTH OF EMERGENCY:
A duly proclaimed emergency shall continue and the terms of the proclamation
shall be in force for thirty (30) days or until such time as the mayor or the
board shall cause to be published a proclamation that the emergency has ended,
whichever is shorter, unless the board by resolution approved by a majority of
all its members, extends the proclamation. (1998 Code)
17-206: AGGRIEVED PERSON:
Any person feeling aggrieved by the proclamation of the mayor shall have the
right to present the matter to the next regular or special meeting of the board
or to any emergency session called to discuss the water emergency. The board of
trustees may exempt such aggrieved person, wholly or in part, from compliance
with the proclamation or order upon a showing that compliance creates immediate
threat to that person's health or safety. The ruling of the board by a majority
vote of all its members shall be final and binding as to the continuance of any
terms of the proclamation. Until and unless the action of the mayor is modified
or revoked by action of the board, all water users shall be bound by the
proclamation 1
. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. The sample form of proclamation is on file with the town clerk.
17-207: VIOLATIONS:
Any person who in any manner directly or indirectly violates or permits others
under his supervision, custody or control to violate any term of a duly
published proclamation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each separate day of
water use in violation of such proclamation shall constitute a separate offense
and each separate offense and each separate prohibited use on the same day
shall constitute a separate offense. Violations of this chapter shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER SYSTEM
SECTION:
17-301: Mandatory Hookup
17-302: Maintenance Requirement; Check Valves Required
17-303: Prohibited Discharges
17-304: New Sewers And Connections
17-305: Sanitary Sewer System User Charges
17-306: Penalty
17-301: MANDATORY HOOKUP:
All residences and businesses within the corporate limits of the town are
required to be connected to the town sanitary sewer system unless it is
impossible due to the lay of the land. (1998 Code)
17-302: MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENT; CHECK VALVES REQUIRED:
   A.   An efficient check valve shall be installed and maintained in waste
lines from all water closets, bathtubs, sinks, and other plumbing fixtures in
basements which empty into the sewer system. Such valves shall be so
constructed and shall so operate as to permit wastes to pass through into the
sewer system but to prevent sewage from backing up through such valves into
basements. One check valve, if of sufficient size, may serve more than one
fixture.
   B.   The check valve shall be installed by all property owners having houses
with basements in the town on or before six (6) months after the effective date
of this section and permits for basement drainage on either new or existing
buildings shall not be granted until the owner of such building has executed
and signed a written agreement releasing the town of any and all damage from
basements being flooded by the stoppage of sewers. The agreement shall be filed
with the town and kept in its records.
   C.   During any and all water line construction (replacement or new), the
water system user shall install backup prevention methods. (1998 Code)
17-303: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
   A.   No person may discharge to public sewers any waste which by itself or
by interaction with other wastes may:
      1.   Injure or interfere with wastewater treatment processes or
facilities;
      2.   Constitute a hazard to humans or animals; or
      3.   Create a hazard in receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plan
effluent.
   B.   All discharge shall be prohibited except those that meet the criteria
for domestic wastewater. BOD concentration shall not exceed three hundred fifty
milligrams per liter (350 mg/l) as a maximum limit for average domestic
wastewater.
   C.   All industrial discharges are prohibited. At the present time there are
no industrial users in the town. If an industrial user should desire to locate
in the town and make use of the sewerage system, an industrial user system will
be initiated in accordance with EPA and state regulations at that time to
compensate for this use of the system.
   D.   Any new connections from inflow sources into the sanitary sewer
portions of the sewer shall be prohibited. (1998 Code)
17-304: NEW SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   The connection of a user into the public sewer shall conform to the
requirements of the town's building code and other applicable rules and
regulations of the town.
   B.   All new sanitary sewage works shall be designated and constructed in
accordance with the requirements of the state department of health regulations.
   C.   When a new sewer line becomes available, within one hundred feet
(100'), any building or dwelling shall be connected to the sewer within sixty
(60) days. (1998 Code)
17-305: SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM USER CHARGES:
   A.   All users of the municipally owned wastewater treatment system shall be
charged a minimum rate per month, plus a monthly charge per one thousand
(1,000) gallons of average monthly metered water consumption. The monthly
charge of one thousand (1,000) gallons shall include all costs for wastewater
treatment services incurred by the town. The charge shall include operation and
maintenance, including replacement of any wastewater treatment service
provided. Average monthly metered water consumption shall be calculated for
each user annually by averaging the metered water consumption for the months of
December, January and February of the prior year.
   B.   All charges designated in this section are based upon domestic strength
average. Any contribution to the sewage system that is in excess of domestic
strength will be subject to additional charges established by the town board.
   C.   The user charges established shall be reviewed not less than every year
and recalculated to reflect current usage by users and projected costs for
operation and maintenance, including replacement, of any wastewater treatment
services to be provided. (1998 Code)
17-306: PENALTY:
   A.   A person who continues prohibited discharge is guilty of a misdemeanor
and upon conviction is punishable as provided in section
1-108 of this code for each act of violation and for each day of violation.
   B.   In addition to proceeding under authority of subsection A of this
section, the town is entitled to pursue all other criminal and civil remedies
to which it is entitled under authority of statute or other ordinances against
a person continuing prohibited discharges. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 4
REFUSE COLLECTION
SECTION:
17-401: Definitions
17-402: Unlawful To Allow Garbage, Refuse To Accumulate
17-403: Specifications On Containers
17-404: Unauthorized Persons
17-405: Fees
17-406: Inspections
17-407: Violations
17-401: DEFINITIONS:
Wherever in this chapter the word "garbage" occurs, it shall mean every
accumulation of animal or vegetable matter, or both, arising from homes,
businesses and all other places in the town. "Rubbish" means other refuse that
is not animal or vegetable matter. (1998 Code)
17-402: UNLAWFUL TO ALLOW GARBAGE, REFUSE TO ACCUMULATE:
It is unlawful for the owner or occupant of any premises in the town to allow
garbage or rubbish, water or putrid substances, whether animal or vegetable, to
accumulate thereon so as to cause an offensive odor or become injurious,
dangerous or a hazard to health or safety or the neighborhood or any person.
Such accumulation is hereby declared to be a violation of the town code and is
a nuisance and may be abated as such. (1998 Code)
17-403: SPECIFICATIONS ON CONTAINERS:
All occupants and owners of any premises in the town shall place all garbage in
watertight containers and all rubbish in such containers or manner approved by
the town, placed in a convenient place designated by the town for refuse
collection. All containers shall be kept in a sanitary condition. (1998 Code)
17-404: UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS:
It is unlawful for any person unless authorized to do so by the town to remove
from any premises in the town, or transport through the street or alleys or
public places of the town, any garbage or rubbish. (1998 Code)
17-405: FEES:
Owners or occupants of all premises shall pay the fee established by the town
for refuse collection services. (1998 Code)
17-406: INSPECTIONS:
The town may inspect all premises as often as may be required to determine that
premises are in compliance with this chapter and ordinances of the town and
that the condition of premises is sanitary. (1998 Code)
17-407: VIOLATIONS:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter is subject to punishment as
provided in section
1-108 of this code for each day or for each separate violation. (1998 Code)
ORDINANCE DISPOSITION TABLE
Ord. No. Date Title Or Subject
Ord. No.       Date       Title Or Subject
              12-6-1922  Appointment of fire chief.
              7-17-1922  Designating town clerk ex officio engineer and
                          defining duties.
2              4-18-1921  Prohibiting public intoxication and providing
                          penalty.
3              7-6-1921   Prohibiting disorderly and immoral conduct and
                          providing penalties.
4              6-6-1921   Prohibiting house of prostitution.
5              5-16-1921  Providing for laying certain sidewalks.
6              6-6-1921   Prescribing parking regulations.
7              11-7-1921  Relating to office and duties of street commissioner.
8              5-1-1922   Salary of town marshal.
9              5-1-1922   Keeping dogs in town and dog tax.
10             7-3-1922   Granting Beaver, Meade & Englewood Railroad the use
                          of certain streets.
10A            12-6-1922  Traffic regulations for motor vehicles.
11             12-6-1922  Providing for protection of fire hose.
12             12-6-1922  Prohibiting leaving of horses and teams unhitched
                          without driver.
13             5-1-1922   Relating to slaughtering livestock.
14             4-3-1928   Establishing water and power rates.
              4-3-1928   Purchase of engine.
14             4-6-1922   Regulations for water and power rates and service to
                          customers.
15             1-6-1926   Regulations for parking vehicles.
16             4-5-1926   Peddlers license tax amendment (Ord. 1).
17             4-5-1926   Prohibiting livestock and poultry from running at
                          large.
20             6-22-1926  Prohibiting driving tractors with lugs through
                          streets.
21             12-17-1928 Issuing bonds to construct municipal hospital.
22             3-18-1929  Fixing salaries of town clerk, town treasurer and
                          board of trustees.
23             3-22-1929  Granting W. Horwitz right to construct gas works and
                          distribute gas.
24             4-1-1929   Authorizing election for municipal hospital bonds.
25             5-20-1929  Revokes ordinance 23 granting gas franchise to W.
                          Horwitz.
26             5-20-1929  Grants gas franchise to Cimarron Utilities Co.
27             6-3-1929   Providing for issuance for hospital bonds.
Paving Res. 1  7-1-1929   Instructs engineer to prepare plans and estimates of
                          costs for paving district no. 1.
Paving Res. 2  7-1-1929   Adopts plans and estimates for paving district no. 1.
Paving Res. 3  8-6-1929   (Null and void) Providing for improvement of street
                          district no. 1.
Paving Res. 3  8-19-1929  Providing for improvement of street district no. 1.
28             8-24-1929  (Amends ordinance 26) Gas rate schedule amendments.
              11-4-1929  Prohibiting trash or rubbish in streets or alleys.
30             11-18-1929 Granting E.A. Twiddy a franchise to provide water and
                          power, sets rates.
31             11-18-1929 Salary of town marshal.
31             4-7-1930   Plumbing regulations.
32             4-21-1930  Annexing a tract of land.
33             4-21-1930  Vacating certain streets.
34             6-30-1930  Motor vehicle regulations, provides for traffic signs
                          and officer.
              10-6-1930  Occupational taxes (amends ordinance 1)
35             6-18-1931  Assessment of costs of paving district 1.
36             9-3-1932   Sets regulations for building in certain blocks of
                          town to prevent fire hazard.
37             10-3-1932  Grants use of an alley to Beaver, Meade & Englewood
                          railroad.
38             10-3-1932  Releases telephone company from liability for
                          operating a fire alarm through its system.
39             6-5-1933   Regulations for building in certain blocks of town
                          (amends ordinance 32).
40             8-7-1933   Keeping of dogs in town and a dog tax (amends
                          ordinance 9).
41             12-4-1933  Concerning erection of a community building.
42             12-4-1933  Transfer bonds and interest from sinking fund to
                          general fund.
43             12-4-1933  Authorizing construction of a building with the
                          public works administration.
44             8-31-1934  Extending north boundaries of town.
44A            1-7-1935   Changes north boundaries of town.
              12-7-1936  Agreement concerning traffic on Douglas Avenue with
                          state highway commission.
45             4-5-1937   Salary of town clerk.
46             9-7-1937   Prohibits use of electrical equipment that interferes
                          with radio reception.
47             9-7-1937   Prohibits obstruction of sidewalks.
48             9-7-1937   Prohibits obstructing traffic by selling merchandise
                          from parked trucks.
49             4-9-1938   Authorizes an election on bonds for sewer system.
50             5-23-1938  Provides for issuance of sanitary sewer bonds.
51             6-10-1938  Prohibits sale of fireworks.
52             9-6-1938   Occupational license tax (amends ordinance 1).
53             3-7-1939   Provides for proper disposal of sewage and sets
                          plumbing regulations.
54             6-3-1940   Regulating operation of bicycles.
55             4-7-1941   Parking and traffic regulations.
56             4-9-1941   Waiving of penalties on delinquent paving taxes if
                          paid within a year.
57             4-21-1941  Designating county treasurer as treasurer for town.
58             7-7-1941   Authorizing town clerk to deduct 2 percent from
                          firemen's salaries for pension fund.
59             6-16-1942  Prohibiting sale of fireworks.
60             5-1-1944   Setting a curfew for children under 16.
61             8-1-1945   Issuance of airport bonds.
62             8-6-1945   Regulations for building in certain blocks of town
                          (repealed by no. 63).
63             8-11-1945  Providing for building permits.
64             3-8-1947   Changing ward boundaries.
65             9-8-1947   President of board of trustees to act as police
                          judge.
66             9-8-1947   Regulating operation of motor vehicles after fire
                          siren is sounded.
67             1-5-1948   Declaring sanitary sewer system a public utility.
68             1-5-1948   Regulates building in certain blocks of town and
                          requires permits.
69             5-3-1948   Authorizing an election concerning bonds to purchase
                          firefighting equipment.
70             5-3-1948   Authorizing an election concerning bonds to purchase
                          maintenance equipment.
71             8-2-1948   Providing for issuance of bonds for street
                          maintenance equipment.
72             8-2-1948   Providing for issuance of bonds for firefighting
                          equipment.
73             10-4-1948  Traffic and parking regulations.
74             3-7-1949   Requiring a permit to haul garbage or junk.
75             6-6-1949   Prohibiting sale of firecrackers or firing them.
76             6-6-1949   President of board of trustees to be police judge.
77             12-19-1948 Annexing a tract of land.
78             3-6-1950   Prohibiting burning of trash or wood in certain
                          blocks.
79             6-5-1950   Granting electrical franchise to Southwestern Public
                          Service Co.
80             6-5-1950   Granting gas franchise to Southwestern Public Service
                          Co.
81             6-5-1950   Granting water franchise to Southwestern Public
                          Service Co.
82             7-2-1951   Declaring sanitary sewer system a public utility and
                          providing service charge.
83             8-7-1951   Regulating peddlers and transient vendors.
84             6-2-1952   Authorizing election concerning sanitary sewer bonds.
85             8-4-1952   Issuing sewer extension bonds.
86             2-6-1956   Requiring building permits.
87             7-1-1957   Declaring sanitary sewer a public utility and
                          providing for sewer use fee.
88             12-2-1957  Establishing civil defense organization.
89             4-8-1958   Issuance of public parking and swimming pool bonds.
90             2-2-1959   Providing for issuance of sewer extension bonds.
91             8-3-1959   Occupation tax levied against package stores.
92             4-4-1960   Prohibiting parking vehicles in front of private
                          driveways.
93             4-4-1960   Declaring garbage collection and disposal a public
                          utility.
94             6-3-1961   Extending social security coverage to employees of
                          town.
95             6-12-1961  Providing for issuance of waterworks bonds.
96             8-1-1961   Declaring water system a public utility and providing
                          rates.
97             8-1-1961   Declaring sewer, garbage, and water systems are
                          public utilities providing for one monthly bill.
99             1-2-1962   Abatement of accumulated weeds and trash on private
                          property.
100            1-2-1962   Parking regulations.
101            1-2-1962   Levying of an occupation tax.
102            4-2-1962   Granting cable TV franchise.
103            6-4-1962   Declaring water system a public utility and setting
                          rates.
104            4-1-1963   Nonintoxicating beverage license.
105            6-3-1963   Levying occupation tax.
106            No date    License for telephone exchanges.
107            5-5-1964   Prohibiting sale of beverages with certain alcoholic
                          content on weekend.
108            8-7-1967   Establishment of volunteer fire department.
109            8-7-1967   Rules and regulations for volunteer firemen.
110            8-7-1967   Requiring check valves in basement plumbing.
111            8-7-1967   Prohibiting loitering on streets between certain
                          hours.
112            8-7-1967   Creating a planning commission.
113            7-19-1968  Sales tax ordinance.
114            7-19-1968  Calling election concerning sales tax.
115            10-5-1970  Organization of municipal criminal court.
116            2-1-1972   Fees for public utilities (sewer, water, garbage).
117            4-3-1972   Regulations for owning dogs, dog tax, dog pound.
118            3-5-1973   Town clerk's salary.
119            1-2-1973   Changing ward boundaries and terms of office for
                          board of trustees.
120            5-23-1973  Gas franchise.
120            6-3-1974   Amending and repeating portions of ordinances dealing
                          with occupation taxes and utility fees.
121            8-1-1974   Regulations concerning animals in town.
122            12-2-1974  Town clerk's salary.
123            3-3-1975   Town clerk's salary.
124            4-7-1975   Electric franchise.
124            10-6-1975  Additional duties performed by clerk.
125            4-3-1978   Utility fees.
126            5-1-1978   Zoning ordinance.
127            11-6-1978  Bail for violation of municipal traffic offense.
128            11-6-1978  Animal control law.
129            11-6-1978  Making a street two-way.
130            3-5-1979   Town clerk's salary.
131            8-6-1979   Inspection fee and service charge for telephone
                          exchange.
132            4-7-1980   Operation of sewer and trash system, setting fees and
                          penalties for nonpayment.
133            6-2-1980   Sales tax ordinance amendment.
              8-4-1980   Increasing 1 cent to 2 cents.1346-2-1980Calling Sales
                          Tax election.
135            8-4-1980   Water shortages and emergency powers in water
                          shortages.
136            1-5-1981   Changing and fixing ward boundaries.
              12-1-1986  Floodplain ordinance.
Amend to       7-7-1987   Amended Occupation Tax amount.
Ord. 105
139            7-7-1987   Annexing.
Amend to Ord.  12-5-1988  Speed zones and enforcement in school zones.
Ch. 21, Art. 7
1-91           1-8-1991   Compensation for Board of Trustees.
Amend to Ord.  11-7-1994  Lowering amount of bond required for Clerk and
Ch. 1, Art. 16            Treasurer.
Amend to Ord.  12-5-1994  Sanitary sewer system ordinance amendment.
Ch. 19, Art. 2
Amend to Ord.  3-6-1995   Parking restrictions for certain vehicles in
Ch. 21                    residential area.
Resolution     3-6-1995   Truck routes.
Amendment      5-8-1996   Amending 3-5 and 3-7 on animals.
97-03-001      3-5-1997   Adopting Use Tax of 2 percent.
97-98-1        6-10-1998  Natural gas fee.
Resolution     6-10-1998  Declares ordinance 97-98-1 effective upon passage.
R-98-1         3-4-1998   Notification of publication.
98-1           3-4-1998   Adopting ordinance.
98-11          11-4-1998  When utility bills are payable.
12-98          12-9-1998  Vacation.
Resolution     12-9-1998  Requiring a public hearing (repealed by Ord. 2013-1).
Resolution     12-9-1998  Vacation.
1-2000         4-6-2000   Electric franchise.
03-4           4-10-2003  Street reopening.
7-1-2005       7-6-2005   Electric franchise.
Res. 7-1-2005  7-6-2005   Notice of election for granting electric franchise.
10-5           10-13-2005 Vacation.
Resolution     10-13-2005 Street closure.
Resolution     8-10-2006  Street closure.
8-10-2006      8-10-2006  Vacation.
2008-1         3-13-2008  Abandoned, junk vehicles.
2009-1         7-13-2009  Abandoned, wrecked vehicles.
2009-2         8-13-2009  Meetings of the Board of Trustees.
2009-3         7-13-2009  Actual costs by the Town to remove trash or weeds.
2009-4         7-13-2009  Actual costs by the Town to tear down or remove a
                          dilapidated building.
2010-1         1-14-2010  Liquefied petroleum gas.
2010-2         1-14-2010  Utility services fees and charges.
2010-R1        3-11-2010  Town compliance with Municipal Budget Act.
2010-R5        6-15-2010  Fees for occupational and itinerant vendors licenses.
2010-3         8-12-2010  Gatherings where minors are consuming alcoholic
                          beverages.
2010-4         11-16-2010 Purchasing and cash disbursement processing methods
                          and internal controls.
2010-5         11-16-2010 Judge; created, qualifications.
2012-2         11-8-2012  Right to trial by jury; waiver.
2013-1         4-3-2013   Interfering with street, free flow of traffic.
                          Elected officers of the Town shall be elected and
2014-01        1-9-2014   initiative and referendum questions shall be decided
                          by Beaver County Election Board.
2015-11-1      11-12-2015 Texting while driving prohibited.
2015-12-1      12-10-2015 Sales and Excise Taxes.
2016-3-1       3-10-2016  Purchasing Officers.
2016-R05       6-9-2016   Fees for occupational and itinerant vendors licenses.
2017-1         6-8-2017   Tobacco and vapor products.
2017-2         10-12-2017 Prohibited signs.
2018-1         9-13-2018  Marijuana regulations.
2018-2         9-13-2018  Alcoholic beverage regulations.
2020-01        3-12-2020  Schedule of fines, fees, and forfeitures.
2020-02        9-10-2020  Marijuana regulations.
2021-01        8-6-2021   Code enforcement officer.
2022-01        8-11-2022  International Property Maintenance Code.
2022-02        9-12-2022  International Building Code.
2022-03        9-12-2022  International Plumbing Code.
2022-04        9-12-2022  International Mechanical Code.
2022-05        9-12-2022  International Existing Building Code
2022-06        10-13-2022 Town Clerk regulations.
                         
 
