BERNICE, OKLAHOMA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through:
Ord. 03142024-9, passed 4-7-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
DIRECTORY OF OFFICIALS
(2023)
MAYOR
Amanda Markey
BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEMBERS
 
Patrick Beehler
Mark Ellison
David Fuller
Amanda Markey
Peggy Weaver
 
ORDINANCE NO. 23-5.30-1
Town of Bernice
Delaware County
State of Oklahoma
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF BERNICE, OKLAHOMA
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, Title 11, § 14-101 et seq. of the Oklahoma Statutes authorizes the
Town of Bernice to revise, amend, restate, codify, and compile any and all
existing ordinances and all new ordinances not yet adopted into one ordinance
book; and
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees of the Town of Bernice, Oklahoma has
authorized a general compilation, revision, and codification of the ordinances
of the Town of Bernice and publication of such ordinances in book form,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE TOWN OF BERNICE,
OKLAHOMA:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the Town of Bernice, Oklahoma as
revised, amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby
adopted as and shall constitute the "Town of Bernice, Oklahoma Code of
Ordinances".
   Section 2. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights
to certain persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance
of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or
personal property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land
to public use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public
places; nor shall such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or
special nature or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the
Code.
   Section 3. The Town Clerk of the Town of Bernice, Oklahoma is hereby
authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the Office
of the Clerk.
   Section 4. Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in
Section 6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places
of the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations
therein contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly
signed, attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and
notices thereof as required by law have been given.
   Section 5. An emergency exists for the preservation of the public health,
peace, and safety and, therefore, this ordinance shall take effect from and
after its passage and approval.
PASSED AND APPROVED BY THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE TOWN OF BERNICE, OKLAHOMA,
AND THE EMERGENCY CLAUSE PASSED AND APPROVED SEPARATELY, this 30 day of May
2023.
Approved this 30 day of May, 2023.
                                 TOWN OF BERNICE, OKALHOMA
                                 /s/ Patrick Beehler
                                 Patrick Beehler, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Bill Dennis
Bill Dennis, Town Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code; authority
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions and notes
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to statutes
   
10.09   Reference to other sections
   
10.10   Reference to offices
   
10.11   Errors and omissions
   
10.12   Official time
   
10.13   Reasonable time
   
10.14   Ordinances repealed
   
10.15   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.16   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.17   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.18   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.19   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.20   Code alterations
 
   
10.99   General penalty
Statutory reference:
   Town ordinances, see 11 O.S. §§ 14-101 et seq.
   General powers, see 11 O.S. §§ 22-101 et seq.
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE; AUTHORITY.
   This code may be cited as the “Bernice Town Code” or other properly
identifying description. When a change or changes have been prepared and
inserted in the code as provided herein below, the words “as amended” may be
added to the citation or title when referring to the code as amended.
Statutory reference:
   Adoption and revision of codes of ordinances, see 11 O.S. §§ 14-108 and 14-
109
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS AND NOTES.
   (A)   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
   (B)   Notes indicating sources of sections, giving other information or
referring to statutes or to other parts of the code are inserted in the code,
and may be inserted in changes to the code, for the convenience of persons
using the code, and shall have no legal effect.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred,
either expressly or by implication.
      BOARD or TOWN BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The Town Board of Trustees of Bernice.
      BOND. An obligation in writing, binding the signatory to pay a sum
certain upon the happening or failure of an event.
      BUILDING. Any structure intended to have walls and a roof.
      BUILDING OFFICER. The person appointed by the town and designated as the
town’s Building Officer.
      BUSINESS. Any profession, trade, occupation and any other commercial
enterprise conducted for monetary reward.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. Delaware County, Oklahoma.
      DESIGNEE. Following an official of the town, means the authorized agent,
employee or representative of such official.
      HEALTH OFFICER. Director of the cooperative department of the county and
the town.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving JOINT AUTHORITY to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving authority to a majority of the
persons or officers.
      KEEPER. One in possession of or who has the care, custody or
superintendence of a thing, place or business, whether or not the owner or
proprietor, and includes any person, firm, association, corporation, club and
copartnership, whether acting by themselves or by a servant, agent or employee.
      LAW. Applicable federal law, provisions of the state constitution and
state statutes, the ordinances of the town and, when appropriate, any and all
rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
      LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MAYOR. The Mayor of the town.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath and, in such cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OCCUPANT. As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
      OFFENSE. The unlawful act of doing, or failing to do, some particular act
or thing construed therein to be detrimental to the general welfare, morals,
peace, health or safety of the inhabitants of the town.
      OPERATE. Carry on, keep, conduct, maintain, manage, direct or
superintend.
      OPERATOR. The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
      OTHER OFFICIALS or OFFICERS AND THE LIKE. Whenever reference is made to
officers, agencies or departments by title only, such as “Clerk-Treasurer”,
“Town Attorney”, “Fire Chief”, “Police Chief” and the like, they shall mean the
officers, agencies or departments of the town.
      OWNER.
         (a)   One who has complete dominion over particular property and who
is the one in whom legal or equitable title rests.
         (b)   When applied to a building or land, OWNER means any part owner,
joint owner, owner of a community or partnership interest, life tenant, tenant
in common or joint tenant of the whole or part of such building or land.
      PERSON. Includes natural persons, corporations (private and public),
partnerships and all other unincorporated organizations, trusts, estates and
government agencies, except when a contrary intention plainly appears.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Any money, goods, moveable chattels, things in action,
evidence of debt, all objects and rights which are capable of ownership and
every other species of property, except real property.
      PRECEDING; FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Real and personal property.
      PROPRIETOR. An owner of the property or premises, including any person,
firm, association, corporation, club, partnership or other group acting as a
unit, whether acting by themselves or by a servant, agent or employee.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any public street, road or highway, alley, lane, sidewalk,
crosswalk or other public way, or any public resort, place of amusement,
stadium, athletic field, park, playground, public building or grounds
appurtenant thereto, school buildings or school grounds, public parking lot or
any vacant lot, the elevator, lobby, halls, corridors and areas open to the
public of any store, office or apartment building or any other place commonly
open to the public.
      REAL PROPERTY. Land, together with all things attached to the land so as
to become a part thereof.
      RETAILER. Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the
consumer.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property along the margin of a street or other highway, designed, constructed
and intended for the use of pedestrians to the exclusion of vehicles.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Oklahoma.
      STATUTORY REFERENCES. References to the statutes of the state as they now
are or as they may be amended.
      STREET. Street, avenue, boulevard, road, alley, lane, viaduct, highway,
court, place, square, curb or any other public way in the town which is
dedicated and open to public use.
      SUBCHAPTER.
         (a)   A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
         (b)   Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT. Any person occupying the premises, building or land of another in
subordination to such other person’s title and with his or her express or
implied consent, whether he or she occupies the whole or a part of those
premises, building or land, whether alone or with others.
      TOWN, THIS TOWN or MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Bernice, Oklahoma.
      TOWN LIMITS. Within the town, and includes not only the corporate limits
of the town, but also any property which it owns or which is under its
jurisdiction.
      WATERCOURSE. Any drain, ditch or stream, flowing in a definite direction
or course, in a bed with banks.
      WEEK. Seven days.
      WHOLESALER. Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who
purchase for the purpose of resale.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-2)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender. Words used in the masculine gender in this code or in other
ordinances of the town include the feminine and neuter.
   (D)   Singular and plural. Words used in the singular number in this code or
in other ordinances of the town include the plural, and the plural the
singular.
   (E)   Tenses. The use of a verb in the present tense shall include the
future, if applicable.
   (F)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If a part of this code or of any ordinance passed by the Town Board of
Trustees after this code goes into effect is invalid, all valid parts which are
severable from the invalid parts remain in effect. If a part of this code or of
any ordinance passed hereinafter is invalid in one or more of its applications,
the part remains in effect in all valid applications which are severable from
the invalid applications.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO STATUTES.
   Reference to the statutes of the state means the statutes as they are now or
as they may be amended, and a reference to the Oklahoma Statutes for a certain
year also means the comparable provision when included in future codifications.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.10 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.11 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words were
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.12 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the town for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.13 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   All ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general
nature passed prior to and in effect at the time the code is adopted but not
included in the code are hereby repealed as of the time when the code goes into
effect.
   (B)   Ordinances passed on or after that date shall not be repealed or
amended by the adoption of the code.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.16 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   Every ordinance passed by the legislative body, except an emergency
ordinance, shall take effect 30 days after its final passage unless the
ordinance specifies a later date. An emergency measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of peace, health or safety shall take effect upon its
passage.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 14-103
§ 10.17 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.18 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature
passed or adopted on and after the most recent ordinance included in this code
of ordinances may be passed or adopted either in the form of amendments to this
code of ordinances or without specific reference to the code, but in either
case, all ordinances and parts of ordinances shall be deemed amendments to the
code, and all of the substantive permanent and general parts of the ordinances
and changes made thereby in the code shall be inserted and made in the code
whenever authorized or directed by motion, resolution or ordinance of the Town
Board of Trustees, as provided hereinafter.
§ 10.19 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, any amending ordinances if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (11 O.S. § 1-402) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see 51 O.S. §§ 24A.1 et seq.
§ 10.20 CODE ALTERATIONS.
   It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or
deface in any way any section or any page of this town code in such a manner
that the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code,
while in actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be
and remain the property of the town and shall be returned to the office of the
town’s Clerk-Treasurer when directed so to do by order of the town’s Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-6)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by Oklahoma law, whenever in this Code,
or in any ordinance of the Town, an act is prohibited or is declared to be
unlawful, an act is declared to be an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in
this Code or in any ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure
to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided
therefor, the violation shall be punishable as follows:
      (1)   Any violation of this Code or of any ordinance related to alcohol
or drugs, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding eight
hundred dollars ($800.00), plus court costs and fees;
      (2)   All other offenses, except traffic offenses related to speeding and
parking, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00), plus court costs and fees;
      (3)   The maximum fine for traffic offenses related to speeding or
parking shall not exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00), plus court costs and
fees.
   (B)   Each day or portion of a day during which a violation of this Code or
any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person who shall aid, abet, or assist in the violation of any
provision of this Code or any other ordinance shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in this
section.
   (D)   All fines and fees shall be recoverable by civil action by any court
of competent jurisdiction in addition to any other method provided by law.
(Ord. 06102024-1, passed 6-20-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Fines over $500 to be set by jury trial, see 11 O.S. § 27-119
   Maximum fine levied, see 11 O.S. § 14-111
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   ELECTIONS AND CORPORATE BOUNDARIES
      
31.   BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
32.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
33.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   MUNICIPAL COURT
      
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
36.   TAXATION
      
37.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: ELECTIONS AND CORPORATE BOUNDARIES
Section
   
30.01   Corporate limits
   
30.02   Town elections
§ 30.01 CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The map of the town showing its territorial limits, as maintained in the
office of the town’s Clerk-Treasurer, is hereby designated as the official map
of the town, and the corporate limits as shown thereon, and as amended, are
declared to be the true and correct corporate limits of the town, including all
annexations made to the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-1)
§ 30.02 TOWN ELECTIONS.
   Pursuant to 11 O.S. § 16-302, the town hereby declares that it shall not be
governed by the state’s Town Meeting Act as a means of electing its officers
and deciding initiative and referendum questions. The town shall hereby elect
its officers and decide initiative and referendum questions through elections
conducted by the county’s Election Board, pursuant to 11 O.S. §§ 16-101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-2) (Ord. 528, passed 11-7-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Town Meeting Act, see 11 O.S. §§ 16-301 et seq.
CHAPTER 31: BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Form of government
   
31.02   Composition of Board; elections; term of office
   
31.03   Mayor
   
31.04   Rules and order of business
   
31.05   Trustees supervise personnel and activities
Meetings
   
31.20   Definitions
   
31.21   Regular meetings
   
31.22   Adjourned meetings
   
31.23   Open meetings
   
31.24   Meeting requirements; gatherings
   
31.25   Executive sessions
   
31.26   Public notices
   
31.27   Written minutes
   
31.28   Violation results in invalid action
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   The town is governed under the Board of Trustees form of government.
The Board of Trustees shall consist of five Trustees.
   (B)   All powers of the town shall be exercised in the manner prescribed by
this code, by state statute and in such manner prescribed by ordinances adopted
by the town’s Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-1)
§ 31.02 COMPOSITION OF BOARD; ELECTIONS; TERM OF OFFICE.
   The Board of Trustees shall consist of five Trustees, said Trustees to be
nominated and elected by the town at large. General elections shall be held on
the first Tuesday in April every two years.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-2) (Ord. 2014-1, passed 1-23-2014)
§ 31.03 MAYOR.
   (A)   Elected from Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees shall elect from
among its members a Mayor. The Mayor shall be elected in each odd-numbered year
at the first Board of Trustees meeting held after the newly elected officials
take office, or as soon thereafter as practicable. The Mayor shall serve until
his or her successor has been elected and qualified, unless such member dies,
resigns or is removed by the Board of Trustees. The Mayor may also be referred
to as “President of the Board” or “Chief Executive Officer”.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Board
and shall certify to the correct enrollment of all ordinances and resolutions
passed by the Board. The Mayor shall be recognized as head of the town
government for all ceremonial purposes and shall have such other powers, duties
and functions as may be prescribed by law or ordinance. The Mayor shall have
all the powers, rights, privileges, duties and responsibilities of a trustee,
including the right to vote on questions.
   (C)   Vacancy in, removal from office. When a vacancy occurs in the office
of the Mayor, the Board shall elect another Mayor from among its members to
serve for the duration of the unexpired term. The Mayor may be removed by a
majority of the members of the Board of Trustees on a showing of good cause. He
or she shall have no vote in such proceeding.
   (D)   Acting Mayor.
      (1)   Elected from Board of Trustees. During the absence, disability or
suspension of the Mayor, the Board shall elect from its members an acting
Mayor.
      (2)   Powers and duties. The acting Mayor shall have all the powers and
duties prescribed by state law and as may be prescribed by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-3)
§ 31.04 RULES AND ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Rules of procedure. The Board of Trustees may from time to time adopt
rules to govern the proceedings of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Order of business. The Board shall attend to business before it in the
following order and none other, except by a three-fourths’ vote of the whole
Board:
      (1)   Roll call;
      (2)   Reading of the minutes of the last meeting;
      (3)   Presentation of petitions, memorials and other communications and
hearing of citizens;
      (4)   Presentation of claims and accounts;
      (5)   Reports of officers;
      (6)   Reports of committees;
      (7)   Unfinished business;
      (8)   Ordinances; and
      (9)   Resolutions.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-5)
§ 31.05 TRUSTEES SUPERVISE PERSONNEL AND ACTIVITIES.
   The Board of Trustees may designate various ones of its members or a
committee of its members to have supervision of various personnel and
activities of the town (for example, those working on the streets, those
working in the water system and the like), and may give each such Trustee or
committee designated an appropriate title. Each such Trustee or committee so
designated shall be subordinate to the Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-6)
MEETINGS
§ 31.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTINUED OR RECONVENED MEETING. A meeting which is assembled for the
purpose of finishing business appearing on an agenda of a previous meeting.
Only matters on the agenda of the previous meeting at which the announcement of
the continuance is made may be discussed at a CONTINUED OR RECONVENED MEETING.
   EMERGENCY MEETING. Any meeting called for the purpose of dealing with an
emergency. An EMERGENCY is defined as a situation involving injury to persons
or injury and damage to public or personal property or immediate financial loss
when the time requirements for public notice of a special meeting would make
such procedure impractical and increase the likelihood of injury or damage or
immediate financial loss.
   MEETING. The conducting of business of the town’s Board of Trustees by a
majority of Trustees meeting personally together.
   REGULARLY SCHEDULED MEETING. A meeting at which the regular business of the
public body is conducted.
   SPECIAL MEETING. Any meeting of the town’s Board of Trustees other than a
regularly scheduled meeting or an emergency meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-4)
§ 31.21 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   Regular meetings of the Board of Trustees shall be held on the second Monday
of every month at 6:30 p.m. at the Bernice Community Center. If such a day
falls on a town holiday, the regular meeting shall be held at the same time on
the following Tuesday, if not a holiday.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-4)
§ 31.22 ADJOURNED MEETINGS.
   Any adjourned meeting may be held at any other place in the town designated
by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-4)
§ 31.23 OPEN MEETINGS.
   (A)   Meetings to be open. In accordance with 25 O.S. §§ 301 to 314, as
amended, all meetings of the town’s Board of Trustees shall be held at
specified times and places which are convenient to the public and shall be open
to the public, except as hereinafter specifically provided.
   (B)   Notice of meetings. All meetings shall be preceded by advance public
notice specifying the time and place of each such meeting to be convened as
well as the subject matter or matters to be considered at such meeting.
   (C)   Application of provisions.
      (1)   Open public meeting requirements in this section shall apply to any
subordinate entities sponsored into existence by the Board of Trustees
including the town’s Public Works Authority, any other public trust authorities
established in the future, commissions, bureaus, boards, agencies,
trusteeships, councils, committees, task forces or study groups.
      (2)   A subordinate entity, such as those specified in division (C)(1)
above, which has no decision making authority is not subject to the Open
Meeting Law, 25 O.S. §§ 301 to 314. Open meeting requirements do not apply to
meetings held by the administrative staff of the town when staffs are not
meeting with the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-4)
§ 31.24 MEETING REQUIREMENTS; GATHERINGS.
   (A)   Videotapes and audiotapes. Any person attending a public meeting may
record the proceedings of said meeting by videotape, audiotape or by any other
method; provided, however, such recording shall not interfere with the conduct
of the meeting.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions.
      (1)   A member of the Board of Trustees may not lawfully meet separately
with other Trustees to obtain signatures of a majority to take action that
would otherwise require a consideration and vote at an open meeting.
      (2)   Informal gatherings among a majority of the Trustees to decide on a
cause of action or to vote on any matter are prohibited.
      (3)   No informal gatherings or any electronic or telephonic
communications, except teleconferences as authorized by 25 O.S. § 307.1, among
a majority of the members of a public body shall be used to decide any action
or to take any vote on any matter.
   (C)   Public votes. In all meetings of the Board of Trustees, the vote of
each Trustee must be publicly cast and recorded.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-4)
§ 31.25 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   Sessions limited; public votes. The town’s Board of Trustees shall not
hold executive sessions unless specifically provided for herein.
      (1)   Executive sessions can be held for the purpose of discussing the
employment, hiring, appointment, promotion, demotion, disciplining or
resignation of any individual salaried public officer or employer; provided,
however, that, any vote or action thereon must be taken in public meeting with
the vote of each Trustee publicly cast and recorded.
      (2)   Executive sessions may be held for confidential communications
between the town’s Board of Trustees and its attorney, but only if
communications concern a pending investigation, claim or action, and disclosure
of the matters discussed would seriously impair the ability of the board to
process the claim or conduct a pending investigation, litigation or proceeding
in the public interest. The Board of Trustees, with the advice of its attorney,
would determine whether it would be proper to hold executive sessions for these
reasons. However, any vote or action taken as a result of an executive session
must be in a public meeting with the vote of each Trustee publicly cast and
recorded.
      (3)   No executive session shall occur, except on a vote by a majority of
a quorum of the Trustees present, and the vote is a recorded vote.
   (B)   Included on agenda.
      (1)   All agendas required pursuant to the provisions of this section
shall identify all items of business to be transacted by the Board of Trustees
at a meeting, including, but not limited to, any proposed executive session for
the purpose of engaging in deliberations or rendering a final or intermediate
decision in an individual proceeding prescribed by the Administrative
Procedures Act.
      (2)   If the Board of Trustees proposes to conduct an executive session,
the agenda shall:
         (a)   Contain sufficient information for the public to ascertain that
an executive session will be proposed;
         (b)   Identify the items of business and purpose of the executive
session; and
         (c)   State specifically the provisions of 25 O.S. § 307 authorizing
the executive session.
      (3)   The Board of Trustees may go into executive session with its
Attorney to discuss ongoing litigation under the new business provisions of 25
O.S. § 311(9); provided, the matters to be discussed could not have been known
about or reasonably foreseen prior to the time of posting the agenda.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-4)
Statutory reference:
   Administrative Procedures Act, see 75 O.S. §§ 250 et seq.
   Related provisions, see 25 O.S. § 311(A)(10)
§ 31.26 PUBLIC NOTICES.
   All regularly scheduled, continued or reconvened, special or emergency
meetings of the Board of Trustees shall be preceded by public notice as
follows.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall give notice in writing by December 15 of
each calendar year of the schedule showing the date, time and place of the
regularly scheduled meetings of the Board of Trustees for the following
calendar year. This provision, as well as all other provisions of this section,
apply to the town’s Public Works Authority’s Board of Trustees, as well as the
town’s Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Both Boards of Trustees specified in division (A) above shall give
such notice to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   The town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a record of all notices received
in a register open to the public for inspection during regular office hours
and, in addition, shall make known, upon any request of any person, the
contents of said register.
   (D)   If any change is to be made of the date, time or place of regularly
scheduled meetings of public bodies, then notice in writing shall be given to
the town’s Clerk-Treasurer not less than ten days prior to the implementation
of any change.
   (E)   In addition to the advance public notice in writing required to be
filed for a regularly scheduled meeting, the Board of Trustees shall, at least
24 hours prior to such meeting, display public notice of said meeting, setting
forth thereon the date, time, place and agenda for said meeting. Such 24 hours’
prior public posting shall exclude Saturdays and Sundays and holidays legally
declared by the state. The posting of an agenda shall not preclude the Board of
Trustees from considering at its regularly scheduled meeting any new business.
Such public notice shall be posted in prominent public view at the principal
office of the Board of Trustees or at the location of the meeting in the event
no office exists. NEW BUSINESS, as used herein, shall mean any matter not known
about or which could not have been reasonably foreseen prior to the time of
posting.
   (F)   In the event any meeting is to be continued or reconvened, public
notice of such action, including date, time and place of the continued meeting,
shall be given by announcement at the original meeting. Only matters appearing
on the agenda of the meeting which is continued may be discussed at the
continued or reconvened meeting.
   (G)   Special meetings of the Board of Trustees shall not be held without
public notice being given at least 48 hours prior to the meetings. Such public
notice of date, time and place shall be given in writing, in person or by
telephonic means to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer by the Board of Trustees. The
Board of Trustees also shall cause written notice of the date, time and place
of the meeting to be mailed or delivered to each person, newspaper, wire
service, radio station and television station that has filed a written request
for notice of meetings of the Board of Trustees with the town’s Clerk-
Treasurer. Such written notice shall be mailed or delivered at least 48 hours
prior to the special meeting. In addition, the Board of Trustees shall, at
least 24 hours prior to such special meeting, display public notice of said
meeting, setting forth the date, time, place and agenda for the meeting. Only
matters appearing on the posted agenda may be considered at said special
meeting. Such public notice shall be posted in prominent public view at the
principal office of the Board of Trustees or at the location of the meeting if
no office exists. Twenty four hours’ prior public posting shall exclude
Saturdays and Sundays and holidays legally declared by the state.
   (H)   In the event of an emergency, an emergency meeting of the Board of
Trustees may be held without the public notice heretofore required. Should an
emergency meeting of the Board of Trustees be necessary, the person calling
such meeting shall give so much advance public notice as is reasonable and
possible under the circumstances existing, in person or by telephone or
electronic means.
   (I)   Agendas for meetings must be worded in plain language, directly
stating the purpose of the meeting, in order to give the public accurate
notice. The language used should be simple, direct and comprehensive to a
person of ordinary education and intelligence.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-4)
§ 31.27 WRITTEN MINUTES.
   (A)   The town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall keep written minutes which shall be
an official summary of the proceedings of the Board showing clearly those
trustees present and absent, all matters considered by the Board of Trustees,
and all actions taken by the Board of Trustees. The minutes of each meeting
shall be open to public inspection and shall reflect the manner and time of
notice required by this section.
   (B)   In the written minutes of an emergency meeting, the nature of the
emergency and the proceedings occurring at such meeting, including reasons for
declaring such emergency meeting, shall be included.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-4)
§ 31.28 VIOLATION RESULTS IN INVALID ACTION.
   Any action taken in willful violation of this subchapter shall be invalid.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-4)
CHAPTER 32: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
32.01   Town Clerk-Treasurer
   
32.02   Town Attorney
   
32.03   Health Officer
   
32.04   Other administrative departments, officers and agencies
   
32.05   Bonds
   
32.06   Compensation
   
32.07   Books and records to successor
   
32.08   Social Security
§ 32.01 TOWN CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   Office Created; Election; Term. There is hereby created the office of
Town Clerk-Treasurer for the Town of Bernice, who shall be elected for a term
of four years, beginning at the municipal general election held in 1995 and,
thereafter, for a term of four years as provided by law for election of the
Town Clerk.
   (B)   Powers and Duties.
      (1)   Generally. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall have and exercise all
powers and duties assigned to him or her by statute and ordinance and by such
other authority as may be granted to him or her by the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Duties as Town Clerk. As Town Clerk, the Town Clerk-Treasurer
shall:
         (a)   Keep the journal of proceedings of the Board of Trustees;
         (b)   Enroll all ordinances and resolutions passed by the Board of
Trustees in a book or set of books kept for that purpose;
         (c)   Have custody of documents, records, and archives as may be
provided for by law or by ordinance, and have custody of the Town of Bernice
seal;
         (d)   Attest and affix the Town of Bernice seal to documents as
required by law or by ordinance; and
         (e)   Have such other powers, duties, and functions related to his or
her statutory duties as may be prescribed by law or by ordinance.
      (3)   Duties as Town Treasurer. As Town Treasurer, the Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall;
         (a)   Maintain accounts and books to show where and from what source
all monies paid to him or her have been derived and to whom and when any moneys
have been paid;
         (b)   Deposit daily funds received for the Town of Bernice in
depositories as the Board of Trustees may designate;
         (c)   Have such other powers, duties, and functions related to his or
her statutory duties as may be prescribed by law or by ordinance. The books and
accounts of the Town Treasurer shall be subject at all times to examination by
the Board of Trustees.
         (4)   Additional Administrative Duties. The person who serves as Town
Clerk-Treasurer may be employed by the Town of Bernice to perform duties not
related to his or her position as Town Clerk-Treasurer. The salary, if any, for
said duties shall be provided for separately by ordinance.
   (C)   All references to the Town Clerk or the Town Treasurer in the Town of
Bernice, Oklahoma Code of Ordinances shall mean the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 534, passed 6-7-1993; Ord. 12-10-2002, passed 12-9-2002; Ord. 2015-2,
passed 2-9-2015; Ord. 03.20.2025-1, passed 3-20-2025)
§ 32.02 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   The Town Attorney is an officer of the town, appointed by the Mayor with the
confirmation of the Board of Trustees. The Town Attorney shall have such duties
as are prescribed by the Town Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-2)
§ 32.03 HEALTH OFFICER.
   The Board of Trustees may appoint a Town Health Officer. Also, the Director
of the county’s Cooperative Health Department and his or her authorized
representative may perform the duties and functions of a Town Health Officer.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-3)
§ 32.04 OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS, OFFICERS AND AGENCIES.
   There shall be such other administrative departments, agencies and officers
as the Board of Trustees may establish.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-4)
§ 32.05 BONDS.
   The town’s Clerk-Treasurer and such officers and employees as are designated
by the town’s Board of Trustees shall, before entering upon the discharge of
their duties, execute and file with the town’s Clerk-Treasurer surety bonds
issued by a surety company authorized to operate in the state conditioned upon
the faithful performance of their duties. The town shall pay the premium on
such bonds.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-5)
§ 32.06 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Generally. The pay period for the town shall be monthly. Compensation
of elected officers of the town shall be as provided by the ordinances of the
town. The compensation of other officers and employees shall be set by motion
or resolution.
   (B)   Town Clerk-Treasurer; Court Clerk. The town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall
perform all the duties and responsibilities of the town’s Clerk-Treasurer as
set forth in § 32.01 of this chapter. Compensation for the performance of these
duties shall be $1,604 each month. The town’s Clerk-Treasurer also serves as
the town’s Court Clerk pursuant to §
34.06 of this code. Compensation for the performance of the Court Clerk’s
duties shall be $1,150 each month. The compensation described in this division
(B) shall be paid in equal amounts of $1,377 on the first and fifteenth day of
each month.
   (C)   Additional Duties.
      (1)   The person who serves as the Town Clerk-Treasurer of the Town
Clerk-Treasurer may also perform additional administrative duties not specified
by Oklahoma law as an employee of the Town of Bernice. Said additional duties
shall be performed by the person serving as the Town Clerk-Treasurer or as
otherwise provided by motion or other action of the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees hereby assign the Town Clerk-Treasurer duties
as Office Manager of Bernice, Oklahoma Town Hall. Said duties are in addition
to and not related to the position of Town Clerk-Treasurer.
      (3)   The total compensation for performing additional administrative
duties related to office management shall be $730 per month, paid semi-monthly
in equal installments of $365 on the first and fifteenth days of each month.
The salary for performing said additional administrative duties shall not be
subject to constitutional restrictions. (Prior Code, § 1-7-6) (Ord. 2011-1,
passed 1-10-2011; Ord. 2015-2, passed 2-9-2015; Ord. 03.2025-2, passed 3-20-
2025)
§ 32.07 BOOKS AND RECORDS TO SUCCESSOR.
   All books, vouchers, moneys or other property belonging to the town in the
charge or possession of any officer of the same shall be delivered to his or
her successor when qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-7)
§ 32.08 SOCIAL SECURITY.
   (A)   Declaration of policy. It is hereby declared to be the policy of the
town to extend, at the earliest date, to the employees and officials thereof,
not excluded by law or this section, and whether employed in connection with a
governmental or proprietary function, the benefits of the system of federal old
age and survivors insurance, as authorized by the Federal Social Security Act,
42 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., and amendments thereto. In pursuance of this policy,
the town shall take such action as may be required by applicable state or
federal laws or regulations.
   (B)   Agreement with state. The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to
execute all necessary agreements and amendments thereto with the state’s
Department of Human Services as agent or agency, to secure coverage of
employees and officials as provided in division (A) above.
   (C)   Withholdings. Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and
officials for the purpose provided in division (A) above are hereby authorized
to be made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by applicable
state or federal laws or regulations, and shall be paid over to the state or
federal agency designated by the laws or regulations.
   (D)   Contributions. There shall be appropriated from available funds such
amounts at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or
regulations for employer contributions, which shall be paid over to the state
or federal agency designated by said laws or regulations.
   (E)   Records and reports. The town shall keep such records and make such
reports as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
   (F)   Exclusions.
      (1)   There is hereby excluded from this section any authority to make
any agreement with respect to any position or any employee or official now
covered or authorized to be covered by any other ordinance creating any
retirement system for any employee or official of the town.
      (2)   There is hereby excluded from this section any authority to make an
agreement with respect to any position or any employee or official,
compensation for which is on a fee basis, or any position or any employee or
official not authorized to be covered by applicable state or federal laws or
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-8)
CHAPTER 33: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Fire Department
   
33.01   Department established; composition; qualifications
   
33.02   Duties of Department
   
33.03   Chief; powers and duties
   
33.04   Other Department personnel
   
33.05   New members
   
33.06   By-laws
   
33.07   Firefighters Pension and Retirement System
   
33.08   Authority at fires
   
33.09   Equipment
   
33.10   Entry powers
   
33.11   Rules and regulations
   
33.12   Contracts for services
Emergency Management and Civil Defense Organization
   
33.25   Purpose
   
33.26   Civil Defense Department
   
33.27   Director
   
33.28   Emergency powers
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.01 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   There is a Fire Department of the town, the head of which is the Chief
of the Fire Department.
   (B)   The Fire Department of the town is a volunteer department which has in
its service not less than six, nor more than 25, volunteer firefighters. For
the purpose of this subchapter, a VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER is considered as one
who is enrolled as a member of the Fire Department and who serves in the
capacity without receiving a regular salary.
   (C)   Membership of the Department shall consist of such persons as may be
appointed by the Chief and approved by the Board. Determination of whether
candidates for appointment are capable of performing their duties shall be made
by the Chief after a medical and physical examination has been made in a manner
prescribed by the Chief and approved by the Town Board.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-1)
§ 33.02 DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT.
   It is the duty of the Fire Department, among others, to extinguish fires; to
rescue persons endangered by fire; to resuscitate and to administer first aid
to persons injured in or about burning structures or elsewhere in case of an
emergency; to promote fire prevention; and unless otherwise provided, to
enforce all ordinances relating to fires, fire prevention and safety of persons
from fire in public and private buildings.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-2)
§ 33.03 CHIEF; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Chief shall be the administrative head of the Department, subject
to the laws of the state, ordinances of the town and the rules and regulations
adopted in this subchapter.
   (B)   The Chief shall have the following powers and duties and he or she may
assign duties to other members of the Department:
      (1)   Shall be responsible for the general condition and efficient
operation of the Department, the training of members, and the performance of
all other duties imposed upon him or her, and shall have supervision and
control of the Fire Department, subject to the supervision and control of the
Town Board;
      (2)   May inspect or cause to be inspected by members of the Department
the fire hydrants, cisterns and other sources of water supply at least twice
each year;
      (3)   Shall maintain a library or file of publications on fire prevention
and fire protection and shall make use of it to the best advantage of all
members;
      (4)   Shall make every effort to attend all fires and direct the officers
and members in the performance of their duties;
      (5)   Shall see that the citizens are kept informed on fire hazards in
the community and on the activities of the Department;
      (6)   Shall see that each fire is carefully investigated to determine its
cause, and in the case of suspicion of incendiarism or arson, shall notify
proper authorities and secure the preservation of all possible evidence for
future use in the case;
      (7)   Is authorized to enter any building or premises in the town at any
reasonable hour for the purpose of making inspections and to serve written
notice on persons for any violations that may be found; and
      (8)   Shall see that complete records are kept of all fires, inspections,
apparatus and equipment, personnel and other information of the Department and
shall make reports to the Town Board as he or she may require. The Chief shall
keep the town informed regarding the Fire Department and its needs.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-3)
§ 33.04 OTHER DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL.
   (A)   Assistant Chief. In the absence of the Chief, the Assistant Chief on
duty shall command the Department and be held responsible therefor in all
respects with the full powers and responsibilities of the Chief. The Assistant
Chief shall be elected from among the members of the Department with approval
of the Town Board.
   (B)   Company officers. Company officers shall be selected by the Chief
based on the following criteria:
      (1)   Knowledge of firefighting;
      (2)   Leadership ability; and
      (3)   Knowledge of firefighting equipment.
   (C)   Secretary-Treasurer. One member elected by the members of the Fire
Department, subject to approval of the Chief, shall be a Secretary-Treasurer.
His or her duties shall consist of the following:
      (1)   Calling the roll at the opening of each meeting;
      (2)   Keeping the minutes of each meeting; and
      (3)   Collecting any money due the Department by the members.
   (D)   Social officers. The Department may elect a President, Vice President,
Secretary or Treasurer to be known as social officers. Such officers may be
elected in any manner and for any term, the members may decide upon, and their
duties shall be to arrange for and manage any or all social functions sponsored
by the members. The functions and duties of the social officers shall in no way
interfere with those of the regular Department officers who are charged with
responsibility for all fire service activities of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-4)
§ 33.05 NEW MEMBERS.
   New members of the Department shall be appointed by the Chief and shall be
on probation for one year after their appointment. Upon completion of their
probation period, new members must be approved by the majority of the other
members of the Fire Department, the Chief and the Town Board.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-5)
§ 33.06 BY-LAWS.
   The by-laws of the Department shall include the following:
   (A)   All volunteer Fire Department members are required, when notified, to
respond to alarms of fire and other emergencies;
   (B)   A member is required to be present at all regular meetings, called
meetings and schools presented for the benefit of the firefighters;
   (C)   At least one regular business meeting of the members shall be held
each month;
   (D)   Any member having two unexcused absences in succession or three
unexcused absences in a period of three months will be dropped from the Fire
Department rolls;
   (E)   Any member leaving the town for an extended period of time is required
to notify the Chief;
   (F)   Any member refusing to attend training classes provided for members of
the Department will be dropped;
   (G)   Any member of the Fire Department may be dropped from the rolls for
the following offenses:
      (1)   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
      (2)   Any act of insubordination;
      (3)   Neglect of duty;
      (4)   Any violation of rules and regulations governing the Fire
Department; or
      (5)   Conviction of a felony.
   (H)   Any member of the Fire Department may be dropped from the rolls by
majority vote of the members of the company and approval of the Board of
Trustees; and
   (I)   Members with less than ten years’ service are required to attend
school and achieve certification as soon as practically possible. Members with
ten or more years’ service have three years in which to be certified by
training.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-6)
§ 33.07 FIREFIGHTERS PENSION AND RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   System created; purpose; town policy.
      (1)   There is hereby created, for the purpose of providing pension
retirement allowance and other benefits for firefighters of the town, a
firefighters pension and retirement system.
      (2)   It is declared to be the official policy of the town to participate
in the pension system as provided by state law.
   (B)   State regulations adopted. The firefighters pension and retirement
system, as established by 11 O.S. §§ 49-100.1 et seq., is hereby adopted by
reference.
   (C)   Board of Trustees of Firefighters Pension and Retirement System. The
Local Board of Trustees of the Firefighters Pension and Retirement System,
servicing the firefighters of the town, shall be constituted as provided by
state law and shall have the powers and duties prescribed thereby.
   (D)   Annual payments. Each year the town will deposit $60 for each
volunteer member of the Fire Department to the state’s Firefighters Pension and
Retirement Board. The state fiscal year runs from July 1 to June 30.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-7)
§ 33.08 AUTHORITY AT FIRES.
   (A)   The Fire Chief, Assistant Fire Chiefs or other Fire Department
officers in charge shall have complete charge and control at all fires, and
fire orders shall be obeyed.
   (B)   The Chief or his or her officers may prescribe limits in the vicinity
of a fire which no persons, except those residing or owning property therein,
shall be permitted to enter, except on the order of the officer in command.
   (C)   Police officers may aid in carrying into effect the provisions of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-8)
§ 33.09 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Authorized equipment. The Department shall be equipped with such
apparatus and other equipment as may be required from time to time to maintain
its efficiency and properly protect life and property from fire.
   (B)   Purchase of equipment. Recommendations of apparatus and equipment
needed shall be made by the Chief, purchased after approval as other town
purchases.
   (C)   Storage. All equipment of the Department shall be safely and
conveniently housed in such places as may be designated by the Town Board.
   (D)   Alarms of fire. Suitable arrangements and equipment shall be provided
for people to turn in alarms and to notify members of the Department so that
they may promptly respond.
   (E)   Use of equipment.
      (1)   No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any private
purpose, nor shall any person willfully and without proper authority take away
or conceal any article used in any way by the Department.
      (2)   No person shall enter any place where fire apparatus is housed or
handle any apparatus or equipment belonging to the Department unless
accompanied by, or having the special permission of, an officer or authorized
member of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-9)
§ 33.10 ENTRY POWERS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department and his or her designee may at all
reasonable hours enter any building or premises within his or her jurisdiction
for the purpose of making any inspection or investigation which, under the
provisions of this subchapter and other provisions of this code, he or she may
deem necessary to make.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-10)
§ 33.11 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The town’s Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, may adopt and change
regulations relating to the Fire Department, its organization, operation and
compensation.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-11)
§ 33.12 CONTRACTS FOR SERVICES.
   (A)   Contract for service within town.
      (1)   Contracts authorized. The town is hereby authorized and empowered
to enter into contracts or agreements with individuals, firms, private
corporations or associations, or political subdivisions of the state for fire
protection within the corporate limits of the town, and to contract to provide
fire protection jointly with other organizations and municipal subdivisions of
the state.
      (2)   Fees.
         (a)   Any contract entered into by the town with an individual owner,
a firm, private corporation, or association for aid or mutual aid for fire
protection for a private residence, shall provide for the payment by the owner,
firm, private corporation, association or political subdivision to the town for
such fire apparatus and personnel at the following rates:
            1.   Dues: $75 per year.
            2.   Failure to pay dues:
               a.   Five hundred dollars per run; and
               b.   No charge for medical runs.
         (b)   Any contract entered into by the town with an individual owner,
a firm, private corporation, or association for aid or mutual aid for fire
protection for commercial property, shall provide for the payment by the owner,
firm, private corporation, association or political subdivision to the town for
such fire apparatus and personnel at the following rates:
            1.   Dues: one hundred dollars per year for up to ten structures
per address; $200 for eleven to twenty structures per address; and $250 for any
address with over 20 structures.
               a.   A structure includes, but is not limited to, a home, mobile
home, tiny home, recreational vehicle (RV), barn, or garage.
               b.   The number of structures at an address shall be determined
at the time fire dues are paid for the fiscal year.
            2.   Failure to pay dues:
               a.   Five hundred dollars per run; and
               b.   No charge for medical runs.
         (c)   All moneys received from said contracts or calls shall go into
the General Fund or, if authorized, into a separate account exclusively
reserved for use by the Fire Department, said moneys to be used for debt
acquired by the Fire Department.
      (3)   Right-of-way. All motorized equipment of the town's Fire Department
shall have the right-of-way over all other commercial and pleasure vehicles.
   (B)   Contract for service outside town.
      (1)   Contracts authorized. The town is hereby authorized and empowered
to enter into contracts or agreements with individuals, firms, private
corporations or associations, or political subdivisions of the state for fire
protection outside the corporate limits of the town, and to contract to provide
fire protection jointly with other organizations and municipal subdivisions of
the state.
      (2)   Fees.
         (a)   Any contract entered into by the town with an individual owner,
a firm, private corporation, or association for aid or mutual aid for fire
protection for a private residence, shall provide for the payment by the owner,
firm, private corporation, association or political subdivision to the town for
such fire apparatus and personnel at the following rates:
            1.   Dues: $75 dollars per year.
            2.   Failure to pay dues:
               a.   Five hundred dollars per run; and
               b.   No charge for medical runs.
         (b)   Any contract entered into by the town with an individual owner,
a firm, private corporation, or association for aid or mutual aid for fire
protection for commercial property, shall provide for the payment by the owner,
firm, private corporation, association or political subdivision to the town for
such fire apparatus and personnel at the following rates:
            1.   Dues: $100 per year for up to ten structures per address; $200
for eleven to 20 structures per address; and $250 for any address with over 20
structures.
               a.   A structure includes, but is not limited to, a home, mobile
home, tiny home, recreational vehicle (RV), barn, or garage.
               b.   The number of structures at an address shall be determined
at the time fire dues are paid each fiscal year.
            2.   Failure to pay dues:
            a.   Five hundred dollars per run; and
            b.   No charge for medical runs.
         (c)   All moneys received from said contracts or calls shall go into
the General Fund or, if authorized, into a separate account exclusively
reserved for use by the Fire Department, said moneys to be used for debt
acquired by the Fire Department.
      (3)   Authority to answer calls. The Fire Department of the town is
hereby authorized and directed to answer all outside calls within a distance of
five miles from the nearest fire station; unless, in the opinion of the Fire
Chief, it is inexpedient to do so on account of another fire in the town,
broken apparatus, impassable or dangerous highways or other physical
conditions.
      (4)   Agent of state. All firefighters of the town's Fire Department
attending and serving at fires or doing fire prevention work outside the
corporate limits of the town shall be considered as an agent of the state, and
acting solely and alone in a government capacity, and the town shall not be
liable in damages for any act of commission, omission or negligence while
answering or returning from any fire, or reported fire, or doing any fire
prevention work under and by virtue of this section.
      (5)   Right-of-way. All motorized equipment of the town's Fire Department
shall have the right-of-way over all commercial and pleasure vehicles.
      (6)   Serving in line of duty. All firefighters attending and serving at
fires or doing fire prevention work outside the corporate limits of the town,
as herein provided, shall be considered as serving in their regular line of
duty as fully as if they were serving within the corporate limits of the town.
The firefighters shall be entitled to all the benefits of any fire pension and
relief fund in the same manner as if the firefighting or fire prevention work
was being done within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, §§ 5-1A-1 and 5-1A-2) (Ord. 527, passed 8-1-1988; Ord. 531, passed
6-1-1992; Ord. 2023-5.30-2, passed 5-30-2023; Ord. 10152024-1, passed 10-15-
2024)
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND CIVIL DEFENSE ORGANIZATION
§ 33.25 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to create an emergency management and
civil defense organization for the town to be prepared for, and to function in
the event of, emergencies endangering the lives and property of the people of
the town. The duty of the civil defense organization shall be the protection of
the lives and health of the citizens of the town and their property and
property rights, both private and public, and to perform all functions
necessary and incident thereto.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1)
§ 33.26 CIVIL DEFENSE DEPARTMENT.
   The purpose of the Civil Defense Department (hereinafter “Department”) is to
prepare for, and function in the event of, emergencies endangering the lives
and property of the citizens of the town. The Department is headed by a
Director, appointed by the town’s Board of Trustees for such compensation and
under such terms as the town’s Board of Trustees may establish. The Director
serves at the pleasure of the town’s Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2)
§ 33.27 DIRECTOR.
   (A)   Powers and duties. The Director of the Department shall be the
administrative head of the Department and shall be responsible for carrying out
the emergency management and civil defense program of the town in coordination
with the Civil Defense Advisory Committee. He or she shall have such further
duties and responsibilities to cooperate with all emergency services and civil
defense agencies of other governmental units including the state and the
Federal Government.
   (B)   Deputy Director. The town’s Board of Trustees, or the Director when
empowered by the town’s Board of Trustees, may designate some person as Deputy
Director or Assistant Director and shall prescribe the duties of the Deputy or
Assistant from time to time as necessary for the carrying out of the emergency
management and civil defense program of the town. The Deputy Director shall
perform all duties of the Director upon the death, disability or illness, or
separation from service of the Director. In addition to the foregoing duties,
the Deputy or Assistant shall render such aid and assistance and perform such
duties under the emergency management and civil defense program of the town as
may be required by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3)
§ 33.28 EMERGENCY POWERS.
   (A)   In the event of an enemy caused emergency or emergency resulting from
natural causes, the Director, after due authorization from the Mayor, shall
have the power and authority to enforce all rules and regulations relating to
emergency management and civil defense and, if necessary, to take control of
transportation, communications, stocks of fuel, food, clothing, medicine and
public utilities for the purpose of protecting the civilian population. He or
she shall cooperate in every way with other governmental agencies, emergency
management services and civil defense organizations.
   (B)   The Director, other members of the Department and members of any
emergency services and the civil defense organization established herein shall
have the power and authority to enforce the laws of the state and ordinances of
the town during the period of emergency, and shall at such time have the
further power to make arrests for violations of such laws or ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-4)
CHAPTER 34: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
34.01   Court created
   
34.02   Definitions
   
34.03   Jurisdiction
   
34.04   Judge
   
34.05   Change of venue
   
34.06   Clerk of the Court
   
34.07   Traffic Violations Bureau
   
34.08   Attorney
   
34.09   Chief of Police
   
34.10   Style of prosecution
   
34.11   Traffic violations complaint
   
34.12   Summons
   
34.13   Warrant of arrest
   
34.14   Bail
   
34.15   Arraignment
   
34.16   Witnesses
   
34.17   Court Fines; Costs
   
34.18   Suspension of sentence
   
34.19   Court procedure
   
34.20   Judge to prescribe rules
   
34.21   Contempt of Court
   
34.22   Municipal technology fee
   
34.23   Council on Law Enforcement Education And Training (CLEET) Penalty
Assessment
§ 34.01 COURT CREATED.
   The town does hereby create the Bernice Municipal Court under the authority
of and pursuant to the provisions of 11 O.S. §§ 27-101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-1) (Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 34.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The peace officer in charge of the police force in the
municipality or the peace officer in charge of the law enforcement office
operating to enforce the ordinances of the town under any interlocal
cooperation agreement.
   CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the municipality, including any
deputy or member of the office staff of the Clerk-Treasurer while performing
any duty of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   COURT. The Municipal Court of the town.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Board of Trustees of the Town of Bernice, Oklahoma.
   JUDGE. The Judge of the Municipal Court, aforesaid, including any Acting
Judge or Alternate Judge thereof as provided for by statutes of the state and
this chapter.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the Board of Trustees of the municipality.
   MUNICIPALITY or THIS MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Bernice, Oklahoma.
   THIS JUDICIAL DISTRICT. The District Court Judicial District of the State of
Oklahoma, wherein the government of the municipality is situated.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-2) (Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 34.03 JURISDICTION.
   The Court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine all
prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of the municipality is
charged.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-3) (Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 34.04 JUDGE.
   (A)   Qualifications. There shall be one Judge of the Court who meets the
requirement set forth by statute and, if he or she be licensed to practice law
in the state, said Judge may engage in the practice of law in other courts, but
he or she shall not accept employment inconsistent with his or her duties as
Judge, or arising out of facts which give rise to or are connected with
prosecutions in the court.
   (B)   Term. The official term of the Judge shall be two years, expiring on
June 30, each odd numbered year. Each Judge shall serve until his or her
successor is appointed and qualified, unless removed for proper cause.
   (C)   Alternate Judge. There shall be appointed for each Judge of the Court
an Alternate Judge possessing the same qualifications as the Judge. His or her
appointment shall be for the same term and made in the same manner of the
Judge. He or she shall sit as Acting Judge of the Court in any case where the
Judge is:
      (1)   Absent from the Court;
      (2)   Unable to act as Judge; or
      (3)   Disqualified from acting as Judge in the case.
   (D)   Acting Judge. If at any time there is no Judge or Alternate Judge,
duly appointed and qualified, available to sit as Judge, the President of the
Board of Trustees shall appoint some person, possessing the same qualifications
as the Judge, who shall preside as Acting Judge over the Court in the
disposition of pending matters until such time as the Judge or Alternate Judge
shall be available.
   (E)   Appointment. The Judge and Alternate Judge shall be appointed by the
Mayor of the Board of Trustees with the consent of the governing body. A
proposed appointment shall be submitted in writing to the governing body at the
next to the last regularly scheduled meeting prior to the day upon which the
appointment is to take effect, and shall be acted upon at the next regularly
scheduled meeting. The governing body may decide upon the proposed appointment
by a majority vote of a quorum present and acting. Failure of decision upon a
proposed appointment shall not prevent action thereon at a later regularly
scheduled meeting of the governing body unless the President of the Board of
Trustees, in writing, withdraws the proposed appointment.
   (F)   Compensation.
      (1)   A Judge, other than an Alternate Judge or an Acting Judge, shall
receive a salary as set by motion or resolution of the Board of Trustees and
paid in the same manner as the salaries of other officials of the municipality.
      (2)   An Alternate Judge or an Acting Judge shall serve and be paid a
wage as determined by a motion or resolution of the Board of Trustees.
   (G)   Removal.
      (1)   Judges shall be subject to removal from office, by the governing
body, for the causes prescribed by the Constitution and laws of the state for
the removal of public officers. Proceedings for removal shall be instituted by
the filing of a verified written petition, setting forth facts sufficient to
constitute one or more legal grounds for removal. Petitions may be signed and
filed by:
         (a)   The Mayor of the Board of Trustees; or
         (b)   Twenty-five or more qualified electors of the municipality.
      (2)   In the latter event, verification may be executed by one or more of
the petitioners. The governing body shall set a date for hearing on the matter,
and shall cause notice thereof, together with a copy of the petition, to be
served personally upon the judge at least ten days before the hearing.
      (3)   At the hearing, the Judge shall be entitled:
         (a)   To representation by counsel;
         (b)   To present testimony and to cross examine the witnesses against
him or her; and
         (c)   To have all evidence against him or her presented in open
hearing.
      (4)   So far as they can be made applicable, the provisions of the
state’s Administrative Procedure Act governing individual proceedings and any
amendments or additions thereto in effect at the time of the hearing shall
govern removal proceedings hereunder. Judgment of removal shall be entered only
upon the individual votes by a majority of all members of the governing body in
favor of such removal.
   (H)   Vacancy.
      (1)   A vacancy in the office of Judge shall occur if the incumbent:
         (a)   Dies;
         (b)   Resigns;
         (c)   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office; or
         (d)   Is removed, and the removal proceeding has been affirmed finally
in judicial proceedings or is no longer subject to judicial review.
      (2)   Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of Judge, the Mayor
of the Board of Trustees shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired
term, upon the same procedure as an original appointment is made.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-4) (Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-12-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Administrative Procedure Act, see 75 O.S. § 250.1-323
§ 34.05 CHANGE OF VENUE.
   No change of venue shall be allowed in prosecutions before the Court, but
the Judge of the Court may certify his or her disqualification or he or she may
be disqualified from sitting under the terms, conditions and procedure provided
by law for courts of record. If a Judge is disqualified, the matter shall be
heard by an Alternate or Acting Judge appointed as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-5) (Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 34.06 CLERK OF THE COURT.
   (A)   Duties. The town’s Clerk-Treasurer, or a Deputy designated by said
Clerk-Treasurer, shall be the Clerk of the Court.
      (1)   The Clerk of the Court shall assist the Judge in recording the
proceedings of the Court and in preparing writs, processes and other papers.
      (2)   The Clerk of the Court shall administer oaths required in
proceedings before the Court.
      (3)   The Clerk of the Court shall enter all pleadings, processes and
proceedings in the dockets of the Court and shall perform such other clerical
duties relating to the proceedings of the Court as the Judge shall direct.
      (4)   The Clerk of the Court shall receive and give receipt of all fines,
forfeitures and fees payable to the Court.
      (5)   The Clerk of the Court shall deliver to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer
all fees, fines and forfeitures payable to the Court. The Clerk-Treasurer shall
credit such deposits to fund designated by the governing body of the town.
      (6)   The Clerk of the Court shall make duplicate receipts for the fees,
fines and forfeitures collected by said Clerk, one copy of which shall be
retained by the town’s Clerk-Treasurer together with a detailed statement of
all costs, the style of the case in which they were paid, and the name of the
party paying the same.
   (B)   Bond. The Clerk or Clerks of the Court shall give bond as prescribed
in 11 O.S. § 27-111, and in the sum of $500. When executed, the said bond shall
be submitted to the governing body for approval and thereafter filed with the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-6) (Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 34.07 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   A Traffic Violations Bureau is hereby established as a division of the
office of the Clerk of the Court to assist in the disposition of violations of
traffic regulatory ordinances of the municipality. The Clerk of the Court, or
Assistant Clerks designated by the town’s Clerk-Treasurer, shall serve as the
Clerk or Clerks of the Traffic Violations Bureau. The Clerk or Clerks thereof
shall accept prescribed fines, issue receipts and cause all cases involving
persons either electing, or required, to appear in court to be transferred to
the Clerk of the Court for docketing in the Court, and shall keep records and
submit such reports to the Judge of the Court as he or she may require. The
Clerk or Clerks of the Traffic Violations Bureau shall account for all funds in
the same manner as required by the Clerk of the Court under §
34.06 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-7) (Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 34.08 ATTORNEY.
   The Attorney for the municipality, or his or her duly designated assistant,
shall be the prosecuting officer of the Court. He or she shall prosecute all
alleged violations of the ordinances of the town and shall be authorized to
prosecute and resist appeals and proceedings in error and review from this
Court to any other courts of the state, and to represent the municipality in
all proceedings arising out of matters in this Court.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-8) (Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 34.09 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police, or some officer acting for him or her, shall be the
Marshal of the Court. All writs or processes shall be directed to the Chief of
Police of the municipality who, either by himself or herself, or by some member
of his or her Department and at his or her direction, shall execute such writs
and processes as required by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-9) (Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 34.10 STYLE OF PROSECUTION.
   All prosecutions for violation of ordinances for the municipality shall be
styled “The Town of Bernice vs.                          “. Except as provided
in §
34.13 of this chapter, prosecutions shall be initiated by the filing of a
written complaint, subscribed and verified by the person making the complaint,
shall be verified before a Judge, the Court Clerk, a Deputy Court Clerk or a
police officer. No warrant for arrest shall be issued until the complaint has
been approved by the Judge of the Municipal Court.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-10) (Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 34.11 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS COMPLAINT.
   (A)   Resident.
      (1)   A police officer of the municipality who makes a complaint against
a resident of the municipality for the commission of a traffic violation, in
lieu of arresting such person at the time of the commission of the offense, may
take the name, address and operator’s license number of said person, the
registered number of the motor vehicle involved and such other pertinent
information as may be necessary, and shall issue to him or her in writing on a
form provided by the President of the Board of Trustees or his or her delegate
a traffic citation containing notices to answer to the charge against him or
her in the Municipal Court of the municipality. The officer, upon receiving the
written promise of the alleged violator to answer as specified in the citation,
shall release such person from custody. If the alleged violator refuses to give
his or her written promise to appear, he or she shall be taken into custody
under arrest.
      (2)   A police officer of the municipality who makes a complaint against
any person for the violation of an ordinance regulating the parking of
vehicles, and the operator thereof is not present, shall place in a conspicuous
place on the vehicle a parking citation substantially conforming to the
prescribed in division (A)(1) above with such variations as may be required.
The operator of the vehicle shall answer the citation the same as if issued to
him or her personally as in division (A)(1) above.
   (B)   Non-resident. A police officer of the municipality who makes a
complaint against a non-resident of the municipality for the commission of a
traffic violation shall arrest such person and either take him or her
immediately before the Judge of the Court or admit him or her to bail in
accordance with this chapter and the rules prescribed by the Judge of the Court
pursuant thereto.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-11) (Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-12-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Traffic violations complaint, see 11 O.S. § 27-117
§ 34.12 SUMMONS.
   (A)   Upon the filing of a complaint charging the violation of an ordinance,
the Judge, unless he or she determines to issue a warrant of arrest, or unless
the defendant previously has been issued a citation, or has been arrested and
has given bond for appearance, shall issue a summons naming the person charged,
specifying his or her address or place of residence, if known, stating the
offense with which he or she is charged and giving him or her notice to answer
the charge in the court of a day certain, containing a provision for the
official return of the summons and including such other pertinent information
as may be necessary.
   (B)   The summons shall be served by delivering a copy of said summons to
the defendant personally. If he or she fails to appear and to answer the
summons within the prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for his or her
arrest as prescribed in §
34.13 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-12) (Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 34.13 WARRANT OF ARREST.
   Except as otherwise provided in the ordinances of the municipality upon
filing of a complaint approved by the Judge of the Court, there shall be issued
a warrant of arrest in substantially the following form:
 
The Town of Bernice:                                                                                      to the Marshal of the Municipal Court of Bernice, Oklahoma,
Complaint upon oath having this day been made by  (naming complainant)  that the offense of  (naming the offense in particular but general terms)  has been committed
and accusing  (name defendant)  and (him, her or them) before me, at  (name the place)  .
 
Witness my hand this            day of                                    , 20       .
 
                                                                                 
Judge of the Municipal Court of Bernice, Oklahoma
 
(Prior Code, § 1-9-13) (Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 34.14 BAIL.
   Upon arrest, or when required by the Judge, before or after arraignment, the
defendant shall be eligible to be released upon conditions fixed by the Judge
who shall prescribe appropriate rules of Court for the receipt of bail. In the
event of arrests at night, or under other emergency conditions, or when the
Judge is not available, the rules shall authorize the Chief of Police, or his
or her designated representative, to accept a temporary cash bond of not less
than $10, nor more than the maximum monetary penalty provided by ordinance for
such offense charged.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-14) (Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 34.15 ARRAIGNMENT.
   Upon making his or her appearance before the Court, the defendant shall be
arraigned. The Judge, or the Attorney of the municipality, shall read the
complaint to the defendant, inform him or her of his or her legal rights,
including the right of trial by jury, if available, and of the consequences of
conviction, and ask him or her whether he pleads guilty or not guilty. If the
defendant pleads guilty, the Court may proceed to judgment and sentence. If the
plea is not guilty, the case shall be set for hearing, either before a jury, or
before the court, as required by law, in accordance with the rules of the
Court. The facts pertinent to arraignment, including the demand, or waiver, of
jury trial shall be entered and recorded on the docket of the Court respecting
the proceedings in the case.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-15) (Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 34.16 WITNESSES.
   Witnesses in any proceeding in the court, other than police officers or
peace officers, shall be entitled to payment at the rates prescribed by state
statute for each day of attendance and for each mile actually and necessarily
traveled in going to and returning from the place of attendance, if their
residence is outside the limits of the municipality. However, no witness shall
receive fees or mileage in more than one case for the same period of time or
the same travel. A defendant seeking to subpoena witnesses must deposit with
the Clerk a sum sufficient to cover fees and mileage for one day’s attendance
for each witness to be summoned, but such deposit shall not be required from an
indigent defendant who files an affidavit setting out the names of more than
three witnesses; that the defendant, by reason of his or her poverty is unable
to provide the fees and mileage allowed by law; that the testimony of said
witnesses is material and their attendance at the trial is necessary for his
proper defense. The fees of such witnesses shall be paid by the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-16) (Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 34.17 COURT FINES; COSTS.
   (A)   Violation. In all prosecutions in the court for violations of
ordinances punishable by fines of more than $500, plus costs, or by
imprisonment or by both fine and imprisonment, trial shall be by jury unless
waived by the defendant. If trial by jury is waived, trial shall be to the
Court.
   (B)   Court costs. In addition to any other fines, penalties, or fees set
forth in this Code or under Oklahoma state statute, court costs in the amount
of $30 shall be assessed for each conviction for violation of this Code or
other resolutions, rules, and regulations of the Town. A conviction includes
any final adjudication of guilt, whether pursuant to a plea of guilty or nolo
contendere or otherwise, and any deferred or suspended sentence of judgment.
   (C)   Fine and Bond Schedule. The Town of Bernice Board of Trustees is
granted the authority to establish a Fine and Bond Schedule, and to amend said
Fine and Bond Schedule from time to time, by resolution. The Fine and Bond
Schedule shall provide the minimum amount which a person may pay upon a plea of
guilty or nolo contendere to violations of municipal ordinances in lieu of a
court appearance and shall include fines, court costs, and any additional fees
or assessments authorized by Oklahoma law. A copy of the Fine and Bond Schedule
shall be maintained and updated by the Court Clerk and Deputy Court Clerk of
the Town of Bernice.
   (D)   Work, Construction, School Zones. If an offense is committed at a
location designated as a work, construction, or school zone, the fine shall be
doubled not to exceed a maximum amount of $500. The bond amount, exclusive of
court costs, fees, and other assessments, shall also be doubled not to exceed a
maximum of $500.
   (E)   Additional Offenses. Any crime or offense not listed on the Fine and
Bond Schedule shall be subject to a fine and/or bond in the amount provided for
such offense under Oklahoma statute.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-17) (Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-12-2005; Res. 2007-008, passed
12-10-2007; Res. 2007-009, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 2011-3, passed 12-12-2011;
Ord. 2012-1, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 2012-5, passed 6-14-2012; Ord. 1-2017,
passed 1-9-2017; Ord. 03142024-3, passed 3-14-2024)
§ 34.18 SUSPENSION OF SENTENCE.
   After conviction and judgment and sentence, the Judge may suspend the
judgment or costs or both and allow the person convicted to be released upon
his or her own recognizance. Any person so released as provided herein shall be
requested to report at such times and to such person or officer as the Judge
shall direct; provided, if it shall be made to appear to the Judge that such
person so released has been guilty of the violation of any law after said
release, or is habitually associating with lewd or vicious persons, or is
indulging in vicious habits, in that event said Judge shall cause a warrant to
be issued for said person and he or she shall be brought before the Court to
pay any fine or serve any term of imprisonment previously suspended by the
Judge as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-18) (Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 34.19 COURT PROCEDURE.
   The procedure in the Court shall be governed by the provisions of 11 O.S. §§
27-101 et seq., the provisions of this chapter, and except as otherwise
provided by the said statutes and chapter, the procedure applicable to the
trial of misdemeanors in the District Court.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-19) (Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 34.20 JUDGE TO PRESCRIBE RULES.
   The Judge of the Court may prescribe rules, consistent with the laws of the
state and the ordinances of the municipality for the proper conduct of the
business of the Court.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-20) (Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 34.21 CONTEMPT OF COURT.
   Obedience to the rules, orders and judgments of the Court may be enforced by
the Judge, by fine or imprisonment, for contempt committed as to him or her
while holding court, or committed against process issued by him or her in the
same manner and the same extent as the District Courts of the state.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-21) (Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 34.22 MUNICIPAL TECHNOLOGY FEE.
   A Technology Fee in the amount of $10 shall be collected on every Town of
Bernice municipal court citation offense, except citations that are voided,
declined for prosecution, dismissed without payment of costs, or for which the
defendant is acquitted.
   (A)   This assessment shall be in addition to and not a substitution for any
and all fines and penalties otherwise provided for in this Code or under
Oklahoma law.
   (B)   The revenue generated by the Technology Fee shall be used for the
operation and maintenance of the Town of Bernice criminal justice system and
costs of prosecution.
(Ord. 03142024-2, passed 3-14-2024)
§ 34.23 COUNCIL ON LAW ENFORCEMENT EDUCATION AND TRAINING (CLEET) PENALTY
ASSESSMENT.
   CLEET Fee: A Council on Law Enforcement Education and Training (CLEET)
penalty assessment in the amount of ten dollars ($10.00) shall be collected on
each Town of Bernice municipal court citation offense punishable by a fine
often dollars ($10.00) or more or by incarceration, including traffic offenses
but excluding parking or standing violations, except citations that are voided,
declined for prosecution, dismissed without payment of costs, or for which the
defendant is acquitted.
   (A)   This assessment shall be in addition to and not a substitution for any
and all fines and penalties otherwise provided for in this Code or under
Oklahoma law.
   (B)   Any CLEET penalty assessment collected by the Town shall be forwarded
monthly by the Town of Bernice Court Clerk or the Town of Bernice Deputy Court
Clerk, or other official designated by the Board of Trustees, to the Council on
Law Enforcement Education and Training as provided in Okla. Stat. tit. 20, §
1313.2(D).
(Ord. 03142024-1, passed 3-14-2024)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Budget
   
35.02   Deposit of town funds
   
35.03   Investment of town funds
   
35.04   Claims; disbursement of funds
   
35.05   Bond issues
   
35.06   Examination and audit of books and records
   
35.07   Insurance
   
35.08   Contracts and purchases
   
35.09   Disposal of town property other than real estate
Telephone Exchange Fee
   
35.20   Fee levied; purpose
   
35.21   Amount of fee
   
35.22   Due date; report required; disposition
   
35.23   Charge in lieu of other license fees and taxes
Purchases and Disbursements
   
35.35   Payroll disbursements
   
35.36   Competitive bidding
   
35.37   Purchases of goods, services and capital
   
35.38   Debt service
   
35.39   Interfund transfers
   
35.40   Petty cash
Cross-reference:
   Taxation, see
Ch. 36
GENERAL FUNDS
§ 35.01 BUDGET.
   (A)   Statements of condition and needs; appropriations.
      (1)   Except where the town’s Board of Trustees opts to prepare a budget
pursuant to the Municipal Budget Act, the town’s Board of Trustees shall meet
on the second Monday in July every year at 6:30 p.m., unless the Board sets
another hour of that day for the meeting; and shall make, in writing, a
financial statement showing the true fiscal condition of the town as of the
close of the fiscal year on June 30 and an itemized statement of estimated
needs and probable income from sources other than ad valorem tax for the
current fiscal year. Said statements shall be made as provided by 68 O.S. §§
3001 et seq., and any other applicable provisions of law which shall be filed
with the county’s Excise Board on or before August 22. Said statements shall be
published as required by law.
      (2)   The county’s Excise Board will then make appropriations for the
town as provided by law.
      (3)   Supplemental appropriations may be made as provided by 68 O.S. §
3021 and any other applicable provisions of law.
   (B)   Transfer of appropriations balances.
      (1)   Unencumbered appropriation balances of items of less immediately
urgent need, or any part thereof, may be transferred to other items of
appropriation to meet more immediately urgent needs, by the town’s Board of
Trustees, upon written request from the department head needing the additional
or supplemental appropriation.
      (2)   The town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall notify in writing the clerk for
the county’s Excise Board of the changes and shall also notify the head of each
department affected by the action, and they shall adjust their accounts
accordingly.
      (3)   The actions and consent of the respective department heads or
officers provided in this division (B) may be by persons designated by the
Board of Trustees as provided by 62 O.S. §§ 461 through 463.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal Budget Act, see 11 O.S. §§ 17-201 et seq.
   Related provisions, see 62 O.S. §§ 461 and 463
§ 35.02 DEPOSIT OF TOWN FUNDS.
   (A)   Depositories designated. All banks and financial institutions as are
designated by the town’s Board of Trustees shall be designated as depositories
for the funds of the town.
   (B)   Clerk-Treasurer’s duties. The town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit
daily all public funds received by him or her in these banks. Funds may be
transferred from one depository to another upon direction of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (C)   Securing of deposits. The deposits of the town shall be secured as
provided by state law.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-2)
§ 35.03 INVESTMENT OF TOWN FUNDS.
   The town’s Clerk-Treasurer or any other person authorized to invest public
moneys shall invest the same in those investments authorized by the town’s
Board of Trustees or authorized by state law in a manner authorized by either
or both such Board of Trustees and statutes.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-3)
§ 35.04 CLAIMS; DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Compliance with state law. Claims against the town shall be made and
processed as provided by 62 O.S. §§ 304.1 to 305.2, and any other applicable
provisions of law.
   (B)   When affidavit required.
      (1)   On every contract submitted to the town for payment to an
architect, contractor, engineer or supplier of material of $25,000 or more,
shall be the following signed and notarized statement:
 
(STATE OF OKLAHOMA
COUNTY OF                                         )
 
The undersigned (architect, contractor, supplier or engineer) of lawful age, being first duly sworn, on oath says that this contract is true and correct. Affiant further states
that the (work, services or materials) as shown by this contract have been (completed or supplied) in accordance with the plans, specifications, orders or requests furnished the
affiant Affiant further states that (s)he has made no payment directly or indirectly to any elected official, officer or employee of the State of Oklahoma, any county or local
subdivision of the state, of money or any other thing of value to obtain or procure the contract or purchase order.
 
                                                                                         
(Architect, contractor, supplier or engineer)
 
Subscribed and sworn to before me this             day of                  ,           
 
                                                                           
Notary Public (or clerk or judge)
 
      (2)   Division (B)(1) above shall not apply to monthly billings submitted
to the town of public utility companies or telephone companies, whose services
are regulated by the state’s Corporation Commission, but will apply to said
utility companies or telephone companies for billings pertaining to
installations or changes in services.
   (C)   Warrants; disbursement of funds. Warrants shall be issued and
processed and funds of the town disbursed only for legal purposes and in
accordance with 62 O.S. §§ 372, 471 to 485 and 551 to 555.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-4)
§ 35.05 BOND ISSUES.
   Bonds of the town shall be issued, sold, paid and handled in all respects as
provided by 62 O.S. §§ 351 et seq., and other applicable provisions of law.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-5)
§ 35.06 EXAMINATION AND AUDIT OF BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   (A)   Examination by Board of Trustees. The books of the town’s Clerk-
Treasurer shall be subject to examination by the town’s Board of Trustees at
all times, as provided by 11 O.S. §§ 12-106 and 12-110. Likewise, the records
of the town’s Clerk-Treasurer and of all other officers and employees of the
town shall be subject to inspection by the Board of Trustees at all times.
   (B)   Audits.
      (1)   The Board of Trustees shall designate a qualified public accountant
to audit the financial records and transactions of the town’s Clerk-Treasurer
and all other personnel of the town who keep financial records and make
financial transactions, as of the end of every fiscal year at least, and such
accountant shall make such audit and shall report to the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Upon petition of a number of voters of the town equal at least to
one-fourth of the number of people voting at the last general town election,
the financial books and records of the town will be audited by the state’s
examiner and inspector, as provided by 74 O.S. §§ 212 and 215.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-6)
§ 35.07 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The town’s Board of Trustees may insure property of the town as
authorized by 11 O.S. §§ 23-101 et seq. and 19 O.S. § 627.
   (B)   Any money received as a result of destruction, damages or loss of such
insured property shall be accounted for and used as provided by 19 O.S. § 627.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-7)
§ 35.08 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES.
   (A)   Definition. The term CONTRACTUAL SERVICES, for the purpose of this
section, means services performed for the town by persons not in the employ of
the town, and may include the use of equipment or the furnishing of commodities
in connection with such services under express or implied contract. CONTRACTUAL
SERVICES includes travel; freight; express; parcel post; postage; telephone;
telegraph; utilities; rents; repairs, alterations and maintenance of buildings,
equipment, streets and bridges, and other physical facilities of the town; and
other services performed for the town by persons not in the employ of the town.
   (B)   Authority.
      (1)   All purchases of supplies, materials, equipment and contractual
services for the town shall be made by the town’s Board of Trustees or pursuant
to authorizations granted by it.
      (2)   The town purchasing authority shall contract for and purchase all
supplies, materials and equipment for the offices, departments and agencies of
the town. The purchasing authority may also transfer to or between offices,
departments and agencies, or sell surplus or obsolete supplies, materials and
equipment.
   (C)   Purchases requiring Board approval and bidding; procedures.
      (1)   Before a contract shall be entered into, or any such purchase made
involving the expenditure of more than $25,000, or any sale made of property,
the value of which is more than $1,000, such contract or sale shall:
         (a)   Be approved by the town’s Board of Trustees;
         (b)   Be submitted for competitive bidding, except as provided in this
section; and
         (c)   Have written notice given by the town purchasing authority for
sealed bids for the furnishing of such supplies, materials or equipment where
competitive bidding is required hereunder.
      (2)   The notice required in this division (C) shall state the time and
place for filing the bids, shall contain an ample description of the supplies,
materials and equipment to be purchased or sold, the time and place the bids
will be opened, and that all bids may be rejected.
      (3)   The bids shall be in writing and sealed and filed with the town’s
Clerk-Treasurer prior to the time they are to be opened. The bids may be
rejected or the town may readvertise for bids, or after due consideration
thereof, may award a contract to purchase such supplies, materials or equipment
from the lowest and best responsible bidder. However, the town purchasing
authority may, at his or her option, purchase any such materials, supplies and
equipment through central purchasing of the state.
   (D)   Bidding not required. The following may be purchased without giving an
opportunity for competitive bidding:
      (1)   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services where cost
does not exceed $25,000 in a single transaction;
      (2)   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services which can be
furnished only by a single dealer or a sole source vendor, or which have a
uniform price wherever bought;
      (3)   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services purchased
from another unit of government at a price deemed below that obtainable from
private dealers, including war surplus, or purchased at auction at a price
deemed below that obtainable elsewhere;
      (4)   Contractual services (gas, electricity, telephone service and the
like) purchased from a public utility at a price or rate determined by the
state’s Corporation Commission or other government authority;
      (5)   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services when
purchased at a price not exceeding a price set therefor by the state purchasing
agency or any other state agency authorized to regulate prices for things
purchased by the state (whether such price is determined by a contract
negotiated with a vendor or otherwise);
      (6)   Contractual services of a professional nature, such as engineering,
architectural, medical and legal services; or
      (7)   When an emergency is declared to exist. In that situation only, the
Mayor and Town Clerk- Treasurer are authorized to approve necessary
expenditures of the town for amounts up to $5,000 per purchase.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-8) (Res. 2010-1, passed 3-8-2010)
§ 35.09 DISPOSAL OF TOWN PROPERTY OTHER THAN REAL ESTATE.
   (A)   Purpose. This policy establishes the procedures for the disposition of
property, other than real estate, which is surplus to the needs of the town.
For purposes hereof, SURPLUS is defined to mean any tangible, personal property
owned by the town that is not needed at present or in the foreseeable future or
that is no longer of value or use to the town.
   (B)   Responsibility for administration. The town’s Clerk-Treasurer is
responsible for the administration of this policy. The town’s Clerk-Treasurer
shall coordinate the disposition of surplus property and shall aid the Board of
Trustees in determining the best method of disposal. All departments of the
town shall cooperate with the town’s Clerk-Treasurer to ensure the most
efficient and beneficial disposition of surplus property.
   (C)   Determination of value. A department wishing to dispose of a single
item of surplus property or a group of similarly situated items shall make and
estimate the reasonable market value in “as is, where is” condition. If the
department responsible for the property cannot make such an estimate, the
town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall determine the reasonable market value.
   (D)   Property with an estimated value less than $5,000.
      (1)   If property is declared as surplus property by the Board of
Trustees and the estimated value is less than $5,000, the town’s Clerk-
Treasurer may dispose of the property by any one of the following manners:
         (a)   Public auction;
         (b)   Solicitation of written bids;
         (c)   Negotiated sale to one or more designated buyers; or
         (d)   Utilization of the state’s Department of Central Services
programs.
      (2)   Any sales consummated pursuant to this division (D) must bring a
minimum of 75% of the estimated market value as determined by division (C)
above. If efforts by the town’s Clerk-Treasurer to sell such item of personal
property are unsuccessful, the town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall reevaluate the
estimation of fair market value, and such property shall be sold pursuant to
division (E) below.
   (E)   Property with an estimated value of $5,000 or more.
      (1)   If property is declared as surplus property by the Board of
Trustees and the estimated value is $5,000 or more, the town’s Clerk-Treasurer
shall make a recommendation concerning the manner in which such surplus
property is sold.
      (2)   After considering such recommendations, the Board of Trustees shall
direct the town’s Clerk-Treasurer on how to proceed with the sale, utilizing
one or more of the following:
         (a)   Public auction;
         (b)   Solicitation of written bids;
         (c)   Negotiated sale to one or more designated buyers; or
         (d)   Utilization of the state’s Department of Central Services
programs.
      (3)   Before finalizing any sale pursuant to this division (E), the
town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall bring the highest and best bid to the Board of
Trustees for approval. Any sale accomplished through this division (E) shall
bring a minimum of 75% of the estimated fair market value.
(Res. passed 8-20-2012)
TELEPHONE EXCHANGE FEE
§ 35.20 FEE LEVIED; PURPOSE.
   There is hereby levied an annual inspection fee and service charge upon each
and every person operating a telephone exchange in the town to compensate the
town for the expenses incurred and services rendered incident to the exercise
of its police power, supervision, police regulation and police control of the
construction of lines and equipment of the telephone company in the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-1)
§ 35.21 AMOUNT OF FEE.
   The amount of the inspection fee and service charge shall be an amount equal
to 2% of the gross revenues for each current year for exchange telephone
transmission service rendered wholly within the limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-2)
§ 35.22 DUE DATE; REPORT REQUIRED; DISPOSITION.
   (A)   The inspection fee and charge shall be due and payable to the town on
or before January 1 of each year and shall be paid into and appropriated and
expended from the General Revenue Fund of the town.
   (B)   Payment shall be accompanied by a report showing the gross sales by
service classification (residential, commercial, industrial).
(Prior Code, § 2-5-3)
§ 35.23 CHARGE IN LIEU OF OTHER LICENSE FEES AND TAXES.
   During continued substantial compliance with the terms of this chapter by
the owner of any telephone exchange, the charge levied by this chapter shall be
and continue to be in lieu of all concessions, charges, excise, franchise,
license, privilege and permit fees or taxes or assessments except ad valorem
taxes. This section is not intended to extinguish or abrogate any existing
arrangement whereby the town is permitted to use the underground conduit, duct
space or pole contracts of the company for the fire alarm and police call
systems of the town, or either of them.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-4)
PURCHASES AND DISBURSEMENTS
§ 35.35 PAYROLL DISBURSEMENTS.
   (A)   For all employees and officers of the town, a documented record shall
be maintained in a personnel file of the authorized rate of pay or salary for
each employee or officer.
   (B)   For each pay period, a documented record of the time worked and leave
taken shall be prepared, in the form of time sheets, cards or logs, for each
employee and officer to be paid. For employees exempt from the overtime
provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act, 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq., the
record may exclude time worked. Such record of time worked and leave taken
shall be verified as to its accuracy in writing by the employee or officer,
supervisor or department head if applicable, and the Town Clerk-Treasurer or
designee.
   (C)   Upon verification of the work record, a payroll statement or register,
including the amount of gross pay, authorized deductions and net pay, shall be
prepared and submitted to the town’s Mayor for review and written approval.
   (D)   Upon approval of the payroll statement or register, the net payroll
checks shall be prepared along with checks for payment of related payroll taxes
and other payroll benefits, required by law or contract.
   (E)   The checks shall be presented to the Town Clerk-Treasurer along with
the approved payroll statement or register. The Clerk-Treasurer shall compare
the checks to the payroll statement or register and verify their accuracy. Upon
verification, the Clerk-Treasurer and the Mayor shall sign the checks and
prepare them for distribution. In addition, the Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare
or cause to be prepared a check register.
   (F)   No payroll related encumbrances are required to be recorded in the
budgetary accounting records as long as the payroll costs are recorded as
expenditures at the time they become due and payable. However, no payroll costs
may be incurred or paid if they exceed the available appropriation for the
accounts to be charged.
   (G)   The Town Treasurer shall record or cause to be recorded in the
appropriate journals and ledgers the payroll costs incurred and/or paid for the
pay period.
   (H)   A copy of the payroll statement, register or payroll check register
may be provided to the governing body for informational purposes; however,
governing body approval is not required prior to the payment of payroll related
costs if incurred and paid in accordance with the provisions above.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-9-2012)
§ 35.36 COMPETITIVE BIDDING.
   (A)   The town shall strictly adhere to the provisions of state statutes
regarding competitive bidding as set forth in the Public Competitive Bidding
Act, 61 O.S. §§ 101 et seq.
   (B)   For those town purchases of goods (whether one or more) which exceed
$10,000, and are not subject to the state’s Public Competitive Bidding Act, 61
O.S. §§ 101 et seq., the town shall obtain three price quotations for goods,
either in the form of signed quotations or published prices. The town shall
endeavor to have the three potential vendors quote substantially the same
goods. The town shall select the best quotation from those submitted prior to
entering into a contract with the selected vendor.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-9-2012)
§ 35.37 PURCHASES OF GOODS, SERVICES AND CAPITAL.
   (A)   The Mayor and Town Clerk-Treasurer are designated as purchasing
officers empowered to purchase or contract against budget appropriation
accounts of the town.
   (B)   For all purchases of goods, services or capital (all purchases or
disbursements other than payroll and debt service related) over $3,000,
requisition forms, purchase orders or contracts shall be prepared and approved,
in writing, by a designated purchasing officer prior to the time the purchase
commitment is made.
   (C)   For all purchases or contracts for goods, services or capital over
$3,000, governing body approval shall be obtained prior to the time the
commitment is made, and such approval shall be recorded in the minutes of the
governing body.
   (D)   (1)   For all purchases of goods, services or capital over $3,000, the
approved requisition, purchase order or contract shall be forwarded to an
officer or employee charged with keeping the appropriation and expenditure
records (encumbering clerk) who shall determine that there exists available
unencumbered appropriation in the accounts to be charged. Upon such
determination, the encumbering clerk shall attest to that fact in writing.
      (2)   If appropriation is not available for the proposed purchase or
commitment, the purchase or commitment shall not proceed until budget
amendments are authorized to provide sufficient appropriation.
      (3)   Upon approval of the purchasing officer and encumbering clerk, an
encumbrance shall be recorded in the appropriation and expenditure records in
the amount or estimated amount of the commitment.
      (4)   These encumbering requirements shall not apply to the following
type of purchases or commitments:
         (a)   Payroll and personal services;
         (b)   Utility and telephone services (governed by the state’s
Corporation Commission);
         (c)   Insurance (governed by contract); and
         (d)   Debt service.
   (E)   (1)   After satisfactory delivery of the merchandise or completion of
contract provisions, an invoice or claim form shall be obtained adequately
documenting request for payment. The officer or employee receiving satisfactory
delivery of merchandise or contract service shall acknowledge such fact by
signing the invoice, claim form, delivery ticket or receiving advice.
      (2)   The invoice or claims form, along with the written acknowledgment
of receipt, shall be forwarded to the officer or employee responsible for
processing accounts payable who shall review the invoice for accuracy and
propriety, including comparison to the authorized requisition, purchase order
or contract, if applicable.
      (3)   Upon completion of the accounts payable officer review, the
invoices along with the related supporting documents shall be attached to a
copy of the purchase order and shall be submitted to the governing body for
approval during the next regular or special meeting.
   (F)   For purchases of goods (whether one or more) costing $3,000 or less,
the Purchasing Officer shall complete the steps outlined above. However,
governing board approval shall not be required before such purchase is made and
town moneys are disbursed in payment for such goods. Any purchase made pursuant
to this division (F) shall be reported to the Town Trustees, in writing, at the
next regularly-scheduled meeting, and the requisition forms, purchase orders
and invoices shall be made available at such meeting for inspection. In no
event shall the aggregate of all purchases made under this division (F) which
were not previously approved by the governing board exceed $5,000 in any one
calendar month.
   (G)   (1)   Upon approval of the invoices or claims for payment, checks or
other payment documents as authorized by state law (11 O.S. § 17-102) shall be
prepared and submitted to the Town Clerk- Treasurer, along with a copy of the
approved invoice or claims listing.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall compare the checks or other payment
documents to the invoice or claims listing and verify their accuracy. Upon
verification, the Clerk-Treasurer and the Mayor shall sign the checks or other
documents and prepare them for distribution. In addition, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall prepare or cause to be prepared a check register.
   (H)   The town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall record or cause to be recorded in the
appropriate journals and ledgers the purchases and cash disbursements incurred
and paid.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-9-2012)
§ 35.38 DEBT SERVICE.
   (A)   All long-term indebtedness, in the form of bonds, notes or lease
purchase obligations, shall only be incurred in the manner provided by law.
   (B)   Once lawfully incurred, payments of principal and interest on the
bonds or notes and payments on the lease purchase obligations shall be paid in
accordance with the terms as specified in the bond indenture, note agreement or
lease purchase contract by the town’s Clerk-Treasurer without further approval
of the governing body.
   (C)   The town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall record or cause to be recorded in the
appropriate journals and ledgers the debt service payments and maintain current
records of the remaining amount of indebtedness.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-9-2012)
§ 35.39 INTERFUND TRANSFERS.
   (A)   All transfers of resources between funds (both operating and residual
equity transfers) shall only be made in accordance with governing body
appropriations. Such appropriations shall be contained in the original or
amended budget of the municipality.
   (B)   Once lawfully appropriated, interfund transfer payments may be made by
the town’s Clerk- Treasurer without further governing body approval. Such
transfers, however, may not exceed the amount lawfully appropriated.
   (C)   The manner of payment shall be consistent with the manner used for the
payment of purchases of goods, services and capital as described above.
   (D)   The town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall record or cause to be recorded in the
appropriate journals and ledgers these interfund transfers.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-9-2012)
§ 35.40 PETTY CASH.
   (A)   As provided for in 11 O.S. § 17-102(D), the municipality may have
petty cash amounts for use in making certain small payments for costs incurred
in operating the municipality.
   (B)   Each petty cash account established shall require governing body
approval, including the amount of the petty cash imprest balance. However, in
no case, should the imprest balance exceed $150. The governing board hereby
approves a petty cash account in the sum of $150. In no event shall purchases
made from petty cash exceed $150 in aggregate, in any one calendar month. The
petty cash amount shall not be reimbursed to the $150 amount until the first
business day of each calendar month.
   (C)   The petty cash accounts shall be reimbursed by utilizing properly
itemized invoices or petty cash voucher slips and by then processing the
reimbursement in the manner used for payment of purchases of goods, services
and capital as described in §
35.38 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-9-2012)
CHAPTER 36: TAXATION
Section
Sales Tax
   
36.01   Short title
   
36.02   Definitions
   
36.03   Taxes imposed; rates; effective dates; purposes
   
36.04   Subsisting state permits
   
36.05   Classification of taxpayers
   
36.06   Sales subject to tax; exemptions
   
36.07   Tax due date
   
36.08   Payment of tax; brackets
   
36.09   Collection by vendors
   
36.10   Returns, remittances and discounts
   
36.11   Delinquencies; interest and penalties
   
36.12   Failure to file; fraudulent returns
   
36.13   Enforcement of payment
   
36.14   Refund of erroneous payments
   
36.15   Records confidential
   
36.16   Amendments
   
36.17   Provisions cumulative
Use Tax
   
36.30   Short title
   
36.31   Tax imposed
   
36.32   Purpose of revenues
   
36.33   Effective date of tax
   
36.34   No repeal of tax
   
36.35   Subsisting state permits
   
36.36   Payment of tax
   
36.37   Tax is additional; administrative procedures
   
36.38   Amendments to provisions
   
36.39   Provisions cumulative
Utilities Tax
   
36.50   Tax levied; additional tax
   
36.51   Application of tax; exemptions
   
36.52   Quarterly payments; delinquencies; disposition
   
36.53   Tax a lien
   
36.54   Failure to pay tax
 
   
36.99   Penalty
SALES TAX
§ 36.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Town of Bernice
Sales Tax Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-1)
§ 36.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the state sales tax
code are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this subchapter. For
the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   STATE SALES TAX CODE. Such code as set out in 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq., as
amended.
   TAX COLLECTOR. The department of the town or the official agency of the
state duly designated according to law or contract authorized by law or
contract to administer the collection of the tax levied by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2)
§ 36.03 TAXES IMPOSED; RATES; EFFECTIVE DATES; PURPOSES.
   (A)   The following town sales taxes, in the total amount of 3.5%, shall be
imposed and effective as indicated, unless otherwise extended by a vote of the
people.
   (B)   Said taxes have been approved by a majority of the registered voters
of the town voting on same in elections conducted in the manner prescribed by
11 O.S. § 16-112:
      (1)   Ordinance levying the first sales tax became effective 7-1-1973,
levying a first and second cent sales tax, for the purpose of providing
revenues for the support of the functions of the town government; and
      (2)   Ord. 11-11-2002-1 became effective 4-1-2003, levying a 1.5% tax,
for the purpose of providing general revenues for use and benefit of the town
and any public trust having the town as beneficiary thereof and/or for the
payment of debt service in connection with obligations of the town.
      (3)   Ord. 04.02.2024 authorizes, ratifies, and reaffirms the sales tax
of one and a half percent (1.5%) that became effective on April 1, 2003. This
ordinance shall become effective on July 1, 2024, and at which time said sales
tax shall become perpetual and non-expiring. This section shall remain in
effect unless and until repealed by a majority of the registered voters of the
Town of Bernice, Oklahoma, voting to repeal same in manner required for its
approval.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-3) (Ord. 11-11-202-1, passed 11-18-2002; Ord. 04.02.2024,
passed 4-2-2024)
§ 36.04 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the state’s Tax
Commission pursuant to the state’s Sales Tax Code are, for the purposes of this
subchapter, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement
for an additional town permit for the same purpose.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-4)
§ 36.05 CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the classification of taxpayers
hereunder shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the state’s Sales
Tax Code.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-5)
§ 36.06 SALES SUBJECT TO TAX; EXEMPTIONS.
   The town sales taxes shall be levied upon the gross receipts or gross
proceeds of such sales as specified by state statutes, and exemptions from such
taxes shall be allowed pursuant to state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-6)
§ 36.07 TAX DUE DATE.
   The tax levied under the provisions of this subchapter shall be due and
payable at the time and in the manner and form prescribed for payment of the
state sales tax under the state’s Sales Tax Law, 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-7)
§ 36.08 PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKETS.
   (A)   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the Tax Collector at the time
and in form and manner provided for payment of state sales tax under the Sales
Tax Law of the state, 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq.
   (B)   The bracket system for the collection of the town sales tax by the Tax
Collector shall be as the same is hereafter adopted by agreement of the town
and the Tax Collector, in the collection of both the town sales tax and the
state sales tax.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-8)
§ 36.09 COLLECTION BY VENDORS.
   (A)   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor, and each and every vendor shall collect from the consumer or user the
full amount of the tax levied, or an amount equal as nearly as possible or
practicable to the average equivalent thereof.
   (B)   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge, and when added, such tax shall
constitute a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or
user to the vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in the same
manner as other debts.
   (C)   No vendor shall willfully or intentionally fail, neglect or refuse to
collect the full amount of the tax levied, or willfully or intentionally fail,
neglect or refuse to comply with the provisions of this subchapter, or remit or
rebate to a consumer or user, either directly or indirectly, and by whatever
means, all or any part of the tax herein levied, or make in any form of
advertising, verbally or otherwise, any statement which infers that he or she
is absorbing the tax, or paying the tax for the consumer or user by an
adjustment of prices or at a price including the tax, or in any manner
whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-9)
§ 36.10 RETURNS, REMITTANCES AND DISCOUNTS.
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the Tax Collector at the time and in the manner, form and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances required by the state’s Sales Tax Code;
and remittances of the tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same
discount as may be allowed by said code for collection of state sales taxes.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-10)
§ 36.11 DELINQUENCIES; INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Failure to pay tax.
      (1)   68 O.S. § 217 is hereby adopted and made a part of this subchapter,
and interest and penalties at the rates and in the amounts as therein specified
are hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting
and paying the tax levied under this subchapter.
      (2)   The failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make and transmit the
reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner required by this
subchapter shall cause such tax to be delinquent.
      (3)   If the delinquency continues for a period of five days, the
taxpayer shall forfeit his or her claim to any discount allowed under this
subchapter.
   (B)   Waiver. The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by
reason of a taxpayer’s failure to pay the town tax herein levied may be waived
or remitted in the same manner as provided for said waiver or remittance as
applied in administration of the state sales tax provided in 68 O.S. § 220. To
accomplish the purposes of this division (B), the applicable provisions of said
§ 220 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-11)
§ 36.12 FAILURE TO FILE; FRAUDULENT RETURNS.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Intentionally fail or refuse to make tax reports and remittances as
required under this subchapter; or
      (2)   Intentionally make false and fraudulent tax reports for the purpose
of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof due under this
subchapter.
   (B)   Any person required to collect and remit sales tax pursuant to the
state’s Sales Tax Code or this code, and engaging in any of the callings,
trades, avocations, professions, businesses or occupations for which a license
is required by the town, and applying for such license, must submit proof as a
condition precedent to issuing such license of a valid sales tax permit number
issued by the state.
   (C)   Any license issued by the town to any person engaging in any of the
callings, trades, avocations, businesses, professions or occupations for which
a license is required by this code may be suspended or revoked for failure to
maintain a lawful sales tax license or collect and remit sales tax if and as
required by the state’s Sales Tax Code or this code.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-12) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.13 ENFORCEMENT OF PAYMENT.
   The taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute
a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-13)
§ 36.14 REFUND OF ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS.
   Refund of erroneous payment of the town sales tax herein levied may be made
to any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
state sales tax as set forth in 68 O.S. § 227. To accomplish the purpose of
this section, the applicable provisions of said § 227 are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-14)
§ 36.15 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the town sales tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 O.S. § 205 of the
state’s Sales Tax Code, and all subsections thereof, are hereby adopted by
reference and made fully effective and applicable to administration of the town
sales tax as if herein set forth in full.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-15)
§ 36.16 AMENDMENTS.
   The Board of Trustees, by ordinance duly enacted, is authorized to make such
administrative and technical changes or additions in the method and manner of
administration and enforcing this subchapter as may be necessary or proper for
efficiency and fairness; except that, the rate of the tax herein provided shall
not be changed without approval of the qualified electors of the town as
provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-16)
§ 36.17 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be cumulative and in addition to any
and all other taxing provisions of town ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-17)
USE TAX
§ 36.30 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Town of Bernice Use
Tax Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-1) (Ord. 06-09-2003-1, passed 6-9-2003)
§ 36.31 TAX IMPOSED.
   There is hereby imposed a use tax of 3.5% (in addition to any and all other
taxes now in force) to be levied upon the gross proceeds or gross receipts
derived from all transactions taxable under the state’s Use Tax Code, 68 O.S.
§§ 1401 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2) (Ord. 06-09-2003-1, passed 6-9-2003)
§ 36.32 PURPOSE OF REVENUES.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this subchapter to provide
additional general revenues for:
   (A)   The use and benefit of the town and any public trust having the town
as beneficiary thereof; and/or
   (B)   The payment of debt service in connection with obligations of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-3) (Ord. 06-09-2003-1, passed 6-9-2003)
§ 36.33 EFFECTIVE DATE OF TAX.
   The provisions of this subchapter and the collection of the use tax
referenced herein became effective on and after 7-1-2003.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-4) (Ord. 06-09-2003-1, passed 6-9-2003)
§ 36.34 NO REPEAL OF TAX.
   This subchapter and the use tax levied pursuant hereto shall not be repealed
by the town’s Board of Trustees or by referendum of the registered qualified
voters of the town in the event the proceeds of the referenced use tax are
being used or have been pledged by the town or any public trust having the town
as beneficiary for the purpose of paying debt service on obligations issued by
the town or any public trust having the town as beneficiary.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-5) (Ord. 06-09-2003-1, passed 6-9-2003)
§ 36.35 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the state’s Tax
Commission pursuant to the state’s Use Tax Code are, for the purposes of this
subchapter, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement
for an additional town permit for the same purpose.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-6) (Ord. 06-09-2003-1, passed 6-9-2003)
§ 36.36 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the Tax Collector at the time and in
the manner and form prescribed for payment of the state use tax under the
state’s Use Tax Code.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-7) (Ord. 06-09-2003-1, passed 6-9-2003)
§ 36.37 TAX IS ADDITIONAL; ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The tax levied hereby is in addition to any and all other taxes levied
or assessed by the town including those levied and assessed by §§
36.01 through
36.17 of this chapter; provided, however, that, those provisions of §§
36.01 through
36.17 of this chapter relating to definitions; tax collector defined;
classification of taxpayers; subsisting state permits; the portion of tax rate
- use subject to tax, pertaining to use subject to tax (not rate of tax); the
provisions of said chapter regarding payment of tax brackets; the portion of
said chapter regarding tax constituting debt; vendor’s duty to collect tax;
returns and remittances-discounts; delinquencies-interest and penalties; waiver
of interest and penalties; erroneous payments-claim for refund; fraudulent
returns; and records confidential shall apply to the use tax levied and
assessed by this subchapter.
   (B)   For purposes of this subchapter, references in §§
36.01 through
36.17 of this chapter to specific provisions of the state statutes shall be
deemed to be references to said statutory provisions, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-8) (Ord. 06-09-2003-1, passed 6-9-2003)
§ 36.38 AMENDMENTS TO PROVISIONS.
   The Board of Trustees, by ordinance duly enacted, is authorized to make such
administrative and technical changes or additions in the method and manner of
administration and enforcing this subchapter as may be necessary or proper for
efficiency and fairness or in order to make the same consistent with the
state’s Use Tax Code, as amended; except that, the rate of the tax and the
termination date for collection of said tax herein provided shall not be
changed without approval of the qualified electors of the town as provided by
law.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-9) (Ord. 06-09-2003-1, passed 6-9-2003)
§ 36.39 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions hereof shall be cumulative and in addition to any and all
other taxing provisions of town ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-10) (Ord. 06-09-2003-1, passed 6-9-2003)
UTILITIES TAX
§ 36.50 TAX LEVIED; ADDITIONAL TAX.
   There is hereby levied and assessed an annual tax of 2% upon the gross
receipts from commercial sales of power, light, heat, gas, electricity or water
in the town, which tax shall be in lieu of any other franchise, license,
occupation or excise tax levied by the town, all as provided by 68 OS. §§ 2601
et seq.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-1)
§ 36.51 APPLICATION OF TAX; EXEMPTIONS.
   The tax levied under this subchapter shall, when levied, apply to all
persons, firms, associations or corporations engaged in the business of
furnishing power, light, heat, gas, electricity or water within the corporate
limits of the town, except it shall not apply to any person, firm, association
or corporation operating under a valid franchise from the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-2)
§ 36.52 QUARTERLY PAYMENTS; DELINQUENCIES; DISPOSITION.
   The tax levied under this subchapter shall remain in effect until repealed
and shall be payable quarterly. The tax shall be placed in the general revenue
fund of the town. Amounts not paid when due shall bear interest at the rate of
10% per annum until paid.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-3)
§ 36.53 TAX A LIEN.
   The tax so imposed in this subchapter shall constitute a first and prior
lien on all the assets located within the town of any person, firm or
corporation engaged in the business of selling power, light, heat, gas,
electricity or water within the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-4)
§ 36.54 FAILURE TO PAY TAX.
   Any person, firm or corporation failing or refusing to pay such tax when
levied shall be regarded as a trespasser. In addition thereto, an action may be
maintained against such person, firm or corporation for the amount of the tax,
and all expenses of collecting same, including reasonable attorney fees.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-5)
§ 36.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In addition to all civil penalties provided by §§
36.01 through
36.17 of this chapter, any violation of §
36.12 of this chapter shall subject the offending taxpayer to penalty as set
forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day of such violation shall be
considered a separate offense and charged separately.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-12)
CHAPTER 37: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
   
37.01   Racial profiling
   
37.02   Town records
   
37.03   Public comment at town meetings
   
37.04   Choice of law and forum
§ 37.01 RACIAL PROFILING.
   The town’s Board of Trustees hereby adopts a detailed written policy that
prohibits racial profiling, and clearly defines the elements constituting
racial profiling, as submitted by the state’s Human Rights Commission, and in
compliance with 22 O.S. § 34.3. One copy of said policy shall be and remain on
file in the office of the town’s Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-1)
§ 37.02 TOWN RECORDS.
   (A)   Custodian of Records.
      (1)   Official custodian; Clerk-Treasurer serve as. The town’s Clerk-
Treasurer is hereby appointed as official custodian for purposes of the state’s
Open Records Act and is charged with responsibility for compliance with that
act with respect to all public records kept and maintained in the Town Clerk-
Treasurer’s office and all other public records not provided for elsewhere in
this section.
      (2)   Additional record custodians.
         (a)   Designation. The official custodian appointed in division (A)(1)
above is hereby authorized to designate any subordinate officers or employees
to serve as record custodian. The record custodians shall have such duties and
powers as are set out in the state’s Open Records Act.
         (b)   Register kept. Whenever the official custodian shall appoint
another person as a record custodian, such designation shall be maintained in a
register kept by the town’s Clerk-Treasurer.
      (3)   Duties of custodians. All town officials and employees appointed or
designated under this section shall:
         (a)   Protect public records from damage and disorganization;
         (b)   Prevent excessive disruption of the essential functions of the
town;
         (c)   Provide assistance and information upon request;
         (d)   Ensure efficient and timely action and response to all
applications for inspection of public records; and
         (e)   Carry out the procedures adopted by the town for inspecting and
copying open public records.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-1)
   (B)   Requests for records.
      (1)   All members of the public, in seeking access to, or copies of, a
public record in accordance with the provisions of the state’s Open Records
Act, shall address their requests to the custodian charged with responsibility
for the maintenance of the record sought to be inspected or copied.
      (2)   Whenever any town official or employee appointed or designated as a
custodian under this chapter is presented with a request for access to, or copy
of, a public record, which record the custodian does not have in his or her
possession and which he or she has not been given responsibility to keep and
maintain, the custodian shall so advise the person requesting the record. The
person making the request shall be informed as to which custodian the request
should be addressed, if such is known by the custodian receiving the request.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-2)
   (C)   Procedures.
      (1)   Procedures regarding both inspection and copying of open public
records. The following procedures regarding both inspection and copying of open
public records are hereby adopted and shall be applied by the official
custodian and record custodian:
         (a)   Consistent with the policy, duties and procedures established by
the state’s Open Records Act, record custodians shall provide full access and
assistance in a timely and efficient manner to persons who request access to
open public records;
         (b)   Record custodians shall protect the integrity and organization
of public records with respect to the manner in which such records are
inspected and copied;
         (c)   Record custodians may prevent excessive disruptions of essential
functions and provide the record at the earliest possible time;
         (d)   All inspections and copying of open public records shall be
performed by or under the supervision of the record custodian responsible for
such records;
         (e)   All persons requesting the inspection of or a copy of open
public records shall make such request in writing prior to the request being
honored; except that, no form shall be required for requests made for records
which have been reproduced for free public distribution;
         (f)   All record inspection and copying forms are to be completed by
the person requesting the record. The record custodian may demand reasonable
identification of any person requesting a record;
         (g)   Any fees for record inspection or for copies are due at the time
the records, or copies thereof, are provided to the requester, unless the
record custodian has demanded that prepayment of all or part of such fees be
made. Fees are to be paid to the record custodian or town’s Clerk-Treasurer;
         (h)   The record custodian or town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall demand full
or partial prepayment of fees whenever the estimate for such fees exceeds the
amount set out in division (D) below;
         (i)   No record search or copying fee shall be assessed against
officers or employees of the town who make requests which are reasonably
necessary to the performance of their official duties;
         (j)   Hours for making requests for inspection or copying shall be all
regular working hours for each day the office maintains regular office hours;
         (k)   Removal of open public records from the office where kept and
maintained, for purposes of inspection or the making of copies, shall not be
permitted; and
         (l)   The above procedures, as well as any other inspection and
copying procedures, shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the office of the
record custodian.
      (2)   Procedures regarding inspection of open public records. The
following procedures regarding inspection of open public records are hereby
adopted and shall be applied by the official custodian and record custodian:
         (a)   Record custodians shall handle all inspection requests in
accordance with their duties to protect and preserve public records and to
assist persons requesting inspection of open public records;
         (b)   All request forms must be completed by the party requesting the
record. In all cases, the party so requesting must sign his or her individual
name to the form. Written requests shall be made on the form provided by the
record custodian and presented to the record custodian;
         (c)   A written request is sufficient if it reasonably describes the
record sought. In instances where the requester cannot provide sufficient
information to identify a record, the custodian shall assist in making such
identification; and
         (d)   The record custodian shall, upon making a denial of an
inspection request, forward a copy of the denial to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer.
      (3)   Procedures regarding copies of open public records. The following
procedures apply regarding copies of records:
         (a)   Record custodians shall handle all copy requests in accordance
with their duties to protect and preserve public records and to assist persons
requesting copies of open public records;
         (b)   All request forms must be completed by the party requesting the
copies. In all cases, the party so requesting must sign his or her individual
name to the form. Written requests shall be made on the form provided by the
record custodian;
         (c)   Mechanical reproduction of a record shall not be undertaken
when, it is the judgment, of the record custodian that any available means of
mechanically reproducing the subject record is likely to cause damage to such
records; and
         (d)   No copy fee shall be assessed when multiple copies of the record
requested have been prepared for free public distribution, or when the record
custodian determines that the cost of charging and handling the fee exceeds the
cost of providing a copy without charge.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-3)
   (D)   Fees.
      (1)   Fees established.
         (a)   Inspections. Where a request has been made for the inspection of
an open public record, no fee shall be charged.
         (b)   Copies.
            1.   A fee per page as set by the Board of Trustees by motion or
resolution shall be charged for photocopying an open public record, such fee to
cover the cost of labor, materials and equipment.
            2.   For copying any open public record which cannot be reproduced
by photocopying, such as a computer printout or a blueprint, the requester
shall be charged the actual cost to the town, including the cost of labor,
materials and equipment.
         (c)   Search. A search fee shall be charged a requester who is using
the record solely for a commercial purpose. Such fee shall be the actual cost
to the town of producing the record, including the cost of labor, materials and
equipment.
      (2)   Prepayment. A record custodian may demand prepayment of a fee
whenever the estimated amount exceeds $20. The prepayment amount shall be an
estimate of the cost of copying, mechanical reproduction or searching for the
record. Any overage or underage in the prepayment amount shall be settled prior
to producing the requested record or delivering the copy or mechanical
reproduction of the record.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-4)
Statutory reference:
   Open Records Act, see 51 O.S. §§ 24A.1 et seq.
§ 37.03 PUBLIC COMMENT AT TOWN MEETINGS.
   (A)   Public comment allowed. The public shall be allowed to comment at each
public meeting of the town in strict compliance with this policy.
   (B)   Sign-up sheet. The town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall place a sign-up sheet
at each public meeting. Any citizen wishing to make a public comment must sign
this sheet. If the citizen wishes to speak to an item on the agenda, that
citizen must specifically designate each agenda item he or she will address. If
the citizen wishes to make a general comment unrelated to any item on the
agenda, the citizen shall so indicate by placing a mark by “general comment” on
the sign-up sheet. The sign-up sheet shall be substantially in the form of
Exhibit “A” attached to the resolution codified herein and incorporated herein
by this reference.
   (C)   Limitation on time. Each person executing the sign-up sheet shall
limit his or her comments to three minutes for each agenda item identified by
the citizen on the sign-up sheet. Any general comment unrelated to an agenda
item shall be limited to three minutes.
   (D)   Group comments. Any group or association containing people with
substantially similar views shall select a spokesperson for such group or
association and use their best efforts to avoid duplication.
(Res. 2012-2, passed 4-9-2012)
§ 37.04 CHOICE OF LAW AND FORUM.
   (A)   The liability of an issuer, nominated person or adviser for action or
omission is governed by the law of the jurisdiction chosen by an agreement in
the form of a record, signed or otherwise, authenticated by the affected
parties in the manner provided in 12A O.S. § 5-104 or by a provision in the
person’s letter of credit, confirmation or other undertaking. The jurisdiction
whose law is chosen need not bear any relation to the transaction.
   (B)   Unless division (A) above applies, the liability of an issuer,
nominated person or adviser for action or omission is governed by the law of
the jurisdiction in which the person is located. The person is considered to be
located at the address indicated in the person’s undertaking. If more than one
address is indicated, the person is considered to be located at the address
from which the person’s undertaking was issued. For the purpose of
jurisdiction, choice of law and recognition of interbranch letters of credit,
but not enforcement of a judgment, all branches of a bank are considered
separate juridical entities and a bank is considered to be located at the place
where its relevant branch is considered to be located under this division (B).
   (C)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C), the liability
of an issuer, nominated person or adviser is governed by any rules of custom or
practice, such as the Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits, to
which the letter of credit, confirmation or other undertaking is expressly made
subject.
      (2)   Those rules as applied to that undertaking govern, except to the
extent of any conflict with the nonvariable provisions specified in 12A O.S. §
5-103(c), if:
         (a)   12A O.S. Art. 5 would govern the liability of an issuer,
nominated person or adviser under divisions (A) or (B) above;
         (b)   The relevant undertaking incorporates rules of custom or
practice; and
         (c)   There is conflict between 12A O.S. Art. 5 and those rules as
applied to that undertaking.
   (D)   If there is conflict between 12A O.S. Art. 5 and 12A O.S. Arts. 3, 4,
4A or 9, then 12A O.S. Art. 5 governs.
   (E)   The forum for settling disputes arising out of an undertaking within
12A O.S. Art. 5 may be chosen in the manner and with the binding effect that
governing law may be chosen in accordance with division (A) above.
(12A O.S. § 5-116)
Editor’s note:
   The town’s choice of law is Oklahoma and the choice of forum the Delaware
County District Court.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL UTILITIES
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL UTILITIES
Section
   
50.01   Public Works Authority
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 PUBLIC WORKS AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The town’s Board of Trustees accepted beneficial interest in the
Public Works Authority, a public trust, on 8-29-1977. A copy of the trust
indenture and resolution, and any amendments thereto, are on file with the
town’s Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, App.)
   (B)   The town hereby consents and agrees to the lease of the town water,
sanitary sewerage and gas systems and facilities and all future additions
thereto to the town’s Public Works Authority as authorized by statute, to be
effective at the time and upon the terms and conditions specified in a certain
lease prepared under the direction of the town’s Board of Trustees and filed in
the office of the town’s Clerk-Treasurer on 8-29-1977. The Mayor of the town
hereby is authorized and directed, on behalf of the town, to execute and
deliver the lease of the town’s Public Works Authority.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1)
   (C)   Rules and regulations adopted by the town’s Public Works Authority are
hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference, applicable as if set out
in full herein.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of the rules and regulations of the Authority, as per §
50.01 of this chapter, shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
51.01   Findings and prohibitions
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Collection and disposal a municipal function
   
51.04   Accumulation of solid waste and trash prohibited
   
51.05   Containers
   
51.06   Collection of garbage
   
51.07   Vehicles hauling garbage and trash; disposal at landfill
   
51.08   Responsibility for fees
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 FINDINGS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   The Board of Trustees hereby declares that it is the policy of the town to
regulate the collection, transportation, processing and disposal of solid waste
in a manner that will protect the public health, safety and welfare. The Board
of Trustees declares that it is a public nuisance and a hazard to the public
health, safety and welfare to permit the operation of a disposal site or to
permit the disposal of solid waste within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-0) (Ord. 2009-4, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISPOSAL SITE. Any place, including, but not limited to, a transfer station,
at which solid waste is dumped, abandoned or accepted or disposed of by
incineration, landfilling, composting, shredding, compaction, baling or any
other method or by processing by pyrolysis, resource recovery or any other
method, technique or process designed to change the physical, chemical or
biological character or composition of any solid waste so as to render such
waste safe or non-hazardous, amenable to transport, recovery or storage or
reduced in volume. A DISPOSAL SITE shall not include a manufacturing facility
which processes scrap materials which have been separated for collection and
processing as industrial raw materials.
   GARBAGE. Every accumulation of animal or vegetable matter, or both, likely
to decay or usually discarded as waste matter from kitchens, dining rooms,
hotels, restaurants, boarding houses and dwelling houses of every kind, and
shall include such waste animal or vegetable matter from public institutions,
businesses, stores, markets and/or other establishments.
   SOLID WASTE. All putrescible and non-putrescible refuse in solid, semisolid
or liquid form including, but not limited to, garbage, rubbish, ashes or
incinerator residue, street refuse, dead animals, demolition wastes,
construction wastes, solid or semisolid commercial and industrial wastes
including explosives, biomedical wastes, chemical wastes, herbicide and
pesticide wastes.
   TRANSFER STATION. Any disposal site, processing facility or other place
where solid waste is transferred from a vehicle or container to another vehicle
or container for transportation, including, but not limited to, a barge or
railroad unloading facility where solid waste, in bulk or in containers, is
unloaded, stored, processed or transported for any purpose.
   TRASH. Any accumulation of broken or discarded boxes, glass, metal vessels
or containers; paper; straw; sawdust; ashes; iron or other metal; clothing;
trimmings from trees, shrubs, grass or gardens; and such other similar waste
matter usually discarded by business establishments or occupants of dwellings
or living quarters.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-1) (Ord. 2009-4, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 51.03 COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL A MUNICIPAL FUNCTION.
   The town hereby reserves to itself the exclusive right and privilege of the
collection, removal and disposition of all garbage and trash within the limits
of the town, either by contracting with a suitable person for the collection
and removal thereof or by the collection and removal thereof by employees of
the town, either method to be at the discretion of the town’s Board of
Trustees. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or business,
except as duly authorized under the terms hereof, to collect or remove any
“garbage” or “trash”, as defined herein, and to transport, haul or carry the
same over the streets and alleys of the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-2) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 ACCUMULATION OF SOLID WASTE AND TRASH PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge of any private
property or premises shall maintain or keep any refuse, rubbish, trash, solid
waste or similar material, except dirt thereon; nor shall such person allow the
accumulation of any such material; nor shall any such person keep or maintain
such premises in a manner causing substantial diminution in the value of other
property in the neighborhood in which the premises is located.
   (B)   No owner or occupant of land or lots shall knowingly permit the
placing, depositing or dumping upon his or her premises of any solid waste.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-3) (Ord. 2009-4, passed 8-10-2009) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Use required. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation
or business to deposit upon the streets, alleys, parking or on private property
any garbage or trash for collection unless the same is placed in a container as
required by this chapter; except that, trimmings from trees and shrubs, if too
bulky for such containers, may be cut in three-foot lengths, tied in bundles
and placed at or near the trash container.
   (B)   Specifications; placement for pick up. It is hereby made the duty of
every owner, occupant, tenant or lessee occupying a business establishment,
dwelling house or apartment, and every person in charge of a hotel or living
quarters in the town to provide and maintain suitable and separate containers
for garbage and trash, said containers to be 20- to 30-gallon cans with lids,
which said containers shall be placed at the curb in front of the house or
building occupied on collection dates to be announced, and shall be readily
accessible to garbage and trash collectors.
   (C)   Tampering with, damage to containers. It shall be unlawful for any
person not duly authorized as provided herein to tamper with, overturn, remove
or destroy any garbage or trash container of a residence, business or other
establishment in the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-4) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 COLLECTION OF GARBAGE.
   The Town Board may contract with some suitable firm, person or corporation
for the collection and removal of garbage and trash upon such terms and
conditions as may, under the terms of this chapter, be deemed for the best
interests of the town; provided that, any party so contracting with the town
shall furnish policies of public liability and property damage insurance
covering the vehicles to be used by him or her in an amount of not less than
$10,000 and $20,000, respectively. Such policies of insurance are to be in
companies acceptable to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer; and, provided further that,
unless such a contract is duly entered into, the town shall have the right to
provide for the collection and removal of garbage and trash by its own
employees. Collections of garbage and trash shall be made not less than once a
week from all residences in the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-5)
§ 51.07 VEHICLES HAULING GARBAGE AND TRASH; DISPOSAL AT LANDFILL.
   (A)   Spilling loads; disposal at landfill. All vehicles used in the
collection, removal and disposal of garbage and trash shall be so constructed
as to prevent such waste matter from spilling, blowing or falling off while
being transported, and all garbage and trash shall be removed to and dumped at
a sanitary landfill approved by the state’s Health Department.
   (B)   Inspection of vehicles. The vehicles mentioned in this section shall
at all times be subject to inspection by any person duly authorized to enforce
the provisions of this chapter and, if found to be defective or unfit for such
service, shall not be used therefor until such defect is remedied and the use
of the vehicle approved by such official.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-6) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08 RESPONSIBILITY FOR FEES.
   Individual residents of the town are responsible for payment of their fees
to the private garbage hauler.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-7)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the terms or
provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable as
provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, and failure to comply with the provisions
hereof shall be deemed a continuing offense, and each day’s continuance of
failure to comply herewith shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   In addition to a penalty for violation of this chapter, the town may
abate as a public nuisance any condition prohibited herein, pursuant to this
chapter or any other law or ordinance, all of which shall be cumulative.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-8) (Ord. 2009-4, passed 8-10-2009)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
   
52.01   Rates, charges, rules and regulations adopted
   
52.02   Water meters
   
52.03   Water tap fees; meter deposit
   
52.04   User rates
   
52.05   Bills for service; delinquencies
   
52.06   Damage to system
   
52.07   Non-liability of Authority
   
52.08   Water wells
   
52.09   Water access fee
§ 52.01 RATES, CHARGES, RULES AND REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   The town’s Board of Trustees hereby approves and adopts the uniform
schedules of rates and charges and rules and regulations in this chapter,
governing the operation of the water system owned by the town and leased to the
Trustees of the town’s Public Works Authority, as established by the Trustees
of the town’s Public Works Authority.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-1)
§ 52.02 WATER METERS.
   (A)   Metered water required. The water system of the Authority will be
fully metered.
   (B)   Type of meter. All water meters utilized to measure the quantity of
water sold and delivered in the town by the town's Public Works Authority shall
be of the following type: low-flow registration of 95% at one-fourth gallon per
minute, and the town shall replace, at its expense, any non-conforming meters
as funds become available for same.
   (C)   The following fees shall be due for installation of any water meter:
      (1)   One thousand three hundred dollars for Residential 3/4 inch meter;
      (2)   One thousand three hundred dollars for Commercial Class 1 3/4 inch
meter.
      (3)   One thousand three hundred dollars for Commercial Class 2 3/4 inch
meter;
      (4)   Two thousand seven hundred ten dollars for Commercial Class 3 one
inch meter;
      (5)   Three thousand three hundred eighty-five dollars for Commercial
Class 4 two inch meter;
      (6)   Three thousand nine hundred fifty-five dollars for Commercial Class
5 three inch meter; and
      (7)   Five thousand three hundred ninety dollars for Commercial Class 6
four inch meter.
   (D)   Any septic tank located on a property requesting service from the
Authority shall be inspected by a certified plumber and certified to meet
Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) standards prior to installation of
any water meter. A copy of such inspection must be provided to the Authority
prior to
installation.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-2) (Ord. 4-1995, passed 8-7-1995; Ord. 2023-5.30-5, passed
5-30-2023)
§ 52.03 WATER TAP FEES; METER DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Meter Deposit. A water meter deposit shall be due to the Authority
prior to receiving any service. Said deposit shall be retained by the Authority
and bear no interest. A meter deposit, less any sum due to the Authority from
the customer, shall be returned to the customer when such customer no longer
receives any services from the Authority. The water meter deposit shall be
based on meter size and shall be as follows:
      (1)   One hundred twenty-five dollars for Residential three-fourths-inch
meter;
      (2)   Two hundred dollars for Commercial Class 1 three-fourths-inch
meter;
      (3)   Three hundred dollars for Commercial Class 2 three-fourths-inch
meter;
      (4)   Four hundred dollars for Commercial Class 3 one-inch meter;
      (5)   One thousand two hundred dollars for Commercial Class 4 two-inch
meter;
      (6)   One thousand eight hundred dollars for Commercial Class 5 three-
inch meter; and
      (7)   Two thousand four hundred dollars for Commercial Class 6 four-inch
meter.
   (B)   Road crossing fee. There is hereby established a fee of one thousand
dollars, to be paid to the Authority for crossing a road with water, sewer or
other underground utility lines, to be paid by the customer or customers
requesting the crossing, which must be paid prior to commencement of the work.
The customer or customers shall also be responsible for complying with any
requirements and any fees for crossing any county road or state highway.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-3) (Ord. 2022-1, passed 12-13-2021; Ord. 6-12-23, passed 4-
10-2023; Ord. 23-5.30-6, passed 5-30-2023)
§ 52.04 USER RATES.
   (A)   Established by resolution. Water user rates within and without the
corporate limits of the town shall be established by resolution approved by a
majority of the town’s Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Existing bulk users.
      (1)   Owners of all multi-unit hookups now in existence shall be required
to sign and comply with a new “multi-unit water users agreement”. This
agreement shall apply only to the multi-unit hookups now in existence, and
shall not apply to any future hookups. All future hookups shall be in strict
compliance with the original water user agreement.
      (2)   Each multi-unit water user shall pay the minimum charge for each
unit for the first 1,000 gallons. Standard rates are to apply over and above
the accumulated minimum.
      (3)   Any user not wishing to sign the multi-unit agreement may, as an
option, install a meter for each unit which may be provided by the town’s
Public Works Authority at its cost. Any user who fails to comply with one of
these options shall be subject to the terms of the original water user
agreement.
      (4)   Any user who signs the multi-unit agreement, then violates the
terms of said agreement, shall be subject to the terms of the original water
user agreement.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-4) (Ord. 525, passed 5-11-1988; Ord. 2005-1, passed 1-10-
2005)
§ 52.05 BILLS FOR SERVICE; DELINQUENCIES.
   (A)   Billing required; rendition; due date. No free service will be
permitted. The Authority will render statements to customers of the water
system monthly. The amount shown thereon shall be due and payable by the
customer to the authority upon receipt of the statement.
   (B)   Delinquencies; disconnection and reconnection. The Authority will
cause any connection to its water system to be disconnected in the event that
all sums due to the authority for water and sanitary sewer service or either of
them furnished at said connection are not paid by the twentieth day following
billing; provided that, the Authority may disconnect any connection at any time
after the billing date if it feels itself insecure. In the event of
disconnection for any reason, reconnection will be made only after payment of
the sum of $50 to the authority for each reconnection made.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-5)
§ 52.06 DAMAGE TO SYSTEM.
   In the event any customer causes or suffers to be caused any tampering or
interference with the meters, pipes and fittings of the authority’s water
system, the Authority may immediately disconnect such customer’s connection or
connections to said system, and the Authority may require reasonable security
prior to reconnecting same. Customers will be billed for any and all damages to
meters or fittings not occasioned by the Authority’s employees.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-6) (Ord. 4-1995, passed 8-7-1995)
§ 52.07 NON-LIABILITY OF AUTHORITY.
   The Authority shall not be liable to any customer for failure to deliver
water or to deliver water at any specific pressure or in any specific volume.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-7)
§ 52.08 WATER WELLS.
   No water well shall be connected to any residence or water line within the
Town of Bernice that has a connection to the Town water system.
(Ord. 04102023-1, passed 4-10-2023)
§ 52.09 WATER ACCESS FEE.
   That all households in the Town of Bernice shall be charged a water access
fee, even if they do not have a tap, which fee shall equal the minimum monthly
residential water charge.
(Ord. 04102023-1, passed 4-10-2023)
CHAPTER 53: SEWERS
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Toilet facilities required
   
53.03   Proper disposal of human excrement required
   
53.04   Nuisance conditions
   
53.05   Use of public sewers required
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HUMAN EXCREMENT. The bowel and kidney discharge of human beings.
   SANITARY WATER CLOSET. The flush-type toilet which is connected with a
sanitary sewer line of such capacity and construction as to carry away the
contents at all times.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-1)
§ 53.02 TOILET FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every owner of a residence, or other building in which humans reside,
are employed or congregate within the town, shall install, equip and maintain
adequate sanitary facilities for the disposal of human excrement by use of a
sanitary water closet.
   (B)   The closets and toilets hereby required shall be of the sanitary water
closet type when located within 300 feet of a sanitary sewer and accessible
thereto (notwithstanding a greater distance from a sanitary sewer) or the water
closet type emptying into a septic tank system. A septic tank system may be
used in such cases only if it meets the standards of and is approved by the
state’s Health Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-2) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.03 PROPER DISPOSAL OF HUMAN EXCREMENT REQUIRED.
   All human excrement disposed of within the town shall be disposed of by
depositing it in closets of the type provided for in this chapter. It is
unlawful for any owner of property within the town to permit the disposal of
human excrement thereon in any other manner, or for any person to dispose of
human excrement within the town in any other manner.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-3) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04 NUISANCE CONDITIONS.
   All facilities for the disposal of human excrement in a manner different
from that required by this chapter and all closets so constructed, situated or
maintained as to endanger the public health are hereby declared to be public
nuisances and may be dealt with and abated as such. Any person maintaining any
such nuisance is guilty of an offense, and each day upon which any such
nuisance continues is a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-4) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   No residence, business or commercial building, nor any other premises in the
town, if located within 300 feet of any public sewer lateral or main, shall be
connected to or in any manner served by a septic tank; no such person shall
allow the installation, maintenance, operation or use of any septic tank in
violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-5) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall,
upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-6)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS
      
72.   VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
      
73.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
74.   PARKING RULES
      
75.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Adoption Of State Traffic Code
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   Application of regulations
   
70.04   Driver’s and vehicle licenses
   
70.05   Insurance requirements; exemptions
   
70.06   Duties of drivers involved in accidents
   
70.07   Improvements on public ways; street closures
Enforcement
   
70.20   Enforcement of provisions; directing traffic
   
70.21   Citations
   
70.22   Records of traffic violations
   
70.23   Parking violations; prima facie proof
   
70.24   Impoundment of vehicles
   
70.25   Permitting violations
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 ADOPTION OF STATE TRAFFIC CODE.
   The provisions of the Oklahoma Motor Vehicle Code, 47 O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.,
are hereby adopted and incorporated by reference, and are enforceable by the
Town of Bernice within its corporate limits and in any other area over which
the Town is authorized to exercise jurisdiction. Provisions of the Oklahoma
Motor Vehicle Code adopted and incorporated herein include but are not limited
to:
   (A)   Driver's Licenses, 47 O.S. §§ 6-101 et seq.;
   (B)   Financial Responsibility, 47 O.S. §§ 7-101 et seq.;
   (C)   Accidents and Reports Relating to Accidents, 47 O.S. §§ 10-101, et
seq.;
   (D)   The Rules of the Road, 47 O.S. §§ 11-801 et seq.;
   (E)   Equipment of Vehicles, 47 O.S. §§ 13-101 et seq.; and
   (F)   Size, Weight, and Load, 47 O.S. §§ 14-101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-1) (Ord. 03142024-8, passed 3-14-2024)
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. However,
for any words and phrases used in this title which are not defined in this
section, but are defined in the laws of the state regulating traffic, the
definition in the laws of the state shall be deemed to apply to the words and
phrases used in this traffic code.
   ALLEY. A public passageway or street which affords only secondary means of
vehicular access to abutting property, and having no legal or official name
other than ALLEY.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of fire departments, ambulances,
vehicles specified pursuant to 63 O.S. § 1-2512(B), licensed ambulance service
providers, County Sheriff vehicles and full-time commissioned deputies and
police vehicles, including vehicles owned and operated by the United States
Marshals Service, the Federal Bureau of Investigation or by any local emergency
management organization, as defined by 63 O.S. § 683.3. Said vehicles shall be
equipped with sirens capable of giving audible signals and flashing red lights
as required and authorized by the provisions of 47 O.S. § 12-218.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two or three tandem wheels, any of which is more than 20 inches in
diameter.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Every vehicle designed, maintained or used primarily for
the transportation of property.
   CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two streets or highways which join one another at, or approximately
at, right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
streets or highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)   A MOTOR VEHICLE is:
         (a)   Any vehicle which is self-propelled; or
         (b)   Any vehicle which is propelled by electric power obtained from
overhead trolley wires, but not operated upon rail.
      (2)   The term MOTOR VEHICLE shall not include:
         (a)   Implements of husbandry, as defined in 47 O.S. § 1-125;
         (b)   Electric personal assistive mobility devices, as defined in 47
O.S. § 1-114A;
         (c)   Motorized wheelchairs, as defined in 47 O.S. § 1-136.3; or
         (d)   Vehicles moved solely by human or animal power.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having:
      (1)   A seat or saddle for the use of the rider;
      (2)   Designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with
the ground, but excluding a tractor; and
      (3)   A combustion engine with a piston or rotor displacement of greater
than 150 cubic centimeters.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall
mean Standard Time or Daylight Saving Time, as may be in current use in the
town.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and devices
not inconsistent with this code placed or erected by authority of a public body
or official having jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, warning or
guiding traffic.
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER. Any officer of the County Sheriff’s Department authorized by
law to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic
regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR ROADWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars operated upon
stationary rails.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, diesel, electric or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a street
includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY, as used herein, shall
refer to any such roadway separately, but not to all such roadways
collectively.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for use of
pedestrians.
   STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving or
discharging passengers.
   STOP. When required, complete cessation from movement. When prohibited, STOP
or STOPPING means any halting, even momentarily, of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control sign or
signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   THROUGH STREET. Every street or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic
is given preferential right-of-way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting streets is required by law to yield right-of-way to
vehicles on such through street in obedience to either a stop sign or a yield
sign, when such signs are erected as provided in this traffic code.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any street for purposes of
travel.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic alternately is directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks; provided, however, this
definition shall not include implements of husbandry, as defined in 47 O.S. §
1-125.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-2)
§ 70.03 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Public ways. The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to every
street, highway, alley, roadway, sidewalk, driveway, park area, every other
public way either within or outside the corporate limits of the town, the use
of which the town has jurisdiction and authority to regulate, including, but
not limited to:
      (1)   Those dedicated to or acquired by the public for public use;
      (2)   Those upon land owned by the town;
      (3)   Those upon land owned by any other governmental unit, but the
regulation of the use of which has been given to the town; and
      (4)   Those upon private property, the regulation of the use of which has
been given to the town.
   (B)   Pushcarts, animals, animal drawn vehicles. Every person propelling any
pushcart or riding an animal upon a roadway, and every person driving any
animal drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of this traffic code
applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those provisions of this
traffic code which, by their very nature, can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 DRIVER’S AND VEHICLE LICENSES.
   (A)   Driver's License. No person shall operate a motor vehicle within the
Town, or in any other area over which the Town is authorized to exercise
jurisdiction, without a valid driver's license or in violation of any
restriction applied to a driver's license unless specifically exempted under
the Oklahoma Motor Vehicle Code, 47 O.S. 1-101 et seq.
   (B)   Vehicle License and Registration. No person shall drive, operate, or
move, or cause or permit to be driven or moved, any motor vehicle within the
Town, or in any other area over which the Town is authorized to exercise
jurisdiction, without a proper license plate or decal or upon which all taxes
due have not been paid.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-4) (Ord. 03142024-9, passed 4-7-2025)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning .
   COMPULSORY INSURANCE LAW. The law requiring liability insurance, which
provides the minimum vehicle liability limits, in conjunction with the
operation of a motor vehicle in this state as found in 47 O.S. §§ 7-600 et seq.
   OPERATOR'S POLICY. A policy of motor vehicle liability insurance which shall
insure the named person against loss from the liability imposed upon the named
person by law for damages arising out of the operation or use by the named
person of any motor vehicle not owned by the named person, subject to the same
limits of liability required in an owner's policy.
   OWNER'S POLICY. A policy of motor vehicle liability insurance which:
      (1)   Shall designate by explicit description or by appropriate reference
all vehicles with respect to which coverage is thereby to be granted;
      (2)   Shall insure the person named therein and insure any other person,
except as specifically excluded pursuant to state law, using an insured vehicle
with the express or implied permission of the named insured, against loss from
the liability imposed by law for damages arising out of the ownership,
maintenance, operation, or use of such vehicle;
      (3)   May provides for exclusions from coverage in accordance with
existing laws; and
      (4)   Shall be issued by an authorized carrier providing coverage in
accordance with 47 O.S. § 7-204 or, in the case of a commercial automobile
insurance policy, may be issued by an authorized insurer as allowed pursuant to
35 O.S. § 1106.
   SECURITY.
      (1)   A policy meeting the minimum vehicle liability limits as set forth
in 47 O.S. § 7-103;
      (2)   A deposit of cash or securities as defined in 47 O.S. § 7-330
having the equivalency of the minimum vehicle liability limits;
      (3)   Self-insurance, pursuant to 47 O.S. § 7-503, having the equivalency
of the minimum vehicle liability limits; or
      (4)   For vehicles registered pursuant to 47 O.S. § 1127, a policy
meeting or exceeding the minimum vehicle liability limits; provided, the policy
may be issued by an insurance company authorized to do business in the state or
residence or domicile of the member of the Armed Forces and the motor vehicle
license agent or other registering agency shall accept the security
verification form issued by such insurance company.
   SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM. A form, approved by the Insurance Commissioner,
verifying the existence of security required by the compulsory insurance law.
   (B)   Required Insurance and Proof of Insurance.
      (1)   Every person using or operating a motor vehicle within the Town, or
in any other area over which the Town is authorized to exercise jurisdiction,
shall comply with the Oklahoma Compulsory Insurance Law.
         a.   Unless otherwise provided by law, no motor vehicle shall be
operated in the Town, or in any other area over which the Town is authorized to
exercise jurisdiction, unless there is in effect with respect to the vehicle an
owner's policy or security for the payment of loss resulting from the liability
imposed by law for bodily injury, death and property damage sustained by any
person arising out of the ownership, maintenance, operation or use of the
vehicle.
         b.   Every person, while operating or using a motor vehicle in the
Town, or in any other area over which the Town is authorized to exercise
jurisdiction, that is not owned by the person, shall maintain in force an
operator's policy or security for the payment of loss resulting from the
liability imposed by law for bodily injury, death or property damage sustained
by any person arising out of the operation or use of the vehicle, unless the
security has been provided by the owner in accordance with Oklahoma law which
does not exclude the person from coverage.
      (2)   A security verification form shall be carried in the vehicle at all
times and shall be produced for inspection upon request by any law enforcement
officer or representative of the Department of Public Safety and, in the case
of an accident, proof of security shall be shown upon request to any person
affected by the accident.
         a.   An owner or operator who fails to produce for inspection a valid
and current security verification form or equivalent form upon the request of
any peace officer or he Department of the Public Safety shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine of $200.
         b.   Any person producing proof that a current security verification
form or equivalent form reflecting compliance with the Oklahoma Compulsory
Insurance Law for such person at the time of the alleged offense shall be
entitled to dismissal of such charge, so long as said owner's policy,
operator's policy, or security was in effect at the time of the alleged
offense.
      (3)   Any sentence imposed for any violation of this section may be
suspended or deferred in whole or in part by the court.
      (4)   Upon conviction or bond forfeiture for an offense under this
section, the Court Clerk or the Deputy Court Clerk shall forward an abstract to
the Oklahoma Department of Public Safety as required by 47 O.S. § 18-101.
   (C)   Exemptions. The following shall not be required to carry an owner's or
operator's security verification form or an equivalent form from the Department
of Public Safety during operation of the vehicle and shall not be required to
surrender a security verification form for vehicle registration purposes:
      (1)   Any vehicle owned or leased by the federal or state government, or
any agency or political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Any vehicle bearing the name, symbol, or logo of a business,
corporation or utility on the exterior and which is in compliance with the
provisions of the Compulsory Insurance Law according to records of the
Corporation Commission which reflect a deposit or fleet policy;
      (3)   Fleet vehicles maintaining current vehicle liability insurance as
required by the Corporation Commission or any other regulating entity;
      (4)   Any licensed taxicab; and
      (5)   Any vehicle owned by a licensed used motor vehicle dealer.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-5) (Ord. 03142024-4, passed 3-14-2024) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 DUTIES OF DRIVERS INVOLVED IN ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury
to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle or property shall
immediately stop his or her vehicle at the scene of such accident, or as close
thereto as possible, return to and remain at the scene of the accident until he
or she has given his or her name, address and the registration of his or her
vehicle and shall, upon request, exhibit his or her driver’s license to the
person injured or the driver or occupant of, or person attending, any vehicle
collided with and shall render to any person injured in such accident
reasonable assistance, including the carrying or making arrangement for the
carrying of such person to a physician, surgeon or hospital for medical and
surgical treatment if it is apparent that this treatment is necessary, or if
such is requested by the injured person. Each such stop shall be made without
obstructing traffic more than is necessary.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
resulting in bodily injury to or death of any person or in which it is apparent
that damage to one vehicle or to the property is in excess of $300 shall, as
soon as practicable, report such accident to a police officer. If a driver
makes out a written report of the accident in the office of the County
Sheriff’s Department as soon as practicable after the accident, which report is
to be forwarded to the state’s Department of Public Safety in accordance with
state law, the driver shall be deemed to be in compliance with this section.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 IMPROVEMENTS ON PUBLIC WAYS; STREET CLOSURES.
   (A)   Authority to close streets.
      (1)   Town employees or contractors, while repairing or improving the
streets of the town, and utility company personnel, when installing, improving
or repairing lines or other utility facilities in the streets, are hereby
authorized as necessary, subject to control by the Board of Trustees, to close
any street or section thereof to traffic during such repair, maintenance or
construction.
      (2)   In exercising such authority, the employees, personnel or
contractors shall erect or cause to be erected proper control devices and
barricades to warn and notify the public that the street has been closed to
traffic.
   (B)   Obedience to barricades and traffic-control devices.
      (1)   When any street has been closed to traffic under the provisions of
division (A) above and traffic-control devices or barricades have been erected,
it is unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle through, under, over or
around the traffic-control devices or barricades, or otherwise to enter the
closed area.
      (2)   The provisions of this division (B) above shall not apply to
persons while engaged in the construction, maintenance and repair, or to
persons entering therein for the protection of lives or property.
      (3)   Persons having their places of residence or places of business
within the closed area may travel, when possible to do so, through the area at
their own risk.
   (C)   Traffic-control devices required during construction. Whenever
construction, repair or maintenance of any street or utility line or facility
is being performed under traffic, the employees, personnel or contractor
concerned shall erect, or cause to be erected, traffic-control devices to warn
and guide the public; and every person using the street shall obey all signs,
signals, markings, flaggers or other traffic-control devices which are placed
to regulate, control and guide traffic through the construction or maintenance
area.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-7)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.20 ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS; DIRECTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   The County Sheriff’s Department shall have the power to enforce the
street traffic regulations of the town and all of the state vehicle laws
applicable to street traffic in the town, to make arrests for traffic
violations, to investigate accidents and to cooperate with the officers of the
town in the administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means
to improve traffic conditions.
   (B)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire or other
emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic there or in the
immediate vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-1)
§ 70.21 CITATIONS.
   (A)   Citation tags.
      (1)   The County Sheriff is hereby authorized and directed to supply
police officers with citation tags in sets, each set consisting of an original
and at least two duplicate copies, for the purpose of giving notice to persons
violating any provision of this traffic code. The town’s Board of Trustees may
require that the police officers use citation tags furnished by the Finance
Department and that such tags are serially numbered and may regulate the use
and handling of the citation tags.
      (2)   Notice may be given by delivering the tags to the violator or by
affixing it to the vehicle involved in the violation.
      (3)   Each citation tag shall direct the violator to appear and to
present such tag at a designated place on or before a date and hour specified
thereon. Each tag shall bear the registration number of the vehicle.
      (4)   Nothing in this division (A) shall be construed to abridge the
power of a police officer to arrest any violator and take him or her into
custody.
   (B)   Failure to obey citation.
      (1)   Generally. It is unlawful and an offense for any person to violate
his or her written promise to appear, given to an officer upon the issuance of
a traffic citation, regardless of the disposition of the charge for which
citation was originally issued.
      (2)   Parked vehicle. If a violator of the restrictions on stopping,
standing or parking under the traffic laws or ordinances does not appear in
response to a traffic citation affixed to such motor vehicle within a period of
five days, the Clerk of the Municipal Court may send to the owner of the motor
vehicle to which the traffic citation was affixed a letter informing him or her
of the violation and warning him that in the event such letter is disregarded
for a period of five days, a warrant of arrest may be issued. On any occasion
where two or more such traffic citations have been affixed on the same motor
vehicle and the traffic citations have been disregarded, a warrant of arrest
may be issued without sending the letter provided in this division (B)(2).
   (C)   Illegal cancellation of citations. It is unlawful for any person to
cancel or solicit the cancellation of any traffic citation in any manner other
than is provided by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 RECORDS OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Local records.
      (1)   Every police officer, upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of the motor vehicle laws of the state or any traffic
law of the town, shall deposit the original and a duplicate copy of the
citation with his or her immediate superior officer, who shall cause the
original to be delivered to the Municipal Court.
      (2)   Upon the filing of the original citation in the Municipal Court,
the citation may be disposed of only by trial in the court or by other official
action by a judge of the court, including forfeiture of bail or by payment of a
fine.
      (3)   The County Sheriff shall maintain a record of all warrants issued
by the Municipal Court which are delivered to the Police Department for
service, and of the final disposition of the warrants.
      (4)   No member of the County Sheriff’s Department or other officer or
public employee shall dispose of, alter or deface a traffic citation or any
copy thereof, or the record of the issuance or disposition of any traffic
citation, complaint or warrant, in a manner other than as required in this
section.
   (B)   Records to state.
      (1)   The Municipal Court Clerk shall keep a record of every traffic
citation deposited with or presented to the court and shall keep a record of
every official action by the court or its Traffic Violations Bureau in
reference thereto, including, but not limited to, a record of every conviction,
forfeiture of bail, judgment of acquittal and the amount of fine or forfeiture.
      (2)   Within ten days after the conviction or forfeiture of bail of a
person upon a charge of violating any provision of this traffic code or other
law regulating the operation of vehicles on highways, the Municipal Judge or
Clerk of the Court in which the conviction was had or bail was forfeited shall
prepare and immediately forward to the state’s Department of Public Safety a
certified abstract of the court record of the case. An abstract need not be
made of any conviction involving the illegal parking or standing of a vehicle.
      (3)   The abstract must be made upon a form furnished by the state’s
Department of Public Safety and shall include the name and address of the party
charged, the number of his or her driver’s license, the registration number of
the vehicle involved, the nature of the offense, the date of hearing, the plea,
the judgment, whether bail was forfeited and the amount of the fine or
forfeiture.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-3)
§ 70.23 PARKING VIOLATIONS; PRIMA FACIE PROOF.
   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation governing
the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular vehicle
described in the complaint was parked in violation of any law or regulation,
together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was, at the time
of the parking, the registered owner of the vehicle, shall constitute in
evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of the vehicle was
the person who parked or placed the vehicle at the point where, and for the
time during which, the violation occurred. The presumption in this section
shall apply only when the procedure as prescribed in this subchapter has been
followed.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-4)
§ 70.24 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Purpose and effect. The impoundment of vehicles under authority of
this section shall be construed as an enforcement procedure for protection of
the public peace, safety and welfare, and the safeguarding of property, and
shall be used generally for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards,
prevention and abatement of public nuisances arising from traffic law
violations, protection of the public rights in the use of streets and
thoroughfares from obstructions placed and left in derogation of those rights
and for safeguarding and protecting recovered stolen vehicles.
   (B)   Authority to impound. Officers of the County Sheriff’s Department are
hereby authorized within the limits set forth in this section to impound
vehicles under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated. No impoundment shall
be valid unless made under order of an authorized police officer and in strict
adherence with the procedures required in this section.
      (1)   Disabled vehicles. A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may
be impounded under the following circumstances:
         (a)   If left unattended and improperly parked on a street or highway
and constitutes a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of
traffic; or
         (b)   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically
incapacitated to such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or
removal and the vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an obstruction to
traffic or a hazard.
      (2)   Vehicle on bridge. An unattended vehicle left upon any bridge,
viaduct or causeway or in any tube or tunnel, where the vehicle constitutes an
obstruction to traffic or hazard, may be impounded.
      (3)   Arrest and detention of driver. Whenever the driver or person in
charge of any vehicle is placed under arrest and taken into custody and
detained by police under circumstances which leaves or will leave a vehicle
unattended on any street or highway, the vehicle may be impounded.
      (4)   Vehicle creating traffic hazard. A vehicle left unattended upon any
street, alley or thoroughfare and so parked illegally as to constitute a
definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic shall be
impounded.
      (5)   Illegal trespass by vehicle.
         (a)   An unattended vehicle found to be in violation of this code may
be impounded when the required complaint has been properly made and filed as
provided in this section.
         (b)   If a violation of the provisions of this code occurs, the owner
or legal occupant who complains shall sign a complaint against the person
parking the vehicle on the owner’s or legal occupant’s property, or if the
identity of the person parking the vehicle is unknown, then the complaint may
be filed against the registered owner of the vehicle. The complaint shall be
verified and shall allege that the complaining party is the owner or legal
occupant of the property upon which the vehicle is parked or standing.
         (c)   Upon filing of the complaint by the property owner or legal
occupant, and if there appears to be proper cause to believe the provisions of
this code have been violated, the County Sheriff’s Department shall cause the
vehicle to be impounded from the property and placed in storage.
      (6)   Vehicle parked overtime. Any unattended vehicle which has been
parked for more than one hour in excess of the time allowed for parking in any
place shall be impounded, and any vehicle parked in violation of this code
regarding more than 24 hours shall be impounded.
      (7)   Vehicle blocking fire exit or hydrant. Any vehicle illegally parked
in such a manner that it blocks a fire escape ladder, device or exit or blocks
ready access to a fire hydrant shall be impounded.
      (8)   Vehicle parked in intersection. Any unattended vehicle illegally
parked in any street intersection shall be impounded. A disabled vehicle in an
intersection, with the person in charge of the vehicle being present, shall be
moved out of the intersection and to the nearest available legal parking space
at the street curbing.
      (9)   Stolen vehicle.
         (a)   Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police and the
registered owner cannot be found within a reasonable time not exceeding eight
hours, or cannot be determined from the registration papers or other
identifying media in the vehicle or from records or information available from
reports of stolen cars, the vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized
place of impoundment, and the registered owner of the vehicle shall be notified
of the location of the place of impoundment as soon as possible by the County
Sheriff’s Department.
         (b)   If the registered owner is identified, located and notified of
the recovery of the stolen vehicle, the owner shall be given the right to make
his or her own arrangement for the removal of the vehicle within the period
eight hours from the time he or she is actually notified of its recovery and,
if the owner is unable or unwilling to effect the removal within the time
specified, the vehicle may be impounded.
      (10)   Vehicle with outstanding traffic citations. Any vehicle for which
two or more citations have been issued for violation of an ordinance, and have
not been presented as required, may be impounded if parked in violation of any
provision of this traffic code.
   (C)   Place of impoundment. Every vehicle that is impounded under the
provisions of this subchapter shall be removed to the nearest garage or place
of safekeeping designated by the town’s Board of Trustees, and to no other
place.
   (D)   Duration of impoundment. Except as otherwise provided, any vehicle
impounded under the authority of this section shall be stored and held safely
until an order for its release is received from an officer of the town, the
town attorney, a police officer or other law enforcement official. The order of
release of an impounded vehicle shall be conditioned upon the payment by the
person to whom the release is issued of all impoundment costs and accrued
storage charges assessed against the vehicle.
   (E)   Inventory of impounded vehicles. Any vehicle impounded for any reason
shall be inventoried by two or more persons for the protection of the owner and
his or her property, the protection of town law enforcement personnel and the
protection of the garage or wrecker service moving or holding the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-5)
§ 70.25 PERMITTING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a vehicle owned by him
or her, registered in his or her name or under his or her control to be driven,
parked or stopped in violation of any provision of this traffic code.
   (B)   No parent of any child or guardian of any ward shall cause, authorize
or knowingly permit such child or ward to violate any provision of this traffic
code.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by Oklahoma law, wherever in this Code,
or in any ordinance of the Town, an act is prohibited or is declared to be
unlawful, an act is declared to be an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in
this Code or in any ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure
to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided
therefor, the violation shall be punishable as follows:
      (1)   Any violation of this Code or of any ordinance related to alcohol
or drugs, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $800, plus
court costs and fees;
      (2)   All other offenses, except traffic offenses related to speeding and
parking, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $750, plus court costs and
fees;
      (3)   The maximum fine for traffic offenses related to speeding or
parking shall not exceed $200, plus court costs and fees.
   (B)   Each day or portion of a day during which a violation of this Code or
any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person who shall aid, abet, or assist in the violation of any
provision of this Code or any other ordinance shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in this
section.
   (D)   All fines and fees shall be recoverable by civil action by any court
of competent jurisdiction in addition to any other method provided by law.
(Prior Code, §§ 6-1-5, 6-1-6, and 6-7-7) (Ord. 03142024-5, passed 3-14-2024)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS
Section
   
71.01   Obedience to devices
   
71.02   Effect of traffic signs for enforcement purposes
   
71.03   Interference with, damage to traffic-control devices
   
71.04   Presumption of legality
   
71.05   Ratification of existing devices
   
71.06   Traffic-control signal legend
   
71.07   Flashing signals
§ 71.01 OBEDIENCE TO DEVICES.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code unless otherwise directed by a traffic or
police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-1)
§ 71.02 EFFECT OF TRAFFIC SIGNS FOR ENFORCEMENT PURPOSES.
   No provision of this traffic code for which official traffic-control devices
are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and
place of the alleged violation, an official device is not in proper position
and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever
a particular section does not state that official traffic-control devices are
required, such section shall be effective even though no devices are erected or
in place.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-2)
§ 71.03 INTERFERENCE WITH, DAMAGE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control device,
including any 911 emergency telephone service route markers, or any railroad
sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any other
part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 PRESUMPTION OF LEGALITY.
   (A)   Whenever official traffic-control devices are placed in position
approximately conforming to the requirements of this chapter, such devices
shall be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of
lawful authority, unless the contrary shall be established by competent
evidence.
   (B)   Any official traffic-control device placed pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter and purporting to conform to the lawful requirements pertaining
to such devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of this
chapter, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-4)
§ 71.05 RATIFICATION OF EXISTING DEVICES.
   All traffic-control signs, signals, devices and markings placed or erected
prior to the effective date hereof and in use for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic are hereby affirmed, ratified and declared to be
official traffic-control devices, provided such traffic-control devices are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or state law.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-5)
§ 71.06 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   (A)   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
different colored lights, or colored lighted arrows, successively one at a time
or in combination, only the colors green, red and yellow shall be used, except
for special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend.
   (B)   These lights shall indicate appropriate action and apply to drivers of
vehicles and pedestrians as provided by applicable state law.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-6)
§ 71.07 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   (A)   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a
traffic sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as
follows.
      (1)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection, or at a limit line when marked or, if
none, then before entering the intersection; and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   (B)   This section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72: VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
Section
   
72.01   Compliance with state law
   
72.02   Vehicle size, weight and load
   
72.03   Seatbelts
   
72.04   Child restraint
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   (A)   Every vehicle operated upon the streets of the town shall be equipped
as required by law.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Operate a vehicle upon a street of the town which is not equipped
as required by law;
      (2)   Fail to use such equipment in the manner required by law, or to use
it in a manner prohibited by law; or
      (3)   Operate a vehicle which has equipment prohibited by law upon a
street in the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-1) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 VEHICLE SIZE, WEIGHT AND LOAD.
   (A)   Excess size, weight and load; permit required. No person shall drive
on or convey through any street any vehicle the width, height, length, weight
or load of which exceeds that authorized by state law, except in accordance
with a permit issued by state authority or by the County Sheriff’s Department.
   (B)   Maximum weight. No vehicle weighing more than ten tons shall be
operated upon the streets, alleys and other public ways within the town, except
on state highways.
   (C)   Securing loads.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street or alley unless
the vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom; except that, sand
or salt may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other
substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining the
roadway.
      (2)   No person shall operate on any street or alley any vehicle with any
load unless the load, and any covering thereon, is securely fastened so as to
prevent the covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a
hazard to other users of the streets or alleys. Any vehicle loaded with sand,
cinders or other loose material susceptible to blowing or otherwise escaping
shall have such load covered so as to prevent the blowing or escaping of said
load from the vehicle.
      (3)   This division (C) shall not apply to trucks loaded only with
livestock, poultry or agricultural products, except baled agricultural
products, but any such truck shall be constructed or loaded as to prevent the
livestock or poultry from escaping therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-2) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 SEATBELTS.
   (A)   Every operator and front seat passenger of a motor vehicle or a
passenger vehicle operated within the Town, or in any other area over which the
Town is authorized to exercise jurisdiction, shall wear a properly adjusted and
fastened safety seat belt system, required to be installed in the motor vehicle
when manufactured pursuant to 49 C.F.R., § 571.208.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, "passenger vehicle" shall mean a
Class D motor vehicle, as defined in 47 O.S. § 1-107.4, but shall not include
trucks, truck-tractors, recreational vehicles, motorcycles, motorized bicycles,
or a vehicle used primarily for farm use which is registered and licensed
pursuant to the provisions 47 O.S. § 1134.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to an operator or passenger of a
passenger car in which the operator or passenger possesses a written
verification from a physician licensed in the state that he is unable to wear a
safety belt system for medical reasons. The issuance of such verification by a
physician, in good faith, shall not give rise to, nor shall such physician
thereby incur any liability whatsoever in damages or otherwise to any person
injured by reason of such failure to wear a safety seat belt system.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to an operator of a motor vehicle who is
a route carrier of the U.S. Postal Service.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-3) (Ord. 03142024-6, 3-14-2024) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 CHILD RESTRAINT.
   (A)   Restraint required. Every driver, when transporting a child under six
years of age in a motor vehicle operated on the streets of the town, shall
provide for the protection of said child by properly using a child passenger
restraint system. For purposes of this section and 47 O.S. § 11-1113, CHILD
PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEM means an infant or child passenger restraint system
which meets the federal standards as set by 49 C.F.R. § 571.213. Children at
least six years of age, but younger than 13 years of age, shall be protected by
use of a child passenger restraint system or a seat belt.
   (B)   Exemptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   The driver of a school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle or other
motor vehicle not required to be equipped with safety belts pursuant to state
or federal laws;
      (2)   The driver of an ambulance or emergency vehicle;
      (3)   A driver of a vehicle if all of the seat belts in the vehicle are
in use;
      (4)   The transportation of children who, for medical reasons, are unable
to be placed in such devices; and/or
      (5)   The transportation of a child who weighs more than 40 pounds and
who is being transported in the back seat of a vehicle while wearing only a lap
safety belt when the back seat of the vehicle is not equipped with combination
lap and shoulder safety belts, or when the combination lap and shoulder safety
belts in the back seat are being used by other children who weigh more than 40
pounds; provided, however, for purposes of this division (B)(5), BACK SEAT
shall include all seats located behind the front seat of a vehicle operated by
a licensed childcare facility or church; provided further, there shall be a
rebuttable presumption that a child has met the weight requirements of this
division (B)(5) if, at the request of any law enforcement officer, the licensed
child care facility or church provides the officer with a written statement
verified by the parent or legal guardian that the child weighs more than 40
pounds.
   (C)   Enforcement.
      (1)   A law enforcement officer is hereby authorized to stop a vehicle if
it appears that the driver of the vehicle has violated the provisions of this
section and to give an oral warning to the driver. The warning shall advise the
driver of the possible danger to children resulting from the failure to install
or use a child passenger restraint system or seat belts in the motor vehicle.
      (2)   A person who violates this section shall not be subject to any
criminal penalty.
      (3)   A violation of this section shall not be admissible as evidence in
any civil action or proceeding for damages.
      (4)   In any action brought by or on behalf of an infant for personal
injuries or wrongful death sustained in a motor vehicle collision, the failure
of any person to have the infant properly restrained in accordance with the
provisions of division (B) above shall not be used in aggravation or mitigation
of damages.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-4) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating §
72.03 of this chapter shall be punished by a maximum fine of $10 and court
costs.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-3)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Driving Rules
   
73.01   Duty to drive carefully
   
73.02   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
73.03   Right-of-way
   
73.04   Through streets; stop and yield intersections
   
73.05   One-way streets and alleys
   
73.06   Speed restrictions
   
73.07   Driving on right side of roadway
   
73.08   Driving within traffic lanes
   
73.09   Turning movements
   
73.10   Restrictions on driving
   
73.11   Reckless driving
   
73.12   Inattentive driving
DRIVING RULES
§ 73.01 DUTY TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   Every person operating a vehicle in the town shall at all times operate the
vehicle in a prudent and careful manner and in compliance with the laws of the
town and state, having due regard for other vehicles, rights of pedestrians,
and property of others.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.02 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Exemptions from provisions. The provisions of this traffic code shall
not apply to a driver of an authorized emergency vehicle when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or when responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire alarm. The
exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall apply only
when the driver of the vehicle, while in motion, sounds audible signal by bell,
siren or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary, and when the vehicle
is equipped with at least one lighted lamp displaying a red light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle; except that, an authorized emergency vehicle operated as a police
vehicle need not be equipped with or display a red light visible from in front
of the vehicle. This division (A) shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (B)   Operation of vehicle on approach of authorized emergency vehicle. Upon
the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making use of audible
and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws of the state, or of a
police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible signal only, the
driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and shall
immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to the
right-hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any intersection and shall stop
and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed,
except when otherwise directed by a police officer. This division (B) shall not
be construed to require a peace officer operating a police vehicle properly and
lawfully in response to a crime in progress to use audible signals, nor shall
this division (B) operate to relieve the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons
using the highway.
   (C)   Following fire apparatus and other emergency vehicles.
      (1)   The driver of any vehicle, other than one on official business,
shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm
closer than 500 feet or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where
the fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
      (2)   The driver of any vehicle, other than one on official business,
shall not follow any emergency vehicle or shall not purposely drive to any
location on a highway where an emergency exists which would interfere with the
free movement of authorized emergency vehicles or any other traffic using the
highway at that location. For the purpose of this division (C)(2), the
definition of EMERGENCY shall include traffic accidents, airplane accidents,
disasters, explosions, civil disturbances and (without limitation by the
foregoing) any other related circumstances which tend to cause traffic
congestion.
      (3)   The purpose of this division (C) is to eliminate sightseers and
other persons who do not have official business at the scene of an emergency
and whose presence would tend to cause traffic congestion.
   (D)   Driving over fire hose. No vehicle shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when laid down on any street or private
driveway, to be used at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the
Fire Department official in command.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.03 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Intersections.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
street; provided that, the driver of a vehicle on a street which is not a state
or federal highway approaching an intersection with a state or federal highway
shall stop and yield the right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the
intersection or which is so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
      (2)   When two vehicles enter or approach an intersection from different
highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left
shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (B)   Vehicle turning left. The driver of a vehicle within an intersection
intending to turn left shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction which is within the intersection or so close
thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard; but the driver, having so yielded
and having given a signal when and as required by this traffic code, may make
such left turn, and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the
intersection from such opposite direction shall yield the right-of-way to the
vehicle making the left turn.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.04 THROUGH STREETS; STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Through streets. The Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, may
designate any street or part of a street a through street. Whenever a through
street is designated by the Board of Trustees, the appropriate town personnel
shall be directed to place and maintain a stop sign or, on the basis of an
engineering and traffic investigation at any intersection, a yield sign, on
each and every street intersecting such through street unless traffic at any
such intersection is controlled at all times by traffic- control signals.
   (B)   Stop intersections.
      (1)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-
control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection
indicated by a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at
a clearly marked stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection.
      (2)   After having stopped at a stop sign, the driver of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to any vehicle which has entered the intersection from
another street or which is approaching so closely on the street as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but the driver, having so yielded, may proceed,
and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to the vehicle so proceeding.
   (C)   Yield signs.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, if required for
safety to stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, the driver shall stop
at a clearly marked stop line or, if no stop line, then at the point nearest
the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on
the intersecting roadway.
      (2)   The driver approaching a yield sign shall yield the right-of-way to
any pedestrian legally crossing the roadway on which he or she is driving, and
to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another highway so closely
as to constitute an immediate hazard.
      (3)   The driver having so yielded may proceed, and the drivers of all
other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield to the vehicle so
proceeding; provided, however, that, if such driver is involved in a collision
with a pedestrian in a crosswalk or vehicle in the intersection after driving
past a yield sign without stopping, such collision shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of his or her failure to yield the right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.05 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the town designates any one-
way street or alley, the appropriate town personnel shall place and maintain
signs giving notice thereof, and no such regulation shall be effective unless
the signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic
movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the
opposite direction is prohibited.
   (B)   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys designated
as one-way streets or alleys, vehicular traffic shall move only in the
indicated direction when signs indicating the direction of traffic are erected
and maintained at every intersection where movement in the opposite direction
is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.06 SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Reasonable and proper.
      (1)   Any person driving a vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a
careful and prudent speed not greater than, nor less than, is reasonable and
proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street and
any other condition then existing. No person shall drive any vehicle upon a
highway at a speed greater than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop
within the assured clear distance ahead.
      (2)   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements
of division (A)(1) above, drive at an appropriate reduced speed when
approaching and crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing, when
approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when
driving upon any narrow or winding roadway, and when special hazard exists with
respect to pedestrians or other traffic, or by reason of weather or highway
conditions.
   (B)   Speed limits established.
      (1)   General maximum speed limit. No vehicle, unless specifically
authorized by some other provision of this code or by posted signs, shall be
driven at a speed greater than 25 mph upon any street within the town. The
Board of Trustees may determine that certain other speed regulations shall be
applicable upon specified streets in certain areas, in which event, it shall be
unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of any speed so
declared when signs are in place giving notice thereof.
      (2)   School zones. No person shall operate a motor vehicle in excess of
15 mph between the hours or times as posted over or upon any portion of the
public streets of the town which have been designated as school zones and
marked as school zones in the manner provided by the statutes and regulations
of the state.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.07 DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon; and
      (4)   Upon a roadway restricted to one-way traffic.
   (B)   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
shall be driven in the right-hand lane when available for traffic, or as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, and may be
temporarily driven upon the right-hand shoulder for the purpose of permitting
other vehicles to pass, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction or when preparing for a left turn at an
intersection or into a private road or driveway.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.08 DRIVING WITHIN TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   Duty to stay in lane. Where traffic lanes have been marked, it shall
be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such
vehicle within the boundaries of any such lane, except when lawfully passing
another vehicle or preparatory to making a lawful turning movement or as
otherwise authorized by ordinance.
   (B)   Driving on laned roadways. Whenever any roadway has been divided into
two or more clearly marked lanes for traffic, the following rules, in addition
to all others consistent herewith, shall apply.
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within
a single lane, and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes, a vehicle shall
not be driven in the center lane, except when overtaking and passing another
vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is clear of
traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn, or where
such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the
direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of such
allocation.
      (3)   Official signs may be erected directing slow moving traffic to use
a designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway, and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-8) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.09 TURNING MOVEMENTS.
   (A)   Authority to restrict and regulate turning; obedience required. The
Board of Trustees may determine those intersections at which drivers of
vehicles shall not make a right, left or U-turn, and shall place proper signs
at such intersections. The making of such turns may be prohibited between
certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event, the same
shall be plainly indicated on the signs or such signs may be removed when such
turns are permitted. Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no
right or left or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
directions of any such sign.
   (B)   Required position and method of turning at intersections. The driver
of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as follows.
      (1)   Right turns. Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn
shall be made as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the
roadway.
      (2)   Left turns on two-way roadways. At any intersection where traffic
is permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the
intersection, an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the
right half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and by passing to the
right of such centerline where it enters the intersection; and after entering
the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection
to the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered. Whenever
practicable, the left turn shall be made in that portion of the intersection to
the left of the center of the intersection.
   (C)   Safe turns; signals required.
      (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle to the right or left except upon
giving a signal of intention, as provided in this division (C), in the event
any other traffic may be affected by such movement.
      (2)   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be
given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
vehicle before turning.
      (3)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle,
except upon the giving of a signal of intention, to the driver of any vehicle
immediately to the rear when there is an opportunity to give such signal.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-9) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.10 RESTRICTIONS ON DRIVING.
   (A)   Limitations on backing. The driver of a vehicle shall not back the
same unless such movement can be made with reasonable safety and without
interfering with other traffic.
   (B)   Emerging from alley, driveway or building. The driver of a vehicle
within a business or residence district emerging from an alley, driveway or
building shall stop the vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or
onto the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway or driveway, and shall
yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision
and, upon entering the roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on the roadway.
   (C)   Driving on sidewalk. The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within
any sidewalk area, except at a permanent or temporary driveway.
   (D)   Corner cutting.
      (1)   No person shall drive a vehicle through any service drive or upon
any parking facility, except with the intent of availing himself or herself of
the services offered on the premises served by the service drive or parking
facility.
      (2)   No person shall drive a vehicle through any service drive or across
any parking facility for the purpose of shortening his or her travel distance,
avoiding a traffic-control device, avoiding using the streets for travel, or
turning a vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction on the street from
which it entered the drive.
   (E)   Unlawful riding. No operator of a motor vehicle shall allow a
passenger to ride outside the passenger compartment of the vehicle on the
streets or highways of the town; provided that, this division (E) shall not
apply to persons so riding on private property or for parades or special
events, nor shall this division (E) apply to passengers riding on the bed of a
pickup truck.
   (F)   Boarding or alighting from vehicles. No person shall board or alight
from any vehicle while such vehicle is in motion.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.11 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive recklessly in the town. RECKLESS
DRIVING shall include driving a motor vehicle in wilful or wanton disregard for
the safety of persons or property or at a heedless or dangerous rate of speed
or in violation of the conditions outlined in §
73.06 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.12 INATTENTIVE DRIVING.
   (A)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply to this section
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      CELLULAR TELEPHONE. An analog or digital wireless telephone authorized by
the Federal Communications Commission to operate in the frequency bandwidth
reserved for cellular telephones.
      COMPOSE, WRITE, SEND OR READ A TEXT-BASED COMMUNICATION. Manually
entering alphanumeric text into, sending text, or reading text from, an
electronic device, and includes, but is not limited to, short message service
(SMS), emailing, instant messaging (IM), a command or request to access a World
Wide Web page, or engaging in any other form of electronic text retrieval or
entry, for present or future communication. "Compose", "write", "send", or
"readll a "text-based communication" is also known as texting. As used in this
paragraph, texting does not include:
         (a)   Using voice commands to select or enter a telephone number, an
extension number, or voicemail retrieval codes and commands into an electronic
device for the purpose of initiating or receiving a phone call;
         (b)   Inputting, selecting, or reading information on a global
positioning system or navigation system; or
         (c)   Using a device capable of performing multiple functions for a
purpose that is not otherwise prohibited in this part, including, but not
limited to, fleet management systems, dispatching devices, smart phones,
citizens band radios, and music players.
      ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE. An electronic device that permits the
user to manually transmit a communication of written text by means other than
through an oral transfer or wire communication. This term does not include:
         (a)   A device that is physically or electronically integrated into a
motor vehicle;
         (b)   A voice-operated global positioning or navigation system that is
affixed to a motor vehicle;
         (c)   A hands-free device that allows the user to write, send or read
a text message without the use of either hand except to activate, deactivate or
initiate a feature or function; or
         (d)   An ignition interlock device that has been installed on a motor
vehicle.
      OPERATE. Operating a vehicle on a street or highway, including while
temporarily stationary because of traffic, a traffic control device or other
momentary delays. Operating does not include when the driver of a commercial
motor vehicle has moved the vehicle to the side of or off a street or highway
and has halted in a location where the vehicle can safely remain stationary.
      TEXT MESSAGE. Includes a text-based message, instant message, electronic
message, photo, video or electronic mail.
   (B)   Inattentive Driving. The operator of every vehicle, while operating a
motor vehicle within the Town of Bernice, or in any other area over which the
Town s authorized to exercise jurisdiction, shall devote their full time and
attention to such driving.
      (1)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $100.
      (2)   No law enforcement officer shall issue a citation under this
section unless the law enforcement officer observes that the operator of the
vehicle is involved in an accident or observes the operator of the vehicle
driving in such a manner that poses an articulable danger to other persons on
the roadway that is not otherwise specified the Town of Bernice, Oklahoma Code
of Ordinances or Oklahoma statutes.
   (C)   Texting and Driving. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
motor vehicle within the Town of Bernice, or in any other area over which the
Town is authorized to exercise jurisdiction, while using a hand-held electronic
communication device to manually compose, send, or read an electronic text
message while the motor vehicle is in motion.
      (1)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
punished by a fine of $100.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall not apply if the person is
using the cellular telephone or electronic communication device for the sole
purpose of communicating with any of the following regarding an imminent
emergency situation:
         (a)   An emergency response operator;
         (b)   A hospital, physician's office or health clinic;
         (c)   A provider of ambulance services;
         (d)   A provider of firefighting services; or
         (e)   A law enforcement agency.
   (D)   Commercial Vehicle Drivers. It shall be unlawful for any person to
operate a commercial motor vehicle or for a public transit driver to operate a
motor vehicle within the Town of Bernice, or in any other area over which the
Town is authorized to exercise jurisdiction, while using a cellular telephone
or electronic communication device to compose, send, or read a text-based
communication or using a hand-held mobile telephone while operating a
commercial motor vehicle.
      (1)   Using a hand-held mobile telephone is permissible by drivers of a
commercial motor vehicle when necessary to communicate with law enforcement
officials, other emergency services, or by a public school bus driver to and
from a central dispatch school transportation department or its equivalent.
      (2)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
punished by a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. 10152024-2, passed 10-15-2024)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING RULES
Section
   
74.01   Method of parking
   
74.02   Operation of vehicle during and after parking
   
74.03   Parking prohibited in specified places
   
74.04   General parking restrictions
   
74.05   Parking in areas designated for persons with disabilities
   
74.06   Parking large vehicles
   
74.07   Loading zones
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01 METHOD OF PARKING.
   (A)   Parallel parking. Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway shall
be so stopped or parked in the direction of lawful traffic movement with the
curbside wheels of the vehicle parallel to and within 18 inches of the curb or
roadway edge.
   (B)   Angle parking.
      (1)   Definition. ANGLE PARKING, for the purpose of this traffic code,
shall mean parking at the curb at approximately a 45-degree angle between the
right side of the vehicle and the curb.
      (2)   Designation. The Board of Trustees may determine upon what streets
angle parking is permitted and shall direct the marking or signing of the
streets. Angle parking shall not be indicated or permitted at any place where
passing traffic would thereby be caused or required to drive upon the left side
of the street.
      (3)   Obedience to angle parking rules.
         (a)   On those streets which have been signed or marked for angle
parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the
curb or edge of the roadway indicated by the signs or markings with the front
of the vehicle directed toward the curb or edge of the roadway.
         (b)   No person shall park or stand a vehicle in angle parking spaces
designated by markings upon the pavement unless the vehicle is positioned
within the confines of an individually marked space. The vehicle shall not be
of such length, or positioned in a manner, as to protrude into the street a
distance which would cause or require passing traffic to change lanes or drive
on the left side of the street.
   (C)   Parking in marked spaces. In an area where parking spaces have been
marked off on the surface of the street, a driver parking a vehicle shall park
within a parking space as thus marked off, and not on or over a line
delineating a space.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-1) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.02 OPERATION OF VEHICLE DURING AND AFTER PARKING.
   (A)   Starting stopped vehicle. No person shall start a vehicle which is
stopped, standing or parked unless and until such movement can be made in
safety.
   (B)   Opening and closing vehicle door. No person shall open the door of a
motor vehicle on the side available to moving traffic unless and until it is
reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any person leave a door open on the side of
a motor vehicle available to moving traffic for a period of time longer than
necessary to load or unload passengers.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-2) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.03 PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the
directions of a police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the
following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant, or if in an area serviced by a
volunteer fire department, within 30 feet of a fire hydrant if the governing
body of the area so adopts by ordinance;
      (4)   Within an intersection;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless the
authority having jurisdiction indicates a different length by signs or marking;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet
of said entrance (when properly signposted);
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway underpass; and
      (14)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under the control of the
person into any prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is
unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-3) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.04 GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Obstructing traffic or driveways.
      (1)   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street or alley in such a
manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the
width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
      (2)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within a street or
alley in such position as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting
property.
   (B)   Selling merchandise from parked vehicle. It is unlawful for any person
to park any vehicle upon a street in the town and offer merchandise for sale
therefrom. In addition to the penalty provided in this traffic, the sale of
merchandise from parked vehicles on streets in the town is declared to be
dangerous to traffic and to the persons congregating around the vehicle and
constitutes a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-4) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.05 PARKING IN AREAS DESIGNATED FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or park a motor vehicle in any
parking space, van accessible parking space side-striped area, wheelchair ramp,
wheelchair unloading area or any portion thereof that is designated and posted
as a reserved area for the parking of a motor vehicle operated by or
transporting a physically disabled person unless such person has applied for
and been issued a detachable insignia indicating physical disability under the
provisions of 47 O.S. § 15-112, and such insignia is displayed as provided in
said § 15-112 or in rules adopted pursuant thereto, or has applied for and been
issued a physically disabled special license plate pursuant to the provisions
of 47 O.S. § 1136, paragraph 8, and such license plate is displayed pursuant to
the provisions of the state’s Vehicle License and Registration Act. Vehicles
unlawfully parked in van accessible side-striped areas, whether with or without
a physically disabled placard or plate, shall be subject to immediate tow and
storage at the expense of the vehicle owner.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-5) Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Oklahoma Vehicle License and Registration Act, 47 O.S. §§ 1101 et seq.
   Related provisions, see 47 O.S. § 1135.1(B)(3)
§ 74.06 PARKING LARGE VEHICLES.
   (A)   The parking of trucks, trailers, recreational vehicles, industrial
tractors, mowers and other related equipment and any vehicle exceeding two
axles on any street or alley within a district zoned residential is prohibited,
except for the immediate loading or unloading of persons or materials.
   (B)   No commercial truck exceeding two axles or in excess of a length of 15
feet, or both, shall be allowed to park in any area of the town zoned as a
residential district.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-6) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.07 LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   Designation. The Board of Trustees may determine the location of
passenger and freight curb loading zones and shall place and maintain
appropriate signs indicating the same and stating the hours during which the
provisions of this section are applicable.
   (B)   Standing in loading zone.
      (1)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or
period of time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of
passengers in any place marked as a passenger curb loading zone during hours
when the regulations applicable to such curb loading zone are effective, and
then only for a period not to exceed three minutes.
      (2)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pick up
and loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone
during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no
case shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
      (3)   The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place
marked as a freight curb loading zone for the purpose of, and while actually
engaged in, loading or unloading passengers, when such stopping does not
interfere with any motor vehicle used for the transportation of materials which
is waiting to enter or about to enter the zone.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-7) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
74.05 of this chapter shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-5)
CHAPTER 75: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
75.01   Golf carts and all-terrain vehicles
   
75.02   Bicycles and motorized scooters
§ 75.01 GOLF CARTS AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES.
   The operation of golf carts and all-terrain vehicles upon the streets of the
town shall only be authorized during daylight hours.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-8) (Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-12-2005) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.02 BICYCLES AND MOTORIZED SCOOTERS.
   (A)   Application of provisions.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to do any act or fail to perform any
act required by the provisions of this section. The parent of any child or the
guardian of any ward shall not authorize or knowingly permit any such child or
ward to violate any of the provisions of this section.
      (2)   The provisions of this section are applicable to bicycles or
motorized scooters operated upon any street or highway or upon any path set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
      (3)   Every person riding a bicycle or motorized scooter upon a roadway
shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all the duties
applicable to the driver of a vehicle by the laws of the state declaring rules
of the road applicable to vehicles or by the traffic ordinances of the town
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except as to special regulations in this
section and except as to those provisions of law and ordinances which, by their
nature, can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-1)
   (B)   Obedience to traffic-control devices.
      (1)   Any person operating a bicycle or motorized scooter shall obey the
instructions of official traffic-control signals, signs and other control
devices applicable to vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
      (2)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or
left or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle or motorized scooter
shall disobey the direction of any such sign, except where such person
dismounts from the bicycle to make any such turn, in which event, such person
shall then obey the regulations applicable to pedestrians. Any person may walk
bicycles or motorized scooters and shall then be subject to all laws applicable
to pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-2)
   (C)   Rules of operation.
      (1)   Riding on bicycles or motorized scooters.
         (a)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride
a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
         (b)   No bicycle or motorized scooter shall be used to carry more
persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
      (2)   Riding on roadways.
         (a)   Ride on right. Every person operating a bicycle or motorized
scooter upon a roadway at less than the normal speed of traffic at the time and
place and under the conditions then existing shall ride as near as practicable
to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except under any of the
following situations:
            1.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
            2.   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a
private road or driveway;
            3.   When reasonably necessary to avoid conditions and while
exercising due care, including, but not limited to:
               a.   Fixed or moving objects;
               b.   Parked or moving vehicles;
               c.   Pedestrians or animals;
               d.   Surface hazards; or
               e.   Any time it is unsafe to continue along the right-hand curb
or edge of the roadway.
            4.   When riding in the right turn only lane.
         (b)   One-way streets. Any person riding a bicycle or motorized
scooter upon a one-way street or highway with two or more marked lanes of
travel may ride as near as practicable to the left- hand curb or edge of the
street or highway.
         (c)   Passing vehicles. No person operating a bicycle or motorized
scooter shall pass other vehicles between lanes of traffic traveling in the
same direction.
         (d)   Riding side by side. Persons riding bicycles or motorized
scooters upon a roadway shall not ride more than two abreast, except on paths
or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles or motorized
scooters. Persons riding two abreast shall not impede the normal and reasonable
flow of traffic and, on a laned roadway, shall ride within a single lane.
         (e)   Use of designated pathways. Wherever a usable path for bicycles
or motorized scooters has been provided adjacent to a roadway, bicycle or
motorized scooter riders shall use the path and shall not use the roadway if
required by local, municipal or county ordinances.
         (f)   Speed. No person shall operate a bicycle or motorized scooter at
a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then
existing.
      (3)   Riding on sidewalks. Bicycles and motorized scooters may not be
ridden upon any sidewalk within the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-3)
   (D)   Equipment.
      (1)   Lights and reflectors.
         (a)   Every bicycle in use at the times described in 47 O.S. § 12-201
(B) shall be equipped with a lamp on the front emitting a white light visible
from a distance of at least 1,000 feet to the front. This division (D)(1)(a)
shall not apply to a street or highway with a speed limit of 25 mph or less.
         (b)   Every bicycle in use at the times described in 47 O.S. § 12-201
(B) shall be equipped with a lamp on the rear emitting a red light visible from
a distance of at least 1,000 feet to the rear. This division (D)(1)(b) shall
not apply to a street or highway with a speed limit of 25 mph or less.
         (c)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a red reflector which shall
be visible for 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle.
         (d)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a lighted lamp visible from
both sides from a distance of at least 1,000 feet. This division (D)(1)(d)
shall not apply to a street or highway with a speed limit of 25 mph or less.
         (e)   Every bicycle when in use at the times described in 47 O.S. §
12-201(B) shall be equipped with reflective material of sufficient size and
reflectivity to be visible from both sides for 600 feet when directly in front
of lawful lower beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle.
      (2)   Brakes. Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake or brakes
which will enable its driver to stop the bicycle within 25 feet from a speed of
ten mph on dry, level, clean pavement.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-4)
Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
93.   FAIR HOUSING
      
94.   PARADES AND PUBLIC EVENTS
      
95.   NUISANCES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Abuse of animals
   
90.03   Prohibited acts and conditions
   
90.04   Poultry restricted
   
90.05   Houses and premises
   
90.06   Disposal of manure
   
90.07   Dangerous animals
   
90.08   Animal bites; rabies control
   
90.09   Impoundment, redemption and disposal provisions
   
90.10   Investigations and inspections
   
90.11   Records kept
Dogs
   
90.25   Licensing provisions
   
90.26   Number of dogs restricted
   
90.27   Kennels prohibited
   
90.28   Time for compliance
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any horse, mule, donkey, pony, cow, sheep, goat, hog, dog, cat,
rabbit, chicken, goose, duck, turkey or other animal or fowl.
   AT LARGE. Not securely confined by a fence or other means on premises under
the control of, or occupied by, the owner and not under the control of the
owner or an agent of the owner by leash or otherwise, whether on the owner’s
premises or not.
   DOG. Shall include male and female.
   OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation owning, harboring or keeping an
animal. The occupant of any premises on which a domesticated or tamed animal
remains, or to which it customarily returns for a period of ten days or more
shall be deemed to be harboring or keeping the animal.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. An animal which has bitten or attempted to bite any person
without undue provocation, or which attacks, or barks, or growls at and acts as
if it intended to attack or bite, or bites a person or persons, when not unduly
provoked.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-1)
§ 90.02 ABUSE OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Cruelty to animals. It is unlawful for any person willfully and
maliciously to pour on, or apply to, an animal any drug or other thing which
inflicts pain on the animal; or knowingly to treat an animal in a cruel or
inhumane manner; or knowingly to neglect an animal belonging to him or her or
in his or her custody in a cruel or inhumane manner.
   (B)   Poisoning animals. It is unlawful for a person willfully to poison any
dog or other animal or knowingly to expose poison so that the same may be taken
by such animal.
   (C)   Animal fights. It is unlawful for any person to instigate or encourage
a fight between animals; or to encourage one animal to attack, pursue or annoy
another animal; or to keep a house, pit or other place for fights between
animals.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-2) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Running at large. No owner shall permit any animals owned, harbored or
kept by him or her to be at large; and it is unlawful for any animal to be at
large at any time.
   (B)   Turning at large. It is unlawful for any person to open any enclosure
in which any animal is confined as required by ordinance so as to turn such
animal at large, or in any manner to turn such animal at large.
   (C)   Pasturing in public areas. It is unlawful for any person to stake,
confine or pasture any animal on any public school ground or other public
property, federal, state, town or other, or any railroad right- of-way, or on
any property without the consent of the person owning or controlling such
property.
   (D)   Disturbing the peace. It is unlawful for any person to keep any dog or
other animal which, by barking, howling or otherwise, disturbs the peace and
quiet of any person or persons.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-3) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 POULTRY RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep any
chicken, chickens or poultry of any kind within the corporate limits of the
town, unless the same shall be kept in an enclosure surrounded by a tight fence
made of lumber or woven wire of a sufficient height to prevent such chickens
from getting out of such enclosure.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-4) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 HOUSES AND PREMISES.
   (A)   Location. No dog kennel, chicken coop, dovecote, rabbit warren, yard
or other establishment wherein animals are kept shall be maintained closer than
100 feet to any apartment, hotel, restaurant, boarding house, retail food
store, building used for educational, religious or hospital purposes, or
residence other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises
upon which such animal is kept.
   (B)   Sanitary condition. Every structure, pen, coop or place wherein an
animal is kept or permitted shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition devoid of rodents and vermin and free from objectionable odors.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-5) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DISPOSAL OF MANURE.
   Manure shall be hauled outside the town in a manner not to jeopardize the
public health, or else shall be spread evenly upon the ground and turned under
at once or as soon as the weather permits.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-6) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Destruction in self-defense. Any person may dispose of a dog, cat or
other animal in self-defense or in defense of another when the animal, without
undue provocation, bites him or her or the other, or attacks, or attempts to
bite or attack him or her or the other in such manner that an ordinarily
prudent person would be led to believe the person toward whom the efforts of
the animals are directed is about to be bitten or otherwise physically harmed.
   (B)   Report of dangerous animal; determination. Upon notice that any animal
is held or confined within the town limits which exhibits dangerous
propensities or is reported to be dangerous, town officers shall investigate,
and if, considering all factors, the animal is determined to constitute a
potential threat to the safety of the community, the owner or persons in charge
of the animal shall be given seven days’ notice in which to comply with an
order to improve confinement to ordered specifications or, at the option of the
officer, to remove the animal from the town limits. Upon failure to comply, the
animal shall be impounded and disposed of in a humane manner.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-7) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 ANIMAL BITES; RABIES CONTROL.
   (A)   Animal bites; quarantine of animal.
      (1)   Every animal that bites or scratches a person shall be reported
within four hours to the Animal Control Officer and shall, thereupon, be
securely quarantined at a veterinarian hospital for a period of ten days from
the date the person was bitten, and shall not be released from such quarantine,
except by permission of the Animal Control Officer of the town and the
veterinarian in charge of the quarantined animal. Such quarantine may be at any
veterinary hospital chosen by the owner. Failure of the owner or keeper to
quarantine his or her animal within the four-hour period herein will make him
or her guilty of an offense.
      (2)   The owner, upon demand by any town officer or Animal Control
Officer, shall surrender any animal that has bitten or scratched a human, or
which is suspected as having been exposed to rabies, for supervised quarantine,
testing or euthanasia, the expense for which shall be borne by the owner; and
the animal may be reclaimed by the owner if adjudged free of rabies.
   (B)   Rabies diagnoses; quarantine of town.
      (1)   When an animal under quarantine has been diagnosed as being rabid,
or suspected by a licensed veterinarian as being rabid, and dies while under
such observation, the Animal Control Officer or veterinarian shall immediately
send the head of such animal to the state’s Health Department for pathological
examination, and shall notify the proper Public Health Officer of reports of
human contacts and diagnosis made of the suspected animal.
      (2)   When one or both reports give a positive diagnosis of rabies, the
Health or Animal Control Officer of the town may recommend a town-wide
quarantine for a period of six months; and upon the invoking of such
quarantine, no animal shall be taken into the streets or permitted to be in the
streets during such period of quarantine. During such quarantine, no animal
shall be taken or shipped from the town without written permission of the
Animal Control Officer of the town.
      (3)   During such period of rabies quarantine as herein designated, every
animal bitten by an animal adjudged to be rabid shall be treated for such
rabies infection by a licensed veterinarian, or held under six months’
quarantine by the owner in the same manner as other animals are quarantined.
      (4)   In the event there are additional positive cases of rabies
occurring during the period of quarantine, such period of quarantine may be
extended for an additional six months.
   (C)   Destruction or removal of rabid animals.
      (1)   No person shall kill or cause to be killed any rabid animal, any
animal suspected of having been exposed to rabies, or any animal biting or
scratching a human, except as herein provided, nor to remove the animal from
the town limits without written permission from the Health Officer of the town
or the Animal Control Officer.
      (2)   The carcass of any animal exposed to rabies shall, upon demand, be
surrendered to the Animal Control Officer.
      (3)   The Animal Control Officer shall direct the disposition of any
animal found to be infected with rabies.
      (4)   No person shall fail or refuse to surrender any animal for
quarantine or destruction as required herein when demand is made therefor by an
employee empowered to enforce this subchapter. Such refusal shall be deemed an
offense.
   (D)   Reports required.
      (1)   It is the duty of every physician, veterinarian or other
practitioner to report to the Animal Control Officer the names and addresses of
persons treated for bites inflicted by animals, together with such other
information as will be helpful in rabies control.
      (2)   It is the duty of every licensed veterinarian to report to the
Animal Control Officer his or her diagnosis of any animal observed by him or
her to be a rabid suspect.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-8) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 IMPOUNDMENT, REDEMPTION AND DISPOSAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Pound established. A town pound is hereby established under the
jurisdiction of the Town Board.
   (B)   Pound officer. The pound shall be under the immediate control of a
pound officer or of such other person as may be officially designated. The
person in charge of the pound shall provide sustenance for all animals
impounded and shall treat them in a humane manner. The pound officer, or other
officer or employee of the town as the town’s Board of Trustees may authorize,
shall take into custody and impound any animal running at large in violation of
any provision of the ordinances of the town.
   (C)   Fees; payment prior to redemption.
      (1)   The fees for impounding and keeping an animal, to be paid upon
redemption, shall be $25, plus boarding. In computing the fee, a fraction of a
day during which an animal has been fed shall be deemed a full day.
      (2)   Any person redeeming an impounded animal shall pay the above fees
to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer and present his or her receipt therefor to the
person in charge of the pound before the latter releases the animal.
      (3)   Any person redeeming a dog not licensed as required by this
subchapter shall pay the required license fee to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer and
secure a tag and present the receipt therefor and the tag to the person in
charge of the pound before the latter releases the dog. If a dog has been
licensed but is not wearing the tag, the person in charge of the pound shall
require adequate evidence of the proper licensing of the dog before releasing
it.
   (D)   Redemption of animal. An owner of an impounded animal or his or her
agent may redeem the animal, prior to its sale or destruction as provided for
herein, by paying the required fees against the animal and meeting any other
requirements which may be prescribed in this subchapter.
   (E)   Sale; destruction of impounded animals. As soon as practicable after
any animal has been impounded, the pound officer, or other employee or officer
concerned, shall post a notice thereof at three conspicuous places in the town
or at the pound. Such notice shall describe the animal and notify the owner to
pay the charges thereon and remove the same prior to a designated time; and
such notice shall also state that, unless the animal is redeemed, the animal
will be destroyed. All animals kept in the pound for three days shall be
disposed of in a humane manner.
   (F)   Breaking into pound; interfering with pound officer. No unauthorized
person shall break or attempt to break open the pound, or take or let out any
animal therefrom, or take or attempt to take from any officer or employee of
the town any animal taken into custody as provided by this subchapter, or in
any manner interfere with or hinder such officer or employee in the discharge
of his or her duties relating to the taking into custody and impounding of
animals as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-9) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 INVESTIGATIONS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of discharging the duties imposed by this subchapter
and to enforce its provisions, the Animal Control or Health Officer is
empowered to call upon the residents of any premises upon which a dog or cat or
small animal is kept or harbored, and to demand the exhibition by the owner of
such dog or cat or small animal.
   (B)   The Animal Control or Health Officer, in the manner authorized by law,
may enter the premises where any animal is kept in a reportedly cruel or
inhumane manner and demand to examine such animal, and to take possession of
such animal when, in his or her opinion, it requires humane treatment. The
officer may demand at any time, at the front door of any residence, exhibition
by the owner of current animal licenses.
   (C)   The town’s Health Officer or any member of the Board of Trustees
appointed by majority vote of the Board of Trustees, upon complaint of any
person, shall investigate and inspect any structure or place where an animal is
kept; shall be authorized to issue any reasonable order as may be deemed
necessary to the owner of an animal to cause such animal to be kept as provided
for in this subchapter or in a manner so as not to constitute a nuisance; and
shall be authorized to make complaint before the Board of Trustees against any
person for violation of any provision of this subchapter or of any reasonable
order issued for the purpose of causing a fine to be imposed pursuant to §
90.99 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-10) (Ord. 02-09-2004, passed 2-9-2004)
§ 90.11 RECORDS KEPT.
   The Animal Control Officer shall keep or cause to be kept:
   (A)   An accurate and detailed record of the licensing, impounding and
disposition of all animals coming into his or her custody; and
   (B)   An accurate and detailed record of all bite cases reported to the
town, with a complete report of the investigation of each case.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-11)
DOGS
§ 90.25 LICENSING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   License required. It shall be unlawful for any dog over the age of six
months to be kept or to remain in the town, unless such dog shall be registered
and the license fee imposed by division (B)(1) below paid by the owner thereof.
   (B)   License fee.
      (1)   Fee imposed. A license fee of $2 is hereby imposed on all dogs kept
in the town; provided that, such license fee shall not be imposed on any dog
under six months of age.
      (2)   Due date. Prior to May 1, the owner shall pay such license fee to
the town’s Clerk-Treasurer, or the day after acquisition of any dog for which
license fee has not been paid for the year in which acquired, or upon bringing
a dog into the town after May 1.
   (C)   Certificate of rabies vaccination. Before the town’s Clerk-Treasurer
accepts any money offered in payment of the license fee for a dog or issues a
license for it, the person offering the license fee shall present to the Clerk-
Treasurer the certificate of a veterinarian or other person legally authorized
to immunize dogs, showing that the dog has been immunized against rabies during
the calendar year (that is, since the last December 31).
   (D)   License tags.
      (1)   Issuance; use required.
         (a)   All license fees provided for in this section shall be paid the
town’s Clerk-Treasurer, and when such license fee is paid, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall issue to the owner of such dog a metallic tag and original receipt as now
provided by the ordinances of the town, and it shall be the duty of every owner
of a registered dog to keep at all times around the neck of the dog a collar to
which is attached by metallic fastener the metallic tag mentioned in this
division (D)(1)(a).
         (b)   It shall be the duty of the town’s Clerk-Treasurer to procure
metallic tags having cast, raised or stamped thereon the words “Dog Tax” and
date indicating the date for which the taxes have been paid, and number
corresponding to the number on a book in which dogs shall be registered.
      (2)   Lost tags. In case the tag is lost before the end of the year for
which it was issued, the owner may secure another for the dog by applying to
the town’s Clerk-Treasurer, presenting to him or her the original receipt and
paying to him or her a fee of $2.
(Prior Code, § 5-6A-1) (Ord. 02-09-2004, passed 2-9-2004) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26 NUMBER OF DOGS RESTRICTED.
   Except as set forth in §
90.28 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any resident of the town to
keep or maintain more than three dogs at one residence.
(Prior Code, § 5-6A-2) (Ord. 02-09-2004, passed 2-9-2004) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27 KENNELS PROHIBITED.
   Except as set forth in §
90.28 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any resident of the town to
keep, maintain or operate a dog kennel for the purpose of boarding or breeding
dogs within the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-6A-3) (Ord. 02-09-2004, passed 2-9-2004) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.28 TIME FOR COMPLIANCE.
   The owner of a dog which delivers a litter of puppies shall have a period of
90 days from the date of the litter’s birth within which to comply with the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-6A-4) (Ord. 02-09-2004, passed 2-9-2004)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of §§
90.01 through
90.11 of this chapter or who violates or refuses or neglects to carry out any
reasonable order made by the Health Officer pursuant to §§
90.01 through
90.11 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Every day’s violation of any provision of §§
90.01 through
90.11 of this chapter or of such order of the Health Officer or Animal Control
Officer shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-12)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Littering prohibited
   
91.02   Abandoned containers
   
91.03   Junkyards and salvage yards prohibited
   
91.04   Interfering with enforcement officials prohibited
   
91.05   Commercial burning
Weeds, Grass and Trash
   
91.20   Unlawful accumulation or deposit of trash and weeds
   
91.21   Definitions
   
91.22   Complaints
   
91.23   Investigation
   
91.24   Notice to owner; abatement procedures
   
91.25   Collection of costs of abatement from owner
   
91.26   Open burning restricted
Dilapidated Buildings
   
91.40   Definitions
   
91.41   Report of dilapidated building
   
91.42   Condemnation and abatement procedure
   
91.43   Restoration of premises
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic Beverages, see
Ch. 111
   Animal Control, see
Ch. 90
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 95
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall throw, place, leave, drop, put or otherwise abandon litter
upon any public property, private property or roadway, except as otherwise
specifically permitted in this code. LITTER means trash, refuse, rubbish and
all like material.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 ABANDONED CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to abandon or
discard in any place accessible to children, any refrigerator, icebox or ice
chest, of a capacity of one and one-half cubic feet or more, which has an
attached lid or door which may be opened or fastened shut by means of an
attached latch. It shall be unlawful for the owner, lessee or manager of such
place to knowingly permit such abandoned or discarded refrigerator, icebox or
ice chest to remain in such condition.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-2) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 JUNKYARDS AND SALVAGE YARDS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Junkyards. It is unlawful for any person to build or maintain a
junkyard or to place on town lots, within the town, a junkyard or material
commonly found in junkyards such as old car bodies, old vehicles, wrecked
vehicles or old secondhand materials commonly found in junkyards or similar
places of business. It is unlawful to convert any lots which, as of September
1969, were not so used, into such junkyard or for the purpose of placing
thereon material as described above.
   (B)   Salvage yards. It is unlawful for any person to build or maintain a
salvage yard within the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-3) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 INTERFERING WITH ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully obstruct or interfere with any
Health Officer or other code enforcement officer charged with the enforcement
of the health or nuisance laws of the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-4) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 COMMERCIAL BURNING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any business (as defined in §
10.05 of this code of ordinances) to burn outside any leaves, wood, limbs,
sticks, grass, brush, trash, rubbish or other debris (collectively, “debris”);
provided, however, that, any business shall be allowed to burn debris outside
which has been gathered from real property owned by that business.
   (B)   The business and all of its owners shall be jointly and severally
responsible for the fines and court costs for violation of this section.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 3-12-2012) Penalty, see §
91.99
WEEDS, GRASS AND TRASH
§ 91.20 UNLAWFUL ACCUMULATION OR DEPOSIT OF TRASH AND WEEDS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any owner of any real property situated wholly or
in part within the corporate limits of the town to allow trash or weeds (as
those terms are defined in §
91.21 of this chapter) to grow, stand or accumulate upon such premises. It is
the duty of such owner to remove such trash and control all weeds.
   (B)   It is unlawful to place any trash on the property of another or on
public property, including any public street, easement, sidewalk or other
public property, except where such disposal is expressly allowed by law.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to dispose of trash into any refuse
container, dumpster or other receptacle with belongs to or is leased by
another, without the express permission of the owner or lessee of such
container, dumpster or receptacle.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2014) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER. The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the
County Treasurer.
   TRASH. Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, sticks, brush, debris, paper,
combustible materials, rubbish, offal or waste, or matter of any kind or form
which is uncared for, discarded or abandoned.
   WEED. Includes, but is not limited to, poison ivy, poison oak or poison
sumac and all vegetation, including grass, at any state of maturity which:
      (1)   Exceeds 12 inches in height, except healthy trees, shrubs or
produce for human consumption grown in a tended and cultivated garden unless
such trees and shrubbery by their density or location constitute a detriment to
the health, benefit and welfare of the public and community or a hazard to
traffic or create a fire hazard to the property or otherwise interferes with
the mowing of said weeds;
      (2)   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals or invites deposits or
accumulation of trash;
      (3)   Harbors rodents or vermin;
      (4)   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
      (5)   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
      (6)   Is dead or diseased.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2014)
§ 91.22 COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Any resident or agent of the town may file a complaint with the town’s
Clerk-Treasurer alleging a violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   Such complaint shall contain, at a minimum:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person making the
complaint;
      (2)   The address of the property containing trash or unkept weeds; and
      (3)   A detailed description of the specific grievances with the
offending property. General statements such as “trashy” or “weeds out of
control” will not be sufficiently detailed to warrant an investigation as set
forth in §
91.23 of this chapter.
   (C)   Complaints for violation of this subchapter shall be submitted on
forms available at the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2014)
§ 91.23 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a complaint completed in accordance with §
91.22 of this chapter on a form provided by the town’s Clerk-Treasurer, the
town’s Police Chief or a member of his or her staff shall inspect the subject
property and make a determination of whether the owner is in violation of the
prohibitions of §
91.20 of this chapter. In making such determination, the investigating officer
shall determine whether the accumulation of trash or the growth of weeds has
caused the property to become detrimental to the health, benefit and welfare of
the public or a hazard to traffic, or creates a fire hazard to the danger of
the property.
   (B)   The investigating officer shall make his or her findings on the
complaint form, providing support for such investigator’s conclusions.
   (C)   If the investigating officer determines that the condition of the
property constitutes a detriment or hazard and that the property would be
benefitted by the removal of such condition, notice of such finding shall be
provided to the complaining party. The complaining party shall have ten days
following mailing of the finding in which to appeal the investigating officer’s
conclusions by filing an appeal with the town’s Clerk-Treasurer. Upon receipt
of a timely notice of appeal, the town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall place such
appeal for hearing on the next agenda for a regular meeting of the Town
Trustees.
   (D)   If the investigating officer determines that the owner is in violation
of §
91.20 of this chapter, the town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall proceed under the
procedures outlined in §
91.24 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2014)
§ 91.24 NOTICE TO THE OWNER; ABATEMENT PROCEDURES.
   Upon receipt of a investigation report finding a violation of §
91.20 of this chapter, the town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall complete the following.
   (A)   The town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall mail notice to the owner by certified
mail, return receipt requested. The town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall obtain a
receipt of mailing from the postal service which indicates the date of mailing
and the name and address of the mailee. The notice shall contain the following
information;
      (1)   A direction that the owner must clean the property of trash or mow
or remove all weeds within ten days of the date of the notice;
      (2)   Notifies the owner that he/she has the right to appeal the
abatement order by filing with the town’s Clerk-Treasurer a written notice of
appeal within ten days of the notice. Upon receipt of a timely notice of
appeal, the town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall place such appeal for hearing on the
agenda for the next regular meeting of the Town Trustees;
      (3)   Notifies the owner that if he or she fails to clean the property of
trash or mow or remove all weeds within ten days of the date of the notice, the
town or its agent will clean the trash and mow or remove all weeds at the
expense of the owner; and
      (4)   Notifies the owner that each day the property remains in violation
of §
91.20 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of $50 per day.
   (B)   If the town’s Clerk-Treasurer has not received a signed receipt
evidencing that the owner received the notice within ten days of the mailing,
the town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall cause the notice to be posted on the subject
property.
   (C)   Ten days after the owner signed for the certified mail notice or ten
days after posting of notice on the property, whichever happens last, agents of
the town are granted the right of entry on the property for the removal of
trash, mowing of weeds and performance of the necessary duties as a
governmental function of the town.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2014)
§ 91.25 COLLECTION OF THE COSTS OF ABATEMENT FROM OWNER.
   (A)   Written demand of payment.
      (1)   Following the cleaning of trash or mowing of weeds as contemplated
in §
91.24 of this chapter, the town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall determine the cost
incurred by the town in performing such abatement.
      (2)   The town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall forward by first class mail (not
certified) a statement of the costs of abatement to the owner and demand
payment.
   (B)   Filing a lien against the property. If the town’s Clerk-Treasurer has
not received payment from the owner within 30 days following written demand for
payment, the town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall forward a certified statement of the
amount of the abatement to the County Treasurer, and such amount shall be
levied on the property and collected by the County Treasurer as other taxes
authorized by law in accordance with the provisions of 11 O.S. § 22-111.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2014)
§ 91.26 OPEN BURNING RESTRICTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to burn any refuse, garbage or trash outside of
any enclosed building in the town.
   (B)   It shall be lawful to burn grass, leaves, sticks or other organic
matters outside of any enclosed building; provided:
      (1)   The fire is attended at all times; and
      (2)   The resident uses safe fire containment practices such as not
burning on windy days, in extremely dry conditions, or when state or county
burn bans are in effect.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2014) Penalty, see §
91.99
DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS
§ 91.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER. The Mayor of the town or the trustee of the
appropriate ward.
   BOARDING AND SECURING or BOARDED AND SECURED. The closing, boarding or
locking of any or all exterior openings so as to prevent entry into the
structure.
   CLEANING or CLEANED. The removal of trash or weeds from the premises.
   DILAPIDATED BUILDING. The neglect of necessary repairs to a building or
allowing it to fall into a state of decay or allowing it to fall into partial
ruin to such an extent that the building is a hazard to the health or safety or
welfare of the general public.
   UNSECURED BUILDING. A structure which, through neglect or injury, lacks
necessary repairs or otherwise is in a state of decay or partial ruin to such
an extent that the structure is a hazard to the health, safety or welfare of
the general public.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-1)
§ 91.41 REPORT OF DILAPIDATED BUILDING.
   Any officer or employee of the town who discovers or receives a report of a
dilapidated building which has become detrimental to the health, benefit and
welfare of the public and the community or creates a fire hazard to the danger
of property shall report such conditions to the administrative officer.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-2)
§ 91.42 CONDEMNATION AND ABATEMENT PROCEDURES.
   The administrative officer may cause dilapidated buildings within the town
limits to be torn down and removed, or boarded or secured, in accordance with
the following procedure.
   (A)   Notices. At least ten days’ notice shall be given to the owner of the
property before the town takes action or holds a hearing as provided herein. A
copy of the notice shall be posted on the property to be affected. In addition,
a copy of the notice shall be sent by mail to the property owner at the address
shown by the current year’s tax rolls in the office of the County Treasurer.
Written notice shall also be mailed to any mortgage holder as shown by the
records in the office of the County Clerk to the last known address of the
mortgagee. At the time of mailing of notice to any property owner or mortgage
holder, the town shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service,
which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of
the mailee. However, if neither the property owner nor mortgage holder can be
located, notice may be given by posting a copy of the notice on the property,
or by “publication”, as defined by 11 O.S. § 1-102. Such notice may be
published once not less than ten days prior to any hearing or action to be
taken pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Hearing. A hearing shall be held by the administrative officer to
determine whether the property is dilapidated and has thereby become
detrimental to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and the community,
or creates a fire hazard to the danger of property, or needs to be boarded and
secured.
   (C)   Decision and action; lien. If the administrative officer finds that
the condition of the property constitutes a detriment or a hazard, and that the
property would be benefitted by the removal of such conditions, or by its
boarding and securing, the administrative officer may cause the dilapidated
building to be torn down and removed, or boarded and secured, and shall fix
reasonable dates for the commencement and completion of the work. The town’s
Clerk-Treasurer shall immediately file a notice of lien with the County Clerk
describing the property, the findings of the administrative officer at the
hearing, and stating that the town claims a lien on the property for the
destruction and removal, boarding and securing costs and that such costs are
the personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date of filing
of the notice.
   (D)   Appeal. The property owner shall have a right of appeal to the town
administrative officer, or if the order is rendered by the town administrative
officer, then the right to appeal is to the town’s Board of Trustees. The
appeal shall be filed in writing with the town’s Clerk-Treasurer within ten
days after the administrative order is rendered.
   (E)   Methods of abatement. If the work is not performed by the property
owner within the dates fixed by the administrative officer, the administrative
officer shall direct the tearing down and removal, or boarding and securing, be
done by one of the following methods:
      (1)   By the town; provided that, the actual cost of the labor,
maintenance and equipment does not exceed $2,000; and
      (2)   On a private contract basis, in which case, it shall be awarded to
the lowest and best bidder.
   (F)   Costs to owner.
      (1)   After the building has been torn down and removed, or boarded and
secured, the administrative officer shall determine the actual cost of the
dismantling and removal of dilapidated buildings, or the boarding and securing,
and any other expenses as may be necessary in conjunction therewith, including
the cost of notice and mailing.
      (2)   The town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall forward a statement of such actual
cost attributable to the dismantling and removal or boarding and securing and a
demand for payment by mail to the property owner at the address specified in
division (A) above. In addition, a copy of the statement shall be mailed to any
mortgage holder at the address specified in division (A) above. At the time of
mailing of the statement of costs to any property owner or mortgage holder, the
town shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service, which receipt
shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of the mailee.
   (G)   Costs a lien. If payment is not made within six months from the date
of the mailing of the statement, the town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall forward a
certified statement of the amount of the cost to the County Treasurer. The town
shall have a lien on the property for such costs, together with interest
thereon, and the lien shall continue until the cost shall be fully paid.
   (H)   Release of lien. When payment is made to the town for costs incurred,
the town shall file a release of lien or part thereof.
   (I)   Exemptions from provisions. The provisions of this section shall not
apply to any property used for agricultural purposes.
   (J)   Additional authority of town. Nothing in this section shall prevent
the town from otherwise abating a dilapidated building as a nuisance or
otherwise exercising its police power to protect the public health, safety or
welfare.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-3)
§ 91.43 RESTORATION OF PREMISES.
   In all cases in which:
   (A)   A house or building has been removed before the effective date hereof;
   (B)   A house or building is torn down or demolished pursuant to order of
the state’s Fire Marshal or one of his or her assistants or the Sheriff of the
county or the Chief of the Fire Department as provided by state law or as
provided in this subchapter, and in which any of the following conditions
exist:
      (1)   The premises have not been cleaned up;
      (2)   The premises are cleaned up, and all lumber, brick, concrete,
cement, plaster, nails, wire and other materials have not been removed;
      (3)   The materials are removed, but the cellar space and excavations
have not been filled;
      (4)   A cistern or well has not been filled or safely and securely closed
and all openings to sanitary sewer have not been plugged to meet the
requirements of the administrative officer and securely closed; and
      (5)   The lot or lots have not been leveled and left entirely free from
trash or the same be not immediately done, then the owner or owners of the lot
or lots and the person, firm or corporation who tore down the house or building
shall immediately comply with the provisions of this subchapter by having all
of the above mentioned conditions abated.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-4)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
91.01 through
91.04 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided
in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-5)
   (C)   (1)   The fine amount for each violation of §
91.05 of this chapter after the first violation shall be determined under the
following formula:
$500 multiplied by (number of ticketed ordinance violations in the past five
years) + court costs
      (2)   By way of example, for the fifth ticketed violation of §
91.05 of this chapter occurring within a five-year term, the fine shall equal
$500 times five (number of violations), plus court costs.
   (D)   (1)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of §
91.20 of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of $50 from and after ten
days following receipt of notice (whether by mail or posting). Each day the
owner remains in violation of §
91.20 of this chapter from and after ten days following receipt of notice
(whether by mail or posting) shall be a separate offense punishable by a
separate $50 fine.
      (2)   Violation of §
91.26 of this chapter shall result in the fines and court costs as set forth at
§
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (E)   Any person who shall violate any provisions of §§
91.40 through
91.43 of this chapter shall be guilty of an offense against the town and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-5)
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 3-12-2012; Ord. passed 2-10-2014)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Fireworks
Fire Codes and Prevention Regulations
   
92.15   Fire codes
   
92.16   Storage of flammables and explosives
   
92.17   Permits for new materials, processes or occupancies
   
92.18   Appeals
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, FIREWORKS shall have the
same meaning as in state law, 68 O.S. §§ 1621 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-1)
   (B)   Limited use of fireworks.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to use or discharge fireworks within
the municipal boundaries of the Town of Bernice except as follows:
         (a)   Between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. from June 15
through July 3;
         (b)   Between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and midnight on July 4;
         (c)   Between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. on December 15
through December 30;
         (d)   Between the hours of 9:00 a.m. on December 31 and 12:30 a.m. on
January 1; and
         (e)   Between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. on January 1 and
January 2nd.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-2)
      (2)   Any person violating subsection (B)(1) of this Section shall be
guilty of a municipal offense punishable as follows:
         (a)   For a first or second offense, by a fine of up to $100; or
         (b)   For a third or subsequent offense by a fine of up to $200.
   (C)   Manufacture, display, or sale of fireworks.
      (1)   It is unlawful for anyone to manufacture, display, or offer
fireworks for sale within the municipal boundaries of the Town of Bernice
without a permit.
         (a)   An annual permit to manufacture fireworks within the Town may be
obtained from the Town Clerk upon proper application, approval by the Fire
Chief, and payment of a permit fee in the amount of $100.
         (b)   An annual permit to display or offer fireworks for sale within
the Town may be obtained from the Town Clerk upon proper application and
payment of a perm it fee in the amount of $25.
      (2)   Any person violating subsection (C)(1) of this Section by
manufacturing, displaying, or offering fireworks for sale within the municipal
boundaries of the Town of Bernice without a permit shall be guilty of a
municipal offense punishable as follows:
         (a)   For a first or second offense, by a fine of up to $100; or
         (b)   For a third or subsequent offense, by a fine of up to $200.
   (D)   Fireworks displays. At any time during the year, a permit for a
fireworks show may be authorized by the Town Board of Trustees.
      (1)   To receive approval, application must be made to the Town Board in
writing at least 45 days prior to the proposed fireworks how and a permit fee
in the amount of $25 shall be paid.
      (2)   Any person violating subsection (D) of this Section shall be guilty
of a municipal offense punishable by a fine of up to $100.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-3)
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 6-10-2013; Ord. 2023-5.30-7, passed 5-30-2023) Penalty,
see §
92.99
FIRE CODES AND PREVENTION REGULATIONS
§ 92.15 FIRE CODES.
   (A)   Codes adopted. There are hereby adopted for the purpose of prescribing
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or
explosion, that certain code known as the “Fire Prevention Code”, recommended
by the National Fire Protection Association, and that certain code known as the
“Life Safety Code”, recommended by the National Fire Protection Association,
being particularly the latest editions thereof and the whole thereof, save and
except such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended by this
code. At least one copy of the Fire Prevention Code and the Life Safety Code is
on file in the office of the town’s Clerk-Treasurer. The Fire Prevention Code
and the Life Safety Code are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set
out at length herein; and from the date on which this code shall take effect,
the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the town.
   (B)   Authority to amend codes.
      (1)   The town’s Board of Trustees shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the Fire Prevention Code and the Life Safety Code upon
application in writing by the owner or lessee, or his or her duly authorized
agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the
strict letter of the code; provided that, the spirit of the code shall be
observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done.
      (2)   The particulars of such modification, when granted or allowed, and
the decision of the Fire Chief and Board of Trustees thereon shall be entered
upon the records of the Board of Trustees, and a signed copy shall be furnished
the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-1)
§ 92.16 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND EXPLOSIVES.
   The town limits are the limits in the Fire Prevention Code within which
storage of flammable liquids in aboveground tanks, new bulk plants for
flammable liquids, bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas and storage of
explosives and blasting agents is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-2) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 PERMITS FOR NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES.
   The town’s Board of Trustees may act as a committee to determine and
specify, after giving affected persons an opportunity to be heard, any new
materials, processes or occupancies, which shall require permits in addition to
those now enumerated in the Fire Code. The Fire Chief shall post such list in a
conspicuous place in his or her office and distribute copies thereof to
interested persons.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-3)
§ 92.18 APPEALS.
   Whenever the Chief of the Fire Department shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions
of the code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code have
been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the
decision of the Chief of the Fire Department to the Town Board of Trustees
within 30 days from the date of the decision appealed.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-4)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person engaged in the unlawful sale, display, use, or discharge of
fireworks shall be provided with a copy of §
92.01 of this chapter and be subject to punishment as stated in §
92.01 of this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of the codes
hereby adopted by §
92.15 of this chapter, or fails to comply therewith, or who violates or fails
to comply with any order made thereunder, or who builds in violation of any
detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved
thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no
appeal has been taken, or who fails to comply with such an order as affirmed or
modified by the lawn's Board of Trustees or by a court of competent
jurisdiction, within the time fixed therein, shall severally for every such
violation and non-compliance respectively, be guilty of an offense, punishable
as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. The imposition of one penalty for any
violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such
persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects
within a reasonable time. When not otherwise specified, each ten days that
prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent
enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-5)
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 6-10-2013; Ord. 2023-5.30-8, passed 5-30-2023)
CHAPTER 93: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
93.01   Policy
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Application of provisions; exemptions
   
93.04   Discrimination in sale or rental of housing
   
93.05   Discrimination in financing of housing
   
93.06   Discrimination in provision of brokerage services
   
93.07   Administration
   
93.08   Education and conciliation
   
93.09   Complaints; procedure
   
93.10   Investigations; subpoenas; giving of evidence
   
93.11   Enforcement by civil action
   
93.12   Interference, coercion or intimidation
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional limitations,
for fair housing throughout the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-1) (Ord. 1-1995, passed 1-3-1995)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
93.04,
93.05 or
93.06 of this chapter.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families,
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure or portion thereof.
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals (who have not attained the age of 18 years)
being domiciled with:
         (a)   A parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or individuals; or
         (b)   The designee of such parent or other person having such custody,
with the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
FAMILIAL STATUS shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment; or
         (c)   Being regarded as having such impairment.
      (2)   But such term does not include current, illegal use of or addiction
to any drug or federally controlled substance.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION. Building, structure or portion thereof which is used
or occupied as a home, residence or sleeping place by a person, by a family or
by a group of persons living together, or vacant land available for the
construction of a housing accommodation.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-2) (Ord. 1-1995, passed 1-3-1995)
§ 93.03 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of divisions (B)(1) and (C) below, the
prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or rental of housing set forth
in §
93.04 of this chapter shall apply to all dwellings, except as exempted by
division (B)(1) below.
   (B)   (1)   Nothing in §
93.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
         (a)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided
that, such private individual owner does not own more than three such single-
family houses at any one time; provided further that, in the case of the sale
of any such single-family house by a private individual owner not residing in
such house at the time of such sale or who was not the most recent resident of
such house prior to such sale, the exemption granted by this division (B)(1)
shall apply only with respect to one such sale within any 24-month period;
provided further that, such bona fide private individual owner does not own any
interest in, nor is there owned or reserved on his or her behalf, under any
express or voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of
the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family
houses at any one time; provided further that, the sale or rental of any such
single-family house shall be excepted from the application of this chapter only
if such house is sold or rented:
            1.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent or
salesperson, or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of
selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker,
agent, salesperson or person; and
            2.   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice, of
any advertisement or written notice in violation of §
93.04(C) of this chapter, but nothing in this proviso shall prohibit the use of
attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title.
         (b)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied
or intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
      (2)   For the purposes of this division (B), a person shall be deemed to
be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
         (a)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
         (b)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
an agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities, or sales or rental services, in two or
more transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or of any
interest therein; or
         (c)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any non-profit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, religion,
gender, national origin, age, familial status or handicap.
      (2)   Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in
fact open to the public, which, as incident to its primary purpose or purposes,
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-3) (Ord. 1-1995, passed 1-3-1995)
§ 93.04 DISCRIMINATION IN SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
93.03(A) and (B) of this chapter and except as exempted by §
93.03(B)(1) and (C) of this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, gender,
national origin, age, familial status or handicap;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, gender,
national origin, age, familial status or handicap;
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of
a dwelling, that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based
on race, color, religion, gender, national origin, age, familial status or
handicap, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or
discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, gender,
national origin, age, familial status or handicap that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available; and
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
gender, national origin, age, familial status or handicap.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-4) (Ord. 1-1995, passed 1-3-1995) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 DISCRIMINATION IN FINANCING OF HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the
purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him or her in the fixing of the amount,
interest rate, duration or other terms or conditions of such loan or other
financial assistance, because of the race, color, religion, gender, national
origin, age, familial status or handicap of such person or of any person
associated with him or her in connection with such loan or other financial
assistance or the purposes of such loan or other financial assistance, or of
the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants or occupants of the
dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such loan or other financial
assistance is to be made or given; provided that, nothing contained in this
section shall impair the scope of effectiveness of the exception contained in §
93.03(B)(1) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-5) (Ord. 1-1995, passed 1-3-1995) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 DISCRIMINATION IN PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, real estate brokers organization
or other service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling
or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her in the terms or
conditions of such access, membership or participation, on account of race,
color, religion, gender, national origin, age, familial status or handicap.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-6) (Ord. 1-1995, passed 1-3-1995) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for administering this chapter shall
be in the mayor of the town. The Mayor may delegate any of these functions,
duties and powers to employees of the town or to boards of such employees,
including functions, duties and powers with respect to investigating,
conciliating, hearing, determining, ordering, certifying, reporting or
otherwise acting as to any work, business or matter under this chapter. The
Mayor shall, by rule, prescribe such rights of appeal from the decisions of his
or her hearing examiners to other hearing examiners or to other officers in the
town, to boards of officers or to himself or herself, as shall be appropriate
and in accordance with law.
   (B)   All executive departments and agencies shall administer their programs
and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner
affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with
the mayor to further such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-7) (Ord. 1-1995, passed 1-3-1995)
§ 93.08 EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION.
   Immediately after the effective date hereof, the Mayor shall commence such
educational and conciliatory activities as will further the purposes of this
chapter. He or she shall call conferences of persons in the housing industry
and other interested parties to acquaint them with the provisions of this
chapter and his or her suggested means of implementing it, and shall endeavor
with their advice to work out programs of voluntary compliance and of
enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-8) (Ord. 1-1995, passed 1-3-1995)
§ 93.09 COMPLAINTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice or who believes that he or she will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter “person
aggrieved”) may file a complaint with the Mayor. Complaints shall be in writing
and shall contain such information and be in such form as the Mayor shall
determine, and the Mayor shall furnish a copy of the same to the person or
persons who allegedly committed or who are about to commit the alleged
discriminatory housing practice. Within 30 days after receiving a complaint, or
within 30 days after the expiration of any period of reference under division
(C) below, the Mayor shall investigate the complaint and give notice in writing
to the person aggrieved whether he or she intends to resolve it. If the Mayor
decides to resolve the complaint, he or she shall proceed to try to eliminate
or correct the alleged discriminatory housing practice by informal methods of
conference, conciliation and persuasion. Nothing said or done in the course of
such informal endeavors may be made public or used as evidence in a subsequent
proceeding under this chapter without the written consent of the persons
concerned.
   (B)   A complaint under division (A) above shall be filed within 180 days
after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred. Complaints shall be
in writing and shall state the facts upon which the allegations of a
discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may be reasonably and
fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer to the complaint
against him or her and with the leave of the Mayor, which shall be granted
whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, and may amend his or her
answer at any time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   (C)   If, within 30 days after a complaint is filed with the Mayor, the
Mayor has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance with this chapter, the
person aggrieved may, within 30 days thereafter, file a complaint with the
Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The Mayor will
assist in this filing.
   (D)   If the Mayor has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance within 30
days of the complaint, the person aggrieved may, within 30 days hereafter,
commence a civil action in any appropriate court against the respondent named
in the complaint, to enforce the rights granted or protected by this chapter,
insofar as such rights relate to the subject of the complaint. If the court
finds that discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is about to occur,
the court may enjoin the respondent from engaging in such practice or order
such affirmative action as may be appropriate.
   (E)   In any proceeding brought pursuant to this section, the burden of
proof shall be on the complainant.
   (F)   Whenever an action filed by an individual shall come to trial, the
Mayor shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain voluntary compliance.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-9) (Ord. 1-1995, passed 1-3-1995) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.10 INVESTIGATIONS; SUBPOENAS; GIVING OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   In conducting investigations, the Mayor shall have access at all
reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals and other
evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record and copy such
materials and take and record the testimony of statements of such persons as
are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation; provided,
however, that, the Mayor first complies with the provisions of the fourth
amendment relating to unreasonable searches and seizures. The Mayor may issue
subpoenas to compel his or her access to or the production of such materials,
or the appearance of such persons, and may issue interrogatories to a
respondent, to the same extent and subject to the same limitations as would
apply if the subpoenas or interrogatories were issued or served in aid of a
civil action in the United States district court for the district in which the
investigation is taking place. The Mayor may administer oaths.
   (B)   Upon written application to the Mayor, a respondent shall be entitled
to the issuance of a reasonable number of subpoenas by and in the name of the
Mayor himself or herself. Subpoenas issued at the request of a respondent shall
show on their face the name and address of such respondent and shall state that
they were issued at his or her request.
   (C)   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the Mayor shall be entitled to the
same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings in United States
District Courts. Fees payable to a witness summoned by a subpoena issued at the
request of a respondent shall be paid by him or her.
   (D)   Within five days after service of a subpoena upon any person, such
person may petition the mayor to revoke or modify the subpoena. The Mayor shall
grant the petition if he or she finds that the subpoena requires appearance or
attendance at an unreasonable time or place, that it requires production of
evidence which does not relate to any matter under investigation, that it does
not describe with sufficient particularity the evidence to be produced, that
compliance would be unduly onerous, or for other good reason.
   (E)   In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the Mayor, or
other person at whose request it was issued, may petition for its enforcement
in the Municipal or State Court for the district in which the person to whom
the subpoena was addressed resides, was served or transacts business.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-10) (Ord. 1-1995, passed 1-3-1995) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.11 ENFORCEMENT BY CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   The rights granted by §§
93.03,
93.04,
93.05 and
93.06 of this chapter may be enforced by civil actions in state or local courts
of general jurisdiction. A civil action shall be commenced within 180 days
after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred; provided, however,
that, the court shall continue such civil case brought pursuant to this section
or §
93.09(D) of this chapter from time to time before bringing it to trial if the
court believes that the conciliation efforts of the Mayor are likely to result
in satisfactory settlement of the discriminatory housing practice complained of
in the complaint made to the Mayor and which practice forms the basis for the
action in court; and provided, however, that, any sale, encumbrance or rental
consummated prior to the issuance of any court order issued under the authority
of this chapter, and involving a bona fide purchaser, encumbrances or tenant
without actual notice of the existence of the filing of a complaint or civil
action under the provision of this chapter, shall not be affected.
   (B)   The court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any permanent
or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order, or other order, and may
award to the plaintiff actual damages and not more than $1,000 punitive
damages, together with court costs and reasonable attorney fees, in the case of
a prevailing plaintiff; provided that, the said plaintiff, in the opinion of
the court, is not financially able to assume said attorney fees.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-11) (Ord. 1-1995, passed 1-3-1995)
§ 93.12 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
93.03,
93.04,
93.05 or
93.06 of this chapter. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil
action.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-12) (Ord. 1-1995, passed 1-3-1995) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat
of force, willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to
injure, intimidate or interfere with:
      (1)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, gender,
national origin, age, familial status or handicap and because he or she is or
has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
      (2)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to
intimidate such person or any other person or any class or persons from:
         (a)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, gender, national origin, age, familial status or handicap, in any of
the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
(1) above;
         (b)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
         (c)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, gender, national origin, age, familial status or
handicap, in any of the activities, services, organization or facilities
described in division (A)(1) above, or participating lawfully in speech or
peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity to so participate
shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than one year, or
both; and if bodily injury results, shall be fined not more than $10,000 or
imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death results, shall be
subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-14)
   (B)   Any employee of the Mayor who shall make public any information in
violation of §
93.09(A) of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more
than one year.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-9)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who willfully fails or neglects to attend and testify
or to answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents or other
evidence, if in his or her power to do so, per §
93.10 of this chapter, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful order of the
Mayor shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than one year,
or both. Any person who, with intent thereby to mislead the Mayor, shall make
or cause to be made any false entry or statement of fact in any report,
account, record or other document submitted to Mayor pursuant to his or her
subpoena or other order, or shall willfully neglect or fail to make or cause to
be made full, true and correct entries in such reports, accounts, records or
other documents, or shall willfully mutilate, alter or by any other means
falsify any documentary evidence shall be fined not more than $1,000 or
imprisoned not more than one year, or both.
      (2)   The Town Attorney shall conduct all litigation in which the Mayor
participates as a party or as amicus pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-10)
(Ord. 1-1995, passed 1-3-1995)
CHAPTER 94: PARADES AND PUBLIC EVENTS
Section
   
94.01   Definition
   
94.02   Permit required; exemptions
   
94.03   Application for permit
   
94.04   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
94.05   Denial of permit; alternate permit
§ 94.01 DEFINITION.
   As used in this chapter, PARADE means any parade, march, ceremony, show,
demonstration, exhibition, pageant or procession of any kind, or any similar
display, in or upon any street, park or other public place in the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-1)
§ 94.02 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS.
   No person shall use any street, alley, public way, park or other property
owned or controlled by the town, except those places specifically designed and
intended for such use, for the purpose of holding, conducting, causing or
participating in any parade, street fair, street dance, carnival, assemblage or
activity of any nature which may cause the disturbance or interference of the
normal and ordinary use of the property by other persons, without first having
obtained a permit for such purpose. The permits may be granted by the town’s
Clerk-Treasurer under such conditions as deemed appropriate. Permits shall not
be required under this chapter in the case of construction or repairs to or
within any such street or property; provided, all other requirements of this
code are complied with.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Not less than two weeks prior to the closing or use of a street or property
for a parade, an application shall be submitted by the party to the town. The
time requirements may be waived by the town’s Clerk-Treasurer at his or her
discretion if sufficient time exists for the proper review of the application
as herein provided. The application shall be submitted upon a form prescribed
by the town. The application shall provide such other information as requested.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-3)
§ 94.04 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a permit as provided for
hereunder when, from a consideration of the application and from such other
information as may otherwise be obtained, he or she finds that:
      (1)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
      (2)   The conduct of such parade will not require the diversion of so
great a number of emergency vehicles as to prevent normal emergency service to
portions of the town other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of
march and areas contiguous thereto;
      (3)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly
points of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police
protection of, or emergency service to, areas contiguous to such assembly
areas;
      (4)   The conduct of such parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
      (5)   The conduct of the parade is not reasonably likely to cause injury
to persons or property, to provoke disorderly conduct or create a disturbance;
and
      (6)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its
point of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route.
   (B)   The town’s Clerk-Treasurer, in such cases as shall be determined in
his or her discretion, may require as a condition to the issuance of a permit
herein such insurance or bond holding the town harmless from any and all
liability for injury or damage of any kind whatsoever occurring during such
activity covered by the permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-4)
§ 94.05 DENIAL OF PERMIT; ALTERNATE PERMIT.
   (A)   Without regard to §
94.04(B) of this chapter, the town’s Clerk-Treasurer, from his or her
consideration of available, appropriate and necessary information, shall deny
the application for a permit provided for by this chapter when, from the
information, he or she has reason to believe that any contemplated advocacy at
the proposed event will be directed to inciting or producing imminent lawless
action and will likely incite or produce such action.
   (B)   The town’s Clerk-Treasurer, in denying an application for a parade
permit, may authorize the conduct of the parade on a date, at a time or over a
route different from that named by the applicant. An applicant desiring to
accept an alternate permit shall so indicate within five days after notice of
the action of the town’s Clerk-Treasurer. An alternate parade permit shall
conform to the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit
under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-5)
CHAPTER 95: NUISANCES
Section
   
95.01   Powers of town
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Certain public nuisances enumerated
   
95.04   Nuisances prohibited
   
95.05   Persons liable
   
95.06   Lapse of time; effect
   
95.07   Remedial action
   
95.08   Public nuisance abatement
   
95.09   Summary abatement of nuisances
   
95.10   Abatement by suit in district court
   
95.11   Citizen rights not jeopardized
   
95.12   Procedures cumulative
 
   
95.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Health and Sanitation, see
Ch. 91
§ 95.01 POWERS OF TOWN.
   As provided in 50 O.S. § 16, the town is empowered to determine what is and
what shall constitute a nuisance within its corporate limits and, for the
protection of the public health, the public parks and the public water supply,
outside of its corporate limits. Whenever it is practical to do so, the town
has the power to abate any such nuisance after notice to the owner and an
opportunity for him or her to be heard, if this can be done.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-1)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE.
      (1)   Unlawfully doing an act, or omitting to perform a duty, or any
thing or condition which either:
         (a)   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or
safety of others;
         (b)   Offends decency;
         (c)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or
render dangerous for passage, any lake or navigable river, stream, canal or
basin, or any public park, square, street or other public property; or
         (d)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use
of property.
      (2)   Provided, however, this definition shall not apply to preexisting
agricultural activities.
   PRIVATE NUISANCE. Every nuisance not included in the definition of “public
nuisance” in this section.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. A nuisance which affects at the same time an entire
community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons, or three or
more properties under separate ownership in the vicinity of such nuisance,
although the extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals
may be unequal.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-2)
§ 95.03 CERTAIN PUBLIC NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
   (A)   Nuisances enumerated. In addition to other public nuisances declared
by other sections of this code or law, the following are hereby declared to be
public nuisances:
      (1)   Unwholesome food or drink. The sale or offering for sale of
unwholesome food or drink; or the keeping of a place where such sales or
offerings are made;
      (2)   Liquor violations. The sale, offering for sale or furnishing of
alcoholic beverages or low- point beer in violation of state law or the
ordinances of the town; or the keeping of a place where alcoholic beverages or
low-point beer are sold, offered for sale, or furnished in violation of state
law or the ordinances of the town;
      (3)   Obscene materials. The exposure, display, sale or distribution of
obscene pictures, books, pamphlets, magazines, papers, documents or objects; or
the keeping of a place where such are exposed, displayed, sold or distributed;
      (4)   Gambling. The keeping of a place where persons gamble, whether by
cards, slot machines, punchboards or otherwise;
      (5)   Bawdy, disorderly houses.
         (a)   The keeping of a place where prostitution, illicit sexual
intercourse or other immoral acts are practiced; and
         (b)   The keeping of a place where activities in violation of state
law or ordinance are practiced or carried on.
      (6)   Noisy conditions. The continued making of loud or unusual noises,
music or sounds, or strong vibrations which annoy persons of ordinary
sensibilities; or the keeping of an animal which makes such noises;
      (7)   Interfering with wireless reception. The operation or use of any
electrical apparatus or machine which materially and unduly interferes with
radio or television reception by others;
      (8)   Assemblies obstructing traffic. Any use of a street or sidewalk or
a place adjacent thereto which causes crowds of people to gather so as to
obstruct traffic on such street or sidewalk, or which otherwise obstructs
traffic thereon, except as may be authorized by law or ordinance;
      (9)   Water flowing, ice or snow falling upon streets. Permitting water
or other liquid to flow or fall, or ice or snow to fall, from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk where mosquitoes breed or are likely to
breed, or which are so constructed, formed, conditioned or situated as to
endanger the public safety;
      (10)   Stagnant water bodies. All wells, pools, cisterns, bodies or
containers of water in which mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, or which
are so constructed, formed, conditioned or situated as to endanger the public
safety;
      (11)   Conditions attracting pests. Rank weeds or grass, carcasses,
accumulations of manure, refuse or other things which are, or are likely to be,
breeding places for flies, mosquitoes, vermin or disease causing germs, and the
premises on which such exist;
      (12)   Garbage accumulations. Any pond, slop, trash, refuse, cobs,
manure, decayed or decaying vegetable matter left, kept or maintained in such
condition as to endanger the public health;
      (13)   Dangerous structures.
         (a)   Any building or structure which is dangerous to the public
health or safety because of damage, decay or other condition; and
         (b)   Every building or other structure that shall become unsafe and
dangerous from fire, decay or other cause, or shall become hazardous from fire,
by reason of age, decay or construction, location or other cause, or shall be
detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of the town or its inhabitants
from any cause.
      (14)   Dangerous premises. Any pit, hole or other thing which is so
constructed, formed, conditioned or situated as to endanger the public safety;
      (15)   Fire and explosive hazards. Any fire or explosion hazard which
endangers the public safety;
      (16)   Dangerous businesses. Any occupation or activity which endangers
the public peace, health, morals, safety or welfare;
      (17)   Bagworms. Permitting bagworms to be upon any trees or other plants
within the town;
      (18)   Offensive premises.
         (a)   Permitting foul, noxious or offensive odors to escape from
premises; or unusual quantities of dust or other deleterious substances to
escape or emanate across the property lines upon which the same originates; and
         (b)   Any unclean, foul, leaking or broken or defective ditch, drain,
gutter, slop, garbage or manure barrel, box or other receptacle in the town.
      (19)   Animal houses and noises.
         (a)   Any stable or other place where animals are kept that may become
obnoxious or annoying to any resident of the town, by reason of any noise or
noises made by the animal therein, or by reason of lack of sanitation;
         (b)   The keeping in violation of Ch. 90 of this code of ordinances of
any dog kennels within the town for the breeding and raising of dogs that shall
become offensive or annoying to the public by reason of the barking and noise
made by the animals therein contained; and
         (c)   The keeping of any hog pen within the limits of the town in
violation of this code.
      (20)   Animal hides. Any green or unsalted hides of any animal kept in
any exposed or open place within the limits of the town; and
      (21)   Sewer systems.
         (a)   Any vault, cesspool or sink used to receive human excrement,
slops, garbage, refuse or other filthy substance; and
         (b)   Every water closet which shall be in an overflowing, leaking or
filthy condition, or in a condition dangerous, injurious or annoying to the
comfort, health and welfare of any resident of the town.
   (B)   Enumeration cumulative. The enumeration in division (A) above of
certain public nuisances shall be cumulative and not limit other provisions of
law or ordinances defining public or private nuisances either in more general
or more specific terms.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-3) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall create or maintain a nuisance within the town or permit a
nuisance to remain on premises under his or her control within the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-4) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 PERSONS LIABLE.
   Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing
nuisance upon or in the use of such property, created by a former owner, is
liable therefor in the same manner as the person who first created it.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-5)
§ 95.06 LAPSE OF TIME; EFFECT.
   No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of the public right.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-6)
§ 95.07 REMEDIAL ACTION.
   (A)   Public nuisances. The remedies against a public nuisance are:
      (1)   Prosecution on complaint before the Municipal Court;
      (2)   Civil action; or
      (3)   Abatement:
         (a)   By the person injured as provided in 50 O.S. § 12; or
         (b)   By the town in accordance with law or ordinance.
   (B)   Private nuisances. The remedies against a private nuisance are:
      (1)   Civil action; or
      (2)   Abatement:
         (a)   By the person injured as provided in 50 O.S. §§ 14 and 15; or
         (b)   By the town in accordance with law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-7)
§ 95.08 PUBLIC NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Removal of nuisance condition; authority. Pursuant to authority
granted by 63 O.S. § 1-1011, the town shall have the authority to order the
owner or occupant of any private premises in the town to remove from such
premises, at his or her own expense, any source of filth, cause of sickness,
condition conducive to the breeding of insects or rodents that might contribute
to the transmission of disease, or any other condition adversely affecting the
public health, within 24 hours, or within such other time as may be reasonable.
   (B)   Nature and service of order. Such order shall be in writing and may be
served personally on the owner or occupant of the premises, or authorized agent
thereof, by the town or by a police officer, or a copy thereof may be left at
the last usual place of abode of the owner, occupant or agent, if known and
within the state. If the premises are unoccupied and the residence of the
owner, occupant or agent is unknown or is outside the state, the order may be
served by posting a copy thereof on the premises or by publication in at least
one issue of a newspaper having a general circulation in the town.
   (C)   Abatement by town; costs. If the order is not complied with, the town
may cause the order to be executed and complied with, and the cost thereof
shall be certified and the cost of removing or abating such nuisance shall be
charged to the owner or occupant, enforceable as a lien or any other method
allowed by law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-8)
§ 95.09 SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   (A)   Dangerous condition; immediate action required. Some nuisances are of
such nature as to constitute a grave and immediate danger to the peace, health,
safety, morals or welfare of one or more persons or of the public generally. It
is recognized that circumstances may be such as to justify, and even to
require, the town or other appropriate officer or agency of the town government
to take immediate and proper action summarily to abate such nuisances or to
reduce or suspend the danger until more deliberate action can be taken toward
such abatement.
   (B)   Statement of nuisance; recommended abatement. An officer of the town
may submit a statement as to the existence of a nuisance as defined by the
ordinances of the town or law, and a request or recommendation that it be
abated.
   (C)   Determination of nuisance existence; notice and abatement.
      (1)   The town or its designee shall determine if a nuisance exists as
defined by the ordinances of the town or law. If a nuisance does in fact exist,
town personnel shall direct the owner or other persons responsible for or
causing the nuisance:
         (a)   By certified mail; or
         (b)   By publication, if the owner cannot be so served or found, to
abate the nuisance within a specified time if the peace, health, safety, morals
or welfare of the person or persons or public adversely affected would not be
unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay.
      (2)   If such peace, health, safety, morals or welfare would be unduly
jeopardized by the consequent delay, or if the owner or other persons
responsible for or causing the nuisance do not abate it within the specified
time, or if the persons responsible authorize the town to abate the nuisance,
the town shall direct the appropriate officer to abate the nuisance or have it
abated, if summary abatement is practical, as authorized by 50 O.S. § 16. The
town shall send a statement of the cost of such summary abatement to the owner
or other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance, as may be just under
the circumstances, if their names and addresses are known. Until paid, such
cost shall constitute a debt to the town collectible as other debts may be
collected.
   (D)   Appeals. The determination of the existence of a nuisance and order to
abate it, as made by the town, may be appealed by the occupant or owner or
person causing the nuisance by filing a request for hearing in writing with the
town within the period of time specified in the notice for abatement of the
nuisance. The town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall cause the matter to be placed on the
agenda of the town’s Board of Trustees for final determination with appropriate
notice of the hearing provided to the person requesting the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-9)
§ 95.10 ABATEMENT BY SUIT IN DISTRICT COURT.
   In cases where it is deemed impractical to summarily abate a nuisance, the
town may bring suit in the district court.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-10)
§ 95.11 CITIZEN RIGHTS NOT JEOPARDIZED.
   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to abridge the rights of
citizens of the town to bring and maintain actions in the proper courts for the
abatement of private nuisances or those specially injurious to them.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-11)
§ 95.12 PROCEDURES CUMULATIVE.
   The procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this chapter and by other
provisions of law and ordinance shall be cumulative one to the other. The town
may elect to follow any such procedure which is applicable in abating any
particular nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-12)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall,
upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-13)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES AND FEES
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT VENDORS
      
113.   TOBACCO
      
114.   FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES AND FEES
Section
   
110.01   License and fee required
   
110.02   Fees established; exemptions
   
110.03   Amusement devices
   
110.04   Payment of fees; proration
   
110.05   Application for license; issuance
   
110.06   Term of license; non-transferability
   
110.07   Display or possession of license
   
110.08   Revocation or suspension of license
   
110.09   Exemptions from provisions
§ 110.01 LICENSE AND FEE REQUIRED.
   Except for those occupations regulated by state law, it is unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation, either as principal, officer, agent, servant or
employee, to engage in any calling, trade, profession or occupation without
first paying to the town the fee or tax required, and procuring a current
license from the town’s Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 FEES ESTABLISHED; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Fees established.
      (1)   The fee to be paid for the occupational tax shall be classified as
follows:
         (a)   Liquor by the drink sales: as provided in §
111.02 of this code of ordinances;
         (b)   Beer sales: as provided in §
111.02 of this code of ordinances;
         (c)   Liquor stores: as provided in §
111.02 of this code of ordinances; and
         (d)   Sales of merchandise or services: $25 for any individual, store
or business to sell merchandise or services in the town.
      (2)   In the event an establishment is involved in the sale of two or
more of the categories listed in division (A)(1) above, then the individual,
store or business will be required to pay the fee that is the most expensive of
all the fees that apply. Further, in the event an individual, store or business
chooses to operate or is operating from more than one location within the town,
then each location is required to pay the occupational tax fee.
   (B)   Exemption from fee. The town hereby exempts religious organizations
and charitable organizations from the occupational tax imposed herein. However,
tax exempt organizations other than religious and charitable organizations
which sell merchandise and services of the nature and character as a for profit
store or business are hereby required to pay the same occupational tax fee set
forth in division (A)(1) above for individuals, stores and businesses.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2) (Ord. 3-102, passed 9-10-2001)
§ 110.03 AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
   A license fee is hereby levied on coin-operated amusement devices,
including, but not limited to, video games, in the same amount as the state
license fee, or in the maximum allowed by state law, on each device. Such fee
shall be payable to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer at the same time and manner as
the state license fees are payable to the state.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 68 O.S. § 1503
§ 110.04 PAYMENT OF FEES; PRORATION.
   All license fees shall be paid annually and in advance by any individual,
store or business selling any item or service in the town. The license fee may
be prorated for a new business commencing during the second six months of a
fiscal year; the prorated fee shall be in proportion to the amount of the year
remaining during which time it will operate. At the direction of the Town
Board, the town’s Clerk-Treasurer may issue licenses to licensees, sending them
statements for fees due, and if the same is not paid within 60 days from the
due date, the license shall thereupon become null and void.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-3) (Ord. 3-102, passed 9-10-2001)
§ 110.05 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; ISSUANCE.
   Any applicant for a license shall make application upon such forms as may be
prescribed by ordinance or may be prescribed by the town’s Clerk-Treasurer. All
licenses shall be issued by the town’s Clerk-Treasurer. No license shall be
issued until all conditions prescribed by this chapter have been complied with
and a certificate of examination or inspection filed with the town’s Clerk-
Treasurer in those cases where examination or inspection is required by
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-4)
§ 110.06 TERM OF LICENSE; NON-TRANSFERABILITY.
   All licenses shall expire annually on June 30, unless a different date of
expiration is provided by the ordinance providing for the particular license.
No license shall be sold or otherwise transferred.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-5)
§ 110.07 DISPLAY OR POSSESSION OF LICENSE.
   It is the duty of any person, having obtained a license for any authorized
purpose, to have the same placed or posted in a secure manner in some public
place on the premises occupied and used for such business and where the license
may be readily seen at any time by any person entering the place of business.
Any licensee who does not occupy any certain premises for the conduct of such
licensed business shall carry his or her license on his or her person and shall
display the same whenever requested.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-6)
§ 110.08 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Authority and basis for revocation or suspension. All licenses issued
by the town shall be subject to revocation by the duly authorized officer of
the Town Board upon any breach of any condition prescribed by ordinance for the
regulation of such licensed occupation or in the event such licensee operates
such licensed occupation or business in violation of the laws of the town or
the state or in violation of any law or regulation of the United States
Government. The DULY AUTHORIZED OFFICER shall mean the town’s Clerk-Treasurer
in all instances, except when some other person or board is given the authority
by ordinance to revoke or suspend the particular license.
   (B)   Notice of revocation or suspension.
      (1)   The duly authorized officer shall either give written notice by
personal service or by mail to the licensee of the revocation of his or her
license, or the suspension of the same, which notice, if mailed, shall be
mailed to the address given on the application or license.
      (2)   The license shall stand revoked or suspended from the time of the
giving of such notice.
   (C)   Appeals. Any licensee may appeal to the Town Board from such decision
within ten days after the aforesaid notice by filing a written request with the
town’s Clerk-Treasurer for a hearing. The hearing shall be held by the Town
Board at the next regular meeting following the filing of the appeal, but may
be continued from day to day. The appealing licensee may be represented by
counsel, and the hearing shall be conducted in an informal manner, but no
license shall be revoked or suspended, except upon a preponderance of the
evidence. The Board may affirm, modify or vacate the order of revocation or
suspension, and its decision shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-7)
§ 110.09 EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS.
   The following shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   A farmer selling in town produce actually produced by him or her in
the county;
   (B)   All scientific or literary entertainers or lecturers;
   (C)   All concerts, musicals or other entertainment given exclusively by the
citizens of the town; and
   (D)   All entertainments, the proceeds from which are to be devoted to
charity or to public uses or improvements.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-8)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Occupation taxes
   
111.03   Licensing requirements
   
111.04   Certificates of compliance
   
111.05   Location of establishments
   
111.06   Separated premises required
   
111.07   Days and hours of sales and deliveries
   
111.08   Conditions of sales and conduct of business
   
111.09   Prohibited purchases and consumption
   
111.10   Persons under 21
   
111.11   Transporting alcoholic beverages
Low-Point Beer
   
111.25   Definitions
   
111.26   State permit and town license required
   
111.27   Application for license
   
111.28   License fee
   
111.29   Issuance of license
   
111.30   Expiration of license; non-transferability
   
111.31   Location restrictions
   
111.32   Days and hours of sales
   
111.33   Underage persons
   
111.34   Transporting low-point beer
   
111.35   Inspections
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Health and Sanitation; Nuisances, see
Ch. 91
   Offenses Involving Liquor and Drugs, see
Ch. 134
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Definitions of terms used in this subchapter shall be in conformity with
those provided in 37 O.S. § 506. For the purpose of this subchapter, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
   ABLE COMMISSION. The Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement Commission of the
state.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Alcohol, spirits, beer and wine as those terms are
defined in 37 O.S. § 506 and also includes every liquid or solid, patented or
not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and capable of being consumed as
a beverage by human beings, but does not include “low-point beer” as that term
is defined in §
111.25 of this chapter.
   BOTTLE CLUB. Any establishment in a county which has not authorized the
retail sale of alcoholic beverages by the individual drink, which is required
to be licensed to keep, mix and serve alcoholic beverages belonging to club
members or club premises. It includes any association, person, firm or
corporation, key club, locker club, pool club or any other kind of club or
association excluding the general public from its premises or place of meeting
or congregating or operating or exercising control over any other place where
persons are permitted to drink alcoholic beverages other than in a private
home.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 37A O.S. § 1-103
§ 111.02 OCCUPATION TAXES.
   (A)   Taxes levied.
      (1)   There is hereby levied and assessed an annual occupation tax on
every business or occupation relating to alcoholic beverages as specifically
enumerated herein and pursuant to the provisions of 37 O.S. § 554.1 in the
following amounts:
         (a)   Liquor by the drink sales: $100 for stores and businesses to
sell liquor by the drink;
         (b)   Beer sales: $50 for stores and businesses to sell beer; and
         (c)   Liquor stores: $50 for liquor stores.
      (2)   The occupation tax for those service organizations which are exempt
under I.R.C. § 501(c)(19), (8) or (10) for bottle club licenses shall be $500.
   (B)   Payment of tax.
      (1)   Payment in advance. The occupation tax levied herein shall be paid
in advance annually, on or before July 1 to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   Issuance of receipt; records kept. Upon payment of the occupation
tax, the town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a receipt, signed by the town’s
Clerk-Treasurer, to the licensee paying such occupation tax. The town’s Clerk-
Treasurer shall also record the name of the licensee and the address where the
licensee engages in his or her occupation. Such record shall be duly filed and
kept in the permanent files of the town for at least five years. Thereafter,
upon resolution by the Board of Trustees, it may be destroyed.
      (3)   Receipt posted. Any licensee shall post his or her tax receipt in a
conspicuous place on the premises wherein he or she carries on his or her
occupation.
      (4)   Proration of tax. The tax shall be prorated on a monthly basis for
the year in which an occupation begins operation.
   (C)   Scope of tax. The occupation tax shall cover only the person paying
the tax and no other or a successor thereof, and shall not be refundable.
   (D)   Failure to pay tax. All sums due from any person by reason of
occupation taxes imposed by this subchapter and all penalties accruing from
such person by reason of failure to pay such tax shall be recoverable by suit
of the town, brought against such person in any court of competent
jurisdiction. In any suit, in addition to the tax and penalties, the plaintiff
shall recover interest, at the rate of 10% per annum, upon all sums due by way
of tax and penalty from the date of accrual thereof, and all costs of
collection, judicial or otherwise, including reasonable attorney fees, all to
be determined by the court. Prosecution for an offense against the town,
arising out of the failure to pay a tax levied by this subchapter, regardless
of the outcome thereof or its continued pendency, shall not constitute a
defense or bar in any manner to the collection of the tax and penalties, if any
are due, as herein provided.
   (E)   Annual report to state. The town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall make and
transmit to the ABLE Commission an annual report showing the number and class
of licenses subject to the tax and the amount of money received therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-2) (Ord. 3-102, passed 9-10-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 37A O.S. § 4-104
§ 111.03 LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   State and town licenses required. No person shall own, operate or
maintain a retail package store or mixed beverage establishment, or
manufacture, distribute or sell any beer, spirits, wine or other alcoholic
beverage, without first obtaining valid licenses issued by the state and the
town.
   (B)   Application for license. Every person desiring to obtain a license as
provided for herein shall make application to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer on
forms to be provided setting forth the location of the business, the names of
all persons interested in the business, together with their addresses; if a
corporation, the application shall include the names of the president and
managing officer.
   (C)   Conditions of issuance.
      (1)   No licensee shall be issued a license without satisfactory showing
that the applicant has:
         (a)   Satisfied the conditions of this subchapter;
         (b)   Obtained all applicable state and county permits or licenses;
and
         (c)   Paid the tax as required herein.
      (2)   No license shall be issued or valid unless the licensee meets the
requirements of the town zoning ordinances and regulations, when implemented.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-3)
§ 111.04 CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Application for certificates. Every applicant for a certificate of
compliance with the Fire, Health and Safety Codes of the town required by 37
O.S. shall apply at the office of the town’s Clerk-Treasurer by:
      (1)   Filing a written application on forms prescribed by that office;
and
      (2)   Paying a verification and certification fee in the amount as set by
the Board of Trustees at the time of filing.
   (B)   Investigation. Upon receipt of an application for a certificate of
compliance, the town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall cause an investigation to be made
to determine whether the premises proposed for licensed operations complies
with the provisions of any Health, Fire, Building or other Safety Codes
applicable to it.
   (C)   Issuance of certificates to ABLE Commission.
      (1)   Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a certificate is
in compliance with all applicable Fire, Safety and Health Codes, a certificate
of compliance shall be issued to the ABLE Commission.
      (2)   The Town Board shall act on such applications within 20 days of
receipt thereof.
   (D)   Signatures required. The above certificates of compliance shall be
signed by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 37A O.S.
§ 111.05 LOCATION OF ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Retail package stores. No person shall own, operate, maintain or have
any interest in any retail package store which is located at a place in the
town which is forbidden as a location for such store by state laws or town
ordinances.
   (B)   Retail package stores and mixed beverage establishments.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any mixed beverage establishment, beer and
wine establishment, or bottle club which has been licensed by the ABLE
Commission and which has as its main purpose the selling or serving of
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, or retail package store,
to be located within 300 feet of any public or private school or church
property primarily and regularly used for worship services and religious
activities.
      (2)   The distance indicated in this division (B) shall be measured from
the nearest property line of such public or private school or church to the
nearest perimeter wall of the premises of any such mixed beverage
establishment, beer and wine establishment, bottle club or retail package store
which has been licensed to sell alcoholic beverages.
      (3)   The provisions of this division (B) shall not apply to mixed
beverage establishments, beer and wine establishments or bottle clubs, which
have been licensed to sell alcoholic beverages for on premises consumption or
retail package stores prior to 11-1-2000; provided, if, at the time of
application for license renewal, the licensed location has not been in actual
operation for a continuous period of more than 60 days, the license shall not
be renewed.
      (4)   If any school or church shall be established within 300 feet of any
retail package store, mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine establishment
or bottle club subject to the provisions of this division (B) after such retail
package store, mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine establishment or
bottle club has been licensed, the provisions of this division (B) shall not be
a deterrent to the renewal of such license if there has not been a lapse of
more than 60 days.
      (5)   When any mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine establishment,
or bottle club subject to the provisions of this division (B) which has a
license to sell alcoholic beverages for on premises consumption or retail
package store changes ownership or the operator thereof is changed and such
change of ownership results in the same type of business being conducted on the
premises, the provisions of this division (B) shall not be a deterrent to the
issuance of a license to the new owner or operator if he or she is otherwise
qualified.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-5)
§ 111.06 SEPARATED PREMISES REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall maintain, operate or assist in any manner in the
maintenance or operation of a package store upon premises which are not
separated from adjoining premises, on which any other goods, wares or
merchandise are sold or services are rendered, by non-transparent walls, broken
only, if at all, by a passage to which the public is not admitted.
   (B)   No person shall take any alcoholic beverage through such passageway
for the purpose of selling or reselling such beverage, or for the purpose of
delivery thereof in connection with a sale of such beverage.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-6) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 DAYS AND HOURS OF SALES AND DELIVERIES.
   (A)   No licensee shall engage in retail sale of alcoholic beverages on such
days and times as prohibited by state law.
   (B)   No package store licensee shall sell or keep a package store premises
open for the purpose of selling any alcoholic beverages at any hour than
between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday;
provided that, no such sales shall be made, or package store premises be
allowed to remain open for the purpose of making such sales, on the day of any
general, primary, runoff primary or special election while the polls are open
whether on a national, state, county or city election or on New Year’s Day,
Memorial Day, the Fourth of July, Labor Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day or
Christmas Day.
   (C)   No alcoholic beverages may be sold, dispensed, served or consumed on
the premises of a bottle club between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m.
   (D)   No wholesale dealer in alcoholic beverages shall sell or deliver to
any package store any amount of spirits or wines on Saturday or Sunday of any
week or on New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, the Fourth of July, Labor Day,
Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day or Christmas Day.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-7) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 CONDITIONS OF SALES AND CONDUCT OF BUSINESS.
   No licensee shall:
   (A)   Alcohol as prizes. Give any alcoholic beverage as a prize, premium or
consideration for any lottery, game of chance or skill or any type of
competition; or
   (B)   Happy hours. Advertise or offer “happy hours” or any other means or
inducements to stimulate the consumption of alcoholic beverages, including:
      (1)   Delivering more than two drinks to one person at one time;
      (2)   Selling or offering to sell to any person or group of persons any
drinks at a price less than the price regularly charged for such drinks during
the same calendar week, except at private functions not open to the public;
      (3)   Selling or offering to sell to any person an unlimited number of
drinks during any set period of time for a fixed price, except at private
functions not open to the public;
      (4)   Selling or offering to sell drinks to any person or group of
persons on any one day at prices less than those charged the general public on
that day, except at private functions not open to the public;
      (5)   Increasing the volume of alcoholic beverages contained in a drink
without increasing proportionately the price regularly charged for such drink
during the same calendar week; or
      (6)   Encouraging or permitting, on the licensed premises, any game or
contest which involves drinking or the awarding of drinks as prizes.
   (C)   Obscene, lewd conduct or entertainment.
      (1)   Allow any person on the premises where low-point beer or alcoholic
beverages are sold or dispensed for consumption on the premises of the licensee
where such person is unclothed or in such attire, costume or clothing as to
expose to view any portion of the female breast below the top of the areola or
any portion of the pubic area, buttocks or genitalia;
      (2)   Permit any person to perform acts of, or acts which simulate sexual
acts;
      (3)   Permit any person to use artificial devices or inanimate objects to
depict any lewd activities;
      (4)   Permit the showing of films, still pictures, electronic
reproduction or other visual reproduction depicting any of the prohibited acts
in this division (C);
      (5)   The performance by any person of acts, or simulated acts, of sexual
intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or
any sexual acts which are otherwise prohibited by law; or
      (6)   The actual intentional touching or caressing or fondling by any
person of the breasts, anus or genitals.
   (D)   Soliciting drinks. Permit any drink solicitation, or request from a
patron to purchase any low- point beer or alcoholic beverage for consumption on
the premises of the licensee, as the term “premises” is defined in the statutes
of the state.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-8) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09 PROHIBITED PURCHASES AND CONSUMPTION.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Purchase any alcoholic beverage at retail or wholesale from any person
other than a dealer licensed by the ABLE Commission;
   (B)   Except as otherwise permitted in this subchapter, drink any alcoholic
beverage in public, except on the premises of a licensee who is authorized to
sell or serve alcoholic beverages by the individual drink or be intoxicated in
a public place;
   (C)   Open a container of alcoholic beverages or consume alcoholic beverages
on the premises of a retail package store; or
   (D)   Possess more than one liter of any alcoholic beverage unless the state
tax has been paid thereon, except as may be otherwise provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-9) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.10 PERSONS UNDER 21.
   (A)   Sales to. No person shall sell, deliver, furnish or give any alcoholic
beverage to any person under the age of 21 years; except, that this division
(A) shall not apply to a parent or guardian as regards his or her child or
children.
   (B)   Presence on premises.
      (1)   No licensee shall permit any person under 21 years of age to enter,
remain within or be about the premises of a retail package store or mixed
beverage establishment.
      (2)   No person under 21 years of age shall enter, remain within or be
about the premises of a retail package store or mixed beverage establishment.
   (C)   Misrepresentation of age. No person shall misrepresent his or her age
either orally or in writing or by presenting false or altered documentation of
age for the purpose of inducing any person to sell him or her alcoholic
beverages.
   (D)   Employment. No licensee shall employ any person under the age of 21 in
the selling or handling of alcoholic beverages; provided that, a mixed
beverage, beer and wine, caterer, special event or bottle club licensee may
employ servers who are at least 18 years of age, except persons under 21 years
of age may not serve in designated bar or lounge areas, and a mixed beverage,
beer and wine, caterer, special event or bottle club licensee may employ or
hire musical bands who have musicians who are under 21 years of age if each
such musician is either accompanied by a parent or legal guardian or has on
his, her or their person, to be made available for inspection upon demand by
any ABLE Commission officer or law enforcement officer, a written, notarized
affidavit from the parent or legal guardian giving the underage musician
permission to perform in designated bar or lounge areas.
   (E)   Possession. No person under 21 years of age shall be in possession of
any alcoholic beverage while such person is upon any public street, road,
highway or in any public place.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-10) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.11 TRANSPORTING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly transport alcoholic beverages in any vehicle
upon any public highway, street or alley unless in the original container which
is unopened, the seal unbroken and the original cap or cork shall not have been
removed.
   (B)   This section shall not apply if the opened container is in the rear
trunk or compartment or the spare tire compartment in a vehicle commonly known
as a station wagon or panel truck, or in any outside compartment which is
inaccessible to the driver or any passenger while the vehicle is in motion.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-11) Penalty, see §
111.99
Cross-reference:
   Traffic Code, see Title VII
LOW-POINT BEER
§ 111.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOW-POINT BEER. All beverages containing more than 0.5% alcohol by volume,
and not more than 3.2% alcohol by weight.
   MINOR. A person who, in accordance with state law, has not yet attained the
age at which the consumption of low-point beer is permitted.
   RETAIL DEALER. Any and all persons who sell, distribute or dispense any low-
point beer at retail to the public for consumption or use, whether consumed on
the premises or not.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-1)
§ 111.26 STATE PERMIT AND TOWN LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   State permit. No person shall engage in the business of selling,
offering for sale or distributing any low-point beer, at retail, for
consumption or use, without first having obtained a state permit to do so and,
in cases where such beverages are consumed on the premises, a permit as
provided by the statutes of the state.
   (B)   Town license. No person shall sell, distribute or dispense any low-
point beer at retail to the public without first having obtained a license to
do so from the town, and making payment in advance to the town’s Clerk-
Treasurer in the amount as provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-2) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.27 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   An applicant for a retail dealer’s license or renewal of such license shall
deposit the required fee with the town’s Clerk-Treasurer and submit an
application on the form provided containing the information required by the
town.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-3)
§ 111.28 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual fee for a license under this subchapter for retail dealers
selling low-point beer for consumption on or off the premises, and retail
dealers selling low-point beer in original packages and not for consumption on
the premises shall be as provided in §
111.02 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-4)
§ 111.29 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Licenses required by this subchapter shall be issued by the town’s Clerk-
Treasurer upon payment of the required fee and compliance by the applicant with
all applicable ordinances of the town, and upon a satisfactory showing that the
applicant has obtained such state and county permits as are required by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-5)
§ 111.30 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE; NON-TRANSFERABILITY.
   The license shall expire annually on June 30, and no license issued
hereunder is transferable.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-6)
§ 111.31 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   No person shall own, operate, maintain or have any interest in any retail
establishment which is located at a place in the town which is forbidden as a
location for such establishment by state laws or town ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-7) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.32 DAYS AND HOURS OF SALES.
   (A)   No retail dealer licensed to sell low-point beer shall sell such
beverages for consumption on the premises on Sundays between the hours of 2:00
a.m. and 12:00 p.m. or between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on any
other day.
   (B)   No retail dealer of any business selling low-point beer, as that term
is defined in this subchapter, for consumption on the premises, nor any
operator, agent or employee of the retail dealer, shall permit any person, who
has in his or her possession an open container having as its contents a low-
point beer, to remain in the premises between the hours of 2:15 a.m. and 12:00
p.m. on Sunday, or between the hours of 2:15 a.m. and 7:00 a.m., Monday through
Saturday. No person, having in his or her possession an open container having
as its contents a low-point beer, shall remain in the premises between the
hours of 2:01 a.m. to 7:00 a.m., Monday through Saturday, or between the hours
of 2:01 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. on Sundays. For the purpose of this section, an
OPEN CONTAINER shall mean any receptacle containing low-point beer or alcoholic
beverage, to include the original container of the beverage where the original
seal has been broken or opened.
   (C)   No retail dealer licensed to sell low-point beer shall sell such
beverages for consumption off the premises on any day between 2:00 a.m. and 6:
00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-8) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.33 UNDERAGE PERSONS.
   (A)   Sales to. It is unlawful for any person who holds a license to sell
and dispense low-point beer, or any agent, servant or employee of the license
holder, to sell, barter or give to any minor any low- point beer. This division
(A) shall not apply to a parent as regards his or her own child or children.
   (B)   Presence on premises.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person who holds a license to sell and
dispense low-point beer for consumption on the premises, or any agent, servant
or employee of the license holder, to permit any minor to be admitted to or
remain in a separate or enclosed bar area of the licensed premises which has as
its main purpose the selling or serving of low-point beer for consumption on
the premises, unless the minor’s parent or legal guardian is present. The
provisions of this division (B)(1) shall not prohibit minors from being
admitted to an area which has as its main purpose some objective other than the
sale or serving of low-point beer, in which sales or serving of the beverages
are incidental to the main purpose, as long as minors are not sold or served
the beverages; however, the incidental service of food in the bar area shall
not except a licensee, agent, servant, or employee from the provisions of this
division (B)(1).
      (2)   If the premises of a holder of a license to sell low-point beer
contains a separate or enclosed bar area which has as its main purpose the sale
or serving of low-point beer for consumption on the premises, no minor shall
enter, attempt to enter or remain in the area. The provisions of this division
(B)(2) shall not prohibit minors from entering or remaining in an area which
has as its main purpose some objective other than the sale or serving of low-
point beer, in which sales or serving of the beverages are incidental to the
main purpose, if the minors are not sold or served or do not consume low- point
beer anywhere on the premises; however, the incidental service of food in the
bar area shall not exempt minors from the provisions of this division (B)(2). A
showing by competent testimony that a minor was found upon premises of a retail
dealer shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this division (B)(2).
   (C)   Misrepresentation of age. No person shall represent his or her age
either orally or in writing or by presenting false or altered documentation of
age for the purpose of inducing any person to sell him or her low-point beer.
   (D)   Employment.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person under 18 years of age to be employed
or permitted to work, in any capacity whatsoever, in a place where low-point
beer is sold or dispensed for consumption on the premises. The provisions of
this division (D)(1) shall not apply to any business or establishment where
sales of the beverages do not exceed 25% of the gross sales of the business or
establishment.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any minor to be employed or permitted to work,
in any capacity whatsoever, in the separate or enclosed bar area of a place
where the main purpose of the area is the sale or consumption of low-point
beer. The provisions of this division (D)(2) shall not apply to any area which
has as its main purpose some objective other than the sale or serving of low-
point beer, in which sales or serving of the beverages are incidental to the
main purpose; however, the incidental service of food in the bar area shall not
exempt a holder of a license to sell low-point beer for consumption on the
premises from the provisions of this division (D)(2).
      (3)   A parent, as regards the employment of his or her own child or
children, is excepted from the provisions of this division (D)(3); provided
that, such employment shall in no capacity whatsoever be related to the selling
or dispensing of such beverages.
   (E)   Possession. No minor shall be in possession of any low-point beer
while such person is upon any public street, building or place.
   (F)   Consumption.
      (1)   No minor shall consume or possess with intent to consume low-point
beer in any public place.
      (2)   The provisions of this division (F) shall not apply when such
persons are under the direct supervision of their parent or guardian; but in no
instance shall this exception be interpreted to allow such persons to consume
such beverages in any place licensed to dispense low-point beer as provided for
in 37 O.S. § 163.11.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-9) Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 37A O.S. § 3-108
§ 111.34 TRANSPORTING LOW-POINT BEER.
   No person shall knowingly transport in any moving vehicle upon a public
highway, street or alley within the town any low-point beer, except in the
original container which shall have not been opened and from which the original
cap or seal shall have not been removed, unless the opened container be in the
rear trunk or rear compartment, which shall include the spare tire compartment
in a station wagon or panel truck, or any outside compartment which is not
accessible to the driver or any other person in the vehicle while it is in
motion.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-10) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.35 INSPECTIONS.
   Town officers may make inspections of all places of business where low-point
beer is sold, distributed or dispensed at retail, for the purpose of enforcing
the laws and for ascertaining whether the operators thereof are complying with
the requirements of the law relating to the handling of low-point beer.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-11)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
111.33(F) of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, or by appropriate community service not to
exceed 20 hours.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-9)
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT VENDORS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Licenses required; exemptions
   
112.03   Applications for licenses
   
112.04   Investigation of applicant; issuance or denial of license; appeal
   
112.05   Bond requirements
   
112.06   Signed document for service of process
   
112.07   License fee and exemptions
   
112.08   Display of license
   
112.09   Food sales
   
112.10   Uninvited peddling or soliciting
   
112.11   Revocation of license
   
112.12   Provisions cumulative; conflicts
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL. Soliciting for a business purpose which is intended to be for
profit and is not intended to be charitable, religious, not for profit or
political.
   ITINERANT. Having no regular place of doing business or soliciting in the
town and includes, but is not limited to, making regular delivery or providing
goods over an established route through the town.
   PEDDLER. A person soliciting commercial orders for goods or services which
are to be provided from stocks or goods carried with the peddler or which are
services provided by the peddler at the time the order is made.
   SOLICITING. All activities of peddlers, solicitors and vendors attempting to
obtain business. Such activities may include, but are not limited to,
distribution of handbills or leaflets to the public directly or by placing them
in a mailbox, on a doorknob or otherwise on any property; coming personally
onto any property for the purposes defined herein; calling the occupants of any
property by telephone for the purposes herein defined; or calling or inviting
any prospective customers to purchase or obtain merchandise, product or
service.
   SOLICITOR. A person soliciting commercial orders for goods or services which
are to be provided or shipped to the consumer at a later date.
   VENDOR. Any person engaged in a business or occupation selling or offering
to sell any merchandise, product or service, and includes, but is not limited
to, peddlers and solicitors.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-1)
§ 112.02 LICENSES REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Individual license. Any itinerant vendor, solicitor or peddler shall
obtain a license from the town prior to any soliciting in the town, unless
exempted herein, to cover each person who will be soliciting and each location
or separate place of business.
   (B)   Blanket license for itinerant vendors.
      (1)   Owners or lessees of buildings in which itinerant vendors operate
or locate must obtain a blanket license covering all itinerant vendors who will
be established in the building controlled by the owner or lessee.
      (2)   Governmental agencies owning public buildings may arrange a letter
of agreement with the town in lieu of a license if licensing is contrary to the
regulations governing the governmental agency.
      (3)   In such a case, the letter of agreement will provide for the same
requirements as are shown in this chapter and will provide that the town
receive half the rental fee paid by the itinerant vendor until the town’s
receipts equal the amount required for a blanket license fee.
   (C)   Exemptions from license. The following are exempt from the license
requirements of this chapter:
      (1)   Farmers and truck gardeners from lands owned, cultivated or
controlled by them, who offer for sale or sell, or who solicit and sell from
house to house, vegetables, butter, eggs and farm products produced and raised
by the farmers and truck gardeners from such land; and
      (2)   Needy ex-service persons holding a certificate duly issued by a
district judge having jurisdiction as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-2)
§ 112.03 APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES.
   (A)   Individual license. Applicants for licenses shall file during regular
business hours a written application signed by the applicant, if an individual;
by all partners, if a partnership; and by a qualified corporate officer, if a
corporation, with the Clerk-Treasurer, showing:
      (1)   Name and address of person or persons having the management or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the town; the location or address of such person or persons
when engaged in such business; the permanent address or addresses of such
person or persons; the capacity in which such person or persons will act; the
name and address of the person, firm or corporation for whose account the
business will be carried on, if any, and if a corporation, under the laws of
what state the same is incorporated;
      (2)   The place or places in the town where it is proposed to carry on
the applicant’s business and the length of time during which it is proposed
that the business be conducted;
      (3)   Place or places, other than permanent place of business of the
applicant, within the six months next preceding the date of the application,
where the applicant has conducted a transient business;
      (4)   The nature of the goods or products being sold; that is, whether
they are “seconds”, rejects or first line quality, and whether any warranty
applies to the items being sold; if a warranty applies, the period of the
warranty and the name and address of the warrantor and the procedures for
filing for the adjustment or refund shall be specified;
      (5)   A statement that the applicant agrees to the requirement to pay all
state and town sales taxes due on all items which are subject to sales taxes
and recognizes that a copy of all applications will be provided to the local
office of the state’s Tax Commission;
      (6)   Current state sales tax permit number;
      (7)   Current license or permit, if any, which may be required by state
law or ordinances of the town for the particular activity or business;
      (8)   If a motor vehicle is to be used in the business, a description of
the vehicle together with motor vehicle registration number and the license
number for the vehicle:
         (a)   Proof of liability insurance required by state law; and
         (b)   Proof or verification from the insurance carrier that the town’s
Clerk-Treasurer will be provided at least ten days’ notice of any cancellation.
      (9)   Proof of 501(c)(3) tax status, if claiming exemption from the
license fees.
   (B)   Blanket license for itinerant vendors. Applicants for a blanket
itinerant vendor license shall file during regular business hours a written
application signed by the applicant, if an individual; by all partners, if a
partnership; and by a corporation officer, if a corporation, with the Clerk-
Treasurer showing:
      (1)   Name and address of person or persons having the management or
supervision of the building in which itinerant vendor shall conduct business;
      (2)   Name and address of the person or persons having the management or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that is proposed to be
carried on in the town; the location or address of such person or persons when
engaged in such business; the permanent address or addresses of such person or
persons; the capacity in which such person or persons will act; the name and
address of the person, firm or corporation for whose account the business will
be carried on, if any, and if a corporation, under the laws of what state the
same is incorporated and licensed to operate in the state;
      (3)   A general description of the products or services that will be sold
by the itinerant vendor;
      (4)   A statement that the applicant shall establish the following
controls over itinerant vendors and shall maintain records concerning each
itinerant vendor for one year after the engagement dates involving the
itinerant vendors:
         (a)   The applicant shall determine the names and addresses of each
salesperson involved locally for an itinerant vendor and determine the names
and permanent addresses of the parent company, if any, controlling the
itinerant vendor;
         (b)   The applicant shall determine the nature of the merchandise or
product to be sold, determine whether it is a “reject” line or seconds,
determine whether there are warranties on the product, and how any complaint is
to be filed for warranty adjustment. The applicant shall require that the
vendor display a sign prominent enough to disclose to all potential customers
that the product consists of seconds, rejects or irregulars if such is the
case;
         (c)   The applicant shall inform each vendor of the requirement to pay
state and town sales taxes and shall forward the name, product involved, and
dates of the vendor’s engagement to the local office of the state’s Tax
Commission. Further, the applicant will furnish the vendor with one copy of the
state sales tax report form and require him or her to certify that he or she
will submit a sales tax report at the conclusion of his or her engagement in
the town;
         (d)   The applicant shall post proof of liability insurance policy in
effect in the amount of $25,000;
         (e)   The applicant shall provide copies of all ordinances,
regulations, tax forms and the like to each itinerant vendor and provide the
town with a statement signed by the vendor agreeing to comply with same; and
         (f)   The applicant shall post a notice with the town 30 days in
advance, listing each itinerant vendor establishing a business.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-3)
§ 112.04 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSE; APPEAL.
   (A)   All applications for licensing shall be immediately referred for
investigation as to the truth thereof, which investigation shall be conducted
within ten business days after the application and fee are deposited with the
town.
   (B)   If the town finds no past history of the applicant indicating
violations of this code and that the application is properly made and truthful,
a license shall be issued to the approved applicant upon payment of the fee
therefor and the filing of the required bond.
   (C)   In all matters of denial of the license, the applicant shall be
forthwith advised thereof.
   (D)   The applicant shall be advised that an appeal of a denied license may
be submitted to the town’s Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-4)
§ 112.05 BOND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Before any license as provided by this chapter shall be issued, the
applicant shall file a bond running to the town. A person engaging in business
as an itinerant vendor shall file a bond in the sum set forth in the bond
schedule on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer, secured by the applicant
as principal and two sureties upon whom service of process may be made in the
state.
   (B)   All such bonds shall be approved by the Town Attorney and conditioned
that:
      (1)   Applicant shall comply with all of the provisions of the ordinances
of the town and the statutes of the state regulating and concerning the sale of
goods or wares and merchandise; and
      (2)   Applicant will pay all judgments rendered against the applicant for
any violation of the ordinances or statutes, or any of them, together with all
judgments and costs that may be recovered against applicant by any person or
persons for damage growing out of any misrepresentation or deceptive practice
by any person transacting such business with such applicant, whether such
misrepresentation or deception was made or practiced by the owner or by the
service, agents or employees, either at the time of making the sale or through
any advertisement of any character whatsoever, printed or circulated with
reference to the goods, wares and merchandise sold or any part thereof. Any
action on the bond may be brought in the name of the town to the use of the
aggrieved person.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-5)
§ 112.06 SIGNED DOCUMENT FOR SERVICE OF PROCESS.
   Before any license for an itinerant vendor, as herein provided, shall be
issued, such applicant shall file with the town an instrument nominating and
appointing the town’s Clerk-Treasurer his or her true and lawful agent, with
full power and authority to acknowledge service of notice of process for and on
behalf of the applicant in respect to any matters connected with or arising out
of the business transaction under the license and the bond given as required by
this chapter, or for the performance of the conditions of the bond or for any
breach thereof. The instrument shall also contain recitals to the effect that
the applicant for the license consents and agrees that service of any notices
or process may be made upon the agent and, when so made, shall be taken and
held to be as valid as if personally served on the person or persons applying
for the license under this chapter, according to the laws of the State of
Oklahoma or any other state and waiving all claims or right of error by reason
of such acknowledgment of service or manner of service. Immediately upon
service of process upon the town’s Clerk-Treasurer, as herein provided, the
town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall send to the licensee at his or her last known
address, by certified mail, a copy of the notice.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-6)
§ 112.07 LICENSE FEE AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Fee established. The fee for licenses herein required shall be as
provided in §
110.02(A)(1)(d) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Exemptions.
      (1)   The fees may be waived for educational, charitable, or religious
groups qualifying as 501(c)(3) organizations who make house to house
solicitations.
      (2)   Any person who desires to be exempt from the license fees levied
under this chapter due to engaging in interstate commerce shall provide
sufficient data on transactions and proof to the town to establish the
interstate commerce nature of his or her business and transactions. If the town
refuses to issue an interstate commerce exemption for the license fees to a
commercial business activity, then the applicant is entitled to a hearing
before the appropriate judge.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-7)
§ 112.08 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   At all times, there shall be posted in a conspicuous place upon each
licensee if an individual, vehicle or booth used by a licensee, or building or
premises, as appropriate for blanket licenses a badge, tag or card issued by
the town as proof of issuance of a license. The card, tag or badge shall state
the name of the licensee and the date of expiration of the license. Blanket
licenses shall be displayed and readily available for inspection by the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-8)
§ 112.09 FOOD SALES.
   (A)   All applicants for license to sell foods and merchandise for human or
animal consumption shall have their application for license approved in
accordance with the applicable state food establishment requirements before the
licenses are issued.
   (B)   The sale of food requires an individual license not covered by blanket
licenses.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-9)
§ 112.10 UNINVITED PEDDLING OR SOLICITING.
   The practice of going in and upon private residences in the town by
solicitors, peddlers, hawkers, itinerant vendors and transient vendors of
merchandise and service, not having been requested or invited to do so by the
owner or occupant of the private residence, for the purpose of soliciting
orders for merchandise or services, or for the purpose of selling, disposing or
providing the same, is hereby declared to be a nuisance and punishable as
provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-10)
§ 112.11 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license issued by the town may be revoked by the town’s Board of
Trustees, after adequate opportunity for hearing, for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   The licensee, or his or her agents or employees, have created or are
creating a public nuisance; and/or
   (B)   The licensee, or his or her agents or employees, have violated any
provision of this code related to the license or business or other violation of
this code or applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-11)
§ 112.12 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE; CONFLICTS.
   (A)   The requirements of this chapter are cumulative to any provisions of
state law or town ordinances regulating or governing any of the activities
licensed herein.
   (B)   In the case of any conflict between the provisions of this chapter and
those of any other town ordinance or state law, the more restrictive
requirements shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-12)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-13)
CHAPTER 113: TOBACCO
Section
   
113.01   Findings and intent
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Distribution and sales; identification required
   
113.04   Distribution of samples
   
113.05   Sale in original, sealed package
   
113.06   Possession by minors; falsifying proof of age
   
113.07   Reports to state
   
113.08   Non-retaliation
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees finds that youth addiction to tobacco products
is a public health problem with grave health consequences. In recognition that
almost 90% of all smokers begin smoking by the age of 18, action is needed to
curtail the easy access of minors to cigarettes and other addictive tobacco
products. Furthermore, the Board of Trustees finds that the state legislature
has limited the powers granted to local governments to address the problem of
youth access to tobacco.
   (B)   Therefore, the intent of this chapter is to:
      (1)   Implement the strictest and most enforceable system allowed under
state law to prevent the illegal sale of cigarettes and other tobacco products
to minors;
      (2)   Periodically amend and update this chapter as necessary to best
utilize any applicable powers which may be returned to municipalities in the
future; and
      (3)   Educate, encourage and assist underage tobacco users in ceasing all
use of addictive tobacco products, preferably before daily use of such products
is initiated.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-1) (Ord. 1-1998, passed 1-5-1998)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, fiduciary, partnership, corporation, trust or
association, however formed.
   PROOF OF AGE. A driver’s license, license for identification only or other
generally accepted means of identification that describes the individual as 18
years of age or older and contains a photograph or other likeness of the
individual and appears on its face to be valid.
   SAMPLE. A tobacco product distributed to members of the public at no cost
for the purpose of promoting the product.
   SAMPLING. The distribution of samples to members of the public in a public
place.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for human
consumption.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-2) (Ord. 1-1998, passed 1-5-1998)
§ 113.03 DISTRIBUTION AND SALES; IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Furnishing to underage persons. It is unlawful for any person to sell
or furnish in any manner any tobacco product to another person who is under 18
years of age, or to purchase in any manner a tobacco product on behalf of any
such person. It shall not be unlawful for an employee under 18 years of age to
handle tobacco products when required in the performance of the employee’s
duties.
   (B)   Demand proof of age.
      (1)   A person engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco products
shall demand proof of age from a prospective purchaser or recipient if an
ordinary person would conclude on the basis of appearance that the prospective
purchaser may be under 18 years of age.
      (2)   If an individual engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco
products has demanded proof of age from a prospective purchaser or recipient
who is not under 18 years of age, the failure to subsequently require proof of
age shall not constitute a violation of this section.
      (3)   If the sale is made by an employee of the owner of a store at which
tobacco products are sold at retail, the employee shall be guilty of the
violation and shall be subject to the fine.
      (4)   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown and reasonably relied
upon proof of age shall be a defense to any action brought pursuant to this
section.
   (C)   Liability for violations. For purposes of determining the liability of
a person controlling franchises or business operations in multiple locations
for any violation of division (A) above, each individual franchise or business
location shall be deemed a separate entity.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-3) (Ord. 1-1998, passed 1-5-1998) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 DISTRIBUTION OF SAMPLES.
   (A)   No person shall distribute tobacco product samples in or on any public
street, sidewalk or park that is within 300 feet of any playground, school or
other facility when the facility is being used primarily by persons under 18
years of age.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or retailer to distribute tobacco
products or product samples to any person under 18 years of age.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-4) (Ord. 1-1998, passed 1-5-1998) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05 SALE IN ORIGINAL, SEALED PACKAGE.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell cigarettes except in the original,
sealed package in which they were placed by the manufacturer.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-5) (Ord. 1-1998, passed 1-5-1998) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.06 POSSESSION BY MINORS; FALSIFYING PROOF OF AGE.
   (A)   Prohibitions. Except as provided under §
113.03(A) of this chapter, it is unlawful for a person who is under 18 years of
age to purchase, receive or have in his or her possession a tobacco product, or
to present or offer to any person any purported proof of age which is false or
fraudulent for the purpose of purchasing or receiving any tobacco product.
   (B)   Consequences; tobacco education, tobacco-related community service;
procedure.
      (1)   Upon conviction of an individual for an offense under division (A)
above, the court shall suspend execution of sentence and shall require the
defendant to attend a tobacco education program. The court shall require the
parent or guardian of the defendant to attend the tobacco education program
with the defendant.
      (2)   If access to the tobacco education program is not readily
available, the court shall require the defendant to perform eight to 12 hours
of tobacco-related community service instead of attending a tobacco education
program.
      (3)   The tobacco education program and the tobacco-related community
service are remedial and are not punishment.
      (4)   No later than the ninetieth day after the date of conviction under
division (A) above, the defendant shall present to the court, in a manner
required by the court, evidence of satisfactory completion of the tobacco
education program or the tobacco-related community service.
      (5)   On receipt of the evidence required under division (B)(4) above,
the court shall:
         (a)   If the defendant has been convicted of a previous offense under
division (A) above, which offense occurred within one year prior to the offense
for which the defendant is currently charged, execute the sentence and, at the
discretion of the court, assess a fine of not less than $10 and not more than
$200.
         (b)   If the defendant has not been convicted of a previous offense
under division (A) above, which offense occurred within one year prior to the
offense for which the defendant is currently charged, dismiss the complaint and
discharge the defendant.
      (6)   If the court dismisses the complaint under division (B)(5)(b)
above, the defendant is released from all penalties and disabilities resulting
from the offense; except that, the defendant is considered to have been
convicted of the offense if the defendant is subsequently convicted of the same
charge if such a repeat offense occurs within one year of the dismissed
offense.
   (C)   Expungement of conviction. Any person convicted of an offense under
division (A) above may apply to the court to have the conviction expunged. If
the court finds that the individual satisfactorily completed the tobacco
education program or tobacco-related community service ordered by the court and
that there has been no subsequent offense for a period of at least one year
after the date of the offense for which the person was convicted, the court
shall order the conviction and any complaint, verdict, sentence or other
document relating to the offense to be expunged from the individual’s record,
and the conviction may not be shown or made known for any purpose.
   (D)   Suspension of driver’s license. If the defendant does not provide the
evidence required under division (B)(4) above within the period specified by
that subsection or upon failure of the defendant to pay any fine authorized by
this section within 90 days of the day of the assessment of such fine, the
Court Clerk or his or her designee shall notify the state’s Department of
Public Safety, as such Department is authorized to suspend or not issue a
driver’s license to the person until the required evidence or proof of payment
has been provided.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-6) (Ord. 1-1998, passed 1-5-1998)
§ 113.07 REPORTS TO STATE.
   The town’s Clerk-Treasurer or his or her designee shall furnish any
information or reports required or requested by the state’s Alcoholic Beverages
Laws Enforcement (ABLE) Commission in the form, manner and time as may be
determined by the ABLE Commission.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-7) (Ord. 1-1998, passed 1-5-1998)
§ 113.08 NON-RETALIATION.
   No person shall discharge, refuse to hire or in any manner retaliate against
any employee, applicant for employment or customer because such employee,
applicant or customer reported violations of any provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-8) (Ord. 1-1998, passed 1-5-1998) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall violate §
113.03(A) of this chapter shall be guilty of an offense and may be assessed a
fine of not more than $100 for the first offense and $200 for the second
offense or subsequent offense within a one-year period.
      (2)   Upon failure of any person to pay any fine authorized by division
(B)(1) above within 90 days of the day of the assessment of such fine, the
Court Clerk or his or her designee shall notify the state’s Department of
Public Safety, as such Department is authorized to suspend or not issue a
driver’s license to the person until proof of payment has been provided.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-3)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who shall violate §
113.04 of this chapter shall be guilty of an offense and may be assessed a fine
of not more than $100 for the first offense and $200 for the second offense or
subsequent offense within a one-year period.
      (2)   Upon failure of any person to pay any fine authorized by this
division (C) within 90 days of the day of the assessment of such fine, the
Court Clerk or his or her designee shall notify the state’s Department of
Public Safety, as such Department is authorized to suspend or not issue a
driver’s license to the person until proof of payment has been provided.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-4)
   (D)   Any person who shall violate §
113.05 of this chapter shall be guilty of an offense and may be assessed a fine
of not more than $200 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-4A-5)
(Ord. 1-1998, passed 1-5-1998)
CHAPTER 114: FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
114.01   State regulations adopted
   
114.02   Permit required; fee
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   The latest edition of the Oklahoma State Department Of Health Rules And
Regulations Pertaining To Food Establishments is hereby adopted and
incorporated by reference in this code. At least one copy of the rules and
regulations shall be on file in the office of the town’s Clerk-Treasurer. The
rules and regulations shall govern, except in case of conflict with the
provisions of this chapter, in which case, the more restrictive terms shall
prevail.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-1)
§ 114.02 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   Annual permits are required for operation of food service establishments.
The fee for such permit shall be as set out in §
110.02(A)(1)(d) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-2)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as
provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Such person may also be enjoined from
continuing such violations. Each day upon which such a violation occurs shall
constitute a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-3)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES INVOLVING PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS AND PUBLIC PEACE
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST HEALTH, WELFARE AND MORALS
      
134.   OFFENSES INVOLVING LIQUOR AND DRUGS
      
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Attempts to commit an offense
   
130.02   Aiding in an offense
   
130.03   Conspiracy to commit an offense
   
130.04   Capacity to commit an offense
   
130.05   Lawful use of force
   
130.06   Intoxication no defense
   
130.07   Witness, self-incrimination
   
130.08   Time limit on actions
   
130.09   Authority to issue ticket or citation
§ 130.01 ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE.
   Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the ordinances of the
town, and in such attempt does any act toward the commission of such offense,
but fails or is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration thereof, is guilty
of an offense and shall be punished in the manner prescribed for the attempted
offense itself.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-1)
§ 130.02 AIDING IN AN OFFENSE.
   Whenever in this code any act or omission is made unlawful or prohibited, it
shall include causing, allowing, permitting, aiding, abetting or concealing the
fact of such act or omission. When no punishment for counseling or aiding in
the commission of a particular offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance,
every person who counsels or aids another in the commission of such is guilty
of an offense, or misdemeanor, and punishable in the same manner as the
principal offender.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-2)
§ 130.03 CONSPIRACY TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE.
   Any two or more persons assembled or who shall assemble with the intent to
mutually agree to do any unlawful act with force or violence and shall make any
movement therefor against the property of the town or the person or property of
another person shall be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3)
§ 130.04 CAPACITY TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE.
   All persons are capable of committing an offense as herein provided, except
those belonging to the classes following:
   (A)   Children under the age of seven years;
   (B)   Children over the age of seven years, but under the age of 14 years,
in the absence of proof that at the time of committing the act or neglect
charged against them, they knew its wrongfulness;
   (C)   Persons who are impaired by reason of mental retardation upon proof
that at the time of committing the act charged against them they were incapable
of knowing its wrongfulness;
   (D)   Mentally ill persons, and all persons of unsound mind, including
persons temporarily or partially deprived of reason, upon proof that at the
time of committing the act charged against them they were incapable of knowing
its wrongfulness;
   (E)   Persons who committed the act, or made the omission charged, under an
ignorance or mistake of fact which disproves any criminal intent. But ignorance
of the law does not excuse from punishment for its violation;
   (F)   Persons who committed the act charged without being conscious thereof;
and
   (G)   Persons who committed the act, or made the omission charged, while
under involuntary subjection to the power of superiors.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-4)
§ 130.05 LAWFUL USE OF FORCE.
   (A)   To use or to attempt to offer to use force upon or toward the person
of another is not unlawful in the town in the following cases:
      (1)   When necessarily committed by a public officer in the performance
of any legal duty or by any other person assisting him or her or acting by his
or her direction;
      (2)   When necessarily committed by any person in arresting one who has
committed any felony, and delivering him or her to a public officer competent
to receive him or her in custody;
      (3)   When committed either by the party about to be injured, or by any
other person in his or her aid or defense, in preventing or attempting to
prevent an offense against his or her person, or any trespass or other unlawful
interference with real or personal property in his or her lawful possession;
provided, the force used is not more than sufficient to prevent such offense;
      (4)   When committed by a parent or authorized agent of any parent, or by
any guardian, master or teacher, in the exercise of a lawful authority to
restrain or correct his or her child, ward, apprentice or scholar; provided,
restraint or correction has been rendered necessary by the misconduct of such
child, ward, apprentice or scholar; or by his or her refusal to obey the lawful
command of such parent or authorized agent or guardian, master or teacher, and
the force used is reasonable in manner and moderate in degree;
      (5)   When committed by a carrier of passengers, or the authorized agents
or servants of such carrier, or by any person assisting him, her or them at
his, her or their request, in expelling from any carriage, interurban car,
vessel or other vehicle, any passenger who refuses to obey a lawful and
reasonable regulation prescribed for the conduct of passengers, if such vehicle
has first been stopped and the force used is not more than is sufficient to
expel the offending passenger, with a reasonable regard to his or her personal
safety; and
      (6)   When committed by any person in preventing a person who is impaired
by reason of “mental retardation” or “developmental disability”, as defined by
state law, a mentally ill person, insane person or other person of unsound
mind, including persons temporarily or partially deprived of reason, from
committing an act dangerous to himself or herself or to another, or enforcing
such restraint as is necessary for the protection of his person or for his or
her restoration to health, during such period only as shall be necessary to
obtain legal authority for the restraint or custody of such person.
   (B)   Where force is permitted to effect a lawful purpose, only that degree
of force necessary to effect such purpose shall be used.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-5)
§ 130.06 INTOXICATION NO DEFENSE.
   No act committed by any person while in a state of intoxication, whether
from liquor or drugs, shall be deemed less an offense by reason of his or her
being in such condition.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-6)
§ 130.07 WITNESS, SELF-INCRIMINATION.
   No person shall be excused from giving evidence upon any investigation or
prosecution for any offense mentioned in this code or in any ordinance
hereinafter enacted, upon the grounds that such testimony or evidence might
tend to convict him or her of a crime. But such answer or evidence shall not be
received against him or her upon any criminal proceeding or prosecution, except
in a prosecution against him or her for perjury committed in giving such
testimony.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-7)
§ 130.08 TIME LIMIT ON ACTIONS.
   The time within which a charge may be filed under the provisions of this
chapter shall be one year from the date of the commission or omission or in
cases involving fraud, deception or deceit, one year from the discovery of the
fraud, deception or deceit unless otherwise provided by the statutes of the
state.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-8)
§ 130.09 AUTHORITY TO ISSUE TICKET OR CITATION.
   (A)   Ticket or citation.
      (1)   Except where otherwise specifically required by ordinance, any
police officer or other person charged with enforcing any town ordinance may
proceed as provided in this section upon discovering a violation of an
ordinance. The officer or other person enforcing a town ordinance may issue a
ticket on forms prepared by the Chief of Police.
      (2)   The ticket or citation shall include, at a minimum, the following
information:
         (a)   The date of the alleged violation;
         (b)   The nature of the alleged violation. If a person is accused of
violating a speed limit, the ticket shall set forth the applicable speed limit
and the alleged actual speed of the subject vehicle;
         (c)   The place where the alleged violation took place;
         (d)   The number of the ordinance and section violated;
         (e)   The date, time and place when the matter will be heard in
Municipal Court;
         (f)   Where town policy permits, the ticket shall contain a statement
that, in lieu of appearing in court, the person receiving the ticket may pay
the ticket by mail or in person on or before the court date; and
         (g)   The name of the person issuing the ticket.
   (B)   Warning ticket. Instead of issuing a ticket for a traffic violation or
other ordinance violation, any police officer or other person enforcing a town
ordinance may issue a warning ticket. The warning ticket shall contain the
information required in divisions (A)(2)(a) through (A)(2)(d) and (A)(2)(g)
above. No court appearance and no fine shall be involved in any warning ticket.
A warning ticket may be issued only when it appears that the offense will not
be repeated and that the violation was unintentional.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-9) (Ord. 2012-1, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 2012-5, passed 6-14-
2012)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES INVOLVING PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Theft and related offenses
   
131.02   Harmful deception
   
131.03   Damage to property
   
131.04   Taking or tampering with vehicles
   
131.05   Tampering with or damaging utilities
   
131.06   Trespassing and related offenses
   
131.07   Throwing or shooting objects
   
131.08   Throwing lighted materials
   
131.09   Littering; unlawful deposits
   
131.10   Posting advertising
   
131.11   Interference with wireless reception
   
131.12   Electric fences
   
131.13   Nuisance conditions
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 THEFT AND RELATED OFFENSES.
   (A)   Petty larceny; embezzlement. No person shall steal, take and carry
away by fraud or stealth, with intent to deprive another thereof, any personal
property under the value of $100 or embezzle any money, personal property or
effects of another. This division (A) does not apply to taking property from
the person of another.
   (B)   Larceny by false pretense. No person shall induce, or attempt to
induce, any person to give up or pay over any money or other thing of value
which money or value does not exceed $100, by any false representation or
pretense, or in exchange for any false or bogus coin or check, draft or other
false evidence of value, or in consideration of refraining from a lawful or
unlawful arrest, or in consideration of refraining from reporting any unlawful
act to any public official.
   (C)   Altering keys. No person shall make or alter or attempt to make or
alter any key or other instrument that will open the lock of a building unless
requested to do so by some person having the right and authority to make such
request.
   (D)   Possession of stolen property. No person shall keep in his or her
possession, or dispose of, or conceal any stolen property, or fail promptly to
inform some proper official of the possession thereof, under circumstances
indicating that such property had been stolen or the possession thereof
obtained unlawfully.
   (E)   Defrauding public accommodations.
      (1)   No person shall obtain food, lodging or other accommodation in any
hotel, motel, inn, boarding, eating or rooming house or place, or any other
lodging place, with the intent to defraud the owner or keeper.
      (2)   Proof that lodging, food and other accommodations were obtained by
false pretense or fictitious show of any package or other property or that the
person gave a check or negotiable paper on which payment was refused or that
the person left the hotel, motel, inn, boarding, eating or rooming house or
place, or other lodging place, without paying or offering to pay for the food,
lodging or other accommodation or that the person surreptitiously removed or
attempted to remove the package or property, or that the person registered
under a fictitious name shall be prima facie proof of attempt to defraud.
      (3)   This division (E) shall not apply where there has been an agreement
in writing for delay in payment.
   (F)   Failure to pay conveyance fare.
      (1)   No person shall use or accept the use and services of any
streetcar, taxicab, omnibus, automobile or any other means of public conveyance
or passengers, operating under this code or any ordinance, franchise, permit or
license of the town or state, and refuse or fail to pay to the operator of the
conveyance the usual, customary, regulation or legal charge, or price as fare
immediately upon the performance of the service.
      (2)   No person shall refuse to pay the legal fare of any of the vehicles
mentioned in this division (F) after having hired the same, and no person shall
hire any vehicle with intent to defraud the person from whom it is hired of the
value of such service.
      (3)   This division (F) shall not apply where there has been an agreement
in writing for delay in payment.
   (G)   Shoplifting. Any person concealing unpurchased merchandise of any
establishment, either on the premises or outside the premises of the
establishment, shall be presumed to have so concealed the merchandise with the
intention of committing a wrongful taking of such merchandise. Such concealment
or the finding of such unpurchased merchandise concealed upon the person or
among the belongings of such person shall be conclusive evidence of reasonable
grounds and probable cause for the detention in a reasonable manner and for a
reasonable length of time of such person by a merchant, his or her agent or
employee; any such reasonable detention shall not be deemed to be unlawful, nor
render any such merchant, his or her agent or employee, criminally or civilly
liable.
   (H)   False or bogus checks. It is unlawful for any person, with intent to
cheat and defraud, to obtain or attempt to obtain from any person any money,
property or valuable thing by means of any false or bogus check or by any other
written or printed or engraved instrument or spurious coin. The term FALSE OR
BOGUS CHECK shall include checks or orders given for money or property which
are not honored on account of insufficient funds of the maker to pay same, or
because the check or order was drawn on a closed account or on a non-existent
account when such checks or orders are given in exchange for money or property
or in exchange for any benefit or thing of value, as against the maker or
drawer thereof. The making, drawing, issuing or delivering of a check, draft or
order, payment of which is refused by the drawee, shall be prima facie evidence
of intent to defraud and the knowledge of insufficient funds in or credit with
such bank or other depository. Such maker or drawer shall not have paid the
drawee the amount due thereon, together with the protest fees, within five days
from the date the same is presented for payment, and the check or order shall
be presented for payment within 30 days after same is delivered and accepted.
   (I)   False weights. It is unlawful for any person to sell any commodity or
article of merchandise and in the sale thereof, knowingly make or give a false
or short weight therefor or for any person owning or keeping or having in
charge any scale used in weighing any animal, commodity or article to knowingly
and willfully report any false or untrue weight whereby another person shall be
defrauded or damaged.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-1) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 HARMFUL DECEPTION.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another, whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation or otherwise, when such deception results in
or contributes to the loss, damage, harm or injury of the person deceived or of
a third party, or results in or contributes to the benefit of the deceiver.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-2) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 DAMAGE TO PROPERTY.
   (A)   Prohibited generally.
      (1)   No person shall purposely deface or damage any public or private
building or appurtenances thereof, or any fence, street, bridge, sidewalk,
driveway, street or public work.
      (2)   No person shall:
         (a)   Destroy, injure, deface, damage or molest any structure,
building, work or other property, real or personal, belonging to another;
         (b)   Use such property wrongfully to the detriment of the owner or
other person entitled to its use; or
         (c)   Interfere wrongfully with the use of any such property by its
owner or any other person entitled to its use.
   (B)   Private property.
      (1)   No person shall willfully, unlawfully or maliciously take and carry
or cause to be taken and carried away any part of a house, barn, fence, gate or
other structure, or maliciously break, tear down or destroy any part of a
house, barn or other structure not his or her own.
      (2)   No person shall willfully and wantonly damage or destroy the
personal property of another.
   (C)   Destroying trees and shrubbery.
      (1)   Private property. No person shall willfully, maliciously and
without lawful authority cut down, root up, sever, injure or destroy any fruit
tree, shade or ornamental tree, cultivated root or plant, grape or strawberry
vine, shrub or plant whatever standing on or attached to the land of another,
or pick, destroy, carry away therefrom, or in any way interfere therewith, any
of the fruit thereof.
      (2)   Public property. No person shall willfully or without lawful
authority cut down, destroy, root up or in any manner injure any fruit, shade
or ornamental tree, shrub or vine planted or growing on any street, land,
avenue, alley or other public ground of the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-3) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 TAKING OR TAMPERING WITH VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person, other than a peace officer in the performance of his or her
official duties, shall, with intent and without right to do so, injure or
tamper with any vehicle or in any other manner damage any part or portion of
the vehicle or any accessories, appurtenances or attachments thereto.
   (B)   No person, other than a peace officer in the performance of his or her
official duties, shall, without right to do so and with intent to commit a
crime, climb into or upon a vehicle, whether it is in motion or at rest,
attempt to manipulate any of the levers, starting mechanism, brakes or other
mechanism or device of the vehicle while the vehicle is at rest and unattended,
or set in motion any vehicle while the vehicle is at rest and unattended.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-4) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING UTILITIES.
   (A)   Wires, pipes and poles. No person shall alter, remove, tamper with,
molest, damage or injure any wires, cable, appurtenance, structure, pipes or
equipment of any utility of the town, or any public utility, or connect or
tamper with the wires, cables or pipes of any electric, water, sewer, cable
television or gas utility or of the town without consent of the utility or town
having been first obtained.
   (B)   Manholes. It is unlawful to open up any manhole or opening to a sewer
unless authorized by the town, or to leave a manhole or other opening so opened
without replacing the fixture or appliances thereto in their proper place and
position.
   (C)   Fire hydrants.
      (1)   No person, except a member of the Fire Department or a person
acting on lawful order or permit issued by the town, shall open or use water
from any fire hydrant or take off the caps or damage the same.
      (2)   No person may block the approach or access to a fire hydrant or
attach, fasten, stand or brace anything against or on the hydrant.
   (D)   Intercepting service.
      (1)   No person shall, in any manner whatsoever:
         (a)   Cut into, attach to or intercept the wires, cables or pipes of
any electric, water, cable television or gas utility or of the town for the
purpose of fraudulently taking therefrom electric current, water, transmissions
or gas;
         (b)   Cut into, attach to or intercept the wires, cables or pipes for
the purpose of conducting around any meter electric current, water or gas in
order to prevent the current, water or gas from being measured by the meter, or
in such other manner so as to consume or use the utility or cable service so as
to evade payment therefor, with the unlawful intent to defraud the company or
town out of the value of the service; or
         (c)   By any device or manipulation whatsoever to cause current,
transmissions, water or gas used upon any premises to be fraudulently conveyed
upon any premises for the purpose of use thereof, and with the intent to
defraud and cheat the utility or town from payment thereof.
      (2)   Each day that any person maintains any such fraudulent connection
with any wires, cables or pipes, or fraudulently takes from any such wires,
cables or pipes either electric current, transmissions, water or gas shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-5) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 TRESPASSING AND RELATED OFFENSES.
   (A)   Trespassing.
      (1)   Definition. TRESPASS shall include each and every actual entry upon
the premises of an owner or other person in lawful possession of the premises
without the express consent of the owner or other person in lawful possession.
TRESPASS shall also mean remaining upon the premises of an owner or other
person in lawful possession after having been told to leave the premises by the
owner, or the agent, or employee of the owner or other person in lawful
possession of the premises. TRESPASS shall also mean the act of entering upon
or remaining on private property when such is plainly forbidden by signs,
markings or otherwise, by verbal command of the owner, his or her agent, or
employee, or after having been directed to do so by a police officer, although
this sentence shall not apply to persons, including employees, whose presence
upon the premises is authorized by the owner or by a person in lawful
possession of such premises. TRESPASS shall also include the act of returning
to private property after having been directed to vacate the premises by the
owner, his or her agent or employee, or police officer under the terms of this
division (A).
      (2)   Prohibition. It is unlawful and an offense for any person to commit
a trespass within the town upon either public or private property.
      (3)   Violations.
         (a)   Any of the following acts by any person shall be deemed a
violation of this division (A):
            1.   The doing of an injury or misfeasance to the person of
another;
            2.   The doing of any injury or misfeasance to the property of
another when done with force and violence, either actual or implied;
            3.   Each and every actual entry upon the premises of the owner or
person in possession of real property, whether the property is public or
private, without the owner’s or occupant’s consent, express or implied;
            4.   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another in
violation of a notice exhibited thereon prohibiting entry at specified times;
            5.   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another in
violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing by any
owner or other lawful occupant thereof;
            6.   An entry upon any public property, including parks or parking
areas, in violation of a notice exhibited there prohibiting entry at specified
times;
            7.   An entry upon any public property in violation of any notice,
warning or protest given orally or in writing by a town official;
            8.   If on the property of another, or upon public property
lawfully, a failure or refusal to depart in case of being requested to so
depart orally or written, by any owner, lawful occupant, or by a town official;
            9.   An entry upon any portion of a public park, where the entry
involves the use of any vehicle, equipment or device where such use is
specifically prohibited;
            10.   An entry of any public building, except for the purpose of
dispatching business with the public corporation or consent is obtained from
the town’s Board of Trustees or other public official which is lawfully
authorized to give consent; or
            11.   Remaining on public or private property at any time other
than during posted hours of business operation after having been directed to
vacate such premises by a police officer. The provisions of this division (A)
(3)(a)11. shall not apply to persons, including employees, whose presence upon
such premises is authorized by the owner or by a person in lawful possession of
such premises; nor shall the provisions of this division (A)(3)(a)11. apply
unless hours of business operation are posted upon such premises. TRESPASS also
includes the act of returning to private property before the posted time of
opening for business operation on the next business day after having been
directed to vacate such premises under the terms of this division (A)(3)(a)11.
         (b)   For purposes of constituting a violation of this subsection, the
exhibited notice required under divisions (A)(3)(a)4., (A)(3)(a)5., (A)(3)
(a)6., (A)(3)(a)7. and (A)(3)(a)9. above shall meet the following criteria:
            1.   The notice shall be plainly posted in a place or places
conspicuous to those who would enter the property;
            2.   The notice shall be legible so as to afford reasonable warning
prior to the commission of a trespass; and
            3.   If upon property to which the public is invited at least some
part of the day, the notice shall clearly specify the days and times of day
entry is prohibited, and further specify that entry at such times constitutes a
punishable offense under this code.
   (B)   Intrusion on land or structures.
      (1)   No person shall intrude or remain upon any lot or piece of land or
in any building within the town without license or authority from the owner
thereof, or erect or occupy thereon any structure whatever without such license
or authority.
      (2)   No person shall place, erect or occupy within the bounds of any
street, alley or avenue of the town any structure whatever unless such person
is granted a license by the town to do so.
   (C)   Congregating, parking on premises.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         AFTER BUSINESS HOURS. The doors of the business which are open to the
public during business hours are closed and locked, and the business is no
longer admitting customers. The term applies to places of business which are
vacant or permanently or temporarily closed or otherwise unoccupied.
         PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any private property upon which a building, house
or other structure is used for commercial or public purposes (e.g., without
limitation, restaurants, gas stations, shopping malls or centers, theaters,
convenience stores, grocery stores, drugstores or pharmacies, recreational
facilities, wholesale or retail sales activities, offices, banks or other
financial institutions, manufacturing and professional services (medical,
legal, accounting, insurance, consulting)).
      (2)   Prohibitions.
         (a)   No person shall stand, walk, sit, lie, congregate or otherwise
occupy or remain upon the premises of any place or business within the town
after business hours without consent of the lawful owner, occupant, lessee or
employee thereof.
         (b)   No person shall stop, stand, park, leave or place any motor
vehicle, whether occupied or not, upon any public or private property without
the consent of the owner, occupant, lessee or employee thereof, except where
such property is provided for public parking, and the use for such parking is
not restricted by proper notice. In addition to fine or other punishment for a
violation of this division (C)(2)(b), the vehicle so parked, left or placed
shall be subject to impoundment upon complaint of the property owner or lawful
occupant; the person violating this division (C)(2)(b) shall be wholly
responsible for payment of towage and storage charges.
      (3)   Sign posted. No person may be charged under this division (C)
unless the premises in question is posted with a conspicuous sign which states,
substantially, that the premises are posted, and that any person congregating,
occupying or remaining upon the premises or parking or leaving a motor vehicle
thereon, is subject to prosecution pursuant to this code.
      (4)   Presumption. There is a rebuttable presumption that any person or
motor vehicle upon the premises of a place of business that is properly posted
pursuant to this division (C) after such time as the front door or other such
door that admits members of the public is closed and locked is on the premises
of such business unlawfully under this subsection; however, this presumption
shall not be applied within 30 minutes of any opening or closing times posted
by such place of business. This presumption may only be rebutted by proof
beyond a reasonable doubt that any person held by the Municipal Judge to be
subject to this rebuttable presumption was on the premises in question with
permission of the lawful owner, occupant, lessee or employee thereof.
      (5)   Prima facie proof. If a motor vehicle is alleged to be unlawfully
parked or left under this division (C), it shall be rebuttably presumed that
the person in whose name the motor vehicle was last registered was the person
who parked or left the motor vehicle.
      (6)   Provisions cumulative. The provisions of this division (C) are
cumulative of other applicable offenses enumerated in this code or state law.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-6) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.07 THROWING OR SHOOTING OBJECTS.
   No person shall throw or shoot any object into or across any street or
alley, or in any place where he or she is likely to hit another person
wrongfully, or injure property, or to throw any object at any person, vehicle,
structure or property of another, whether public or private, except where such
is done in defense of oneself or another person or property.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-7) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.08 THROWING LIGHTED MATERIALS.
   No person shall throw, drop, deposit or otherwise place in, upon or within
the limits of any street, avenue, public ground, public waterway or town owned
property or waterway any lighted cigarette, cigar or other flaming or glowing
substances, or any substance or thing which may cause a fire.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-8) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.09 LITTERING; UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS.
   It is unlawful to throw, deposit or discharge any item or waste material,
liquid or solid, on any street or public place in the town or upon the property
of another without express authority to do so.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-9) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.10 POSTING ADVERTISING.
   (A)   No person shall place upon any building any advertising matter of any
kind, nor print or exhibit printing on a building or any part thereof, in
words, signs or characters, except with the express consent of the owner,
lessee or authorized agent of the owner of the building.
   (B)   No person shall place, post, paint, mark, write, print or put any
sign, poster, picture, announcement, writing, device, advertisement or other
marking upon any public or private building, fence, sidewalk, bridge, post,
automobile or vehicle or property of another without the consent of the owner
or person in charge thereof.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to place any advertising matter of any
kind on any utility pole, or to place any advertising on the streets or
sidewalks of the town or to place any advertising on any signs or banners
stretched over the streets or sidewalks of the town. Nothing herein shall be
construed to prevent any permanently located commercial or business
establishment in the town from erecting and maintaining business or commercial
signs in accordance with the ordinances of the town, nor to prohibit the
granting of permission by the town to religious, charitable, patriotic or civic
bodies to use banners across the streets of the town in such places as may be
designated by the town’s Clerk-Treasurer for the observance of holidays,
charitable drives and the commemoration and celebration of other public or
civic occasions.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-10) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.11 INTERFERENCE WITH WIRELESS RECEPTION.
   It is unlawful for any person, or any officer or employee of any person, to
operate or use any citizen band radio, ham radio or other electrical apparatus
or machine which materially and unduly interferes with radio, television or
telephone reception of others.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-11) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.12 ELECTRIC FENCES.
   It is unlawful for any person to erect, install or maintain any electrically
charged fence within the town, except to retain animals upon proof that the
fence will not be hazardous to life, and upon proof that the electric charge is
regulated by a controlling device.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-12) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.13 NUISANCE CONDITIONS.
   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to permit, maintain, aid, abet
or sanction a nuisance on or about any premises owned by him or her or under
his or her control at any place within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-13) Penalty, see §
131.99
Cross-reference:
   Health and Sanitation; Nuisances, see
Ch. 91
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   (1)   The parking or leaving of a motor vehicle as set forth in §
131.06 of this chapter shall constitute the offense of unlawful parking or
leaving a motor vehicle after business hours, punishable as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   If a person violates §
131.06(C)(2)(a) of this chapter, it shall constitute the offense of unlawful
presence on property after business hours or congregating after business hours
and is punishable as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-6)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS AND PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
132.01   Assault and battery
   
132.02   Reckless conduct in possession of weapons
   
132.03   Disturbing the peace
   
132.04   Disturbing funerals
   
132.05   Disorderly conduct
   
132.06   Noisy conditions
   
132.07   Firearms
   
132.08   Possession of firearms
   
132.09   Carrying offensive weapons
   
132.10   Carrying offensive weapons in establishments where the sale of alcohol
constitutes the primary purpose of business
   
132.11   Carrying firearms or offensive weapons
   
132.12   Transporting firearms in vehicles
   
132.13   Possession of firearms while under the influence of intoxicants
§ 132.01 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ASSAULT. Any willful and unlawful attempt or offer with force or violence
to do corporal hurt to another.
      BATTERY. Any willful and unlawful use of force or violence upon the
person of another.
   (B)   Prohibition. No person shall commit an assault or battery, or both,
upon the person of another.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 RECKLESS CONDUCT IN POSSESSION OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in reckless .conduct
while having in his or her possession any firearm or offensive weapon within
the municipal boundaries of the Town of Bernice, or in any other area over
which the Town is authorized to exercise jurisdiction.
   (B)   Reckless conduct, as used in this section, consists of any act which
creates a situation of unreasonable risk and probability of death or great
bodily harm to another and demonstrates a conscious disregard for the safety of
another person.
   (C)   Any person violating the terms of this section shall, upon conviction,
be punished by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. 06.20.2024, passed 6-20-2024)
§ 132.03 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   Definition. DISTURBING THE PEACE is the doing of any of the following
in such a manner as would foreseeably alarm or disturb the peace of another or
others:
      (1)   Using obscene, offensive, abusive, profane, vulgar, threatening,
violent or insulting language or conduct;
      (2)   Appearing in an intoxicated condition;
      (3)   Engaging in a fistic encounter;
      (4)   Lewdly exposing one’s person, or private parts thereof, in any
public place or in any place where there are present other persons to be
offended or annoyed thereby;
      (5)   Pointing any pistol or any other deadly weapon, whether loaded or
not, at any other person or persons either in anger or otherwise;
      (6)   Holding an unlawful assembly of three or more persons, including
being assembled together and acting in concert, to do any unlawful act against
the peace or to the terror of others or preparing for or moving toward such
acts, or otherwise assembling unlawfully or riotously;
      (7)   Interrupting any lawful assembly of people by making noise; by
rude, indecent or improper behavior; by profane, improper or loud language; or
in any other manner, either within the place of assembly or within hearing
distance thereof;
      (8)   Obstructing the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles on a
street, right-of-way or sidewalk, or other public place;
      (9)   Obstructing, molesting or interfering with any person lawfully in a
public place;
      (10)   Making unnecessarily loud, offensive noises;
      (11)   Disturbing any congregation or assembly of persons meeting for
religious worship by making noise; by rude, indecent or improper behavior; by
profane, improper or loud language; or in any other manner, either within the
place of worship or within hearing distance thereof; or
      (12)   Committing any other act in such a manner calculated as to
unreasonably disturb, interfere with or alarm the public or the comfort and
repose of any person.
   (B)   Prohibition. It is unlawful to disturb or alarm the peace of another
or others by doing any of the acts set out in division (A) above.
   (C)   Enforcement. Whenever any police officer shall, in the exercise of
reasonable judgment, decide that the presence of any person in any public place
is causing any of the conditions enumerated in division (A) above, he or she
may, if he or she deems it necessary for the preservation of the public peace
and safety, order that person to leave that place, and any who shall refuse to
leave after being ordered to do so by a police officer shall be guilty of a
violation of this section.
   (D)   Exemptions from provisions. This section shall not apply to peaceful
picketing, public speaking or other lawful expressions of opinion not in
contravention of other laws.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.04 DISTURBING FUNERALS.
   No person shall willfully disturb, interrupt or disquiet any assemblage of
people who have met for the purpose of any funeral, or obstruct or detain any
person engaged in accompanying any funeral to a place of burial.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.05 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   A person shall be guilty of disorderly conduct if, with the intent to cause
public inconvenience, annoyance, alarm or recklessly creating the risk thereof,
he or she:
   (A)   Acts in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby any
person is placed in fear of safety of his or her life, limb or health;
   (B)   Acts in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby the
property of any person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged;
   (C)   Endangers the lawful pursuits of another by acts of violence, angry
threats and abusive conduct;
   (D)   Jostles or crowds or pushes any person in any public place;
   (E)   Uses “fighting words” directed toward any person and thus creates a
turmoil;
   (F)   Causes, provokes or engages in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct so
as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another; or
   (G)   By acts of violence, interferes with another’s pursuit of a lawful
occupation.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.06 NOISY CONDITIONS.
   No person shall make, continue or cause to be made or continued any
excessive, unnecessary or unusually loud noise or any noise which either
annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or
safety of others, within the limits of the town. Permits may be granted by the
town for certain activities and events which are exempt from the provisions of
this section.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.07 FIREARMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm within the
municipal boundaries of the Town of Bernice, or in any other area over which
the Town is authorized to exercise jurisdiction, unless lawfully doing so in
defense of oneself, in defense of another person, or in defense of one’s
property or unless otherwise authorized by law or ordinance. Every person who
willfully and unlawfully discharges any firearm within the municipal boundaries
of the Town of Bernice, or in any other area over which the Town is authorized
to exercise jurisdiction shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not
more than two hundred dollars ($200.00).
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person to discharge an airgun, including a
BB gun, within the municipal boundaries of the Town of Bernice, or in any other
area over which the Town is authorized to exercise jurisdiction, unless
lawfully doing so in defense of oneself, in defense of another person, or in
defense of one’s property or unless otherwise authorized by law or ordinance.
Every person who willfully and unlawfully discharges any airgun within the
municipal boundaries of the Town of Bernice, or in any other area over which
the Town is authorized to exercise jurisdiction shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00).
   (C)   Every person who willfully and unlawfully discharges any firearm,
airgun, or BB gun within the municipal boundaries of the Town of Bernice, or in
any other area over which the Town is authorized to exercise jurisdiction, in
any place where there is any person to be endangered thereby, although no
injury to any person occurs, shall be subject to a fine of not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. 06.10.2024-8, passed 6-10-2024)
§ 132.08 POSSESSION OF FIREARMS.
   A.   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply to this section
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      ALTERED AIR PISTOL. An “altered air pistol” includes any air pistol
manufactured to propel projectiles by air pressure which has been altered from
its original manufactured state.
      ALTERED TOY PISTOL. An “altered toy pistol” includes any toy weapon which
has been altered from its original manufactured state to resemble a real
weapon.
      FIREARM. A “firearm” is a weapon from which a shot or projectile is
discharged by force of a chemical explosive such as gunpowder.
      PISTOL. A “pistol” is any firearm with a barrel or barrels less than
sixteen (16) inches in length and using a combustible propellant charge,
capable of discharging single or multiple projectiles from a single round of
ammunition composed of any material which may reasonably be expected to be able
to cause lethal injury. A pistol does not include any firearm with an overall
length of twenty-six (26) inches or more, flare guns, underwater fishing guns,
or blank pistols.
      RIFLE. A “rifle” is any firearm capable of discharging a projectile
composed of any material, with a barrel or barrels more than sixteen (16)
inches in length and using either gunpowder, gas, or any means of rocket
propulsion, which may be reasonably expected to be able to cause lethal injury.
A rifle does not include archery equipment, flare guns, or underwater fishing
guns. Any rifle capable of firing “shot” but primarily designed to fire single
projectiles will be regarded as a “rifle”.
      SHOTGUN. A “shotgun” is any firearm capable of discharging a series of
projectiles composed of any material, with a barrel or barrels more than
eighteen (18) inches in length and using a combustible propellant charge, which
may be reasonably expected to be able to cause lethal injury. A shotgun does
not include any weapon so designed with a barrel less than eighteen (18) inches
in length unless the overall length of the firearm is twenty-six (26) inches or
more. Any “shotgun” capable of firing single projectiles but primarily designed
to fire multiple projectiles such as “shot’ will be regarded as a “shotgun”.
   B.   Law-abiding citizens shall be allowed to possess and/or use firearms in
the Town of Bernice, or in any area over which the Town is authorized to
exercise jurisdiction, so long as said possession or use of firearms is not
contrary to the Town of Bernice Code of Ordinances, Oklahoma law, or federal
law.
      1.   A “law-abiding citizen” is defined as a person who is not otherwise
precluded under the laws of the State of Oklahoma now in effect, or hereinafter
enacted or amended, from possessing a firearm.
      2.   The term “law-abiding citizen” shall not be construed to include
anyone who is not legally present in the United States or in the State of
Oklahoma.
   C.   Within the corporate limits of the Town of Bernice, and in any other
area over which the Town is authorized to exercise jurisdiction, it shall be
unlawful for any person who is an alien illegally or unlawfully in the United
States to have any pistol, imitation or homemade pistol, altered air or toy
pistol, shotgun, rifle, or any other dangerous or deadly firearm in his or her
possession, under his or her immediate control, in any vehicle he or she is
operating, or at any residence where he or she resides.
   D.   Within the corporate limits of the Town of Bernice, and in any other
area over which the Town is authorized to exercise jurisdiction, it shall be
unlawful for any person to carry a firearm who has been convicted of any one of
the following offenses in the State of Oklahoma, or a violation of the
equivalent law of another state:
      1.   Assault and battery pursuant to 21 O.S. § 644 which caused serious
physical injury to the victim;
      2.   Aggravated assault and battery pursuant to 21 O.S.§ 646;
      3.   Assault and battery that qualifies as domestic abuse as defined in
21 O.S. § 644;
      4.   Stalking pursuant to 21 O.S. § 1173;
      5.   Violation of an order issued under the Protection from Domestic
Abuse Act or a domestic abuse protection order issued by another state; or
      6.   A violation relating to illegal drug use or possession under the
Uniform Controlled Dangerous Substances Act, 63 O.S. 2-101 et seq.
   E.   This section shall not prohibit:
      1.   The proper use of firearms not prohibited by law for self-defense,
hunting, fishing, educational, or recreational purposes;
      2.   The carrying of firearms in a manner otherwise permitted by the laws
of the State of Oklahoma;
      3.   The transporting, carrying, possession, or use of a firearm by a
peace officer or other person authorized by law to carry a firearm in the
performance of official duties and in compliance with the laws of the State of
Oklahoma and the rules of the employing agency; or
      4.   The carrying and use of firearms for the purpose of living history
reenactment as that term is defined in 21 O.S. § 1272.
(Ord. 06.10.2024-2, passed 6-20-2024)
§ 132.09 CARRYING OFFENSIVE WEAPONS.
   A.   Offensive Weapon. An “offensive weapon” is defined as any implement
likely to produce death, bodily harm, or fear of death or bodily harm in the
manner it is used or attempted to be used.
   B.   Within the corporate limits of the Town of Bernice, and in any other
area over which the Town is authorized to exercise jurisdiction, it shall be
unlawful for any person to carry any blackjack, loaded cane, hand chain, metal
knuckles, or any other offensive weapon, whether such weapon be concealed or
unconcealed.
      1.   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall, upon
first conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars,
($100.00) nor more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
      2.   On the second and every subsequent violation, the person violating
this subsection shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00).
   C.   This section shall not prohibit:
      1.   The proper use of weapons not prohibited by law for self-defense,
hunting, fishing, educational, or recreational purposes;
      2.   The carrying of weapons in a manner otherwise permitted by the laws
of the State of Oklahoma;
      3.   The transporting, carrying, possession, or use of any weapon by a
peace officer or other person authorized by law to carry a weapon in the
performance of official duties and in compliance with the laws of the State of
Oklahoma and the rules of the employing agency; or
      4.   The carrying and use of weapons for the purpose of living history
reenactment as that term is defined in 21 O.S. § 1272.
(Ord. 06.10.2024-3, passed 6-10-2024)
§ 132.10 CARRYING WEAPONS IN ESTABLISHMENTS WHERE THE SALE OF ALCOHOL
CONSTITUTES THE PRIMARY PURPOSE OF BUSINESS.
   A.   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply to this section
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      A FIREARM is a weapon from which a shot or projectile is discharged by
force of a chemical explosive such as gunpowder.
      An OFFENSIVE WEAPON is defined as any implement likely to produce death,
bodily harm, or fear of death or bodily harm in the manner it is used or
attempted to be used.
   B.   Within the corporate limits of the Town of Bernice, and in any other
area over which the Town is authorized to exercise jurisdiction, it shall be
unlawful for any person to carry a firearm, whether loaded or unloaded, or any
offensive weapon, whether such weapon be concealed or unconcealed, in any
establishment where the sale of alcoholic beverages, as defined in 37A O.S. §
1-103, constitutes the primary purpose of the business.
      1.   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall, upon
first conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00).
      2.   If an individual violating the terms of this section refuses to
leave the establishment or the property of the establishment, he or she shall,
upon conviction, be subject to an additional fine not to exceed two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00).
   C.   This section shall not apply to:
      1.   A peace officer, private investigator, or armed security guard with
firearms authorization when acting within the scope and course of employment;
      2.   An owner or proprietor of the establishment; or
      3.   An employee of the establishment who has permission from the owner
or proprietor of the establishment to carry or possess a weapon while in the
scope and course of employment.
(Ord. 06.10.2024-4, passed 6-10-2024)
§ 132.11 CARRYING FIREARMS OR OFFENSIVE WEAPONS.
   A.   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply to this section
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      1.   A FIREARM is a weapon from which a shot or projectile is discharged
by force of a chemical explosive such as gunpowder.
      2.   An OFFENSIVE WEAPON is defined as any implement likely to produce
death, bodily harm, or fear of death or bodily harm in the manner it is used or
attempted to be used.
   B.   Within the corporate limits of the Town of Bernice, and in any other
area over which the Town is authorized to exercise jurisdiction, it shall be
unlawful for any person to carry any firearm or offensive weapon, whether
concealed or unconcealed, into any of the following places within the Town of
Bernice, or in any other area over which the Town is authorized to exercise
jurisdiction:
      1.   Any structure, building, or office space which is owned or leased by
the Town of Bernice or Bernice Public Works Authority for the purpose of
conducting business with the public;
      2.   Any public or private elementary or secondary school, except as
otherwise provided under Oklahoma law;
      3.   Any publicly owned or operated sports arena or venue during a
professional sporting event, unless allowed by the event holder and authorized
by Oklahoma law;
      4.   Any place where gambling is authorized by law, unless allowed by the
property owner and authorized by Oklahoma law;
      5.   Any property adjacent to a structure, building, or office space in
which the carrying of a concealed or unconcealed firearm is prohibited by this
section; or
      6.   Any other place specifically prohibited by Oklahoma law or federal
law.
   C.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      1.   Any peace officer or other person authorized by law to carry a
firearm in the course of employment;
      2.   Private investigators with firearms authorization when acting in the
course and scope of employment; or
      3.   Elected officials of a county, who are in possession of a valid
handgun license issued pursuant to the provisions of the Oklahoma Self-Defense
Act, when acting in the performance of his or her duties within the courthouses
of the county in which he or she was elected.
(Ord. 06.10.2024-5, passed 6-20-2024)
§ 132.12 TRANSPORTING FIREARMS IN VEHICLES.
   A.   Any person who is not otherwise prohibited by law from possessing or
purchasing a firearm and who is not carrying or transporting a firearm in
furtherance of a crime may transport in or on a vehicle a firearm, loaded or
unloaded, at any time.
   B.   Any person eighteen (18) to twenty (20) years of age who is not
otherwise prohibited by law from possessing or purchasing a firearm and is not
carrying or transporting a firearm in furtherance of a crime may transport in
or on a vehicle, open or concealed, an unloaded firearm at any time.
   C.   Within the Town of Bernice, or in any other area over which the Town is
authorized to exercise jurisdiction, it shall be unlawful for any person
transporting a firearm in or on a vehicle to fail or refuse to identify that he
or she is in actual possession of a firearm upon demand by law enforcement
during any arrest, detainment, or routine traffic stop. Any person who violates
the provisions of this section may be issued a citation for an amount not to
exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00).
(Ord. 06.10.2024-6, passed 6-10-2024)
§ 132.13 POSSESSION OF FIREARMS WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF INTOXICANTS.
   A.   Firearm. A “firearm” is a weapon from which a shot or projectile is
discharged by force of a chemical explosive such as gunpowder.
   B.   Within the corporate limits of the Town of Bernice, and in any other
area over which the Town is authorized to exercise jurisdiction, it shall be
unlawful for any person to carry or use a firearm in any circumstances while
under the influence of beer, intoxicating liquors, hallucinogenic, or any
unlawful or unprescribed drug, and it shall be unlawful for any person to carry
or use a firearm when under the influence of any drug prescribed by a licensed
physician if the aftereffects of such consumption affect mental, emotional, or
physical processes to a degree that would result in abnormal behavior.
(Ord. 06.10.2024-7, passed 6-10-2024)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST HEALTH, WELFARE AND MORALS
Section
General Provisions
   
133.01   False representation of physical disabilities
   
133.02   False representation of age
   
133.03   Window peeping
   
133.04   Obscene, threatening, harassing telephone calls
   
133.05   Disorderly house
   
133.06   Lewd conduct
   
133.07   Gambling
   
133.08   Prostitution
   
133.09   Conduct near schools
Minors
   
133.20   Curfew for minors
   
133.21   Contributing to the delinquency of a minor
 
   
133.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances involving gambling, obscene material, bawdy houses and the like,
see
Ch. 95
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 133.01 FALSE REPRESENTATION OF PHYSICAL DISABILITIES.
   No person shall falsely represent himself or herself as blind, deaf, unable
to speak, crippled or physically disabled for the purpose of obtaining money or
other things of value, or to secure aid or assistance on account of such false
representation.
(Prior Code, § 5-3C-1) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.02 FALSE REPRESENTATION OF AGE.
   No person shall, for the purpose of violating any statutes of the state or
any ordinances of the town, willfully and knowingly misrepresent his or her age
by presenting a false document purporting to state his or her true age or by
presenting a document not his or her own.
(Prior Code, § 5-3C-2) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.03 WINDOW PEEPING.
   No person shall be upon the property or premises of another with the intent
to peer or peep into the window or door of the dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 5-3C-3) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.04 OBSCENE, THREATENING, HARASSING TELEPHONE CALLS.
   (A)   No person shall, by means of a telephone, willfully:
      (1)   Make any comment, request, suggestion or proposal which is obscene,
lewd, lascivious, filthy or indecent;
      (2)   Make a telephone call, whether or not conversation ensues, without
disclosing his or her identity and with intent to annoy, abuse, threaten or
harass any person at the called number;
      (3)   Permit any telephone under his or her control to be used for any
purpose prohibited by this section; or
      (4)   In conspiracy or concerted action with other persons, make repeated
calls or simultaneous calls solely to harass any person at the called number.
   (B)   Use of a telephone facility under this section shall include all uses
made of such a facility between the points of origin and reception.
   (C)   Any offense under this section is a continuing offense and shall be
deemed to have been committed at either the place of origin or the place of
reception.
(Prior Code, § 5-3C-4) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.05 DISORDERLY HOUSE.
   (A)   Definition. A DISORDERLY HOUSE means any structure or vehicle by which
the peace, comfort, health, welfare or decency of the public is disturbed by
reason of the people therein committing or resorting to any of the following
acts:
      (1)   The safe, distribution, possession or use of any controlled
dangerous substance, the sale, distribution, possession or use of which is
declared unlawful by state statute;
      (2)   The violation of any of the ordinances of the town or statutes of
the state regulating the sale, distribution, possession or use of alcoholic
beverages and low point beer as defined by law;
      (3)   The performance of any act of a sexual nature declared unlawful by
state statute or town ordinance including, but not limited to, soliciting for
purposes of prostitution; or
      (4)   The violation of any state statute or town ordinance prohibiting
gambling.
   (B)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No person shall keep or maintain, or aid, abet or assist in keeping
and maintaining, a disorderly house.
      (2)   No owner, lessee, lessor or other person, partnership or
corporation having control over any house, building, structure, tent, vehicle,
mobile home or recreational vehicle shall knowingly use, lease, sublease or
otherwise permit the use of same for the purpose of keeping therein any
disorderly house, and knowing or ascertaining that such house, building,
structure, tent, vehicle, mobile home or recreational vehicle is so occupied as
a disorderly house. No persons, partnership or corporation shall continue to
grant permission to so use such premises as a disorderly house.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly reside in, enter into, or remain in a
disorderly house. In any prosecution for violation of this section, the town
shall have the burden to prove such knowledge by direct evidence only and not
by circumstantial evidence. This section shall not apply to physicians or
officers in the discharge of their professional or official duties.
(Prior Code, § 5-3C-5) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.06 LEWD CONDUCT.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Appear in any public place in the town in a state of nudity;
   (B)   Appear in any public place in the town in any offensive, indecent or
lewd dress; or
   (C)   Make an indecent public exposure of his or her person.
(Prior Code, § 5-3C-6) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.07 GAMBLING.
   (A)   Gambling. It is unlawful for any person to play any prohibited game
described in this section.
   (B)   Frequenting gambling premises. It is unlawful for any person to be
about in the immediate vicinity where a person or persons are gambling, whether
by playing games, operating a slot machine or other device, or otherwise.
   (C)   Gambling devices.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to exhibit or expose to view in any
building, or in any part of or room in any building, any table, cards, dice,
roulette wheel or other article or apparatus designed for or used for gambling
purposes.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to keep, own, operate, use, conduct
or cause to be kept, operated, used or conducted, either as owner, manager,
dealer, clerk or employee, and whether for hire or not, any punchboard,
machine, cards, game, parlay card or any other device or paraphernalia, wherein
or whereby any money or property or any representative of either, or other
valuable thing, may be played, bet, staked, wagered or hazarded, won, lost or
obtained upon any change, combination of numbers, emblems or any uncertain or
contingent event or condition, or football or baseball contest.
      (3)   The apparatus and paraphernalia used in the conduct of any of the
gambling games prohibited by this section are hereby declared to be a public
nuisance and subject to seizure and suppression by any officer, and shall be
abated, forfeited and destroyed upon the order and decree of any court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   Preventing access to gambling house. It is unlawful for any person to
bar or barricade any building, or any part of or room in any building, in order
to render the same difficult for police officers of the town to access or
ingress, in which building, or any part of or room in any such building, any
table, cards, dice, roulette wheel or other article or apparatus designed for
or being used for gambling purposes are exhibited or exposed to view.
   (E)   Violations.
      (1)   Any person who plays or carries on, or opens or causes to be
opened, or who conducts, either as owner or employee, roulette, craps, or any
banking or percentage game, played with dice, cards or any other device, for
money, checks, credit or any representative of value, or any other gambling
game, is guilty of an offense.
      (2)   Any person who bets on or plays at any of the prohibited games
mentioned in division (E)(1) above, or otherwise gambles, is guilty of an
offense.
   (F)   Exemptions from provisions. Nothing herein contained shall be
construed to prevent the sponsoring and operation of bingo games by non-profit
religious, fraternal, charitable or educational organizations; provided, the
organizations are properly licensed and operated in accordance with law.
(Prior Code, § 5-3C-7) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.08 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      KNOWN PROSTITUTE OR PROCURER. A person who, within one year prior to the
date of the suspected violation of this section, has, within the knowledge of
the arresting officer, been convicted of a violation of this section or has
been convicted of violating any statute or ordinance of any jurisdiction which
makes prostitution or soliciting for the purpose of prostitution unlawful.
      PROSTITUTION.
         (a)   The giving or receiving of the body for sexual intercourse,
fellatio, cunnilingus, masturbation, anal intercourse or lewdness with any
person not his or her spouse, in exchange for money or any other thing of
value; or
         (b)   The making of any appointment or engagement for sexual
intercourse, fellatio, cunnilingus, masturbation, anal intercourse or lewdness
with any person not his or her spouse, in exchange for money or any other thing
of value.
   (B)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   It is unlawful:
         (a)   To engage in prostitution, lewdness or assignation;
         (b)   To solicit, induce, entice or procure another to commit an act
of lewdness, assignation or prostitution; or
         (c)   To aid, abet or participate in the doing of any of the acts
herein prohibited.
      (2)   No person shall in any way or manner whatever, keep, harbor or
house any prostitute.
      (3)   No person shall entice or attempt to entice any person into a house
of prostitution, or have illicit sexual intercourse with any person under 21
years of age.
      (4)   No person shall keep or maintain a house of prostitution or house
of assignation.
      (5)   No person shall lease, let or furnish any building, room, tent or
structure of any kind, or any conveyance used or to be used as a place of
prostitution or assignation within the town, or knowingly permit the same to be
so used.
      (6)   No person shall knowingly accept, receive, levy or appropriate any
money or other thing of value without consideration from a prostitute or from
the proceeds of any person engaged in prostitution.
      (7)   No person shall offer, or offer to secure another for the purpose
of prostitution, or for any other lewd or indecent act.
      (8)   No person shall direct, take or transport, or offer or agree to
take or transport or aid or assist in transporting, any person to any house,
place, building or other structure, vehicle, trailer or other conveyance, or to
any other person with knowledge or having reasonable cause to believe that the
purpose of such directing, taking or transporting is prostitution, lewdness or
assignation.
      (9)   It is unlawful for a person to be present in a public place in a
manner and under circumstances manifesting the purpose of inducing, enticing,
soliciting or procuring another to commit an act of prostitution. Among the
circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such a purpose is
manifested are: that such person is a known prostitute or procurer; that such
person repeatedly beckons to, stops or attempts to stop or engage passers-by in
conversation, or repeatedly stops or attempts to stop motor vehicle operators
by hailing, waving of arms or any other bodily gesture. No arrest shall be made
for a violation of this division (B)(9) unless the arresting officer first
affords such person an opportunity to explain such conduct, and no one shall be
convicted of violating this division (B)(9) if it appears at trial that the
explanation given was true and disclosed a lawful purpose.
(Prior Code, § 5-3C-8) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.09 CONDUCT NEAR SCHOOLS.
   No person shall engage in any of the conduct or acts hereinafter set forth
around, in or near any school or school grounds or streets and alleys adjacent
to any school:
   (A)   Any conduct that would disturb the orderly conduct of the school;
   (B)   Annoying or molesting any student or employee of the school;
   (C)   Lewd or wanton conduct in, near or around any of the schools or school
grounds or streets and alleys adjacent to the schools;
   (D)   Moving or parking any vehicle in the vicinity of any school for the
purpose of annoying or molesting any student or employee of the school; or
   (E)   Any other act or conduct calculated to or likely to annoy or molest
any student or employee of such school.
(Prior Code, § 5-3C-9) Penalty, see §
133.99
MINORS
§ 133.20 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Short title. This section shall be known and may be cited as the
“Curfew Ordinance” or “Regulation of the Presence and Conduct of Minors on
Streets and Public Places”.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18.
      PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a minor as:
         (a)   A natural or adoptive parent;
         (b)   A legal guardian;
         (c)   A person who stands in loco parentis; or
         (d)   A person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the
court.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground or
place to which the general public has access and a right to resort for
business, entertainment, or other lawful purpose. A PUBLIC PLACE shall include,
but not be limited to, any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley,
café, theater, drugstore, pool room, shopping center and any other place
devoted to amusement or entertainment of the general public. It shall also
include the front or immediate area of the above.
      REMAIN. To stand behind, to tarry and to stay unnecessarily upon the
streets, including the congregating of groups (or of interacting minors)
totaling four or more persons in which any minor involved would not be using
the streets for ordinary or serious purposes such as mere passage or going
home.
      STREET. A way or place, of whatsoever nature, open to the use of the
public as a matter of right for purposes of vehicular travel or in the case of
a sidewalk thereof for pedestrian travel. The term STREET includes the legal
right-of-way, including, but not limited to, the cartway or traffic lanes, the
curb, the sidewalks, whether paved or unpaved, and any grass plots or other
grounds found within the legal right-of-way of a street.
      TIME OF NIGHT. Is based upon the prevailing standard of time, whether
Central Standard Time or Central Daylight Saving Time, generally observed at
that hour by the public.
      YEAR OF AGE. Continues from one birthday, such as the seventeenth, to
(but not including the day of) the next, such as the eighteenth birthday,
making it clear that 17 or less years of age is herein treated as equivalent to
the phrase “under 18 years of age”.
   (C)   Age and hour restrictions; exceptions.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person 17 or less years of age (under 18) to
be or remain in or upon the streets within the town at night during the period
ending at 6:00 a.m. and beginning:
         (a)   At 10:00 p.m. for minors 15 years of age or younger;
         (b)   At 12:00 a.m. for minors more than 15 years of age on Sunday
through Thursday; and
         (c)   At 1:00 a.m. on Saturday morning and Sunday morning for minors
more than 15 years of age.
      (2)   In the following exceptional cases, a minor on a town street during
the nocturnal hours for which division (C)(1) above is intended to provide the
maximum limits of regulation shall not, however, be considered in violation of
this section:
         (a)   When accompanied by a parent of the minor;
         (b)   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent of the minor
to take the parent’s place in accompanying the minor for a designated period of
time and purpose within a specified area;
         (c)   When exercising first amendment rights protected by the United
States constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech
and the right of assembly. Such minor shall evidence the bona fides of such
exercise by possessing a written communication, signed by such minor and
countersigned, by a parent of such minor with their home address and telephone
number, specifying when, and where and in what manner the minor will be on the
streets at night (during hours when this section is otherwise applicable to the
minor) in the exercise of a first amendment right specified in such
communication;
         (d)   In case of reasonable necessity, but only if the minor has in
the minor’s possession a written communication signed by the minor,
countersigned by a parent of such minor evidencing their home address and
telephone number, and establishing such reasonable necessity relating to
specified streets at a designated time for a described purpose including points
of origin and destination;
         (e)   When the minor is on the sidewalk of the place where such minor
resides, or on the sidewalk of either next door neighbor not communicating an
objection to the police officer;
         (f)   When returning home, by a direct route from (and within 30
minutes of the termination of) a school activity, or activity of a religious or
other voluntary association, provided the minor has a written communication in
the minor’s possession, countersigned by a parent indicting the home address
and telephone number, the purpose for the event, when, where and in what manner
the minor will be on the streets at night;
         (g)   When authorized, by regulation issued by the town board of
trustees, in other similar cases of reasonable necessity, similarly handled but
adopted to necessary nighttime activities of more minors than can readily be
dealt with on an individual special permit basis. Normally, such regulation by
the town’s Board of Trustees permitting use of the streets should be issued
sufficiently in advance to permit appropriate publicity through news media and
through other agencies such as the schools, and shall define the activity, the
scope of the use of the streets permitted, the period of time involved not to
extend more than 30 minutes beyond the time for termination of such activity,
and the reason for finding that such regulation is reasonably necessary and is
consistent with the public interest and the purposes of this section;
         (h)   When the minor carries a certified card of employment, briefly
identifying the minor, the addresses of his or her home and his or her place of
employment and his or her hours of employment or carries a valid proof of
employment which may include the latest payroll receipt not over 30 days old;
or
         (i)   When the minor is, with parental consent, in a motor vehicle.
This contemplates normal travel. This provision clearly exempts bona fide
interstate movement through the town, particularly on normal routes.
   (D)   Responsibility of parent or guardian. It is unlawful for a parent
having legal custody of a minor knowingly to permit or by insufficient control
to allow such minor to be or remain upon any town street under circumstances
not constituting an exception to, or otherwise beyond the scope of, this
section. The term KNOWINGLY includes knowledge which a parent should reasonably
be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a minor in that parent’s
legal custody. It is intended to continue to keep neglectful or careless
parents up to a reasonable community standard of parental responsibility
through an objective test. It shall a fortiori, be no defense, that a parent
was completely indifferent to the activities or conduct or whereabouts of such
minor.
   (E)   Responsibility of business owner. It shall be unlawful for any person
operating or having charge of any public place to knowingly allow, permit or
suffer the presence of minors in violation of the curfew established by this
section.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-1) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.21 CONTRIBUTING TO THE DELINQUENCY OF A MINOR.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANY PERSON. Any human being, without regard to the legal or natural
relationship to a minor, as well as legal or corporate entities.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18 years.
   (B)   Prohibition. Any person who shall knowingly or willfully cause, aid,
abet or encourage a minor to be, to remain, or to become a “delinquent child”,
as defined by state law, shall be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-2) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Upon finding or having attention called to any minor on the
streets in prima facie violation of §
133.20 of this chapter, a police officer shall normally take the minor to the
appropriate holding facility, where a parent shall immediately be notified to
come for such minor, whereupon he or she shall be interviewed. This is intended
to permit ascertainment, under constitutional safeguards, of relevant facts,
and to centralize responsibility in the personnel then on duty for accurate,
effective, fair, impartial and uniform enforcement, and recording, thus making
available experienced supervisory personnel, the best facilities and access to
information and records. In the absence of convincing evidence such as a birth
certificate, a police officer on the street shall, in the first instance, use
his or her best judgment in determining age. Police procedures shall constantly
be refined in the light of experience and may provide, inter alia, that the
police officer may deliver to a parent thereof a minor under appropriate
circumstances. For example, a minor of tender age near home whose identity may
readily be ascertained or is known. In any event, such police officer shall,
within 24 hours, file a written report with his or her superior. The report
shall be treated for purposes of juvenile records in accordance with state
statutes.
      (2)   When a parent, immediately called, has come to take charge of the
minor, and the appropriate information has been recorded, the minor shall be
released to the custody of such parent. If the parent cannot be located, or
fails to take charge of the minor, then the minor shall be released to the
juvenile authorities, except to the extent that, in accordance with police
regulations, approved in advance by juvenile authorities, the minor may
temporarily be entrusted to a relative, neighbor or other person who will, on
behalf of a parent, assume the responsibility of caring for the minor pending
the availability or arrival of a parent.
      (3)   In the case of first violation by a minor, the appropriate police
officer shall cause to be personally delivered or, by certified mail, send to a
parent written notice of violation with a warning that any subsequent violation
shall result in full enforcement of §
133.20 of this chapter, including enforcement of parental responsibility and of
applicable penalties.
      (4)   If, after the warning notice, pursuant to division (B)(3) above, of
a first violation by a minor, a parent violates §
133.20(D) of this chapter (in connection with a second violation by the minor),
this shall be treated as an offense by the parent. The penalty, upon a plea of
guilty, nolo contendere or finding of guilt, shall be as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-1)
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES INVOLVING LIQUOR AND DRUGS
Section
   
134.01   Public intoxication
   
134.02   Marijuana
   
134.03   Drug paraphernalia
   
134.04   Sniffing glue, paint and other substances
§ 134.01 PUBLIC INTOXICATION.
   No person shall be in any public place in a state of intoxication. A STATE
OF INTOXICATION means the condition in which a person is under the influence of
drugs, alcoholic beverages or low-point beer to such an extent as to deprive
the person of his or her full mental or physical power or be unable to exercise
care for his or her own safety or the safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 5-3D-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.02 MARIJUANA.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, MARIJUANA means ail parts
of the plant Cannabis sativa L, whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; the
rosin extracted from any part of such plant; and every compound, manufacture,
salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of such plant, its seeds or rosin, but
shall not include the mature stalks of such plant, fiber produced from such
stalks, oil or cake made from the derivative, mixture or preparation of such
mature stalks (except rosin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake, or the
sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of germination.
   (B)   Prohibitions. It is unlawful for any person:
      (1)   To appear or be upon or in any street, alley, place of business or
other public place while under the influence of marijuana;
      (2)   To use, have or possess marijuana upon or in any street, alley,
place of business or other public place within the town;
      (3)   To use marijuana in any place within the town, except as legally
prescribed by a physician licensed to practice in the state; or
      (4)   To be about a place where marijuana is sold or furnished illegally.
(Prior Code, § 5-3D-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.03 DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, DRUG PARAPHERNALIA means
all equipment, products and materials of any kind which are used, or intended
for use in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing into the human body a
controlled dangerous substance in violation of the state’s Uniform Controlled
Dangerous Substances Act, 63 O.S. §§ 2-101 et seq., hereinafter referred to as
“the act”, and adopted by reference herein. It includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Kits used, or intended for use, in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of plant which is a
controlled dangerous substance or from which a controlled dangerous substance
can be derived;
      (2)   Kits used, or intended for use, in manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing or preparing controlled dangerous substances;
      (3)   Isomerization devices used, or intended for use, in increasing the
potency of any species of plant which is a controlled dangerous substance;
      (4)   Testing equipment used, or intended for use, in identifying or in
analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of controlled dangerous
substances;
      (5)   Scales and balances used, or intended for use, in weighing or
measuring controlled dangerous substances;
      (6)   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose and lactose, used or intended for use, in cutting controlled
dangerous substances;
      (7)   Separation gins and sifters used, or intended for use, in removing
twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining marijuana;
      (8)   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used, or
intended for use, in compounding controlled dangerous substances;
      (9)   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used, or
intended for use, in packaging small quantities of controlled dangerous
substances;
      (10)   Containers and other objects used, or intended for use, in storing
or concealing controlled dangerous substances;
      (11)   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, or intended
for use, in parenterally injecting controlled dangerous substances into the
human body; and
      (12)   Objects used, or intended for use, in ingesting, inhaling or
otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish or hashish oil into the human
body, such as:
         (a)   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads or punctured metal
bowls;
         (b)   Water pipes;
         (c)   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         (d)   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         (e)   Roach clips; meaning objects used to hold burning materials,
such as a marijuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be
held in the hand;
         (f)   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
         (g)   Chamber pipes;
         (h)   Carburetor pipes;
         (i)   Electric pipes;
         (j)   Air driven pipes;
         (k)   Chillums;
         (l)   Bongs; or
         (m)   Ice pipes or chiller.
   (B)   Determining drug paraphernalia. In determining whether an object is
drug paraphernalia, a court or other authority should consider, in addition to
all other logically relevant factors, the following:
      (1)   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
      (2)   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of the act;
      (3)   The proximity of the object to controlled dangerous substances;
      (4)   The existence of any residue of controlled dangerous substances on
the object;
      (5)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or of
anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he or she knows,
or should reasonably know, intended to use the object to facilitate a violation
of the act; the innocence of an owner, or of anyone in control of the object,
as to a direct violation of the act shall not prevent a finding that the object
is intended for use as drug paraphernalia;
      (6)   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object which
either state directly or imply that the object is to be used for the
consumption of controlled substances;
      (7)   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
      (8)   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
      (9)   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
      (10)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise;
      (11)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community; and
      (12)   Expert testimony concerning its use.
   (C)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   Use. It is unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with
intent to use, drug paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow,
harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test,
analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or
otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled dangerous substance in
violation of the act.
      (2)   Provide or sell. It is unlawful for any person to deliver, possess
with intent to deliver or manufacture with intent to deliver, drug
paraphernalia, knowing or under circumstances where one reasonably should know,
that it will be used to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce
into the human body a controlled dangerous substance in violation of the act.
      (3)   Advertise. It is unlawful for any person to place in any newspaper,
magazine, handbill or other publication any advertisement, knowing or under
circumstances where one reasonably should know, that the purpose of the
advertisement, in whole or in part, is to promote the sale of objects designed
or intended for use as drug paraphernalia.
(Prior Code, § 5-3D-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.04 SNIFFING GLUE, PAINT AND OTHER SUBSTANCES.
   No person shall sniff or inhale paint, glue, gasoline or other volatile
substances for the purpose of intoxication.
(Prior Code, § 5-3D-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
Section
   
135.01   Escape, attempt to escape
   
135.02   Aid in escape
   
135.03   Delivery of articles to prisoners
   
135.04   Resisting, assaulting public officials
   
135.05   Obedience to police and fire personnel
   
135.06   Eluding police
   
135.07   Refusing to assist police
   
135.08   Use of siren or whistle
   
135.09   Impersonating an officer or employee
   
135.10   False statements, reports or complaints
   
135.11   False alarms
   
135.12   Duties of public at fires and emergencies
   
135.13   Signs and equipment
§ 135.01 ESCAPE, ATTEMPT TO ESCAPE.
   No person lawfully in custody or confined in jail, before or after
conviction for any violation of the ordinances of the town, or held in custody
going to jail, or working upon the streets or other public grounds of the town
or in custody of any officer of the town, shall break or attempt to break jail
or custody, and escape or attempt to escape therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 5-3E-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.02 AID IN ESCAPE.
   (A)   No person shall convey into jail any disguised instrument or anything
proper or useful to facilitate the escape of any prisoner lawfully committed to
or detained in jail for any violation of the town ordinances, for any criminal
offense or lawfully detained or imprisoned therein, whether such escape is
effected or attempted or not.
   (B)   No person shall in any way aid, remove or assist any person to resist
or escape from custody of any police officer or from any lawful confinement.
(Prior Code, § 5-3E-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.03 DELIVERY OF ARTICLES TO PRISONERS.
   No person shall deliver any article or thing to any person under arrest
without the consent of the officer having charge and custody of the prisoner.
(Prior Code, § 5-3E-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.04 RESISTING, ASSAULTING PUBLIC OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      OBSTRUCTION OF. In addition to its common meaning, includes:
         (a)   Flight by one sought to be arrested before the arresting officer
can restrain him and after notice is given that he is under arrest;
         (b)   Any violence toward or any resistance or opposition to the
arresting officer after the arrested party is actually placed under arrest and
before he or she is under arrest; or
         (c)   Refusal by the arrested party to give his or her name and make
his or her identity known to the arresting officer.
      RESISTING AN OFFICER. The intentional opposition or resistance to, or
obstruction of an individual acting in his or her official capacity, and
authorized by law to make a lawful arrest or seizure of property, or to serve
any lawful process or court order, when the offender knows or has reason to
know that the person arresting, seizing property or serving process is acting
in his or her official capacity.
   (B)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or willfully to:
         (a)   Resist, oppose or obstruct any officer or employee of the town
in the discharge of his or her official duties;
         (b)   Obstruct, threaten or otherwise intimidate or attempt to
intimidate any officer or employee from the discharge of his or her official
duties; or
         (c)   Assault or beat, or revile, abuse, be disrespectful to, use
abusive or indecent language toward or about any such officer or employee while
such officer or employee is in the discharge of his or her official duties.
      (2)   It is unlawful to resist, oppose or assault, prevent, fail to
cooperate with or in any way interfere with a police officer, or any person
duly authorized to act as such, while the officer or person is discharging or
attempting to discharge his or her official duties within the limits of the
town.
      (3)   It is unlawful for any person to warn or signal another so as to
assist such other person to flee, escape or evade an officer seeking to make an
arrest or for any person to bar or lock any door or barrier in the face of or
in front of an approaching officer.
      (4)   No person shall knowingly commit any assault, battery or assault
and battery on any town official or police officer or firefighter while in the
performance of his, her or their duties.
(Prior Code, § 5-3E-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.05 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND FIRE PERSONNEL.
   No person shall fail to heed a reasonable order of a police officer or
firefighter while such officer is in the discharge of an official duty in
maintaining the public safety or welfare.
(Prior Code, § 5-3E-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.06 ELUDING POLICE.
   No operator of a motor vehicle who has received a visual and audible signal,
a red light and a siren from a police officer driving a motor vehicle, showing
the same to be an official police, sheriff or highway patrol or state game
ranger car directing the operator to bring his or her vehicle to a stop, shall
willfully increase his or her speed or extinguish his or her lights to elude or
attempt to elude such police officer, or attempt in any other manner to elude
the police officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-3E-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.07 REFUSING TO ASSIST POLICE.
   It is the duty of all persons in the town when called upon by any police
officer to promptly aid and assist him or her in the execution of his or her
duties.
(Prior Code, § 5-3E-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.08 USE OF SIREN OR WHISTLE.
   (A)   No person shall use any police whistle or any other instrument used by
police officers to give signals to each other, or imitate any signal given by
one police officer to another or any special signal used by police officers,
for the purpose of improperly or without cause attracting the attention of the
police.
   (B)   No person, except law enforcement officers, Fire Department or other
emergency services, shall ring, use or otherwise sound any gong, siren, whistle
or any other device making similar noise.
(Prior Code, § 5-3E-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.09 IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE.
   (A)   No person, other than police officers shall wear or carry the uniform,
apparel, badge, identification card or any other insignia of office like or
similar to, or a colorable imitation of, that adopted and worn or carried by
police officers.
   (B)   No person shall do or attempt any act to impersonate a police officer.
   (C)   It is unlawful to falsely impersonate any officer or employee of the
town, or falsely represent himself or herself to be an officer or employee of
the town, by any kind of representation, pretense, insignia, sound, clothing or
conduct, or exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or
powers of an officer or employee of the town without being authorized to do so.
(Prior Code, § 5-3E-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.10 FALSE STATEMENTS, REPORTS OR COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or file or cause to be made or filed a
false or misleading report or misrepresentation, allegation or complaint with
any officer or employee of the town, or on any official application or to
commit perjury before any tribunal of the town.
   (B)   No person shall willfully and without probable cause make a false
report to any person of any crime, violation of town ordinances or
circumstances indicating the possibility of crime or violation having been
committed, including, but not limited to, the unlawful taking of personal
property, which report causes or encourages the exercise of police or other
official action or investigation.
(Prior Code, § 5-3E-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.11 FALSE ALARMS.
   It is unlawful for any person to turn in a false alarm of any nature or in
any manner to deceive or attempt to deceive the Fire Department or any other
emergency personnel, or summon any officer or employee thereof with reference
to any fire alarm or reported fire, accident or other emergency, or knowingly
to cause the Fire Department or its officers or employees to make a useless or
unnecessary run to any part of the town or outside the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-3E-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.12 DUTIES OF PUBLIC AT FIRES AND EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   All persons at fires or other emergencies or accidents shall conduct
themselves in an orderly and lawful manner and shall assist in maintaining law
and order.
   (B)   No person at or near any fire or emergency shall conduct himself or
herself in a disorderly manner or neglect or refuse to promptly obey any order
of the Fire Chief or his or her assistants relative to such fire; and no person
shall resist, obstruct, hinder or abuse any officer of the Fire Department or
any firefighter in the proper discharge of his or her duty.
   (C)   Every police officer present at a fire shall keep back all persons who
are in the way or impeding the work of the Fire Department and, so far as
possible, protect all property from loss or injury, and cooperate with and
assist the Fire Department in every way possible while at the fire. The Fire
Chief or an Assistant Fire Chief or any police officer shall have the power to
designate persons to guard any goods.
   (D)   No person shall follow or block the way of any emergency vehicle
engaged in an emergency run, or knowingly interfere with officers at the
location of any fire or emergency.
(Prior Code, § 5-3E-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.13 SIGNS AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Tampering with signs and equipment. It is unlawful for any person to
tamper with any signs, signal equipment or other device placed, operated and
maintained by the town in connection with the administration of this code,
ordinances, regulations, services, functions or performance of duties thereto.
   (B)   Removal of barricades. It is unlawful for any person, except by proper
authority, to remove any barricade or obstruction placed by authority of the
town to keep traffic off any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk or other area.
   (C)   Public works construction.
      (1)   Any person who removes, destroys, disturbs or in any manner injures
any grade stake, stone or other mark or monument set by or under authority of
the town to designate or mark grades, lines, corners or benchmarks on any
public work in the town prior to the completion and acceptance of the contract
for which such stakes or monuments are set, without lawful authority, is guilty
of an offense.
      (2)   Any contractor or other person constructing any public work in the
town shall protect such work by barriers or obstructions. It is unlawful for
any person to cross the barriers or to remove them until the work has been
completed and opened by authority of the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-3E-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
      
152.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
150.01   [Reserved]
   
150.02   Moving buildings
§ 150.01 [RESERVED].
§ 150.02 MOVING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Permit requirements. It is unlawful for any person to move any house
or building in, along, across or over any street or alley in the town limits
without first having obtained a permit from the town’s Board of Trustees. The
Board of Trustees shall issue the permit upon approval of the proposed move and
proper application of the person for a fee to be set by motion or resolution.
The permits are good for a five-day period from date of issue.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-1)
   (B)   Protection of public ways. Any person moving any house or building
shall plank all street crossings and sidewalks to prevent damage to the streets
and sidewalks or protect them as required by the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-2)
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 151: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Obstructing public ways
   
151.02   Display or sale of goods and merchandise
   
151.03   Projecting into or overhanging public ways
   
151.04   Mud and water drainage
   
151.05   Hazardous sidewalks
   
151.06   Playing on streets
   
151.07   Injury to trees and shrubs
Excavations
   
151.20   Street cuts
   
151.21   Curb cuts
 
   
151.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Water or snow on streets, sidewalks; assembling on streets, sidewalks, see
Ch. 95
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   Obstructions prohibited.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct in any manner any street,
alley, sidewalk or other public way by leaving or permitting to remain thereon
or therein any vehicle, object, material, structure, fence or other obstruction
of any kind.
      (2)   (a)   It is unlawful to:
            1.   Obstruct any public street, public highway, public sidewalk or
any other public place or building by hindering or impeding or tending to
hinder or impede the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or
pedestrians; or
            2.   Commit in or upon any public street, public highway, public
sidewalk or any other public place or building any act or thing which is an
obstruction or interference to the free and uninterrupted use of property or
with any business lawfully conducted by anyone in or upon or facing or fronting
on any such public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any other public
place or building, all of which prevents the free and uninterrupted ingress,
egress and regress, therein, thereon and thereto.
         (b)   When any person causes or commits any of the conditions
enumerated in division (A)(2)(a) above, a police officer or any law enforcement
officer shall order that person to stop causing or committing such conditions
and to move on or disburse, or to remove any obstructions. Any person who fails
or refuses to obey such orders shall be guilty of a violation of this division
(A)(2).
      (3)   It is unlawful for any person to otherwise place any object,
vehicle or structure on or so near to any street right-of-way such that same
constitutes a traffic or safety hazard for either pedestrians or vehicular
traffic traveling on or onto the street.
      (4)   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to erect, construct,
locate, maintain or allow to remain on his or her property any sign, fence or
structure within an area known as the “sight triangle”, which is defined as
that area formed by measuring from the point of intersection of two lot lines a
distance of 25 feet along each lot line and connecting the points so
established to create a triangle with sides abutting street right-of-way. Any
sign, fence or structure placed or located in such area is hereby determined to
be a public nuisance, and the town is authorized to cause the structure, fence
or sign to be removed.
   (B)   Elimination of obstructions.
      (1)   Removal. The owner of every lot or parcel of land in the town upon
which any trees, shrubs or plants are growing, or upon which any obstruction
has been placed, shall remove such trees, shrubs, plants or obstruction, or
parts thereof, if they are so situated as to constitute a traffic hazard by
obstructing the view of any driver of any vehicle on the streets of the town to
the extent that the driver is unable to observe the approach of other vehicles
on streets and alleys and at intersections.
      (2)   Trimming trees and shrubs.
         (a)   The owner of any premises abutting on any street shall trim all
trees and shrubbery growing in the parking, between the sidewalks and the
roadway, of any such street, and all trees and shrubbery growing on any part of
the premises adjacent to the sidewalks or any street or alley in such manner
that the boughs or limbs thereof shall not obstruct free and convenient
passage, sight and travel along the streets, sidewalks and alleys. If premises
are occupied by some person other than the owner, such occupant shall trim the
trees and shrubbery in the same manner as hereinbefore required of the owner.
Such trees and shrubbery shall be trimmed so that the lowest branches or
foliage shall not be lower than ten feet above the roadway of a street or
alley, nor lower than eight feet above the sidewalk.
         (b)   Any owner or occupant who fails, refuses or neglects to trim
trees and shrubbery as provided in this division (B)(2), after receiving ten
days’ notice from the town’s Clerk-Treasurer or his or her designee to do so,
is guilty of an offense against the town. In addition to any fine or punishment
as an offense, the town may act to abate the nuisance. Every day that the owner
or occupant fails, refuses or neglects to trim such trees or shrubbery after
the expiration of the ten days’ notice shall be a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.02 DISPLAY OR SALE OF GOODS AND MERCHANDISE.
   (A)   Prohibited. Except as otherwise provided in this code, it is unlawful
for any person to display any goods, wares or merchandise for sale, or to sell
the same, on any street, alley or sidewalk, or from any vehicle parked thereon,
in the corporate limits of the town. Each separate sale or offer to sell in
violation hereof shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Sales from vehicles. Any vehicle parked on the streets, alleys or
sidewalks for the purpose of making merchandise available for sale by the
methods prohibited by this section shall be promptly moved by the driver upon
order of any police officer and, if not promptly moved, the same shall be towed
from such location upon order of the police, and the driver or custodian of the
vehicle shall also be deemed guilty of an offense.
   (C)   Separate offenses. In each instance where an individual is guilty of
an offense under the provisions of this section, the person for whom such
individual is acting in the capacity of an agent or employee shall be guilty of
a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03 PROJECTING INTO OR OVERHANGING PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   Prohibited generally; permit required when permitted. It is unlawful
for any person to erect or construct, or cause to be erected or constructed,
any cellar or basement way, stairway, door, awning post, canopy or any other
kind of structure projecting into, upon or over, and adjoining any street or
sidewalk within the town; except that, the Building Officer may, in his or her
discretion, authorize the same to be done, where the public health, safety and
necessity demand, by granting a permit therefor.
   (B)   Conditions of permit; non-liability of town. Upon the granting of a
permit under this section, conditions as to the erection of the structure
through, upon or over any street or sidewalk may be fixed by the town, and a
contract shall be entered into as to the maintenance of the structure and an
indemnifying agreement secured, indemnifying and saving the town harmless from
any loss, costs or damage by reason of the structure projecting into, upon or
over, and adjoining any street or sidewalk within the fire limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04 MUD AND WATER DRAINAGE.
   It is unlawful for any person to wash or drain into any street, alley or
other public place in the town any water from his or her house or premises or
to allow any filth or water to escape from his or her premises upon any of the
places above mentioned or upon property contiguous thereto. No auto or other
vehicle shall be washed at any place within the town where the water, dirt or
other substances removed therefrom will drain into any street or sidewalk of
the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.05 HAZARDOUS SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Hazardous conditions generally. It is unlawful for the owner or
occupant of property abutting upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area to permit the
sidewalk or sidewalk area adjacent to the property to become a hazard to
persons using the sidewalk or sidewalk area.
   (B)   Obstructions.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to allow any obstruction of any kind
to accumulate in the sidewalk in front of his or her premises.
      (2)   All owners and occupants of property are required to keep their
premises and the sidewalks, gutters, streets and alleys adjacent thereto free
from weeds, trash and all obstructions and to remove such weeds, trash and
obstructions from such places.
   (C)   Refuse deposits. It is unlawful to deposit, throw or sweep into or
upon a street, alley, parking or sidewalk of the town any trash, weeds, tree
trimmings, dirt or any other refuse of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-5) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06 PLAYING ON STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in any sport, game or amusement or
to play in, on or across the main traveled portion of any sidewalk, street,
avenue or alley of the town, except as may be authorized by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-6) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.07 INJURY TO TREES AND SHRUBS.
   It is unlawful for any person to injure any tree or shrubbery on a street or
alley in the town. This section shall not prohibit the lawful and proper care
and removal of such trees and shrubbery.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-7) Penalty, see §
151.99
EXCAVATIONS
§ 151.20 STREET CUTS.
   (A)   Permit required. It is unlawful for any person to cut the pavement or
curb in or on any of the streets, sidewalks, avenues or alleys in the town for
the purpose of laying pipe or other connections for utilities, or to cut or
otherwise injure the pavement or curb on any of the streets, sidewalks, avenues
or alleys for any purpose whatsoever without a permit therefor as provided by
this section.
   (B)   Application for permit. Every person who desires to lay pipes or lines
for the purpose of making and preparing any connections to utilities which will
require the cutting of the pavement to make such connections shall make
application for and procure from the town a written permit to cut such pavement
or curb and make such installations for the proposed purpose or otherwise. No
person shall have any right or authority to construct or install any pipes or
lines or otherwise cut the pavement or curbs without first having secured such
permit.
   (C)   Permit fee. Any person desiring to cut the pavement or other hard
surface on any street or sidewalk in the town shall pay a fee for the permit.
The fee shall be in such amount as set by the Town Board by motion or
resolution.
   (D)   Notification of completion of work. All permittees, when they have
completed the work for which such cut has been made, shall notify the town of
the completion of such work in order that the same may be inspected and
approved.
   (E)   Work to be timely. Any permittee cutting pavement by virtue of a
permit as authorized herein shall perform the excavation or other work without
delay or interruption.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.21 CURB CUTS.
   (A)   Permit and compliance required. It is unlawful for any person to cut,
break, tear out or remove the curbing or any part thereof along the street in
the town for any purpose, except in accordance with this section. Any person
desiring to cut any curbing in the town shall first obtain a permit from the
town before doing so.
   (B)   Application for permit. Application for such permit shall be in
writing to the town and shall state the time and place that applicant desires
to break the curbing. The application shall contain such other information as
is required by the town.
   (C)   Permit fee. A fee as set by the town’s Board of Trustees by motion or
resolution shall be paid to the town prior to obtaining the permit required in
this section.
   (D)   Denial of permit. The town may, in its discretion, refuse to approve
any permit to cut any curbing along the streets of the town when the cutting of
the curbing shall constitute a traffic hazard, or interfere in any way with the
safety of the public in the use of the street or adjacent sidewalk, or in any
way deteriorate or damage the street or interfere with the use thereof by the
public.
   (E)   Restrictions. Only such portions of any curbing may be cut or removed
as, in the opinion of the Building Officer, may be consistent with and not
detrimental to the general public welfare.
   (F)   Inspection. The removing of such curbing, the construction of the
driveway and all other parts of the work in connection therewith shall be
subject to the inspection and approval of the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
151.01 through
151.07 of this chapter is guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day upon which a violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-8)
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
151.20 and
151.21 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-3)
CHAPTER 152: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
152.05   Definitions
   
152.06   Lands to which these regulations apply
   
152.07   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
152.08   Establishment of development permit
   
152.09   Compliance
   
152.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.11   Interpretation
   
152.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.25   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator; duties and
responsibilities
   
152.26   Permit procedures
   
152.27   Variances
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.40   General standards
   
152.41   Specific standards
   
152.42   Standards for subdivisions
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the State of Oklahoma has, in 82 O.S. §§ 1601 through
1618, as amended, delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to
adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the town’s
Floodplain Board adopts the following floodplain management regulations, to be
effective on and after 8-5-2010.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-1) (Res. 2010-03, passed 6-14-2010)
§ 152.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation,
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
flood-proofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-2) (Res. 2010-03, passed 6-14-2010)
§ 152.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of these regulations to promote the public health, safety
and general welfare and minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood-control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains; electric, telephone and sewer lines; streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-3) (Res. 2010-03, passed 6-14-2010)
§ 152.04 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish their purposes, these regulations use the following
methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accumulation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-4) (Res. 2010-03, passed 6-14-2010)
§ 152.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure which is on the same parcel of property as
the principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES include, but are not
limited to, garages and storage sheds.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within the town
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BFE. Base flood elevation.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation in feet above mean sea level of the base
flood or 1% chance flood.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. A permit issued by the town’s Floodplain Board or
Floodplain Administrator which authorizes development in a special flood hazard
area in accordance with these regulations.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building built, in the case of a building
in Zones A and X, to have the top of the elevated floor adequately anchored so
as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a flood up to
the magnitude of the base flood. In the case of Zones A and X, ELEVATED
BUILDING also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid foundation
perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement
of flood waters.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the “start of construction” commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before 1-1-1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before 3-6-2000.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FIRM. Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. An official map of the town on which FEMA has
delineated both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones
applicable to the town.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by FEMA for the town of
Bernice which contains flood profiles, water surface elevation of the base
flood, as well as the floodway width, section area and mean velocity.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within the town subject to a “special flood hazard” and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. A person accredited by the OWRB and designated by
a Floodplain Board to administer and implement laws and regulations relating to
the management of the floodplains.
   FLOODPLAIN BOARD. The Town of Bernice Floodplain Board.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood- control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. (See definition of FLOOD or FLOODING.)
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use that cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and shipbuilding and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of the Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the national register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee or levees
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that, such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
North American vertical datum (NAVD) of 1988 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on the town’s Flood Insurance Rate Map are referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after 12-31-1974, whichever is later, and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management purposes,
NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the “start of construction”
commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation
adopted by the town’s Floodplain Board and includes any subsequent improvements
to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by the town’s Floodplain
Board.
   OWRB. The Oklahoma Water Resources Board.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. Law No. 97-348,
being 16 U.S.C. §§ 3501 et seq.), includes substantial improvement and means
the date the building permit was issued; provided, the actual START of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or
other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START
means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START
OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other
structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally above-ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other improvement
of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of
the structure before “start of construction” of the improvement.
      (2)   This includes structures that have incurred “substantial damage”,
regardless of the actual repair work performed.
      (3)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of State or Local Health, Sanitary or Safety Code specifications
which have been identified by the local Code Enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a “historic structure”; provided that, the
alteration would not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by the town’s Floodplain Board to a person from
the terms of these regulations when specific enforcement would result in
unnecessary hardship. A VARIANCE, therefore, permits construction or
development in a manner otherwise prohibited by these regulations. (For full
requirements, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.6.)
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with these town’s floodplain management regulations.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the North American
vertical datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-5) (Res. 2010-03, passed 6-14-2010)
§ 152.06 LANDS TO WHICH THESE REGULATIONS APPLY.
   These floodplain management regulations shall apply to all areas of special
flood hazard within the jurisdiction of the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-6) (Res. 2010-03, passed 6-14-2010)
§ 152.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by FEMA in a scientific and
engineering report entitled “The Flood Insurance Study for Delaware County and
Incorporated Areas”, dated 4-16-2003, with the accompanying flood insurance
rate map (FIRM), are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of
these regulations. However, on 8-5-2010, the areas of special flood hazard
identified by FEMA in a scientific and engineering report entitled “The Flood
Insurance Study for Delaware County and Incorporated Areas”, dated 8-5-2010,
are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations
and the maps dated 4-16-2003, shall no longer be used by the town’s Floodplain
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-7) (Res. 2010-03, passed 6-14-2010)
§ 152.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the
provisions of these floodplain management regulations.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-8) (Res. 2010-03, passed 6-14-2010)
§ 152.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of these regulations and other
applicable regulations.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-9) (Res. 2010-03, passed 6-14-2010)
§ 152.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   These regulations are not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where these
regulations and any other ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction
conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall
prevail.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-10) (Res. 2010-03, passed 6-14-2010)
§ 152.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of these regulations, all provisions
shall be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit, nor repeal, any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-11) (Res. 2010-03, passed 6-14-2010)
§ 152.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by these regulations is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions, greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. These regulations do
not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses
permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. These
regulations shall not create liability on the part of the town or any official
or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on these
regulations or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-12) (Res. 2010-03, passed 6-14-2010)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.25 DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES AND
RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The town’s Floodplain Board designates the town’s Clerk-Treasurer as
the Floodplain Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of
these regulations and other appropriate sections of national flood insurance
program regulations in C.F.R. Title 44 pertaining to floodplain management.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-13)
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Become accredited by the OWRB in accordance with 82 O.S. §§ 1601
through 1618, as amended;
      (2)   Review permit applications to determine whether the proposed
building sites, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be
reasonably safe from flooding;
      (3)   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by these regulations;
      (4)   Review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits
have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental agencies
from which prior approvals are required;
      (5)   Make the necessary interpretation where interpretation is needed as
to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards
(for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary
and actual field conditions);
      (6)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the OWRB
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
such notification to the FEMA;
      (7)   Assure that the flood-carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained;
      (8)   Shall require the builder/developer or applicant to determine and/
or provide the base flood elevation certificate on a FEMA certified elevation
certificate with other required information in order to administer and enforce
the provisions in §§
152.40 through
152.42 of this chapter;
      (9)   After a disaster or other type of damage occurrence to structures
in the town, determine if the residential and non-residential structures and
manufactured homes have been substantially damaged, and enforce the substantial
improvement requirement;
      (10)   Maintain a record of all actions involving an appeal from a
decision of the Floodplain Board;
      (11)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records
pertaining to the provisions of these regulations;
      (12)   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain
Administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zone AE on the
community’s FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the
proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the town; and
      (13)   May approve certain development in Zone AE on the town’s FIRM
which increases the water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one
foot; provided that, the developer first applies for a conditional letter of
map revision through FEMA (in accordance with 44 C.F.R. Ch. 1, § 65.12, of the
NFIP program regulations).
(Prior Code, § 9-4-14)
(Res. 2010-03, passed 6-14-2010)
§ 152.26 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   An application for a development permit shall be presented to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and may include, but
not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures; and
      (2)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (B)   Approval or denial of a development permit by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of these regulations and
the following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
      (10)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area.
   (C)   The Floodplain Board may approve certain development in Zone A
delineated on the town’s FIRM which increases the water surface elevation of
the base flood by more than one foot; provided that, the applicant for the
development permit in that case first complies with 44 C.F.R. § 65.12.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-15) (Res. 2010-03, passed 6-14-2010)
§ 152.27 VARIANCES.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   (a)   The Floodplain Board may grant variances for uses which do
not satisfy the requirements of the state’s Floodplain Management Act, 82 O.S.
§§ 1601 et seq., or these regulations, if the applicant for the variance
presents adequate proof that:
            1.   Compliance with these regulations will result in an arbitrary
and unreasonable taking of property without sufficient benefit or advantage to
the people; and
            2.   Satisfies the pertinent provisions of this section.
         (b)   However, no variance shall be granted where the effect of the
variance will be to permit the continuance of a condition which unreasonably
creates flooding hazards.
      (2)   Any variance so granted shall not be construed as to relieve any
person who receives it from any liability imposed by the state’s Floodplain
Management Act or by other laws of the state.
      (3)   In no case shall variances be effective for a period longer than 20
years.
      (4)   Any person seeking a variance shall file a petition with the
Floodplain Board, accompanied by a filing fee of $25.
      (5)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level; providing, the relevant factors in §
152.26(B) and provisions of this section have been fully considered. As the lot
size increases beyond the one-half acre, the technical justification required
for issuing the variance increases.
      (6)   Any person seeking a variance to build a structure below the base
flood elevation will be issued a notice signed by the Chairperson of the
Floodplain Board, which states that:
         (a)   The cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the
increased risk resulting from permitting the structure to be built lower than
the base flood elevation; and
         (b)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property.
      (7)   At such time as the Floodplain Board deems the petition ready for
notification to the public, the Floodplain Board shall schedule a hearing and
direct the applicant to publish notice thereof in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county at least 30 days prior to the hearing.
      (8)   The Floodplain Board shall conduct the hearing and make
determinations in accordance with the applicable provisions of this section.
The Floodplain Board shall exercise wide discretion in weighing the equities
involved and the advantages and disadvantages to the applicant and to the
public at large when determining whether the variance shall be granted.
      (9)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant;
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws, regulations or ordinances; and
         (d)   A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
      (10)   Upon consideration of the factors stated in this section and the
intent of these regulations, the Floodplain Board may attach such conditions to
the granting of a variance as it deems necessary to further the purposes and
objectives stated in §
152.04 of this chapter.
      (11)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance; and a copy of any
variance issued by the Floodplain Board shall be sent by the Floodplain
Administrator to the OWRB and FEMA within 15 days after issuance of the
variance.
   (B)   Special provisions.
      (1)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of these regulations.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (3)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
      (4)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use; provided that:
         (a)   The criteria of divisions (A)(5), (A)(9), (B)(2) and (B)(3)
above are met; and
         (b)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-16) (Res. 2010-03, passed 6-14-2010)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards, the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements.
   (A)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-17-1) (Res. 2010-03, passed 6-14-2010)
§ 152.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated at least one foot above the base flood elevation. A registered
professional engineer, architect or land surveyor shall submit a certification
to the Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this section is satisfied.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other non-residential structures
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated at a minimum one foot
above the base flood. A registered professional engineer, architect or land
surveyor shall submit a certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the
standard of this section is satisfied.
   (C)   Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood
waters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
      (1)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade; and
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided that, they permit the automatic entry and exit
of flood waters.
   (D)   Manufactured homes. All manufactured homes to be placed or
substantially improved within Zone A and/or Zone AE on the town’s FIRM anywhere
within the corporate boundary, in or out of a manufactured home park, shall be
installed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage and have the
bottom of the I-beam elevated at least 36 inches above grade or at or above the
base flood elevation. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes
shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement. This
requirement is in addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements
for resisting wind forces. The home shall be installed by a licensed installer
according to state law and compliance herewith shall be certified in writing to
the Floodplain Administrator by said installer prior to habitation of the
manufactured home.
   (E)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles placed on sites within
Zone A and/or Zone AE on the town’s FIRM shall either:
      (1)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
      (3)   Meet the permit requirements of §
152.42 of this chapter, and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
manufactured homes in division (D) above. A recreational vehicle is ready for
highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site
only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no
permanently attached additions.
   (F)   Accessory structures. Accessory structures to be placed on sites
within Zone A or Zone AE on the town’s FIRM shall comply with the following:
      (1)   The structure shall be unfinished on the interior;
      (2)   The structure shall be used only for parking and limited storage;
      (3)   The structure shall not be used for human habitation. Prohibited
activities or uses include, but are not limited to, working, sleeping, living,
cooking or restroom use;
      (4)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment must be
elevated to or above the BFE;
      (5)   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building site
so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of flood waters;
      (6)   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage potential
and constructed with flood-resistance materials;
      (7)   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse and lateral movement;
      (8)   Floodway requirements must be met in the construction of the
structure;
      (9)   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below the BFE; and
      (10)   The structure shall be located so as not to cause damage to
adjacent and nearby structures.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-17-2) (Res. 2010-03, passed 6-14-2010)
§ 152.42 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   The applicant for a development permit for any subdivision located in
Zone A which is 51 or more lots or greater than five acres shall generate the
base flood elevation data for that subdivision.
   (B)   All subdivisions including the placement of manufactured home parks
and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to
flood hazards.
   (C)   All subdivisions including the placement of manufactured home parks
and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damage.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-17-3) (Res. 2010-03, passed 6-14-2010)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of these
regulations and other applicable regulations. A structure or other development
without the elevation certificate or other certifications required in these
regulations is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided. Violation of the provisions of these regulations by
failure to comply with any of their requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates these regulations or fails to
comply with any of their requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not more than $200 for each violation and, in addition, shall pay all court
costs and expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent
the town’s Floodplain Board or Board of Trustees from taking such other lawful
action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-18) (Res. 2010-03, passed 6-14-2010)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Statutory authorization; title
   
153.002   Purpose
   
153.003   Interpretation and application
   
153.004   Definitions
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.015   Zoning clearance permit; fee
   
153.016   Building permits and certificates of occupancy; fee
   
153.017   Amendments; procedure and fees
   
153.018   Vacation of public easements
   
153.019   Invalidity; saving clause
Board of Adjustment
   
153.030   Establishment; appointment
   
153.031   Procedure; meetings
   
153.032   Appeals
   
153.033   Public hearing required
   
153.034   Variances and special exceptions; filing fee
   
153.035   Appeal to District Court
Zoning Districts; Map
   
153.050   Districts established
   
153.051   Zoning Map
   
153.052   Boundaries of districts
   
153.053   A-1, General Agricultural District
   
153.054   R-1, Single-Family Residential District
   
153.055   R-2, General Residential District
   
153.056   C-1, Convenience Commercial District
   
153.057   C-2, Highway Commercial and Commercial Recreation District
   
153.058   C-3, General Commercial District
   
153.059   I-1, Light Industrial District
   
153.060   I-2, Heavy Industrial District
Provisions Applying to All Districts
   
153.075   Application of regulations
   
153.076   Existing buildings and land use
   
153.077   Height and density
   
153.078   Principal and accessory buildings
   
153.079   Street access
   
153.080   Off-street parking
   
153.081   Storage and parking of trailers, commercial vehicles
   
153.082   Annexations
   
153.083   Existing lots of record
   
153.084   Multiple dwellings
Non-Conforming Buildings and Uses
   
153.095   Intent
   
153.096   Non-conforming lots of record
   
153.097   Non-conforming structures
   
153.098   Non-conforming uses of structures
   
153.099   Non-conforming uses of land
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION; TITLE.
   This chapter is enacted in pursuance of the authority granted by the
legislature of the state in 11 O.S. §§ 43-101 et seq., and shall be known as
the “Zoning Ordinance of the Town of Bernice”, and shall be cited as such.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-1) (Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009)
§ 153.002 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted for the purpose of promoting the health, safety,
morals, convenience, order, prosperity and general welfare of the present and
future inhabitants of the town; and to secure safety from fire, panic and other
dangers; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding of
land; to avoid undue concentration of population; to facilitate provision of
adequate facilities for transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks and other
public requirements; and promote a more homogeneous relationship of land use
within the incorporated limits of the town; to protect property values; and to
regulate the use of the land and to promote the orderly development of the
community in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan as adopted by the Planning
Commission and approved by the Board of Trustees; and all other accepted
purposes of zoning.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-2) (Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009)
§ 153.003 INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION.
   As concerns interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements. Where this chapter imposes a greater
restriction than is imposed or required by other provision of law or by other
rules or regulations or ordinances, the provisions of this chapter shall
control.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-3) (Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009)
§ 153.004 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise stipulated or required, the following definitions shall be
used in the interpretation and construction of this chapter, and words used in
the present tense include the future; the singular shall include the plural,
and the plural the singular; the word “building” shall mean as well the word
“structure”; the word “used” shall include “arranged”, “designed”,
“constructed”, “altered”, “converted”, “rented”, “leased” or “intended to be
used”; and the word “shall” is mandatory and not directory. For the purpose of
this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY OR AUXILIARY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure customarily
incidental, appropriate and subordinate to the principal use of a building or
to the principal use of land and which is located upon the same lot therewith.
   ADVERTISING SIGN OR STRUCTURE. Any material or structure of any character
whatsoever, placed for outdoor advertising purposes. The term “placed” shall
include making visible in any manner whatsoever. The area of the ADVERTISING
STRUCTURE shall be determined as the area of the largest cross-section of the
structure. Neither directional, warning or other signs posted by public
officials in the course of their public duties shall be construed as
ADVERTISING SIGNS for the purpose of this chapter.
   AGRICULTURE. The use of land for agricultural purposes including farming,
dairying, pasturage, horticulture, animal and poultry husbandry and the
necessary accessory uses for packing, treating or storing the produce; provided
however, that the operation of any such accessory uses shall be secondary to
that of normal agricultural activities; and, provided further that, the above
uses shall not include the commercial feeding of garbage to swine or other
animals, stockyards or commercial feedlots for cattle.
   ALLEY. A minor right-of-way, dedicated to public use, not more than 30 feet
wide affording a secondary means of access to abutting property and not
intended for general traffic circulation.
   AUTOMOBILE OR TRAILER SALES AREA. An open area, other than a street, used
for the display, sales or rental of new or used motor vehicles or trailers in
operable condition where no repair work is done.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR. General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of
engines, motor vehicles or trailers; collision services including body, frame
or fender straightening or repair; overall painting or paint shop; vehicle
steam cleaning.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR. Incidental replacement of parts and motor service
to passenger cars and trucks not exceeding one and one-half tons’ capacity.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION OR FILLING STATION. Any area used for retail sale
of gasoline or oil fuels, or automobile accessories, and incidental services
including facilities for lubricating, and washing and cleaning, but not
including painting, major repair or the sale of butane or propane fuels.
   AUTOMOBILE WASH or AUTOMATIC CAR WASH. A building or structure or chain
conveyors, blowers, steam cleaners and other mechanical devices used primarily
for the purpose of washing motor vehicles.
   BASEMENT. A story wholly or partly underground. For purposes of height
measurement, a BASEMENT shall be counted as a story when more than one-half of
its height is above the average level of the adjoining ground or when
subdivided and used for commercial or dwelling purposes by other than a janitor
employed on the premises.
   BLOCK. In describing the boundaries of a district, the word BLOCK refers to
the legal description. In all other cases, the word BLOCK refers to the
property abutting on one side of the street between two intersecting streets or
a street and a railroad right-of-way or watercourse.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. The Board of Adjustment for the Town of Bernice,
Oklahoma. Also referred to as THE BOARD.
   BOARDING HOUSE and ROOMING HOUSE. Where meals or lodging are provided for
persons other than the family or their relation, excluding facilities for
transient persons such as hotels, motels, inns and other such facilities.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls that is
used or intended to be used for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals or
property. When such a structure is divided into separate parts by one or more
unpierced walls extending from the ground up, each part is deemed a separate
BUILDING, except as regards minimum side yard requirements as herein provided.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. The subordinate building, the use of which is
customarily incidental to that of a principal building on the same lot.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The Building Inspector of the Town of Bernice, Oklahoma.
   BUILDING LINE. A line established beyond which no part of a building shall
project, except as otherwise provided by this chapter.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building or buildings in which the principal use of
the building site is conducted. In any residential district, any dwelling shall
be deemed to be the PRINCIPAL BUILDING on the building site.
   BULK LIMITATIONS (FLOOR AREA RATIO). The number of square feet of “floor
area”, as defined herein, which is permitted for each square foot of lot area.
   BULLETIN BOARD. Any board or sign erected for announcement purposes.
   CELLAR. The portion of a building between floor and ceiling; partly
underground, but having one-half or more than one-half of its clear height
below the adjoining finished grade.
   CEMETERY. Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the human dead
and dedicated for cemetery purposes.
   CHILDCARE CENTER. Any place, home or institution which receives three or
more children under the age of 16 years, for care apart from their natural
parents, legal guardians or custodians, and received for regular periods of
time for compensation; provided, however, this definition shall not include
public and private schools organized, operated or approved under the laws of
the state; custody of children fixed by a court; children related by blood or
marriage within the third degree to the custodial person; or to churches or
other religious or public institutions caring for children within their
institutional buildings while their parents or legal guardians are attending
services or meetings or classes and other church activities.
   CLINIC. A place used for the care, diagnosis and treatment of sick, ailing,
infirm and injured persons and those in need of surgical or medical attention,
but who are not provided with board and room or kept overnight on the premises.
   CLUB. A non-profit association of persons who are bona fide members, paying
regular dues and organized for some common purpose, but not including a group
organized solely or primarily to render a service customarily carried on as a
commercial enterprise.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The official town plan of the Town of Bernice, Oklahoma.
   CONVALESCENT HOME, NURSING HOME or REST HOME. A home for the aged,
recuperating, chronically ill or incurable persons, in which two or more
persons not of the immediate family are received, kept or provided with food
and shelter or care for compensation, but not including hospitals, clinics or
similar institutions devoted primarily to the diagnosis and treatment of
disease or injury.
   COUNCIL or BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The Board of Trustees of Bernice, Oklahoma.
   COVERAGE. The lot area covered by all buildings located thereon, including
the area covered by all the overhanging roofs.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively as a
residence or sleeping place of one or more persons, but not including a tent,
cabin, trailer or trailer coach, boarding or rooming house, hotel or motel.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building designed for or used by three or more
families or housekeeping units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building designed for or used exclusively for
residential purposes by one family or housekeeping unit.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed for or used exclusively by two
families or housekeeping units.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms, designed for or used by one family.
   ENGINEER. The Town Engineer of the Town of Bernice, Oklahoma.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance by
public utility or municipal or other governmental agencies, of underground or
overhead gas, electrical, steam or water transmission or distribution systems;
collection, communication, supply or disposal systems; including poles, wires,
mains, drains, sewer pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call
boxes, traffic signals, hydrants and other similar equipment and accessories
thereof; reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate services by such
public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies or for the public
health or safety or general welfare, but not including buildings.
   EXCEPTION. A variance from the requirements of this chapter properly
authorized by the Board of Adjustment.
   FAMILY. A person living alone or two or more persons living together,
related by blood or marriage, as a single housekeeping unit using a single
facility for culinary purposes in a dwelling unit, as distinguished from a
group occupying a boarding house, lodging house, hotel, motel, fraternity house
or sorority house.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of a
building or buildings measured from exterior faces of the exterior walls or
from the center walls or from the centerlines of walls separating two
buildings.
   FRONTAGE. The width of a lot measured at right angles to the depth on the
front or street side of the lot.
   GARAGE APARTMENT. A dwelling for one family erected as a part of a private
garage.
   GARAGE, PARKING. Any building or portion thereof used for the storage of
four or more automobiles in which any servicing that may be provided is
incidental to the primary use for storage purposes, and where repair facilities
are not provided.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building or a portion of the principal
building used or intended for use by the occupants of the premises for storage
of passenger vehicles or trailers.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. The structure or portion thereof, other than a private
garage, used for the storage, sale, hire, care, repairing or refinishing of any
vehicles.
   GARAGE, REPAIR. A building in which are provided facilities for the care,
servicing, repair or equipping of automobiles.
   HEIGHT. The vertical measurement of any building or structure on any parcel
of land measured from the average elevation of the lot or parcel to the
uppermost point of the structure or building.
   HEIGHT LIMIT. The limit of height as imposed in this chapter for any
structure or building or permitted use within the zoning district.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation carried on solely by the inhabitants of a
dwelling which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling
for dwelling purposes, which does not change the character thereof, and which
is conducted entirely within the main or accessory building; provided that, no
trading and merchandising is carried on and in connection with which there is
no display of merchandise or advertising sign other than one non-illuminated
nameplate, not more than two square feet in area attached to the main or
accessory building, and no mechanical equipment is used, except such as is
customary for purely domestic or household purposes.
   HOSPITAL. A building or portion thereof used for the accommodation of sick,
injured or infirm persons.
   HOTEL. A building or group of buildings under one ownership containing six
or more sleeping rooms occupied or intended or designed to be occupied as the
more or less temporary abiding place of persons who are lodged with or without
meals for compensation, but not including trailer court or camp, hospital,
asylum, orphanage or building where persons are housed under restraint.
   INDUSTRY. Storage, repair, manufacture, preparation or treatment of any
article, substance or any commodity for commercial use.
   INSTITUTIONAL USES. Those uses organized, established, used or intended to
be used for the promotion of public, religious, educational, charitable,
cultural, social or philanthropic activities and normally operated on a non-
profit basis.
   JUNK OR SALVAGE YARD. A place where waste, discarded or salvage materials
are bought, sold, exchanged, bailed, packed, disassembled or handled, including
all wrecking yards, house wrecking yards, used lumber yards and places or yards
for storage of salvaged house wrecking and structural steel materials and
equipment; but not including such places where such uses are conducted entirely
within a completely enclosed building, and not including pawnshops and
establishments for the sale, purchase or storage of used furniture and
household equipment, used cars in operable condition or salvage material
incidental to manufacturing operations.
   KENNEL. Any structure or premises on which more than three dogs over four
months of age are kept.
   LOADING SPACE. An off-street space or berth on the same lot with the
building, or contiguous to a group of buildings, for the temporary parking of a
commercial vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials.
   LOT. A piece or parcel of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
principal building or a group of such buildings and accessory buildings, or
utilized for a principal use and used as accessory thereto, together with such
open spaces as required by this chapter, and having access on a public street.
A LOT may consist of portions of two or more lots of record; provided that, the
LOT meets the minimum area and width regulations of each respective district.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot which has at least two adjacent sides abutting on a
street; provided that, the interior angle at the intersection of such two sides
is less than 135 degrees.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having a frontage on two non-intersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT OF RECORD. Herein designated as a separate and distinct parcel on a
legally recorded subdivision plat or a legally recorded deed filed with the
County Clerk or Register of Deeds of Delaware County, Oklahoma.
   LOT, WEDGE SHAPED. A lot situated so that the front is either wider or
narrower than the rear of the lot.
   MAXIMUM COVERAGE. The maximum amount of land that may be covered by
buildings on any lot.
   MEAN LOT ELEVATION. The average elevation of a lot.
   MOBILE HOME COURT. A parcel of land under single ownership which has been
planned and improved for placement of mobile homes for non-transient use.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A parcel of land for the exclusive use of the occupants of
a single mobile home.
   MOBILE HOME STAND. The part of an individual lot which has been reserved for
the placement of the mobile home.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. A parcel lawfully occupied by a use that does not
conform to the regulations of the district in which it is located.
   OFF-STREET PARKING. The provision of space reserved exclusively for the
parking of motor vehicles entirely off the public street and lying wholly
within the property boundaries of the parcel of land affected.
   OPEN SPACE. Area included in any side, rear or front yard, or any other
unoccupied space on a lot that is open and unobstructed to the sky, except for
the ordinary projection of cornices and eaves of porches.
   PARCEL. A lot, as defined in this section.
   PARKING AREA, PRIVATE. An open area for the same uses as a private garage.
   PARKING AREA, PUBLIC. An open area, other than a street or other public way,
used for the parking of automobiles and available to the public whether for
fee, free or as an accommodation for clients or customers.
   PARKING SPACE. A permanently surfaced area of not less than 200 square feet,
either within a structure or in the open, exclusive of driveways or access
drives, for the parking of motor vehicles.
   PERMITTED USES. The use of a structure or of a tract of land allowed by the
use regulations of this chapter.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. Bernice Planning Commission, as established by the
statutes hereinbefore cited, for the Town of Bernice, County of Delaware, State
of Oklahoma. Also referred to as THE COMMISSION.
   ROOMING HOUSE. See definition of BOARDING HOUSE AND ROOMING HOUSE.
   SIGN. Any structure or part thereof, or any device attached to, painted on
or represented on a building or other structure, upon which is displayed or
included any lettering, model, banner, flag, pennant, insignia, decoration,
device or representation used as, or which is in the nature of, an
announcement, direction, advertisement or other attention directing device. A
SIGN shall not include the similar structure or device located within a
building, except for illuminated signs within show windows. The word SIGN
includes any billboard, but does not include the flag, pennants or insignia of
any nation or association of nations, or any state, city or other political,
charitable, educational, philanthropic, civic, professional, religious or like
campaign, drive, movement or event.
   SIGN, ILLUMINATED. A sign designed to give forth any artificial light, or
designed to reflect light from one or more sources, natural or artificial.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. A sign erected on the face or outside wall of a building
which projects out at any angle therefrom.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. Signs of a temporary nature used to advertise the premises
for sale, rent or lease.
   STORY. The portion of a building, included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it; or, if there be no floor above it,
then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
   STORY, FIRST. The lowest story or the ground story of any building, the
floor of which is not more than 12 inches below the average contact ground
level at the exterior walls of the building; except that, any basement or
cellar used for residence purposes shall be deemed the first story; provided
that, a basement or cellar used purely for recreational purposes shall not be
deemed the FIRST STORY.
   STORY, MEZZANINE. A story which covers one-third or less of the story
directly underneath it.
   STREET. A public right-of-way more than 20 feet in width which provides a
public means of access to abutting property and used primarily for vehicular
circulation. The term STREET shall include avenue, drive, circle, road,
parkway, boulevard, lane, place, highway, thoroughfare and any other similar
term.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. Those residential streets designed to carry intra-city
traffic connecting neighborhood areas to a major street whose purpose is to
collect traffic from other minor streets and to serve as the most direct route
to a major street or to a community facility as described and shown on the
trafficways plan.
   STREET, INTERSECTING. Any street which adjoins another street at an angle
whether or not it crosses the other.
   STREET, MAJOR. An arterial street which is designated on the trafficways
plan and designed to carry intra-city traffic and to relate the various
neighborhoods within the town.
   STREET, MINOR. Any street not designated as a major or collector street and
intended to serve or provide access exclusively to the properties abutting
thereon.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in the structural members of a building
such as walls, columns, beams or girders.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, the use of which requires permanent
location on the ground or attachment to something having a permanent location
on the ground (including portable storage buildings, swimming pools and
satellite dishes, but not including sidewalks, driveways and similar
improvement areas).
   THOROUGHFARE, EXPRESSWAY. A primary thoroughfare with divided roadways,
partial or full control of access in general with grade separations at
intersections. A FREEWAY shall mean an expressway with full control of access
and meeting the standards of the Bureau of Public Roads, U.S. Department of
Commerce.
   THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The part of the comprehensive general plan referring to
transportation development goals, principles and standards and also includes
use of the terms MAJOR STREET PLAN and TRAFFICWAYS PLAN.
   THOROUGHFARE, PRIMARY OR SECONDARY. An officially designated federal or
state numbered highway or county or other road or street designated as a
primary thoroughfare on the official thoroughfare or major street plan for the
town; or county or other road or street designated as a secondary thoroughfare
on said plan, respectively.
   TOURIST COURT. An area containing one or more buildings designed or intended
to be used as temporary sleeping facilities of one or more transient persons.
   TOWN. The incorporated town of Bernice, Oklahoma.
   TRAFFIC SIGNALING DEVICE. A sign, device of mechanical contrivance, used for
the control of motor vehicular and pedestrian movement.
   TRAILER or MOBILE HOME. A portable or mobile living unit used or designed
for human occupancy on a permanent basis.
   USE. The purpose for which land or a building or structure is arranged,
designed or intended, or for which either land, building or structure is or may
be occupied or maintained.
   UTILITY SERVICE INSTALLATION. Any structure or installation by a utility
company deemed to be necessary for the safe or efficient operation of that
utility.
   VARIANCE. Any modification of the terms of this chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of a lot from side lot
line to side lot line abutting on a street beyond which a building may not
protrude.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the rear of a lot measured from side lot
line to side lot line and at the end opposite the front lot line.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending from front building line to the rear building
line abutting the side lot line beyond which no building may protrude.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The person nominated by the Mayor and approved by a
majority vote of the Board of Trustees to fill the position of Zoning
Enforcement Officer and whose duties shall include the uniform application and
enforcement of this chapter.
   ZONING MAP. The adopted zoning map or maps of the town, together with all
amendments.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-4) (Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.015 ZONING CLEARANCE PERMIT; FEE.
   (A)   Purpose. The zoning clearance permit is a permit issued by the Zoning
Administrator which states that a particular development meets all of the
requirements of this chapter. It is not a building permit and does not
authorize construction, it simply clears the land and structure in terms of
zoning and authorizes the Building Inspector to issue the building permit. This
permit also provides a good check for the applicant in that any irregularities
can be eliminated before the detailed plans are prepared.
   (B)   Existing buildings. Any building, structure or use lawfully existing
at the time of enactment of this chapter may be continued even though such
building, structure or use does not conform with the provisions of this
chapter. However, no structural alteration shall be made, nor shall the use of
any land or building or other structure be changed without a zoning clearance
permit issued authorizing such structural alteration or use change as being in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Application for permit. An application for a zoning clearance permit
shall be made to the Zoning Administrator by the owner or proposed occupant of
the building or land to be occupied or used, and said application shall state
the location and legal description of said property and set out in detail the
character and nature of the use to be conducted thereon. Within three days, the
Zoning Administrator shall grant or deny said zoning clearance permit in
accordance with the terms of this chapter.
   (D)   Accompanying materials. All applications for zoning clearance permits
shall be accompanied by a plat plan, drawn to scale on suitable paper, showing
the actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon, and the size and location of
the building to be erected and such other information as may be necessary to
satisfy the requirements of these regulations.
   (E)   Fees. Zoning clearance permits shall not be issued until a fee of $15
shall have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 10-10-1) (Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009)
§ 153.016 BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY; FEE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be enforced by the Zoning Administrator, acting at
the direction of the chief administrative officer.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to change, or
permit to be changed, the use of the land, buildings or structures, or erect,
move or structurally alter any building or structure until a building permit
has been obtained, under the following conditions.
      (1)   Application for building permit. Every application for a building
permit shall be accompanied by:
         (a)   A plat drawn to scale, showing the plot, showing the exact size,
shape and dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the exact size and location
on the lot of all easements of record or in use, the exact size and location on
the lot of all existing buildings and structures, and the exact size and
location on the lot of the structure or building proposed to be built,
repaired, altered, erected or moved, and the size, arrangement, number of
parking stalls, movement of vehicles and ingress and egress drives for all off-
street parking and loading facilities, if such be for a business, commercial or
industrial building;
         (b)   A declaration of the existing or intended use of each existing
and proposed building or structure on the lot and the number of families and
housekeeping units which each existing building accommodates and which each
existing and proposed building is designated to accommodate;
         (c)   Additional information relating to the proposed improvement
needed to determine compliance with these regulations;
         (d)   A survey, prepared by a competent surveyor in the state, of the
boundaries of the lot on which the improvement is proposed to be located shall
be required by the Zoning Administrator where the boundaries of the lot are not
clearly defined by the survey pins and monuments;
         (e)   The Zoning Administrator shall be a person who, in the judgment
and opinion of the Board of Trustees, is competent by reason of building
experience to properly cause inspections to be made and to determine whether
permits should be granted. The inspector shall serve by appointment of the
Board of Trustees and his or her term shall begin upon the adoption of this
chapter and one year thereafter and shall continue to serve unless removed by
the Board of Trustees, who may remove without cause; and
         (f)   All applications shall be considered filed with the Building
Inspector by the filing of the same with the town’s Clerk-Treasurer who shall
deliver such application to the Building Inspector.
      (2)   Fee. Whenever any structure or building is to be erected, moved or
structurally altered, a building permit shall first be obtained from the
Building Inspector. The cost of such permit shall be $30.
      (3)   Certificate of occupancy. No change shall be made in the use of any
land, building or structure after the adoption of this chapter until a
certificate of occupancy is obtained from the town’s Clerk-Treasurer certifying
that all of the provisions of this chapter are complied with. Whenever a
building permit is issued for the erection of a new building or structure, an
occupancy permit shall not be required, except where the use of the building or
structure is changed from that for which the permit is issued or where the
intended use is not clearly stated on the building permit.
(Prior Code, § 10-10-2) (Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009)
§ 153.017 AMENDMENTS; PROCEDURE AND FEES.
   (A)   Recommendations; hearing. The Board of Trustees may, by ordinance,
amend, change or repeal this chapter or any part thereof; provided, however,
that, before the Board of Trustees shall amend, change or repeal this chapter
or any part thereof, it shall request the Planning Commission to submit its
recommendation on such proposed amendment, change or repeal. Such
recommendation on such proposed amendment, change or repeal, whichever the case
may be, shall be made after not less than one public hearing thereon, which
hearing may be adjourned from time to time. After considering the Commission’s
recommendation at public hearing for which public notice shall be given, the
Board of Trustees may approve the recommendation in whole or in part, or return
the recommendation to the Planning Commission for further consideration.
      (1)   The Planning Commission may, upon its own initiative, hold at least
one public hearing on a proposed amendment, change or repeal of this chapter or
any part thereof and any recommendations therefrom shall be transmitted to the
Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees shall consider and act upon such
recommendation in the same manner as herein set forth for recommendations
requested by the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Notice of the dates, time and place of a public hearing considering
amendments or changes to district regulations, restrictions or district
boundaries shall include at least one publication notice in a newspaper of
general circulation in the town not less than 15 days, but not more than 30
days, prior to such public hearing. If a proposed amendment is for any proposed
zoning change, except when proposed by the town, public notice shall also
include the posting of at feast one sign on such lot, parcel or tract of land
and such sign shall there remain for a period of 20 successive days prior to
the public hearing, including the day immediately preceding the day for which
such noticed hearing is scheduled. The sign and lettering thereon shall be of
sufficient size so as to be clearly visible and legible from the public street
or streets toward which it faces. Public notice shall also include notice
mailed by the Secretary of the Planning Commission to all owners of property
within a 300-foot radius of the exterior boundary of the subject property. The
notice shall contain the legal description and the street address or
approximate location of the property, the present and sought zoning
classification of the property and the date, time and place of the public
hearing. It shall be the duty of the owner or authorized representative to
provide a list of the owners within the 300-foot radius certified to be
accurate by a bonded abstracter, attorney or such other entity as may be
acceptable to the Secretary. The petition shall be deemed to be not filed until
said list is provided. The publication and mailed notice, as herein referred,
shall be on the forms provided by the Secretary of the Planning Commission,
shall provide all information required by said form, and shall include a map of
the area to be affected which indicates street names or numbers, streams or
other significant landmarks in said area.
   (B)   Petitions. Petition for amendment to this chapter and zoning map shall
henceforth be filed with the Planning Commission by the owner of the property
concerned, or duly authorized representative thereof, on a standard form
furnished by the Commission. All petitions for amendment proposing a change in
zoning district classification shall be accompanied by a sketch plan of the
area proposed to be rezoned, drawn to approximate scale and showing the
boundaries and dimensions of the tract, the outline of existing and proposed
buildings and structures, the size and location of off-street parking lots, the
type of surfacing proposed for said lots and the plan of structures and the
drives proposed for ingress and egress. An area map showing land of all
abutting property owners shall also be submitted unless such is shown on the
tract sketch.
   (C)   Protest. If a protest against a proposed amendment or change to the
regulations, restrictions, or district boundaries is filed, at least three days
before the public hearing, by the owners of 20% or more of the area of the lots
included in the proposed change or the owners of 50% or more of the area of
lots within a 300-foot radius of the exterior boundary of the property included
in the proposed change, then such amendment or change shall not become
effective, except by a favorable vote of three-fourths of all members of the
Board of Trustees.
   (D)   Filing fee. Upon filing of a petition of amendment to these
regulations, the property owner or his or her duly authorized representative
shall pay a filing fee of $300 to the Secretary of the Planning Commission. All
fees collected by the Planning Commission shall be deposited with the town’s
Clerk- Treasurer and credited to the General Fund of the town.
      (1)   The fees or expenses for all public notices herein required
pursuant to petition for amendment shall be paid by the owner of the property
or his or her duly authorized representative. The form for such notice shall be
established by the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees or the Planning
Commission, as it concerns their respective hearings, shall designate the
agency or agencies which shall affect the public notices and the number of
notices to be used pursuant to this chapter.
      (2)   If, pursuant to a petition for amendment, the Board of Trustees
votes to rezone a lot, parcel or tract of land, the owner of such land shall
pay the cost of the ordinance publication. Such payment shall be submitted to
the town’s Clerk-Treasurer, and the town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall not cause the
ordinance to be published prior to such payment.
   (E)   Final determination or failure to recommend; appeal. In the event the
Planning Commission fails to set up a petition for amendment for public hearing
within 20 days after its proper filing with the Planning Commission at a
regular scheduled meeting; or, if after public hearing, the Planning Commission
fails to recommend that this chapter be amended in accordance with such
petition for amendment, such failure shall be deemed the final determination
and decision of the Planning Commission. The final determination of the
Planning Commission may be appealed to the Board of Trustees, provided a
written request for a hearing before the Board of Trustees is served on the
Chairperson of the Planning Commission within 15 days after the final
determination of the Planning Commission.
   (F)   Zoning map changes. The Planning Commission shall supervise the
official zoning map and shall keep same up to date with all changes and
amendments.
(Prior Code, § 10-10-3) (Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009)
§ 153.018 VACATION OF PUBLIC EASEMENTS.
   Whenever any street, alley or other public easement is vacated, the portion
vacated shall have the same district classification as the land to which the
vacated portion accrues.
(Prior Code, § 10-10-4) (Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009)
§ 153.019 INVALIDITY; SAVING CLAUSE.
   In case any portion of this chapter shall be held to be invalid or
unconstitutional, the remainder of the chapter shall not thereby be invalid,
but shall remain in full force and effect.
(Prior Code, § 10-10-5) (Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 153.030 ESTABLISHMENT; APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   Board created; terms; removal. There is hereby created a Zoning Board
of Adjustment consisting of three members, each to be appointed for a term of
three years and removable for cause by the appointing authority upon written
charges and after public hearing.
   (B)   Vacancies. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of any
member whose term becomes vacant.
   (C)   Continuation of existing Board. It is specifically provided, however,
that on the effective date of this chapter, such Board of Adjustment as was
legally in existence immediately prior to such date shall be constituted as the
Board of Adjustment hereby created, and the terms of the then members of said
Board shall expire after a period of three years, or until their successors are
duly appointed and qualified.
   (D)   Appointment and confirmation. Said Board of Adjustment shall be
appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-1) (Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009)
§ 153.031 PROCEDURE; MEETINGS.
   (A)   Chairperson. The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall elect one of its
members as Chairperson, who shall serve for the duration of his or her term.
   (B)   Rules. The Board shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter.
   (C)   Meetings. Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may determine. All meetings of
the Board shall be open to the public.
   (D)   Functions; procedure. The Chairperson or, in his or her absence, the
acting Chairperson may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses
by subpoena. The Board shall keep the minutes of its proceedings, showing the
vote of each member upon each question or, if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the
Board and shall be a public record.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-2) (Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009)
§ 153.032 APPEALS.
   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person aggrieved or
by any officer, department, board or bureau of the town affected by any
administrative decision based on this chapter. Such appeal shall be taken
within 30 days by filing with the town’s Clerk-Treasurer and the Board of
Adjustment a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The town’s Clerk-
Treasurer shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers constituting the
record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-3) (Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009)
§ 153.033 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing
of the appeal or other matter referred to it, give ten days’ public notice
thereof in a newspaper of general circulation, as well as by mailing written
notice by the Clerk of the Board of Adjustment to all owners of property within
a 300-foot radius of the exterior boundary of the subject property at least ten
days prior to the hearing and decide the same within a reasonable time. The
owner or agent shall provide a list of the owners within the 300-foot radius
certified to be accurate by a bonded abstracter, attorney or such other entity
as may be acceptable to the Clerk-Treasurer. The appeal, variance or exception
shall be deemed not filed until said list is provided. Upon the hearing, any
party may appear in person, or by agent, or by attorney.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-4) (Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009)
§ 153.034 VARIANCES AND SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS; FILING FEE.
   (A)   Powers enumerated. The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall have the
following powers:
      (1)   Administrative review. To hear and decide appeals where it is
alleged there is an error in any order, requirements, decision or determination
made by the Zoning Administrator in the enforcement of this chapter;
      (2)   Variances. To authorize, upon appeal, in specific cases such
variances from the terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to the public
interest. Where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter will, in any individual case, result in unnecessary
hardship, so that the spirit of this chapter shall be observed, public safety
and welfare secured, and substantial justice done. Such variances may be
granted in such individual case of unnecessary hardship upon a finding by the
Board of Adjustment that:
         (a)   The application of this chapter to this particular piece of
property would create an unnecessary hardship;
         (b)   Such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property
involved;
         (c)   Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the
public good or impair the purposes and intent of this chapter or the
Comprehensive Plan; and
         (d)   The variance, if granted, would be minimum necessary to
alleviate the unnecessary hardship.
      (3)   Special exceptions regarding uses; mobile homes. To hear and decide
special exceptions to this chapter to allow a use, or a specifically designated
element associated with a use, which is not permitted by right in a particular
district because of potential adverse effect, but if controlled in the
particular instance as to its relationship to the neighborhood and to the
general welfare, may be permitted by the Board of Adjustment. Such special
exceptions may be granted in such individual cases for the duration of the use
of a particular approved owner occupied single-family mobile home, regardless
of change of ownership, in the R-1 and A-1 Districts so long as the mobile home
continues to be occupied by an owner on a lot and in a manner which otherwise
complies with this chapter, subject to the following procedures and provisions:
         (a)   Notice must be mailed to the last address as reflected by the
records of the County Treasurer, to all owners of property whose boundary lies
within 300 feet of the property for which the special exception is sought at
least ten days in advance of the hearing on the said special exception;
         (b)   Publication of said application as required by §
153.033 of this chapter; and
         (c)   That, if no objection is presented by the owners of the property
within 300 feet, then the special exception as to such particular mobile home
shall be granted; provided, the mobile home must meet the minimum standards of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development, as amended from time
to time.
   (B)   Voting of members. In exercising the above powers, the Board of
Adjustment shall have the concurring vote of at least two of its members in
order that it may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order,
requirement, decision or determination, and may make such order, requirement,
decision or determination as ought to be made.
   (C)   Filing fee. Upon the filing of a Board of Adjustment appeal, variance
or exception, the property owner or his or her agent shall pay a filing fee of
$300 to the Clerk of the Board of Adjustment. All fees collected by the Board
of Adjustment shall be deposited with the town’s Clerk-Treasurer and credited
to the General Fund of the town; provided that, in appeals involving
administrative review, the filing fee shall be waived by the Clerk-Treasurer in
the event he or she determines, after review of a completed pauper’s affidavit,
that the applicant would not otherwise be able to obtain review of said
administrative decision; provided further that, in appeals involving
administrative review, the filing fee shall be refunded in the event of a final
determination rendered in favor of the applicant. A FINAL DETERMINATION shall
be defined as a decision of the Board of Adjustment or the courts of the state,
as the case may be, from which no further appeal has been taken within the time
allowed by statute.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-5) (Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009)
§ 153.035 APPEAL TO DISTRICT COURT.
   (A)   Filing notice of appeal.
      (1)   An appeal from any action, decision, ruling, judgment or order of
the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person or persons, jointly or
severally aggrieved, or any taxpayer, or any officer, department, board or
bureau of the town to the District Court by filing a notice of appeal with the
town’s Clerk-Treasurer and with the Clerk of the Board of Adjustment within 60
days from the filing of the decision of the Board, which notice shall specify
the grounds of such appeal.
      (2)   Upon filing of the notice of appeal as herein provided, the said
Board shall transmit forthwith to the Court Clerk of the county the original or
certified copy of all the papers constituting the record in the case, together
with the order, decision or ruling of the Board.
   (B)   Stay of proceedings.
      (1)   An appeal to the District Court from the Board of Adjustment stays
all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the
Chairperson of the Board of Adjustment, from which the appeal is taken,
certified to the Court Clerk, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed,
that by reason of the facts stated in the certificate a stay, in his or her
opinion, would cause imminent peril to life or property.
      (2)   In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a
restraining order which may be granted by the District Court upon application
or notice to the administrative officer in charge of the enforcement of the
terms and provisions of this chapter, and upon notice to the Chairperson of the
Board of Adjustment from which the appeal is taken and upon due cause being
shown.
   (C)   Court decision. The court may reverse, or affirm, wholly or partly, or
modify the decision brought up for review.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-6) (Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009)
ZONING DISTRICTS; MAP
§ 153.050 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   For the purpose of this chapter and the promotion of public health, safety
and general welfare of the community, the following districts are hereby
established for the town:
   (A)   Residential districts:
      (1)   A-1, General Agricultural District;
      (2)   R-1, Single-Family Residential District; and
      (3)   R-2, General Residential District.
   (B)   Commercial districts:
      (1)   C-1, Convenience Commercial District;
      (2)   C-2, Highway Commercial and Commercial Recreation District; and
      (3)   C-3, General Commercial District.
   (C)   Industrial districts:
      (1)   I-1, Light Industrial District; and
      (2)   I-2, Heavy Industrial District.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-1) (Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009)
§ 153.051 ZONING MAP.
   As districts are designated, they shall be bounded and defined as shown on a
map entitled “Zoning Map of the Town of Bernice, County of Delaware, State of
Oklahoma”. The Zoning Map, and all of the explanatory material thereon, is
hereby made a part of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-2) (Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009)
§ 153.052 BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICTS.
   In the event of uncertainty in the exact boundaries of any of the aforesaid
districts as shown on the “Zoning Map of the Town of Bernice, County of
Delaware, State of Oklahoma”, the Planning Commission, upon written application
or upon its own motion, shall recommend the location of such boundaries to the
Board of Adjustment, and the Board of Adjustment shall make the final
determination.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-3) (Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009)
§ 153.053 A-1, GENERAL AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General description. The A-1 Agricultural District is established for
several purposes:
      (1)   To provide for the continued use of land for predominantly
agricultural purposes;
      (2)   To preserve undeveloped areas until they can feasibly be developed
at urban standards and with adequate public safeguards of health, safety and
the like; and
      (3)   To restrict development in areas subject to severe inundation until
such time as it can be shown that these areas are no longer subject to
flooding.
(Prior Code, § 10-6-1)
   (B)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Principal uses. No buildings or use shall hereafter be established
or enlarged within the A-1 Agricultural District, except a building or use
devoted to one of the following purposes:
         (a)   Agriculture, as defined in this chapter;
         (b)   Churches and temples;
         (c)   Elementary schools and high schools;
         (d)   Golf courses, but not including golf driving ranges, pitch and
putt courses, or miniature golf courses;
         (e)   Municipal or community recreation centers;
         (f)   Parks and forest preserves, operated not-for-profit;
         (g)   Police or fire stations;
         (h)   Public buildings or buildings operated in the public interest by
a not-for-profit corporation, including art galleries, post offices, libraries
or museums;
         (i)   Public or not-for-profit auditoriums, stadiums, arenas, armories
or sanatoriums;
         (j)   Public or private hospitals or sanatoriums;
         (k)   Public or private schools and colleges;
         (l)   Public utility and service uses, including electric substations,
gas regulator stations, electric, gas, telegraph, telephone and water
transmission metering and distribution equipment and structures, microwave
relay towers, water reservoirs or pumping stations and other similar
facilities;
         (m)   Single-family dwellings (see §
153.054(G) of this chapter for permitted mobile homes); and
         (n)   Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes only, and
not for dwelling purposes, nor for a period that exceeds the completion of the
construction.
      (2)   Accessory buildings and uses. Accessory buildings or uses
incidental to the foregoing principal uses listed in division (B)(1) above.
(Prior Code, § 10-6-2)
   (C)   Area, setback and height regulations.
 
Min. Lot                            Max.     Max.   Front   Side Yard Rear Yard
Area     Min. Lot Frontage          Percent  Height Yard    Setback   Setback
                                    Coverage        Setback
5 acres  150’ including accessory 30%      35’  50’   25’     50’
         buildings
 
(Prior Code, § 10-6-3)
   (D)   Signs and billboards. The control of signs and billboards in the A-
1 General Agriculture District is the same as that in §
153.054(G) of this chapter for the R-1 Single-Family Residential District.
(Prior Code, § 10-6-4)
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009)
§ 153.054 R-1, SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General description. The R-1 Single-Family Residential District is
established as a district in which the use of the land is for single-family
dwellings, except as noted. It is the purpose and intent of this district to
promote the development of and the continued use of the land for single-family
dwellings and to prohibit commercial and industrial uses or any other use which
would substantially interfere with the development or continuation of single-
family dwellings in this district. The intent is to further discourage any use
in this district which would generate traffic or create congestion on
neighborhood streets other than the normal traffic which serves the residents
in the area. This district further encourages only those uses which, because of
character or size, would not create additional requirements and costs for
public services which are in excess of such requirements and costs if the
district were not developed solely for single-family dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 10-7A-1)
   (B)   Uses permitted. The following uses are permitted in an R-1 Single-
Family Residential District, and are subject to all the general provisions and
regulations of this chapter:
      (1)   Agricultural uses of the garden type that are not intended for
commercial purposes;
      (2)   Elementary schools, public and private, where the curriculum is
similar in nature and preparation of coursework to the public schools;
      (3)   Public parks or playgrounds; and
      (4)   Single-family detached dwellings which, for purposes of this
section, shall not be deemed to include mobile homes (see §
153.077 of this chapter for permitted mobile homes).
(Prior Code, § 10-7A-2)
   (C)   Uses permitted subject to additional requirements.
      (1)   Principal uses. The following uses are permitted, provided they
meet the requirements noted for each use, in addition to applicable area
regulations:
         (a)   Childcare center or day nursery; provided that, such center or
nursery is operated by a licensed provider, that the residence is the primary
residence of the operator, that it does not employ non-residents of the single-
family dwelling where operations are conducted, and that the operation
otherwise meets and complies with all state guidelines for operation of a
childcare center or day nursery;
         (b)   Churches; provided that, a minimum lot size of one acre and
major street frontage is provided, as shown on the trafficways plan;
         (c)   Golf course, private or public, or country club; provided, that
the chief activity is for recreational purposes and any commercial activity is
accessory or incidental thereto;
         (d)   Home occupation; provided that, it is in keeping with the
meaning of “home occupation”, as defined in §
153.004 of this chapter;
         (e)   Junior high or senior high schools; provided that, they have
major street frontage as shown on the trafficways plan;
         (f)   Library; provided that, such library has major street frontage
as shown on the trafficways plan;
         (g)   Parking lot required to serve the uses permitted in this
district;
         (h)   Plant nursery; provided that, no building or structure is
maintained in connection therewith and no retailing of any material is carried
on upon the premises;
         (i)   Temporary bulletin board or sign not exceeding 12 square feet in
area appertaining to the lease, hire or sale of a building or premises, which
board or sign shall be removed as soon as the premises are leased, hired or
sold; and
         (j)   Temporary structures which are incidental to the construction of
the main building and will be removed when the main structure is completed.
      (2)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings which are not a part of a
main building may include one private garage.
(Prior Code, § 10-7A-3)
   (D)   Area, setback and height regulations.
 
Min. Lot      Min. Lot Max.         Max.   Front   Side Yard        Rear
Area          Frontage Percent      Height Yard    Setback          Yard
                       Coverage            Setback                  Setback
                                                   5’ interior lots
9,000 sq. ft. 70’    30% interior 35’  30’   15’ street     20’
                       35% corner                  side of
                                                   corner lots
 
      (1)   Side yard.
         (a)   For buildings of more than one story, the minimum width of the
side yard on interior lot lines shall be not less than ten feet.
         (b)   For a principal building other than a one-family dwelling, the
minimum width of a side yard shall be not less than one-half the height of the
building, but in no case less than 15 feet.
      (2)   Rear yard. Unattached buildings of accessory use may be located in
the rear yard of a main building; provided, however, that, no accessory
building shall be located closer than five feet to the rear lot line.
      (3)   Lot size requirements. The frontage of any wedge shaped lot which
meets the requirements of minimum lot size may be a minimum of 40 feet;
however, the front building line on the lot shall be a minimum of 70 linear
feet measured at an equal distance parallel to and from the front lot line.
(Prior Code, § 10-7A-4)
   (E)   Off-street parking. Except as provided for elsewhere in this chapter,
all permitted uses in the R-1 Residence District shall comply with the
following minimum requirements for off-street parking:
 
Type Of Use                             Parking Space Required
                                        1 off-street parking space for each
Schools, elementary schools, junior and employee, plus 1 for each classroom,
senior high schools, including public,  plus 1 for each 50 square feet of
private and parochial schools           assembly area with stationary or
                                        movable seats
Single-family dwellings                 1 off-street parking space for each
                                        dwelling unit
Utilities service installations         1 off-street parking space for each 400
                                        square feet of floor space
                                        1 off-street parking space for each 5
                                        seats provided for patron use, or 1
                                        space for each 400 square feet of gross
                                        floor area used or intended to be used
Other uses permitted                    for service to the public, as
                                        customers, patrons or clients,
                                        whichever requires the greatest number
                                        of parking spaces; the open space
                                        required by front yard requirements
                                        shall not be used for parking
 
(Prior Code, § 10-7A-5)
   (F)   Sewer service. No dwelling unit in an R-1 Single-Family District shall
be constructed which is not provided with an effective connection to a public
sewer system unless or until the county’s Public Health Officer certifies that
a septic tank or any substitute disposal system can be satisfactorily installed
on the lot. As a basis for making his or her decision, the county’s Public
Health Officer may require such percolation tests as he or she deems to be
necessary. Such tests shall be made at the expense of the homeowner.
(Prior Code, § 10-7A-6)
   (G)   Signs and billboards. No signs, billboards, posters, bulletin boards
or other similar matter shall be permitted in the R-1 Single-Family Residential
District, except as follows:
      (1)   Temporary signs. Temporary signs not to exceed the duration of six
months to advertise the premises for sale, rent or lease, except original sale;
      (2)   Church bulletin board. One bulletin board not exceeding 50 square
feet may be erected by each church;
      (3)   Public notices. Official public notices may be erected on affected
property; and
      (4)   Nameplate. One unilluminated nameplate not exceeding two square
feet in area, and not containing lettering other than the name of the owner or
occupants or name or address of the premises.
(Prior Code, § 10-7A-7)
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009)
§ 153.055 R-2, GENERAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General description. This residential district is intended to provide
for both low and moderate population density. It is established as a district
in which the principal uses of the land are for multi-family dwellings and
similar higher density residential development. The intent is to encourage the
development and the continued use of land for multi-family dwellings and to
prohibit commercial and industrial uses or any other use which would
substantially interfere with the development or continuation of multi-family
dwellings in this district. It is further intended to discourage any use which
would generate traffic or create congestion on the neighborhood streets other
than the normal traffic which serves the multi-family dwelling or similar
residential uses in this district and discourage any use which, because of its
characteristics or size, would create additional requirements and costs for
public services which are in excess of such requirements and costs if the
district were developed solely for multi-family or other similar residential
uses.
(Prior Code, § 10-7B-1)
   (B)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Principal uses. The following uses are permitted in any R-2 General
Residential District, and are subject to all the general provisions and
regulations of this chapter:
         (a)   Any use permitted in §
153.054(B) of this chapter for the R-1 Single-Family District;
         (b)   Duplexes;
         (c)   Multi-family dwellings; and
         (d)   Rooming or boarding houses.
      (2)   Accessory buildings and uses. Accessory buildings and uses
customarily incidental to the above uses are permitted when located on the same
lot.
(Prior Code, § 10-7B-2)
   (C)   Uses permitted subject to additional requirements.
      (1)   Principal uses. The following uses are permitted; provided, they
meet the requirements noted for each use in addition to applicable area
regulations:
         (a)   Childcare centers or day nurseries; provided that, such centers
or nurseries are located on a lot not less than 10,000 square feet in area and
have their principal access on a major street as shown on the trafficways plan;
         (b)   Convalescent homes, rest homes, nursing homes and hospitals,
public or private; provided that, they have frontage on a major street as shown
on the trafficways plan;
         (c)   Lodges and other service institutions; provided that, they are
located on a lot of not less than one acre and have frontage on a major street
as shown on the trafficways plan; and
         (d)   Mobile home courts, in compliance with division (H) below.
      (2)   Uses in R-1 District. Any uses permitted subject to additional
requirements in §
153.054(C) of this chapter for the R-1 Single-Family Residence District, are
permitted in this district.
(Prior Code, § 10-7B-3)
   (D)   Area, setback and height regulations.
 
Min. Lot  Min. Lot Max. Percent Max. Height   Front Yard Side Yard Rear Yard
Area      Frontage Coverage                   Setback    Setback   Setback
6,000 sq. 50%      50%          Single-family 25’      5’      20’
ft.                             35’
 
      (1)   Front yard.
         (a)   When a yard has double frontage, the front yard requirements
shall be complied with on both streets; and
         (b)   One foot of setback for each one foot of height for all uses
other than single-family and duplex.
      (2)   Side yard.
         (a)   For dwellings and accessory buildings located on corner lots,
there shall be a side yard setback from the intersecting street of not less
than 15 feet; and
         (b)   One foot of setback for each one foot of height for all uses
other than single-family and duplex.
      (3)   Rear yard.
         (a)   Unattached buildings of accessory uses may be located in the
rear yard of a main building; provided, however, that, no accessory building
shall be located closer than five feet to the rear lot line; and
         (b)   One foot of setback for each one foot of height for all uses
other than single-family and duplex.
      (4)   Lot size requirements. There shall be a lot area of not less than
8,000 square feet for a two-family dwelling, and an additional area of not less
than 2,000 square feet for each unit, more than two. If the lot is a wedge
shaped lot which meets the requirements of minimum lot size, it may have less
than the minimum requirements for frontage as long as the front building line
of the lot is a minimum of 70 linear feet.
(Prior Code, § 10-7B-4)
   (E)   Off-street parking. In the R-2 General Residential District, the off-
street parking requirements are the same as those in §
153.080 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-7B-5)
   (F)   Sewer service. No dwelling unit in an R-2 General Residential District
shall be constructed which is not provided with an effective connection to a
public sewer system unless and until the county’s Public Health Officer
certifies that a septic tank or any substitute disposal system can be
satisfactorily installed on the lot. As a basis for making his or her decision,
the Health Officer may require such percolation tests as he or she deems to be
necessary. Such tests shall be made at the expense of the homeowner.
(Prior Code, § 10-7B-6)
   (G)   Signs and billboards. The control of signs and billboards in the R-
2 General Residential District is the same as that in §
153.054(G) of this chapter for the R-1 Single-Family Residential District.
(Prior Code, § 10-7B-7)
   (H)   Mobile home park or court. Upon compliance with the provisions as set
forth herein, a mobile home trailer park will be allowed within the R-2 General
Residential District.
      (1)   Site plan. The applicant, upon making application for a zoning
clearance permit, must submit a detailed site plan locating all mobile home
stands, screening or fencing, and plans and specifications for the proposed
park in a form suitable for making the determinations required herein.
      (2)   Requirements for site.
         (a)   The proposed site shall be a minimum of two acres in size and
shall contain no more than ten mobile home stands per acre.
         (b)   The proposed site shall have a minimum frontage of 200 feet on a
street designated as a major street or collector street in the trafficways
plan. All access or egress by automobiles will be on such streets.
         (c)   The proposed site shall be a minimum of 200 feet in depth.
      (3)   Occupancy. It shall be the intention of the proposed plan for the
mobile home park to accommodate primarily permanent occupants with no more than
10% of the mobile home stands devoted to purely transient purposes. These
purely transient stands shall be located in one area of the park so they will
in no way interfere with the permanent residents.
      (4)   Yards. The proposed site shall have a front yard of not less than
20 feet from the corner line of any mobile home stand to the street boundary of
the park. The site shall have side and rear yards of ten feet from any solid
fencing, screen planting or wall of six feet in height.
      (5)   Screening. The proposed site shall be screened or buffered on all
sides with a solid wall fence six feet in height or a screen planting which
will attain at least six feet in height.
      (6)   Parking. The proposed site shall provide one off-street parking
space for each mobile home stand, plus one additional off-street parking space
for each four mobile home stands.
      (7)   Connection to utilities. The proposed site shall provide a
connection for each mobile home stand to all public utilities considered
necessary for the health, safety and general welfare of the public.
(Prior Code, § 10-7B-8)
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009)
§ 153.056 C-1, CONVENIENCE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General description. This commercial district is intended for a
unified grouping, in one or more buildings, of retail shops and stores and
personal services that provide for the regular needs and are for the
convenience of the people residing in the adjacent residential neighborhoods.
It is intended that the suburban convenience center be developed as a unit with
adequate off-street parking space for customers and employees, and with
appropriate landscaping and screening.
(Prior Code, § 10-8A-1)
   (B)   Uses permitted. All buildings or uses hereafter established or
enlarged shall comply with the conditions and restrictions enumerated below:
      (1)   Principal uses. Any of the following uses shall be permitted:
         (a)   Artist supplies and hobby shops;
         (b)   Automobile service stations;
         (c)   Bakery shops;
         (d)   Barber and beauty shops;
         (e)   Bookstores;
         (f)   Clothing or wearing apparel shops;
         (g)   Dairy products stores;
         (h)   Delicatessens;
         (i)   Drugstores;
         (j)   Florist shops;
         (k)   Gift shops;
         (l)   Grocery stores;
         (m)   Hardware stores;
         (n)   Jewelry stores;
         (o)   Laundry and dry cleaning pick-up stations;
         (p)   Liquor stores;
         (q)   Medical facilities;
         (r)   Offices, general;
         (s)   Pharmacies;
         (t)   Public uses;
         (u)   Restaurants;
         (v)   Self-service laundries;
         (w)   Shoe repair shops;
         (x)   Tailor shops;
         (y)   Taverns;
         (z)   Toy stores; and
         (aa)   Variety stores.
      (2)   Other uses. Any other commercial uses deemed by the Board of
Adjustment to be of a similar nature; and
      (3)   Accessory buildings and uses. Accessory buildings and uses
customarily incidental to the above uses shall be permitted.
(Prior Code, § 10-8A-2)
   (C)   Area, setback and height regulations.
 
Min. Lot Area  Min. Lot Max. Percent Max. Height Front Yard Side Yard Rear Yard
               Frontage Coverage                 Setback    Setback   Setback
12,000 sq. ft. 100’   50%          35’       50’      10’     20’
 
      (1)   Minimum area. The parcel of land on which a convenience commercial
center is located shall not be less than 12,000 square feet, nor more than two
acres, in area.
      (2)   Yard requirements. It is intended that the grouping of buildings
and parking areas be designed to protect, insofar as possible, adjacent
residential areas. In no case shall the design of the shopping center provide
less than the following standards.
         (a)   All buildings shall be set back from all street right-of-way
lines not less than 50 feet.
         (b)   On the side of a lot adjoining a residential district, there
shall be a side yard setback of one foot for each one foot of height.
(Prior Code, § 10-8A-3)
   (D)   Bulk limitations; floor area ratio. In no instance shall the total
floor space of the structures in this district exceed the relationship of one
to four (1:4) (i.e., there must be provided four square feet of lot area to
each one square foot of floor space in the structure).
(Prior Code, § 10-8A-4)
   (E)   Off-street parking. In the C-1 Convenience Commercial District, three
square feet of off-street parking space, dedicated to parking and automobile
maneuvering, must be provided for each one square foot of total floor space.
(Prior Code, § 10-8A-5)
   (F)   Sewer service. No structure or use in any commercial district shall be
erected or commenced which does not have a connection to the public sewer
system, unless and until the county’s Health Officer certifies that a septic
tank or any substitute disposal system can be installed and operated
effectively. As a basis for making his or her decision, the Health Officer may
require such percolation tests as he or she deems to be necessary. Such tests
shall be made at the expense of the landowner.
(Prior Code, § 10-8A-6)
   (G)   Signs and billboards. All signs in the C-1 District shall be erected
upon private property and shall not encroach upon any public street or walk,
except as provided by the applicable municipal codes; and, in addition, signs
shall not overhang at a height of less than nine feet and shall not have a
maximum projection greater than 72 inches.
      (1)   Projection sign. Any projection sign in the C-1 District shall not
exceed 50 square feet in size, nor will it exceed the height of the building.
      (2)   Incandescent lighting. No source of incandescent lighting used for
illuminating signs shall be directly visible from any street or highway or from
any residence, hotel or from any room used for sleeping purposes.
      (3)   Red, green or amber illumination.
         (a)   The use of red, green or amber illumination in connection with
any sign shall not be permitted within 100 feet of any intersection.
         (b)   Any use of red, green or amber illumination in connection with
any sign must be so located that it in no way creates a confusion with any
traffic signal or may be interpreted by any motorist as a traffic signaling
device.
      (4)   Shopping centers. All advertising signs relating to a shopping
center, and the stores and shops therein shall be designed as an integral part
of the shopping center development and shall be harmonious with the other
design features of the center.
(Prior Code, § 10-8A-7)
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009)
§ 153.057 C-2, HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL AND COMMERCIAL RECREATION DISTRICT.
   (A)   General description. This commercial district is established as a
district in which the principal use of land is for establishments offering
accommodations, supplies or services to motorists, and for certain specialized
uses such as retail outlets, extensive commercial amusements and service
establishments which may serve the entire community, but do not and should not
locate in the Central Business District or the Convenience District.
(Prior Code, § 10-8B-1)
   (B)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Uses in C-1 District. Any use permitted in the C-1 Convenience
Commercial District;
      (2)   Principal uses. Other uses, including:
         (a)   Advertising signs or structures;
         (b)   Ambulance services, offices or garages;
         (c)   Amusement enterprises;
         (d)   Automobile sales and service (new and used); new and used
machinery sales and service; and public garages;
         (e)   Automobile service stations;
         (f)   Bakeries;
         (g)   Boat sales;
         (h)   Bowling alleys;
         (i)   Bus terminals;
         (j)   Clothing stores;
         (k)   Dance halls;
         (l)   Department stores;
         (m)   Drive-in theaters or restaurants;
         (n)   Electric transmission stations;
         (o)   Feed and fuel stores;
         (p)   Food stores;
         (q)   Frozen food lockers;
         (r)   Funeral parlors;
         (s)   Furniture repair and upholstery;
         (t)   Garden stores;
         (u)   Golf courses, miniature or practice ranges;
         (v)   Heating and plumbing safes and services;
         (w)   Hospital for small animals;
         (x)   Ice plants;
         (y)   Interior decorating stores;
         (z)   Kennels;
         (aa)   Key shops;
         (bb)   Laundries;
         (cc)   Motels;
         (dd)   Music, radio and television shops and repair shops;
         (ee)   Nightclubs;
         (ff)   Novelty shops;
         (gg)   Pawnshops;
         (hh)   Pet shops;
         (ii)   Printing plants;
         (jj)   Public uses;
         (kk)   Recreation centers, private;
         (ll)   Research laboratories;
         (mm)   Roller skating rinks;
         (nn)   Sign painting shops;
         (oo)   Sporting goods stores;
         (pp)   Stockbrokers;
         (qq)   Taverns;
         (rr)   Theaters;
         (ss)   Toy stores;
         (tt)   Travel trailer parks and sales; and
         (uu)   Wholesale distributing centers.
      (3)   Accessory buildings and uses. Buildings, structures and accessory
uses customarily incidental to any of the above uses shall be permitted;
provided that, there shall be no manufacturing of products other than such as
are customarily incidental to retail establishments; and
      (4)   Certain other uses. Any other store or shop for retail trade or for
rendering personal, professional or business service which does not produce
more noise, odor, dust, vibration or traffic than those above.
(Prior Code, § 10-8B-2)
   (C)   Area, setback and height regulations.
 
Min.   Min. Lot Max.     Max.   Front                                                         Rear
Lot    Frontage Percent  Height Yard    Side Yard Setback                                     Yard
Area            Coverage        Setback                                                       Setback
10,000                                  1’ of setback per 1’ of height when abutting an R
sq.    100’   70%      45’  50’   district                                              20’
ft.
 
(Prior Code, § 10-8B-3)
   (D)   Off-street parking. In the C-2 Highway Commercial and Commercial
Recreation District, a minimum of three square feet of off-street parking
space, dedicated to parking and automobile maneuvering, must be provided for
each one square foot of total floor space.
(Prior Code, § 10-8B-4)
   (E)   Signs and billboards. The control of signs and billboards in the C-
2 Highway Commercial and Commercial Recreation District is the same as that in
§
153.056(G) of this chapter for the C-1 Convenience Commercial District.
(Prior Code, § 10-8B-5)
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009)
§ 153.058 C-3, GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General description. This commercial district is designed for the
conduct of personal and business services and the general retail trade of the
community. It is designed to accommodate a wide variety of commercial uses in
the Central Business District or areas of mixed business enterprises. It will
not normally be applied in the case of new commercial areas.
(Prior Code, § 10-8C-1)
   (B)   Uses permitted. Property and buildings in a C-3 General Commercial
District may be used for the following purposes:
      (1)   Any use permitted in a C-1 or a C-2 Commercial District;
      (2)   Any other retail, personal service, business service or
professional use not already mentioned;
      (3)   Any public buildings or uses; and
      (4)   Buildings, structures and accessory uses customarily incidental to
any of the above uses; provided that, there shall be no manufacturing of
products other than such as are customarily incidental to retail
establishments.
(Prior Code, § 10-8C-2)
   (C)   Area, setback and height regulations.
 
Min. Lot Area Min. Lot Max. Percent Max. Height Front Yard Side Yard Rear Yard
              Frontage Coverage                 Setback    Setback   Setback
None          None     70%          None        None       None      None
 
(Prior Code, § 10-8C-3)
   (D)   Off-street parking. In the C-3 General Commercial District, there
shall be provided one off- street parking space for each 400 square feet of
gross retail floor area.
(Prior Code, § 10-8C-4)
   (E)   Signs and billboards. The control of signs and billboards in the C-
3 General Commercial District is the same as that in §
153.056(G) of this chapter for the C-1 Convenience Commercial District.
(Prior Code, § 10-8C-5)
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009)
§ 153.059 I-1, LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General description.
      (1)   The purpose of the I-1 Light Industrial District is to provide a
location for industries which do not, by their nature, create nuisances. The
intent is to preserve this land for industry in a location beneficial to
industries and to prohibit non-industrial uses.
      (2)   Because of the traffic generated and other objectionable influences
created in this district, it is necessary to provide a buffer or setback area
between this district and any other zoning district, except Heavy Industrial
District I-2.
(Prior Code, § 10-9A-1)
   (B)   Standards. Any use constructed, established, altered or enlarged in
the I-1 Light Industrial District after the effective date of this chapter
shall be so operated as to comply with the following standards.
      (1)   Residential. No building shall be used for residential purposes;
except that, a watchman may reside on the premises.
      (2)   Retail sales or services. No retail sales or services shall be
permitted, except as incidental to or accessory to a permitted use.
      (3)   Noise. No noise from any operation conducted on the premises, other
than that emanating from vehicular traffic, either continuous or intermittent,
shall be detectable at any boundary line of the I-1 District.
      (4)   Toxic, noxious, odorous matter. No toxic matter, noxious matter,
smoke, gas or odorous or particulate matter shall be emitted that is detectable
beyond the lot lines of the zoning lot on which the use is located.
      (5)   Vibrations. No vibrations shall be detectable beyond the lot lines
of the zoning lot on which the use is located.
      (6)   Exterior lighting. Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded
wherever necessary to avoid casting direct light upon property located in any
residence district.
      (7)   Flammable materials. The manufacture of flammable materials which
produce explosive vapors or gases is prohibited.
      (8)   Glare or heat. Any operation that produces intense glare or heat
shall be performed within a completely enclosed building, and exposed sources
of light shall be screened so as not to be detectable beyond the lot lines.
(Prior Code, § 10-9A-2)
   (C)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Principal uses. The following uses are permitted in the I-1 Light
Industrial District:
         (a)   Building materials sales;
         (b)   Commercial radio and television transmitting antenna towers and
other electronic equipment requiring outdoor towers, including antenna towers
for the dispatching of private messages;
         (c)   Compounding, processing and blending chemical products, but not
including any materials which decompose by detonation;
         (d)   General and administrative offices;
         (e)   Machine shops and metal products manufacture and tool and die
shops;
         (f)   Mail order houses;
         (g)   Manufacturing and assembling electrical and electronic products
and equipment;
         (h)   Manufacturing and assembling (or any combination of such
processes) products from wood, cork, glass, leather, fur, plastic, felt and
other textiles, but not including, as a principal operation, the processing of
any raw materials;
         (i)   Printing and binding plants;
         (j)   Public utility distribution centers;
         (k)   Research laboratories;
         (l)   Warehouses and storage facilities; and
         (m)   Water filtration plants, pumping stations, reservoirs and lift
stations.
      (2)   Other uses. Any other manufacturing process or establishment which
can operate in compliance with the aforementioned requirements shall be
permitted.
      (3)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses incidental to and on the same zoning
lot as a principal use shall be permitted.
(Prior Code, § 10-9A-3)
   (D)   Area, setback and height regulations. All buildings and uses hereafter
established or enlarged shall comply with the following requirements:
 
Min. Lot Min. Lot Max.     Max.   Front   Side Yard      Rear Yard
Area     Frontage Percent  Height Yard    Setback        Setback
                  Coverage        Setback
                                          25’          30’
                                          50’ min. or  50’ min. or
                                          1’ per each  1’ per each
None     None     40%      90’  50’   1’ of height 1’ of height
                                          when           when
                                          adjacent to    adjacent to
                                          residential    residential
                                          district       district
 
(Prior Code, § 10-9A-4)
   (E)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall be provided, as required
in §
153.080 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-9A-5)
   (F)   Sewer service. No structure or use in the I-1 District shall be
erected, commenced or allowed to continue, which does not have a connection to
the public sewerage system unless and until the county’s Public Health Officer
certifies that a septic tank or any substitute disposal system can be installed
and operated effectively. As a basis for making his or her decision, such
Health Officer may require such percolation tests as he or she deems to be
necessary. Such tests shall be made at the expense of the landowner.
(Prior Code, § 10-9A-6)
   (G)   Signs and billboards. In the I-1 Light Industrial District, the use of
signs and billboards is the same as that in §
153.056(G) of this chapter for the C-1 Convenience Commercial District.
(Prior Code, § 10-9A-7)
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009)
§ 153.060 I-2, HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General description. The purpose of the I-2 Heavy Industrial District
is to provide a location for industries, which may, by their nature, create
nuisances. The intent is to preserve this land especially for industry in
locations with access to major streets as designated on the thoroughfare plan,
as well as locations generally accessible to railroad transportation. Because
of the nuisances or other objectionable influences that may be created in this
district, it is necessary to provide a buffer or setback strip between this
district and other zoning districts, except I-1.
(Prior Code, § 10-9B-1)
   (B)   Standards. Any use constructed, established, altered or enlarged in
the I-2 Heavy Industrial District after the effective date of this chapter
shall be so operated as to comply with the following standards. No use already
established on the effective date of this chapter shall be so altered or
modified as to conflict with, or further conflict with, the applicable
standards established hereinafter for the I-2 Heavy Industrial District.
      (1)   Residential. No building shall be used for residential purposes;
except that, a watchman may reside on the premises.
      (2)   Retail sales or services. No retail sales or services shall be
permitted, except as incidental to or accessory to a permitted use.
      (3)   Manufacture of goods. No manufacture or assembly of goods shall be
conducted outside a building unless the nearest point of said activity is more
than 200 feet from the boundary of any use district.
      (4)   Exterior lighting. Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded
wherever necessary to avoid casting direct light upon property located in any
residence district.
      (5)   Noise; offensive emissions. All manufacturing, fabricating,
assembly, disassembly, repairing, storing, cleaning, servicing and testing of
goods, wares, and merchandise shall be carried on in such a manner as not to be
injurious or offensive by reason of the emission or creation of noise,
vibration, smoke, dust or other particulate matter, toxic or noxious matter,
odorous, glare or heat, fire or explosive hazards.
      (6)   Detonation. No activities involving storage, utilization or
manufacture of materials or products which decompose by detonation shall be
permitted.
(Prior Code, § 10-9B-2)
   (C)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Principal uses. All buildings or uses hereafter established or
enlarged shall comply with the following conditions or restrictions:
         (a)   Automobile wrecking and junkyards; provided, they are enclosed
throughout the entire perimeter by a solid fence not less than eight feet in
height;
         (b)   Blacksmiths, tinsmiths and sheet metal shops;
         (c)   Bottling works;
         (d)   Bulk fuel sales and storage;
         (e)   Canning or preserving factories;
         (f)   Coal storage plants;
         (g)   Ice cream production and distribution;
         (h)   Machine shops;
         (i)   Machinery rental, sales and service;
         (j)   Manufacturing, fabricating, assembling, repairing, storing and
cleaning, servicing or testing, any of the following materials, goods or
merchandise;
         (k)   Apparel;
         (l)   Beverages (non-alcoholic), processing and bottling;
         (m)   Building materials specialties;
         (n)   Clothing;
         (o)   Compounding and packaging of chemicals;
         (p)   Cosmetics and toiletries;
         (q)   Dairy products;
         (r)   Drugs and pharmaceutical products;
         (s)   Electrical and acoustic products and components;
         (t)   Food products (except fish, sauerkraut, vinegar and yeast);
         (u)   Furniture;
         (v)   Glass products;
         (w)   Ice, dry and natural;
         (x)   Jewelry;
         (y)   Medical laboratory supplies, equipment and specialties;
         (z)   Metal products and utensils;
         (aa)   Musical instruments;
         (bb)   Optical goods;
         (cc)   Paper products, including boxes and containers;
         (dd)   Radio, phonograph recorder and television sets and parts;
         (ee)   Textiles;
         (ff)   Toys and children’s vehicles;
         (gg)   Trailers and carts;
         (hh)   Wood products, including wooden boxes and containers;
         (ii)   Meat and vegetable products (processing of), including the
slaughter of animals;
         (jj)   Milk, bottling and distribution;
         (kk)   Monumental stone cutting;
         (ll)   Motor freight terminals;
         (mm)   Pattern shops;
         (nn)   Printing plants;
         (oo)   Railroad yards and switching areas, including lodging and
sleeping facilities for transient railroad labor;
         (pp)   Sign painting;
         (qq)   Soldering and welding shops; and
         (rr)   Spray painting and mixing.
      (2)   I-1 District uses. Any use permitted in the I-1 Light Industrial
District shall be permitted in this district.
(Prior Code, § 10-9B-3)
   (D)   Area regulations.
      (1)   Minimum area. There are no requirements for minimum lot area in the
Heavy Industrial District I-2.
      (2)   Yard requirements. Yard requirements in the I-2 District are the
same setbacks as required for the I-1 Light Industrial District.
      (3)   Coverage. Buildings shall not cover more than 50% of the site on
which the use is located.
(Prior Code, § 10-9B-4)
   (E)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall be provided, as required
in §
153.080 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-9B-5)
   (F)   Sewer service. No structure or use in the I-2 District shall be
erected, commenced or allowed to continue, which does not have a connection to
the public sewerage system unless and until the county’s Public Health Officer
certifies that a septic tank or any substitute disposal system can be installed
and operated effectively. As a basis for making his or her decision, said
Health Officer may require such percolation tests as he or she deems necessary.
Such tests shall be made at the expense of the landowner.
(Prior Code, § 10-9B-6)
   (G)   Signs and billboards. In the I-2 District, the control of signs and
billboards is the same as that in §
153.056(G) of this chapter for the C-1 District.
(Prior Code, § 10-9B-7)
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009)
PROVISIONS APPLYING TO ALL DISTRICTS
§ 153.075 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   More restrictive regulations, uses apply. Whenever the specific
district regulations pertaining to one district permit the uses of a more
restricted district, such uses shall be subject to the conditions set forth in
the regulations of the more restricted district, unless otherwise specified.
   (B)   Dwellings used for residential purposes. It is intended that these
regulations be interpreted as not permitting a dwelling unit to be located on
the same lot with or within a structure used or intended to be used primarily
for non-residential purposes.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-1) (Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009)
§ 153.076 EXISTING BUILDINGS AND LAND USE.
   Except as herewith provided, no building or parcel of land shall be used or
occupied and no building or part thereof shall be erected, moved or altered
unless in conformity with the regulations herein specified.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-2) (Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.077 HEIGHT AND DENSITY.
   (A)   Height. No building shall hereafter be erected or altered which will
exceed the height limit, nor shall any building or land be used or occupied
hereafter in excess of density regulations for that district.
   (B)   Number of families. No building shall hereafter be erected or altered
to accommodate a greater number of families than specified for that district.
   (C)   Lot size; bulk limitation. No building shall be erected or altered to
exceed the specifications of required lot size, maximum coverage, yard
requirements, height limitations or bulk limitation for that district, as
defined.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-3) (Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.078 PRINCIPAL AND ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Any building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be located on
one lot, except as provided herein; and there shall be no more than one
principal building and the customary accessory buildings on one lot; provided
further that, accessory buildings may not be erected or placed in the front
yard areas as required in the separate districts; provided further that,
accessory buildings or structures may be erected or placed in the side or rear
yard areas subject to a five-foot setback.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-4) (Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.079 STREET ACCESS.
   No principal building shall hereafter be constructed on a lot which does not
abut a public dedicated street.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-5) (Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.080 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   Purpose and application. It is the intent of these requirements that
adequate parking and loading facilities be provided off the street easement for
each use of land within the town. Requirements are intended to be based on the
demand created by each use. These requirements shall apply to all uses in all
districts.
   (B)   Required open space. Off-street parking space may be a part of the
required open space associated with the permitted use and shall not be reduced
or encroached upon in any manner.
   (C)   Location. The off-street parking lot shall be located within 200 feet,
exclusive of street and alley widths, of the principal use and shall have
direct access to a street or alley.
   (D)   Joint parking facilities. Whenever two or more uses are located
together in a common building, shopping center or other integrated building
complex, the parking requirements may be complied with by providing a permanent
common parking facility, cooperatively established and operated, which contains
the requisite number of spaces for each use. The total number of spaces
provided shall not be less than the sum of the individual requirements.
   (E)   Size of off-street parking space. The size of a parking space for one
vehicle shall consist of a rectangular area having dimensions of not less than
nine feet by 20 feet, plus adequate area for ingress and egress.
   (F)   Schedule of parking and loading requirements. Off-street parking and
loading facilities shall be provided in all districts in accordance with the
following schedule:
Type Of Use Parking Space Required
Type Of Use                             Parking Space Required
Boarding or rooming house or hotel      1 parking space for each 2 guests
                                        provided overnight accommodations
                                        1 parking space for each 150 square
Commercial establishments not otherwise feet of floor space used for retail
classified                              trade in the building and including all
                                        areas used by the public
Community center, theater, auditorium,  1 parking space for each 4 seats, based
church sanctuary                        on maximum seating capacity
                                        1 space for each 6 patient beds, plus 1
Convalescent or nursing homes           space for each staff or visiting
                                        doctor, plus 1 space for each 2
                                        employees including nurses
Convention hall, lodge, club, library,  1 parking space for each 50 square feet
museum, place of amusement or           of floor area used for assembly or
recreation                              recreation in the building
                                        The number of spaces provided shall not
Dwelling, multiple-family               be less than 1-1/2 times the number of
                                        units in the dwelling
Dwelling, single-family or duplex       1 parking space for each separate
                                        dwelling unit within the structure
                                        1 space for each 4 patient beds,
                                        exclusive of bassinets, plus 1 space
Hospital                                for each staff or visiting doctor, plus
                                        1 space for each 3 employees including
                                        nurses, plus adequate area for the
                                        parking of emergency vehicles
                                        1 off-street parking space for each
                                        1,000 square feet of gross floor area
                                        or 1 off-street parking space for each
Industrial establishments               3 employees, whichever is greater, and
                                        1 loading or unloading berth for each
                                        25,000 square feet or fraction thereof
                                        of gross floor area
Medical or dental clinics or offices    6 spaces per doctor, plus 1 space for
                                        each 2 employees
                                        1 parking space for each 300 square
                                        feet of gross floor area in the
Office building                         building, exclusive of the area used
                                        for storage, utilities and building
                                        service
 
   (G)   Paved surface required. All parking spaces in commercial areas shall
be paved with a sealed surface pavement and maintained in a manner that no dust
will result from the continued use.
   (H)   Parking lots in residential districts. Whenever off-street parking
lots for more than six vehicles are to be located within or adjacent to a
residential district, the following provisions shall apply.
      (1)   All sides of the lot within or abutting the residential district
shall be enclosed with an opaque ornamental fence, wall or dense evergreen
hedge having a height of not less than five feet. Such fence, wall or hedge
shall be maintained in good condition.
      (2)   No parking shall be permitted within a front yard setback line
whenever the parking lot is located in a residential district or immediately
abuts the front yard of a residential unit. In all other cases, a minimum five-
foot setback shall be required.
      (3)   Driveways used for ingress and egress shall be confined to and
shall not exceed 25 feet in width, exclusive of curb returns.
      (4)   Whenever lighting is provided, it shall be arranged so that all
light is deflected from adjoining residential uses.
      (5)   No sign of any kind shall be erected, except information signs used
to guide traffic and to state the condition and terms of the use of the lots.
Only non-intermittent white lighting of a sign shall be permitted.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-6) (Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.081 STORAGE AND PARKING OF TRAILERS, COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   Commercial vehicles and trailers of all types, including travel, camping and
hauling, and mobile homes shall not be parked or stored on any lot occupied by
a dwelling or on any lot in any residential district, except in accordance with
the following provisions.
   (A)   Commercial vehicles. No more than one commercial vehicle, which does
not exceed one and one-half tons’ rated capacity, per family living on the
premises, shall be permitted; and in no case shall a commercial vehicle used
for hauling explosives, gasoline or liquefied petroleum products be permitted.
   (B)   Camping or travel trailers. No more than one camping or travel trailer
or hauling trailer, per family living on the premises, shall be permitted and
said trailer shall not exceed 24 feet in length, or eight feet in width; and
further provided, that said trailer shall not be parked or stored for more than
48 hours unless it is located behind the front yard building line. A camping or
travel trailer shall not be occupied either temporarily or permanently while it
is parked or stored in any area within the incorporated limits, except in a
trailer court authorized under the ordinances of the town.
   (C)   Mobile homes. A mobile home shall be parked, occupied or stored only
in a trailer court which is in conformity with the ordinances of the town.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-7) (Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.082 ANNEXATIONS.
   All territory annexed to the corporate limits of the town subsequent to the
effective date of this chapter is within the jurisdiction of this chapter and
will, upon annexation, be zoned as R-1 Single-Family Residential District,
unless otherwise classified by the Board of Trustees. Within six months after
the effective date of such annexation, the Board of Trustees shall, in
accordance with 11 O.S. §§ 43-101 et seq., and this chapter, rezone said
annexed territory in keeping with the Comprehensive Plan.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-8) (Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009)
§ 153.083 EXISTING LOTS OF RECORD.
   In any district where single-family residences are permitted, a single-
family detached dwelling may be erected on any lot which is of official record
on the effective date of this chapter, subject to the following restrictions.
   (A)   Minimum lot width. There must be provided a minimum lot width of 50
feet.
   (B)   Yards.
      (1)   There must be provided a minimum of ten feet in side yards with
five feet on any one side.
      (2)   The front and rear yards must comply with the requirements set
forth for the zoning district within which the lot of record is located.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-9) (Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.084 MULTIPLE DWELLINGS.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, a DWELLING includes a trailer, mobile
home, manufactured home, modular home, factory built home, or recreational
vehicle (RV).
   (B)   Multiple dwelling parks are prohibited within the corporate boundaries
of the Town of Bernice without prior approval by the Board of Trustees.
      (1)   A multiple dwelling park means any place where more than two (2)
dwellings are located within 500 feet of one another on a lot, two or more
adjacent lots, a tract, or a parcel of land under the same ownership for which
the primary purpose is to rent or lease space, or keep space for rent or lease,
to any person, group, or business for a fee paid or to be paid for use or to
offer use of space free of charge in connection with securing patronage of or
services from any person, group, or business.
      (2)   A multiple dwelling park does not include a lot or lots located
within a subdivision being rented or leased for occupancy by no more than one
dwelling per lot if the subdivision was previously approved by the Board of
Trustees.
      (3)   A request for approval for a multiple dwelling park must be
submitted to the Board of Trustees in writing, detailing the number of
dwellings, type of dwelling, and any potential impact on other residence of the
Town of Bernice.
   (C)   Dwellings in existence prior to July 1, 2005 are exempt from the
provisions of Subsection (B).
(Ord. 2023-5.30-4, 5-30-2023)
NON-CONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES
§ 153.095 INTENT.
   (A)   Within the districts established by this chapter, or amendment that
may later be adopted, there exist lots, structures and uses of land and
structures which were lawful before this chapter was adopted or amended, but
which would be prohibited, regulated or restricted under the terms of this
chapter or future amendment.
   (B)   (1)   It is the intent of this chapter to permit these non-
conformities to continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their
survival.
      (2)   Such uses are declared by this chapter to be incompatible with
permitted uses in the districts involved.
      (3)   It is further the intent of this chapter that non-conformities
shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor be used as grounds for
adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district.
   (C)   A non-conforming use of a structure, a non-conforming use of land or a
non-conforming use of a structure and land shall not be extended or enlarged
after adoption of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-1) (Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.096 NON-CONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   (A)   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted,
notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this chapter, a
single-family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any
single lot of record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
chapter.
   (B)   Such lot must be in separate ownership and not of continuous frontage
with other lots in the same ownership.
   (C)   Variance of area, width and yard requirements shall be obtained only
through action of the Board of Adjustment.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-2) (Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.097 NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this chapter that could not be built under the terms of this
chapter by reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, yards or other
characteristics of the structure or its location on the lot, such structure may
be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following
provisions.
   (A)   Alterations. No such structure may be enlarged or altered in a way
which increases its non- conformity.
   (B)   Destruction. Should such structure be destroyed by any means to an
extent of more than 50% of its replacement cost at time of destruction, it
shall not be reconstructed, except in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   Moving structure. Should such structure be moved for any reason for
any distance whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the
district in which it is located after it is moved.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-3) (Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.098 NON-CONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES.
   If a lawful use of a structure, or of structure and premises in combination,
exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter, that
would not be allowed in the district under the terms of this chapter, the
lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to
the following provisions.
   (A)   Moving or altering structure. No existing structure devoted to a use
not permitted by this chapter in the district in which it is located shall be
moved or structurally altered, except in changing the use of the structure to a
use permitted in the district in which it is located.
   (B)   Enlarging or extending. No existing structure devoted to a use not
permitted by this chapter in the district in which it is located shall be
extended or enlarged, except in changing the use of the structure to a use
permitted in the district in which it is located, except any non-conforming use
may be extended throughout any parts of a building which were manifestly
arranged or designed for such use at the time of the adoption of this chapter,
but no such use shall be extended to occupy any land outside such building.
   (C)   Non-conforming use superseded by permitted use. Any structure, or
structure and land in combination, in or on which a non-conforming use is
superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform to the regulations for
the district in which such structure is located, and the non-conforming use may
not thereafter be resumed.
   (D)   Discontinuance or abandonment. When a non-conforming use of a
structure, or structure and premises in combination, is discontinued or
abandoned for six months, the structure, or structure and premises in
combination, shall not thereafter be used except in conformance with the
regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (E)   Removal to eliminate non-conforming status. Where non-conforming use
status applies to a structure and premises in combination, removal or
destruction of the structure shall eliminate the non- conforming status of the
land.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-4) (Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.099 NON-CONFORMING USES OF LAND.
   Where, at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter,
lawful uses of land exist that are no longer permissible under the terms of
this chapter as enacted or amended, such uses may be continued, so long as they
remain otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   No such non-conforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor
extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this chapter.
   (B)   No such non-conforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any
other portion of the lot or parcel occupied by such use at the effective date
of adoption or amendment of this chapter.
   (C)   If any such non-conforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than 30 days, any subsequent use of such land shall conform to
the regulations specified by this chapter for the district in which such land
is located; provided, however, that, upon application for and receipt of a
permit from the town’s Clerk-Treasurer, the period of 30 days hereinbefore
referred to may be extended to six months where necessary for the improvement
or repair of the property, upon the approval of said permit by the Zoning
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-5) (Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of this chapter shall be deemed to be a misdemeanor and
shall be punishable by fine. Any person, firm or corporation who violates or
refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
less than $20, nor more than $200, for each offense. Each day that a violation
is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 10-10-6)
   (B)   Any persons, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
153.015 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less
than $20, nor more than $200, not including court costs, for each day the
violation exists. Each day constitutes a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 10-10-1)
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 5-15-2009)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS; REZONINGS
      
II.   FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS; REZONINGS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Annexing a certain tract of land contiguous to and
Ord. 2011-2   11-8-2011   not embraced within the current limits of the town;
                          zoning such tract as C-2, Highway Commercial and
                          Commercial Recreation District
                         
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Granting a non-exclusive cable communication
Ord. 2017-2   7-10-2017   franchise to Northeast Rural Services, Inc., d/b/
                          a Bolt Fiber Optic Services
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oklahoma Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OKLAHOMA STATUTES
O.S. Cite Code Section
O.S. Cite                 Code Section
11 O.S. 1-102             91.42
11 O.S. 1-402             10.19
11 O.S. 12-106            35.06
11 O.S. 12-110            35.06
11 O.S. 14-101 et seq.    Ch. 10
11 O.S. 14-103            10.16
11 O.S. 14-108            10.01
11 O.S. 14-109            10.01
11 O.S. 14-111            10.99
11 O.S. 16-101 et seq.    30.02
11 O.S. 16-112            36.03
11 O.S. 16-301 et seq.    30.02
11 O.S. 16-302            30.02
11 O.S. 17-102            35.37
11 O.S. 17-102(D)         35.40
11 O.S. 17-201 et seq.    35.01
11 O.S. 22-101 et seq.    Ch. 10
11 O.S. 22-111            91.25
11 O.S. 23-101 et seq.    35.07
11 O.S. 27-101 et seq.    34.01;
                          34.19
11 O.S. 27-111            34.06
11 O.S. 27-117            34.11
11 O.S. 27-119            10.99
11 O.S. 43-101 et seq.    153.001;
                          153.082
11 O.S. 49-100.1 et seq.  33.07
12A O.S. Art. 3           37.04
12A O.S. Art. 4           37.04
12A O.S. Art. 4A          37.04
12A O.S. Art. 5           37.04
12A O.S. 5-103(c)         37.04
12A O.S. 5-104            37.04
12A O.S. 5-116            37.04
12A O.S. Art. 9           37.04
19 O.S. 627               35.07
20 O.S. 1313.2(D)         34.23
21 O.S. 644               132.08
21 O.S. 646               132.08
21 O.S. 1173              132.08
21 O.S. 1272              132.08;
                          132.09
22 O.S. 34.3              37.01
25 O.S. 301 to 314        31.23
25 O.S. 307               31.25
25 O.S. 307.1             31.24
25 O.S. 311(9)            31.25
25 O.S. 311(A)(10)        31.25
35 O.S. 1106              70.05
37 O.S.                   111.04
37 O.S. 163.11            111.33
37 O.S. 506               111.01
37 O.S. 554.1             111.02
37A O.S.                  111.04
37A O.S. 1-103            111.01;
                          132.10
37A O.S. 3-108            111.33
37A O.S. 4-104            111.02
47 O.S. 1-101 et seq.     70.01,
                          70.04
47 O.S. 1-107.4           72.03
47 O.S. 1-114A            70.02
47 O.S. 1-125             70.02
47 O.S. 1-136.3           70.02
47 O.S. 6-101 et seq.     70.01
47 O.S. 7-101 et seq.     70.01
47 O.S. 7-103             70.05
47 O.S. 7-204             70.05
47 O.S. 7-330             70.05
47 O.S. 7-503             70.05
47 O.S. 7-600 et seq.     70.05
47 O.S. 10-101 et seq.    70.01
47 O.S. 11-801 et seq.    70.01
47 O.S. 11-1113           72.04
47 O.S. 12-201(B)         75.02
47 O.S. 12-218            70.02
47 O.S. 13-101 et seq.    70.01
47 O.S. 14-101 et seq.    70.01
47 O.S. 15-112            74.05
47 O.S. 18-101            70.05
47 O.S. 1101 et seq.      74.05
47 O.S. 1102              72.03
47 O.S. 1127              70.05
47 O.S. 1134              72.03
47 O.S. 1135.1(B)(3)      74.05
47 O.S. 1136, paragraph 8 74.05
50 O.S. 12                95.07
50 O.S. 14                95.07
50 O.S. 15                95.07
50 O.S. 16                95.01;
                          95.09
51 O.S. 24A.1 et seq.     37.02
61 O.S. 101 et seq.       35.36
62 O.S. 304.1 to 305.2    35.04
62 O.S. 351 et seq.       35.05
62 O.S. 372               35.04
62 O.S. 461               35.01
62 O.S. 461 through 463   35.01
62 O.S. 463               35.01
62 O.S. 471 to 485        35.04
62 O.S. 551 to 555        35.04
63 O.S. 1-1011            95.08
63 O.S. 1-2512(B)         70.02
63 O.S. 2-101 et seq.     132.08;
                          134.03
63 O.S. 683.3             70.02
68 O.S. 205               36.15
68 O.S. 217               36.11
68 O.S. 220               36.11
68 O.S. 227               36.14
                          36.02;
68 O.S. 1350 et seq.      36.07;
                          36.08
68 O.S. 1401 et seq.      36.31
68 O.S. 1503              110.03
68 O.S. 1621 et seq.      92.01
68 O.S. 3001 et seq.      35.01
68 O.S. 3021              35.01
74 O.S. 212               35.06
74 O.S. 215               35.06
75 O.S. 250 et seq.       31.25
75 O.S. 250.1-323         34.04
82 O.S. 1601 through 1618 152.01;
                          152.25
82 O.S. 1601 et seq.      152.27
                          
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2023 Code
Prior Code 2023 Code
App.       50.01
1-1-6      10.20
1-3-2      10.05
1-5-1      30.01
1-5-2      30.02
1-6-1      31.01
1-6-2      31.02
1-6-3      31.03
1-6-4      31.20—
           31.28
1-6-5      31.04
1-6-6      31.05
1-7-1      32.01
1-7-2      32.02
1-7-3      32.03
1-7-4      32.04
1-7-5      32.05
1-7-6      32.06
1-7-7      32.07
1-7-8      32.08
1-8-1      37.02
1-8-2      37.02
1-8-3      37.02
1-8-4      37.02
1-9-1      34.01
1-9-2      34.02
1-9-3      34.03
1-9-4      34.04
1-9-5      34.05
1-9-6      34.06
1-9-7      34.07
1-9-8      34.08
1-9-9      34.09
1-9-10     34.10
1-9-11     34.11
1-9-12     34.12
1-9-13     34.13
1-9-14     34.14
1-9-15     34.15
1-9-16     34.16
1-9-17     34.17
1-9-18     34.18
1-9-19     34.19
1-9-20     34.20
1-9-21     34.21
2-1-1      35.01
2-1-2      35.02
2-1-3      35.03
2-1-4      35.04
2-1-5      35.05
2-1-6      35.06
2-1-7      35.07
2-1-8      35.08
2-2-1      36.01
2-2-2      36.02
2-2-3      36.03
2-2-4      36.04
2-2-5      36.05
2-2-6      36.06
2-2-7      36.07
2-2-8      36.08
2-2-9      36.09
2-2-10     36.10
2-2-11     36.11
2-2-12     36.12;
           36.99
2-2-13     36.13
2-2-14     36.14
2-2-15     36.15
2-2-16     36.16
2-2-17     36.17
2-3-1      36.30
2-3-2      36.31
2-3-3      36.32
2-3-4      36.33
2-3-5      36.34
2-3-6      36.35
2-3-7      36.36
2-3-8      36.37
2-3-9      36.38
2-3-10     36.39
2-4-1      36.50
2-4-2      36.51
2-4-3      36.52
2-4-4      36.53
2-4-5      36.54
2-5-1      35.20
2-5-2      35.21
2-5-3      35.22
2-5-4      35.23
3-1-1      110.01
3-1-2      110.02
3-1-2-1    110.03
3-1-3      110.04
3-1-4      110.05
3-1-5      110.06
3-1-6      110.07
3-1-7      110.08
3-1-8      110.09
3-2-1      111.01
3-2-2      111.02
3-2-3      111.03
3-2-4      111.04
3-2-5      111.05
3-2-6      111.06
3-2-7      111.07
3-2-8      111.08
3-2-9      111.09
3-2-10     111.10
3-2-11     111.11
3-3-1      111.25
3-3-2      111.26
3-3-3      111.27
3-3-4      111.28
3-3-5      111.29
3-3-6      111.30
3-3-7      111.31
3-3-8      111.32
3-3-9      111.33;
           111.99
3-3-10     111.34
3-3-11     111.35
3-4-1      112.01
3-4-2      112.02
3-4-3      112.03
3-4-4      112.04
3-4-5      112.05
3-4-6      112.06
3-4-7      112.07
3-4-8      112.08
3-4-9      112.09
3-4-10     112.10
3-4-11     112.11
3-4-12     112.12
3-4-13     112.99
4-1-1      91.01
4-1-2      91.02
4-1-3      91.03
4-1-4      91.04
4-1-5      91.99
4-2-1      114.01
4-2-2      114.02
4-2-3      114.99
4-3-1      95.01
4-3-2      95.02
4-3-3      95.03
4-3-4      95.04
4-3-5      95.05
4-3-6      95.06
4-3-7      95.07
4-3-8      95.08
4-3-9      95.09
4-3-10     95.10
4-3-11     95.11
4-3-12     95.12
4-3-13     95.99
4-5-1      91.40
4-5-2      91.41
4-5-3      91.42
4-5-4      91.43
4-5-5      91.99
5-1-1      33.01
5-1-2      33.02
5-1-3      33.03
5-1-4      33.04
5-1-5      33.05
5-1-6      33.06
5-1-7      33.07
5-1-8      33.08
5-1-9      33.09
5-1-10     33.10
5-1-11     33.11
5-1A-1     33.12
5-1A-2     33.12
5-2-1      33.25
5-2-2      33.26
5-2-3      33.27
5-2-4      33.28
5-3-1      130.01
5-3-2      130.02
5-3-3      130.03
5-3-4      130.04
5-3-5      130.05
5-3-6      130.06
5-3-7      130.07
5-3-8      130.08
5-3-9      130.09
5-3A-1     131.01
5-3A-2     131.02
5-3A-3     131.03
5-3A-4     131.04
5-3A-5     131.05
5-3A-6     131.06;
           131.99
5-3A-7     131.07
5-3A-8     131.08
5-3A-9     131.09
5-3A-10    131.10
5-3A-11    131.11
5-3A-12    131.12
5-3A-13    131.13
5-3B-1     132.01
5-3B-3     132.03
5-3B-4     132.04
5-3B-5     132.05
5-3B-6     132.06
5-3C-1     133.01
5-3C-2     133.02
5-3C-3     133.03
5-3C-4     133.04
5-3C-5     133.05
5-3C-6     133.06
5-3C-7     133.07
5-3C-8     133.08
5-3C-9     133.09
5-3D-1     134.01
5-3D-2     134.02
5-3D-3     134.03
5-3D-4     134.04
5-3E-1     135.01
5-3E-2     135.02
5-3E-3     135.03
5-3E-4     135.04
5-3E-5     135.05
5-3E-6     135.06
5-3E-7     135.07
5-3E-8     135.08
5-3E-9     135.09
5-3E-10    135.10
5-3E-11    135.11
5-3E-12    135.12
5-3E-13    135.13
5-4-1      133.20;
           133.99
5-4-2      133.21
5-4A-1     113.01
5-4A-2     113.02
5-4A-3     113.03;
           113.99
5-4A-4     113.04;
           113.99
5-4A-5     113.05;
           113.99
5-4A-6     113.06
5-4A-7     113.07
5-4A-8     113.08
5-5-1      92.01
5-5-2      92.01
5-5-3      92.01
5-6-1      90.01
5-6-2      90.02
5-6-3      90.03
5-6-4      90.04
5-6-5      90.05
5-6-6      90.06
5-6-7      90.07
5-6-8      90.08
5-6-9      90.09
5-6-10     90.10
5-6-11     90.11
5-6-12     90.99
5-6A-1     90.25
5-6A-2     90.26
5-6A-3     90.27
5-6A-4     90.28
5-7-1      93.01
5-7-2      93.02
5-7-3      93.03
5-7-4      93.04
5-7-5      93.05
5-7-6      93.06
5-7-7      93.07
5-7-8      93.08
5-7-9      93.09;
           93.99
5-7-10     93.10;
           93.99
5-7-11     93.11
5-7-12     93.12
5-7-14     93.99
5-8-1      37.01
6-1-1      70.01
6-1-2      70.02
6-1-3      70.03
6-1-4      70.04
6-1-5      70.05;
           70.25
6-1-6      70.06;
           70.25
6-1-7      70.07
6-1-8      75.01
6-2-1      71.01
6-2-2      71.02
6-2-3      71.03
6-2-4      71.04
6-2-5      71.05
6-2-6      71.06
6-2-7      71.07
6-3-1      73.01
6-3-2      73.02
6-3-3      73.03
6-3-4      73.04
6-3-5      73.05
6-3-6      73.06
6-3-7      73.07
6-3-8      73.08
6-3-9      73.09
6-3-10     73.10
6-3-11     73.11
6-4-1      74.01
6-4-2      74.02
6-4-3      74.03
6-4-4      74.04
6-4-5      74.05;
           74.99
6-4-6      74.06
6-4-7      74.07
6-5-1      72.01
6-5-2      72.02
6-5-3      73.03;
           72.99
6-5-4      72.04
6-6-1      75.02
6-6-2      75.02
6-6-3      75.02
6-6-4      75.02
6-7-1      70.20
6-7-2      70.21
6-7-3      70.22
6-7-4      70.23
6-7-5      70.24
6-7-6      70.25
6-7-7      70.25
7-1-1      151.01
7-1-2      151.02
7-1-3      151.03
7-1-4      151.04
7-1-5      151.05
7-1-6      151.06
7-1-7      151.07
7-1-8      151.99
7-2-1      151.20
7-2-2      151.21
7-2-3      151.99
7-3-1      94.01
7-3-2      94.02
7-3-3      94.03
7-3-4      94.04
7-3-5      94.05
8-1-1      50.01
8-1-2      50.01;
           50.99
8-2-1      52.01
8-2-2      52.02
8-2-3      52.03
8-2-4      52.04
8-2-5      52.05
8-2-6      52.06
8-2-7      52.07
8-3-1      53.01
8-3-2      53.02
8-3-3      53.03
8-3-4      53.04
8-3-5      53.05
8-3-6      53.99
8-4-0      51.01
8-4-1      51.02
8-4-2      51.03
8-4-3      51.04
8-4-4      51.05
8-4-5      51.06
8-4-6      51.07
8-4-7      51.08
8-4-8      51.99
9-2-1      92.15
9-2-2      92.16
9-2-3      92.17
9-2-4      92.18
9-2-5      92.99
9-3-1      150.02
9-3-2      150.02
9-4-1      152.01
9-4-2      152.02
9-4-3      152.03
9-4-4      152.04
9-4-5      152.05
9-4-6      152.06
9-4-7      152.07
9-4-8      152.08
9-4-9      152.09
9-4-10     152.10
9-4-11     152.11
9-4-12     152.12
9-4-13     152.25
9-4-14     152.25
9-4-15     152.26
9-4-16     152.27
9-4-17-1   152.40
9-4-17-2   152.41
9-4-17-3   152.42
9-4-18     152.99
10-1-1     153.001
10-1-2     153.002
10-1-3     153.003
10-1-4     153.004
10-2-1     153.030
10-2-2     153.031
10-2-3     153.032
10-2-4     153.033
10-2-5     153.034
10-2-6     153.035
10-3-1     153.050
10-3-2     153.051
10-3-3     153.052
10-4-1     153.075
10-4-2     153.076
10-4-3     153.077
10-4-4     153.078
10-4-5     153.079
10-4-6     153.080
10-4-7     153.081
10-4-8     153.082
10-4-9     153.083
10-5-1     153.095
10-5-2     153.096
10-5-3     153.097
10-5-4     153.098
10-5-5     153.099
10-6-1     153.053
10-6-2     153.053
10-6-3     153.053
10-6-4     153.053
10-7A-1    153.054
10-7A-2    153.054
10-7A-3    153.054
10-7A-4    153.054
10-7A-5    153.054
10-7A-6    153.054
10-7A-7    153.054
10-7B-1    153.055
10-7B-2    153.055
10-7B-3    153.055
10-7B-4    153.055
10-7B-5    153.055
10-7B-6    153.055
10-7B-7    153.055
10-7B-8    153.055
10-8A-1    153.056
10-8A-2    153.056
10-8A-3    153.056
10-8A-4    153.056
10-8A-5    153.056
10-8A-6    153.056
10-8A-7    153.056
10-8B-1    153.057
10-8B-2    153.057
10-8B-3    153.057
10-8B-4    153.057
10-8B-5    153.057
10-8C-1    153.058
10-8C-2    153.058
10-8C-3    153.058
10-8C-4    153.058
10-8C-5    153.058
10-9A-1    153.059
10-9A-2    153.059
10-9A-3    153.059
10-9A-4    153.059
10-9A-5    153.059
10-9A-6    153.059
10-9A-7    153.059
10-9B-1    153.060
10-9B-2    153.060
10-9B-3    153.060
10-9B-4    153.060
10-9B-5    153.060
10-9B-6    153.060
10-9B-7    153.060
10-10-1    153.015;
           153.999
10-10-2    153.016
10-10-3    153.017
10-10-4    153.018
10-10-5    153.019
10-10-6    153.999
           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2007-008 12-10-2007  34.17
2007-009 12-10-2007  34.17
2010-1   3-8-2010    35.08
                     152.01—
                     152.12;
                     152.25—
2010-03  6-14-2010   152.27;
                     152.40—
                     152.42;
                     152.99
2012-2   4-9-2012    37.03
-        8-20-2012   35.09
                    
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.     Date Passed Code Section
525          5-11-1988   52.04
527          8-1-1988    33.12
528          11-7-1988   30.02
531          6-1-1992    33.12
534          6-7-1993    32.01
                         93.01—
1-1995       1-3-1995    93.12;
                         93.99
4-1995       8-7-1995    52.02;
                         52.06
                         113.01—
1-1998       1-5-1998    113.08;
                         113.99
                         110.02;
3-102        9-10-2001   110.04;
                         111.02
11-11-202-1  11-18-2002  36.03
12-10-2002   12-9-2002   32.01
06-09-2003-1 6-9-2003    36.30—
                         36.39
                         90.10;
02-09-2004   2-9-2004    90.25—
                         90.28
2005-1       1-10-2005   52.04
                         34.01—
2005-4       9-12-2005   34.21;
                         35.35—
                         35.40
2005-6       9-12-2005   75.01
                         153.001—
                         153.004;
                         153.015—
                         153.019;
                         153.030—
                         153.035;
2009-3       5-15-2009   153.050—
                         153.060;
                         153.075—
                         153.083;
                         153.095—
                         153.099;
                         153.999
                         51.01;
2009-4       8-10-2009   51.02;
                         51.04;
                         51.99
2011-1       1-10-2011   32.06
2011-2       11-8-2011   TSO Table I
2011-3       12-12-2011  34.17
2012-1       1-9-2012    34.17;
                         130.09
2012-2       3-12-2012   91.05;
                         91.99
2012-4       4-9-2012    35.35—
                         35.40
2012-5       6-14-2012   34.17;
                         130.09
2013-2       6-10-2013   92.01;
                         92.99
2014-1       1-23-2014   31.02
                         91.20—
-            2-10-2014   91.26;
                         91.99
2015-2       2-9-2015    32.01;
                         32.06
1-2017       1-9-2017    34.17
2017-2       7-10-2017   TSO Table II
2022-1       12-13-2021  52.03
6-12-23      4-10-2023   52.03
04102023-1   4-10-2023   52.08;
                         52.09
2023-5.30-1  5-30-2023   Adopting Ordinance
2023-5.30-2  5-30-2023   33.12
2023-5.30-4  5-30-2023   153.084
2023-5.30-5  5-30-2023   52.02
2023-5.30-6  5-30-2023   52.03
2023-5.30-7  5-30-2023   92.01
2023-5.30-8  5-30-2023   92.99
03.14.2024-1 3-14-2024   34.23
03142024-2   3-14-2024   34.22
03142024-3   3-14-2024   34.17
03142924-4   3-14-2024   70.05
03142024-5   3-14-2024   70.99
03142024-6   3-14-2024   72.03
03142024-8   3-14-2024   70.01
04.02.2024   4-2-2024    36.03
06.10.2024-1 6-20-2024   10.99
06.10.2024-2 6-20-2024   132.08
06.10.2024-3 6-10-2024   132.09
06.10.2024-4 6-10-2024   132.10
06.10.2024-5 6-20-2024   132.11
06.10.2024-6 6-10-2024   132.12
06.10.2024-7 6-10-2024   132.13
06.10.2024-8 6-10-2024   132.07
06.20.2024   6-20-2024   132.02
10152024-1   10-15-2024  33.12
10152024-2   10-15-2024  73.12
03202025-1   3-20-2025   32.01
3.20.25-2    3-20-2025   32.06
03142024-9   4-7-2025    70.04
                        
 
 
